Do mitochondria play a role in remodelling lace plant leaves during programmed cell death? [SEP] the role of plant mitochondria in the programmed cell death (pcd) is widely discussed. mitochondria are crucial for plant viability and are able to communicate information on their functional status to the cellular nucleus via retrograde signalling, thereby affecting gene expression. programmed cell death (pcd) mediated by mitochondrial processes has emerged as an important mechanism for plant development and responses to abiotic and biotic stresses. whereas chlorophyll gradually degrades during senescence in leaves, mitochondria need to maintain active to sustain the energy demands of senescing cells. results show that mitochondria were less dynamic and markedly changed morphology during senescence, passing from the elongated, branched structures found in mature leaves to enlarged and sparse organelles in senescent leaves. mitochondria from cells at the end of their growth curve resembled those from senescing leaves, suggesting that cell cultures might represent a useful model system for senescence. overall, morphology and dynamics of mitochondria might represent a reliable senescence marker for plant cells. because acd2 is largely a chloroplast component in mature plants, the observation that the cell death in acd2 mutants requires changes in mitochondrial functions implicates communication between chloroplasts and mitochondria in mediating pcd activation. mitochondria are known to participate in the initiation of programmed cell death (pcd) in animals and in plants. mitochondrial morphology and dynamics were investigated during the onset of cell death in arabidopsis thaliana. 
Landolt C and snellen e acuity: differences in strabismus amblyopia? [SEP] landolt c and grating acuity are compared with that normally expected of the eccentric fixation region for 10 strabismic amblyopes. at all levels of contrast, the amblyopic eyes of both the strabismic and anisometropic patients scored significantly lower than did their fellow normal eyes, which were used as controls. in comparing the differences between the normal and amblyopic eyes of both groups, we noted a normalization of the visual function of strabismic amblyopes at low contrast. we investigated the influence of interocular sensitivity difference on binocular contrast sensitivity in amblyopia. both types of amblyopes showed binocular inhibition at high spatial frequencies. inter-ocular differences in visual acuity, refractive error, corneal curvature, anterior chamber depth and their contribution to total axial length were analysed in four populations: adult controls (n=26), paediatric controls (n=24), paediatric strabismic amblyopes (n=18) and paediatric anisometropic amblyopes (n=27). this suggests that, unlike control eyes or anisometropic amblyopic eyes, the strabismic eye is physically, though not proportionately, reduced in size. we investigated whether photoreceptor function in amblyopic eyes differed from that in non-amblyopic eyes. photoreceptor function was assessed with the optical stiles-crawford effect (sce), psychophysical sce, and foveal visual pigment density in both eyes of ten unilateral amblyopic subjects. to investigate the influence of interocular suppression and visual acuity loss on stereoacuity in observers with and without abnormal vision development from strabismus or amblyopia. 
Syncope during bathing in infants, a pediatric form of water-induced urticaria? [SEP] we reviewed those paroxysmal disorders of infancy and of the newborn in which the normal process of bathing may be an important trigger. the paroxysmal episodes previously attributed to aquagenic urticaria may have been examples of bathing epilepsy with a genetic component. despite suggestions in the literature to the contrary, no convincing reports of bath-induced infantile syncope have been found. urticaria is one of the most common dermatoses during the childhood, but it is very rare in the neonates. a 17-day-old infant with a generalized urticaria was admitted to our pediatric emergency unit. aquagenic urticaria is a rare form of physical urticaria characterized by small follicular wheals with an erythematous flare upon exposure to water. we describe typical lesions in a seven-year-old boy with aquagenic urticaria, cholinergic urticaria, and symptomatic dermatographism, who responded to treatment with ultraviolet b and oral antihistamines. newborn infants are susceptible to hypothermia during bathing due to environmental conditions. aquagenic urticaria is a rare form of physical urticaria, in which contact with water evokes wheals. urticaria appeared while taking a bath or a shower, in the rain, or in a swimming pool. 
Are the long-term results of the transanal pull-through equal to those of the transabdominal pull-through? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to compare the long-term outcome of sacroperineal-sacroabdominoperineal pull-through (sp-sap) to that of posterior sagittal anorectoplasty (psarp). in boys with high anorectal anomalies, psarp clearly is superior to sacroperineal and sacroabdominoperineal pull-through in terms of long-term bowel function and faecal continence. the transanal approach to ileal pouch-anal anastomosis [ta-ipaa] provides better access to the lower pelvis with lower short-term morbidity in ulcerative colitis [uc]. the aim of this study was to assess the long-term functional outcomes after ta-ipaa vs transabdominal ipaa [abd-ipaa] in uc. ta-ipaa demonstrated a comparable overall quality of life [cgql score] to abd-ipaa [0.75 ± 0.11 vs 0.71 ± 0.14; respectively, p = 0.1]. this study provides evidence of comparable long-term functional outcome and quality of life after ta-ipaa and abd-ipaa for uc. a retroperitoneal approach for abdominal aortic aneurysm repair has demonstrated similar short-term postoperative outcomes compared with the transperitoneal approach. the purpose of this study was to compare the ligation of intersphincteric fistula tract (lift) with an additional plug (lift-plug) in the treatment of transsphincteric anal fistula. both lift and lift-plug are recently reported effective alternatives of transsphincteric anal fistula. in patients with transsphincteric anal fistulas, both lift-plug and lift are simple, safe, and effective procedures. 
Can tailored interventions increase mammography use among HMO women? [SEP] a health maintenance organization (hmo)-based program designed to increase breast cancer screening was evaluated, focusing on changes in mammography utilization. this report examines the effect of the intervention on mammography utilization. a clear increase in self-reported mammography utilization was associated with the intervention. the percentage of women who reported a mammogram in the 12 months prior to the survey increased from 41% in 1988 (baseline) to 68% in 1990 among hmo women, compared to a change from 39% to 49% among control women. comparing postintervention rates of mammography in hmo versus control women yielded a rate ratio (rr) of 1.4. this study was conducted among 395 women who were members of a network model health maintenance organization (hmo) in philadelphia in order to determine which of three methods was most effective in increasing mammography rates: (1) a birthday card reminder only (the standard method); (2) a personalized letter from the medical director and materials promoting mammography; and (3) a multicomponent phone call incorporating a reminder, counseling, and scheduling of appointments. these results indicate that a multicomponent phone intervention is significantly effective in promoting mammography in managed health care plan members. an hmo initiative designed to increase the compliance rate for the preventive service (mammography) is described. this article presents findings about the mammography screening experience of medicare members of a health maintenance organization (hmo). female hmo members aged 50-69 years and overdue for a mammogram and a pap test (n = 501) were followed for 24 months after interventions began. 
Double balloon enteroscopy: is it efficacious and safe in a community setting? [SEP] the double balloon enteroscopy is an important method for the endoscopic approach of the small bowel that provides diagnosis and therapy of this segment's disorders, with low complication rate. analysis of patients undergoing double balloon enteroscopy. this report describes the use of a balloon catheter placed via the enteroscope, which simplifies intubation and further improves the quality of enteroclysis study. double-balloon enteroscopy is a newly developed endoscopic method allowing non-surgical full-length exploration of the small bowel, biopsies sample and endoscopic treatment of previously inaccessible lesions. to prospectively assess the diagnostic and therapeutical impact of double-balloon enteroscopy in patients with suspected or documented small bowel disease. oral and anal route double-balloon enteroscopies were performed in 54 and 28 patients, respectively, while 18 patients underwent a combination of both approaches. our prospective analysis shows that double-balloon enteroscopy is a useful, safe and well-tolerated new method with a high diagnostic and therapeutic impact for the management of suspected or documented small bowel diseases. single-balloon enteroscopy has emerged as a viable alternative to double-balloon enteroscopy in the management of small bowel disease. double balloon enteroscopy has been available since 2004 and is slowly emerging as a valuable procedure that has the potential to reach all parts of the small intestine, allowing biopsy and therapeutic intervention. balloon enteroscopy is a method that allows endoscopic inspection of the entire small bowel, or large parts of it, while simultaneously making it possible to obtain histologic samples and carry out treatment measures. 
30-Day and 1-year mortality in emergency general surgery laparotomies: an area of concern and need for improvement? [SEP] the primary aim of this study was to report 30-day, 90-day and 1-year mortality rates after emergency colonic surgery, and to report factors associated with 30-day, 90-day and 1-year mortality. emergency surgery is associated with poorer outcomes and higher mortality with recent studies suggesting the 30-day mortality to be 14-15%. the aim of this study was to analyse the 30-day mortality, age-related 30-day mortality and 1-year mortality following emergency laparotomy. this was a retrospective study of patients who underwent emergency laparotomy from june 2010 to may 2012. emergency laparotomy carries a high rate of mortality, especially in those over the age of 70 years, and more needs to be done to improve outcomes, particularly in this group. we sought to examine whether the emergency surgery score predicts 30-day morbidity and mortality in a high-risk group of patients undergoing emergent laparotomy. multivariable logistic regression analyses were performed to measure the correlation (c-statistic) between the emergency surgery score and (1) 30-day mortality, and (2) 30-day morbidity after emergent laparotomy. the objectives of this study were to identify risk factors associated with adverse events, to compare 30-day outcomes after 3 common emergency general surgery procedures within and across hospitals, and thus, to determine whether the quality of emergency surgical care is procedure-dependent or intrinsic to other aspects of the hospital environment. emergency general surgery procedures, particularly colorectal resections, were associated with substantial 30-day overall morbidity and serious morbidity/mortality. among patients undergoing emergency laparotomy, 30-day postoperative mortality is around 10-15%. 
Is adjustment for reporting heterogeneity necessary in sleep disorders? [SEP] in this study, we defined sociodemographic and sleep characteristics associated with misreporting and assessed whether accounting for these factors better explains variation in objective sleep duration among 2,086 participants in the hispanic community health study/study of latinos who completed more than 5 nights of wrist actigraphy and reported habitual bed/wake times from 2010 to 2013. adding sociodemographic and sleep factors to self-reports increased the proportion of variance explained in actigraphy-assessed sleep slightly (18%-32%). it has been acknowledged by those in the field of sleep epidemiology that the current measures of sleep used in many epidemiological studies do not adequately capture the complexity and variability of sleep. observational outcome studies of patients with obstructive sleep apnea (osa) require adjustment for co-morbidity to produce valid results. the aim of this study was to evaluate whether the combination of administrative data and self-reported data provided a more complete estimate of co-morbidity among patients referred for sleep diagnostic testing. a retrospective observational study of 2149 patients referred for sleep diagnostic testing in calgary, canada. observational a clinical sleep laboratory in a university hospital n = 1,146 patients evaluated for suspected sleep-disordered breathing with nocturnal polysomnograms and multiple sleep latency tests. the objective of this study was to describe the population variability in sleep quality and to quantify the independent associations with sdb. electroencephalographic sleep studies have become an accepted clinical and research tool in the study of affective disorders, but questions persist regarding their diagnostic utility, sensitivity, and specificity. utilizing multiple sleep measures, a practice common to virtually all sleep assessments, poses problems both for statistical analyses in the form of inflated type i error rate and for interpretation by the inability to specify general sleep change. 
Do mutations causing low HDL-C promote increased carotid intima-media thickness? [SEP] we assessed carotid intima-media thickness (imt) and plaque in relation to classical risk factors and apolipoprotein a-i (apoa-i) and b (apob) levels in patients with fchl. we studied carotid intima-media thickness (cimt) a marker of subclinical vascular disease according to hdl-c distribution. among the common lipid parameters, ldl has strongest relation with carotid plaque. carotid intima-media thickness (cimt) is an established heritable marker for subclinical atherosclerosis. cardiovascular disease is characterized by increased intima-media thickness (imt) and arterial stiffness, but the effect of low hdl on these measurements has not been reported. a low hdl-c concentration is associated with thickening of carotid imt independent of other risk factors in healthy affected members of low hdl families. the combined thickness of the intima and media of the carotid artery (carotid intima-medial thickness, cimt) is associated with cardiovascular disease and stroke. previous studies indicate that carotid intima-medial thickness is a significantly heritable phenotype, but the responsible genes are largely unknown. we evaluated carotid intima-media thickness (imt) by sonography in relation to classical and emergent risk factors in a large fh cohort. for further interpretation and details, please see the research article titled "a genetic association study of carotid intima-media thickness (cimt) and plaque in mexican americans and european americans with rheumatoid arthritis" which is being published in atherosclerosis (arya et al., 2018) [1]. 
A short stay or 23-hour ward in a general and academic children's hospital: are they effective? [SEP] we evaluated the usefulness of a short stay or 23-hour ward in a pediatric unit of a large teaching hospital, westmead hospital, and an academic children's hospital, the new children's hospital, to determine if they are a useful addition to the emergency service. the short stay ward increased hospital efficiency with an average length of stay of 17.5 hours (westmead hospital) compared to 20.5 hours (new children's hospital). the users of the short stay ward were children of young age less than 2 years, with stay greater than 23 hours reported in only 1% of all admissions to the short stay ward. this paper assesses short stay ward facilities for children in the united kingdom. the potential role of paediatric short-stay ward facilities is discussed. to review the records of children admitted to hospital for less than 24 hours to assess the appropriateness of the admission and subsequent discharge, and the suitability of these patients for admission to a short stay area rather than the hospital wards. a significant number of children require brief hospitalisation for relatively minor illness, but unnecessary delays caused by administrative aspects of hospital admission and relatively infrequent inpatient review by medical staff often lengthen the period of admission. many children admitted to hospital can stay for 24 hours or less. short stay facilities are efficient and cost-effective for children with acute illness who can be rapidly stabilised with early discharge without critical incident. short stay facilities should be used to augment efficiency within children's emergency services which have high turnover and limited bed capacity. 
Did Chile's traffic law reform push police enforcement? [SEP] the objective of the current study is to determine to what extent the reduction of chile's traffic fatalities and injuries during 2000-2012 was related to the police traffic enforcement increment registered after the introduction of its 2005 traffic law reform. independent variables were: (1) presence of new national traffic law; (2) police officers per population; (3) number of traffic tickets per police officer; and (4) interaction effect of number of traffic tickets per police officer with traffic law reform. empirical estimates from instrumental variables suggest that the enactment of the traffic law reform in interaction with number of traffic tickets per police officer is significantly associated with a decrease of 8% in traffic fatalities and 7% in severe injuries. piecewise regression model results for the 2007-2012 period suggest that police traffic enforcement reduced traffic fatalities by 59% and severe injuries by 37%. findings suggest that traffic law reforms in order to have an effect on both traffic fatality and injury rates reduction require changes in police enforcement practices. research measuring levels of enforcement has investigated whether increases in police activities (e.g., checkpoints, driving-while-intoxicated [dwi] special patrols) above some baseline level are associated with reduced crashes and fatalities. this paper analyzes chile's drunk driving laws and their effects on car crashes, injuries, and deaths. this article looks at the health sector in chile between 1990 and 2000 to examine the obstacles that policymakers face in implementing reforms. in 2012, chile passed a law intended to reduce obesity in the country. therefore, in this decade, the chilean criminal justice and mental health system has undergone significant changes. 
Therapeutic anticoagulation in the trauma patient: is it safe? [SEP] therapeutic anticoagulation (tac) is often required in trauma patients for various indications. anticoagulation is routinely administered to all trauma patients owing to the high incidence of venous thromboembolism (vte). data were collected for all patients managed with nonoperative therapy for these injuries while also receiving routine prophylactic anticoagulation with low molecular-weight heparin. this study aimed to assess the efficacy and safety of our new anticoagulation therapy protocol using unfractionated heparin (ufh) plus intermittent pneumatic compression (ipc) to prevent post-traumatic vte in high-risk trauma patients.this study enrolled 70 trauma patients who were admitted to the emergency medical center of nagasaki university hospital and had risk assessment profile (rap) scores ≥ 5. therapeutic anticoagulation is an important treatment of thromboembolic complications, such as dvt, pe, and blunt cerebrovascular injury. therapeutic anticoagulation can be safely accomplished in select patients with traumatic intracranial hemorrhage. 26 patients received therapeutic anticoagulation, which was initiated an average of 13 days after injury. this review presents our current understanding of the mechanisms of fibrinolysis in trauma, diagnostic evaluation, and the evidence base for treatment. anticoagulated patients have increased risk for bleeding, and serious outcomes could occur after head injury. we hypothesized that intraoperative systemic anticoagulation (isa) decreased the risk of repair thrombosis or limb amputation after traumatic vascular injury of the extremities. 
Differentiation of nonalcoholic from alcoholic steatohepatitis: are routine laboratory markers useful? [SEP] specific markers for differentiation of nonalcoholic (nash) from alcoholic steatohepatitis (ash) are lacking. we report here the use of the biochemical marker desialylated transferrin to aid in the diagnosis of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. conventional biochemical tests used for the detection of chronic alcohol consumption fail to differentiate nonalcoholic steatohepatitis patients from alcoholic subjects. in this study we have examined two new markers of excessive alcohol intake, desialylated transferrin and mitochondrial ast in subjects with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and in patients consuming excessive amounts of alcohol. all nonalcoholic steatohepatitis patients consumed minimal or no alcohol and were diagnosed by morphological criteria based on liver biopsy specimens. several laboratory markers used in lieu of liver biopsy are reportedly useful in the diagnosis of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (nash). the accuracy of noninvasive markers to discriminate nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (nash) is unsatisfactory. in this study, we evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of shear wave elastography (swe) for differentiating high-risk non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (hrnash) from non-alcoholic fatty liver and low-risk non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (nash). differentiation between steatosis and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (nash) in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (nafld) is important as nash progress to cirrhosis. the aims of this study were (1) to identify the useful clinical parameters of noninvasive approach for distinguishing nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (nash) from nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (nafld), and (2) to determine whether the levels of the identified parameters are correlated with the severity of liver injury in patients with nash. 
Prompting Primary Care Providers about Increased Patient Risk As a Result of Family History: Does It Work? [SEP] the family history is becoming an increasingly important feature of health promotion and early detection of common chronic diseases in primary care. this interview study aimed to explore how patients in primary care understand and come to terms with their family history of cancer, heart disease, or diabetes and how family history might affect consultations about disease risk and management. eliciting the patient's perspective when discussing risk of chronic disease, particularly in the context of a family history, could inform a more patient-centered approach to risk assessment and communication and support patients to make informed decisions about the management of their disease risk. there is a need for better guidance for primary care clinicians about family history assessment. the family medical history is an important risk factor for several common chronic diseases but challenges remain in efficiently identifying individuals at increased risk. this study aimed to explore primary care professionals' (pcps) views about using a short, seven-item family history questionnaire (s-fhq) as an intervention for identifying at-risk relatives of patients with a genetic condition in routine primary care for referral to genetic services. further studies should examine physicians' perception of the utility of prompts for family history risk. this paper details the possible utility and complications in using family history in a primary care setting, using colorectal cancer risk as the health issue. this article discusses the potential role of the family history in general practice including current risk assessment guidelines and approaches to supporting family history taking. family history reflects shared genetic and environmental risks and can be used to identify individuals at increased risk of common chronic disease who may benefit from tailored preventive management. 
Do emergency ultrasound fellowship programs impact emergency medicine residents' ultrasound education? [SEP] graduates of emergency medicine (em) residency training programs are expected to be proficient in ultrasound. to determine if a dedicated emergency department (ed) ultrasound rotation objectively improves residents' em ultrasound knowledge, interpretation accuracy, and clinical decision-making based on ultrasound findings. increasing the amount of resident ultrasound teaching by emergency physicians improved the score, but this did not reach significance (p = 0.357). nearly all emergency medicine residency programs provide some training in emergency physician-performed ultrasonography, but the extent of emergency physician-performed ultrasonography in community emergency departments (eds) is not known. emergency medicine residency programs offer ultrasound-focused curricula to address accreditation council for graduate medical education (acgme) milestones. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the use of and training in emergency ultrasound (us) in pediatric emergency departments (eds) with pediatric emergency medicine (em) fellowship programs. diagnostic ultrasounds by emergency medicine (em) and pediatric emergency medicine (pem) physicians have increased because of ultrasonography training during residency and fellowship. the hypothesis of this study is that a bedside ultrasound by a trained em/pem physician can reduce length of stay in the emergency department (ed) by 1 hour. to investigate how the extent of an ultrasound instructor's clinical expertise influences the level of hands-on ultrasound competency achieved by clinicians after three-day ultrasound courses in abdominal and emergency ultrasound. introduction the objectives of this study were to determine if a multimodular introductory ultrasound course improved emergency medicine intern confidence in performing a point-of-care ultrasound and if our educational objectives could be met with our chosen structure. 
Patient-Controlled Therapy of Breathlessness in Palliative Care: A New Therapeutic Concept for Opioid Administration? [SEP] opioids are the drugs of choice for management of breathlessness in advanced disease, but acute episodic breathlessness remains difficult to manage. new routes of opioid applications with quicker onset of action seem attractive for the management of episodic breathlessness. this study aimed to determine the acceptability and preference of different routes of opioid applications in patients suffering from breathlessness due to advanced disease. opioids are the drugs of choice for pharmacological management of breathlessness. this study assessed the effect of opioid treatment on ventilation in dyspneic palliative care patients who received symptomatic treatment with strong opioids. the aims of the study were to verify the efficacy of opioids for the management of dyspnea, assess the effect on ventilation, and show whether nasal o(2) insufflation before opioid application leads to a decrease in the intensity of dyspnea. opioids are an essential part of the pharmacological options required to address suffering by helping to relieve the pain and chronic breathlessness that may be experienced by someone with a life-limiting illness. breathlessness is a common symptom for patients with terminal illness and can be challenging to manage. this article describes our experience in the clinical use of nebulized opioids for the management of dyspnoea in patients with terminal cancer by reviewing three specific patient case studies in which this treatment was found to be both safe and effective in controlling breathlessness. opioids can reduce the intensity of chronic refractory breathlessness and an anxiolytic may be of benefit. 
Is there still a need for living-related liver transplantation in children? [SEP] liver transplantation is the treatment of choice for end-stage liver disease in children, but donor shortage is still a main problem in this age group. we analyzed medical records of 83 children aged <18 yr, who were listed for liver transplantation but the organ was not available for them between 1999 and 2006. about two-thirds of children listed for liver transplantation needed hospital admission because of complications and one-third of them died without any liver transplantation. it seems that more split liver transplantation as well as the introduction of a live-related program in our center will provide many benefits to our children. liver transplantation is considered the treatment of choice for most children with deteriorating fulminant hepatic failure (fhf). liver transplantation is standard therapy for children with a variety of liver diseases. the current shortage of organ donors has led to aggressive use of reduced or split grafts and living-related donors to provide timely liver transplants to these children. improvement in graft survival of these organs could reduce the morbidity and cost of liver transplantation significantly in children. liver transplantation is the accepted treatment for children with end-staged liver diseases nowadays. there are a few absolute contraindications to liver transplantation in children. 
Do patterns of knowledge and attitudes exist among unvaccinated seniors? [SEP] to examine patterns of knowledge and attitudes among adults aged > 65 years unvaccinated for influenza. surveyed medicare beneficiaries in 5 areas; clustered unvaccinated seniors by their immunization related knowledge and attitudes. improved understanding of factors influencing pneumococcal vaccination among older adults is needed to improve vaccine uptake. a self-administered survey measuring knowledge, attitudes, beliefs and behaviours about pneumococcal vaccination was administered to a cohort of seniors participating in a clinical trial of seasonal influenza vaccines at eight centers across canada. these results indicate healthcare recommendation significantly influenced vaccine uptake in this population of older adults. data from a 2015 internet panel survey of a nationally representative sample of u.s. adults aged ≥19years were analyzed to assess awareness of selected vaccine-preventable diseases and recommended vaccines for adults. awareness of vaccine-preventable diseases among adults aged ≥19years ranged from 63.4% to 94.0% (63.4% reported awareness of hpv, 71.5% reported awareness of tetanus, 72.0% reported awareness of pertussis, 75.4% reported awareness of hz, 75.8% reported awareness of hepatitis b, 83.1% reported awareness of pneumonia, and 94.0% reported awareness of influenza). adult influenza and pneumococcal vaccination rates in singapore are low, and factors influencing knowledge and attitudes of seniors towards influenza, pneumonia and their respective vaccines are not well-known. our formative research identified knowledge gaps among community-dwelling seniors which affected their attitudes towards vaccination uptake. to identify associations between vaccination behavior and personal beliefs about influenza vaccine by race or ethnicity and education levels among the u.s. elderly population. 
Is there a model to teach and practice retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomy? [SEP] we present our experience of training novices in retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomy with a good outcome, making it a standard of care for nephrectomy at our institute. the aim of this study was to report the initial experience, learning curve, and outcome of retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomy by novices under a mentored approach. retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomies were successfully completed by novices in 88.1% (141/160) of the patients. the present series represents the effectiveness of training in retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomy of novices by a responsible team and with the standard protocol and surgical steps. through effective mentoring, the steep learning curve associated with retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomy has been overcome, making it standard of care for nephrectomy at our institute. we confirm the technical feasibility of retroperitoneoscopic radical nephrectomy, even for large specimens, and compare its results with open surgery in a contemporary cohort. retroperitoneoscopy is a reliable, effective and, in our hands, the preferred technique of laparoscopic radical nephrectomy. at our institution retroperitoneoscopy has emerged as an attractive alternative to open radical nephrectomy in patients with t1-t2n0m0 renal tumors. we outline our institutional approach to retroperitoneal access for the instruction of urologists at the beginning of the learning curve. to define the structure and provide a pilot clinical validation of a curriculum for robot-assisted partial nephrectomy (rapn). 
Cardiovascular risk in a rural adult West African population: is resting heart rate also relevant? [SEP] elevated resting heart rate (rhr) is a neglected marker in cardiovascular risk factor studies of sub-saharan african populations. this study aimed to determine the prevalence of elevated rhr and other risk factors for cardiovascular disease (cvd) and to investigate any associations between rhr and these risk factors in a rural population in ghana. increased resting heart rate is associated with worse outcomes in studies of mostly white populations, but its significance is not well established in african americans persons whose cardiac comorbidities and structural abnormalities differ. to study the prognostic utility of heart rate in a community-based african american cohort in the jackson heart study. this study sought to identify and determine the prevalence of traditional cardiovascular risk factors according to sex in inhabitants of a rural community in a developing country. in this study, traditional cardiovascular risk factors, apart from hypertension, obesity, physical inactivity and low hdl-c had a low prevalence in the rural nigerian community. the relationship between indicators of obesity and blood pressure needs attention in the rural south african population. this study examined the relationship between anthropometric parameters and blood pressure (bp) among young adults in the ellisras rural area of south africa. multiple studies have identified resting heart rate as a risk factor for cardiovascular disease independent of other cardiovascular disease risk factors (such as dyslipidemia and hypertension). blood pressure levels were measured in a representative rural sample from kassena-nankana district of northern ghana, west africa, and associations with anthropometric indices, age, sex, and time of bp measurement were assessed. 
Israeli hospital preparedness for terrorism-related multiple casualty incidents: can the surge capacity and injury severity distribution be better predicted? [SEP] the aim of this modeling study was to examine how casualty load affects the level of trauma care in multiple casualty incidents and to define the surge capacity of the hospital trauma assets. to assess evacuation priorities during terror-related mass casualty incidents (mcis) and their implications for hospital organization/contingency planning. the situation in the middle east makes it imperative that israeli hospitals be prepared for disaster, particularly that associated with chemical warfare. to prepare for the impact of chemical warfare, israeli hospitals have designed mass trauma programs, which include staff training and simulated disaster drill exercises. terrorism-related incidents that are associated with mass casualties (mass-casualty terrorist incidents) are a medical and organisational challenge for every hospital because of the special injury patterns involved, the time of the incident, the development of the situation, the initial lack of information, the number of injured, and the number of uninjured survivors who self-refer to a hospital. these findings have implications for treatment and for preparedness of hospital resources to treat patients after a terrorist attack in any region of the world. due to israel's threat environment, israeli hospitals have developed effective and innovative security preparations for responding to all-hazards incidents. this study examined practical and cost-effective lessons from the israeli experience for improving us hospital security preparedness for a wide range of mass casualty incidents, both natural and man-made. this study analyzed practical and cost-effective security recommendations from israel to remedy this dangerous deficiency in some us hospitals' disaster planning. to suggest guidelines for hospital organization during terror-related multiple casualty incidents (mcis) based on the experience of 6 level i trauma centers. 
Acute respiratory distress syndrome in children with malignancy--can we predict outcome? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to delineate early respiratory predictors of mortality in children with hemato-oncology malignancy who developed acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards). we conducted a retrospective chart review of children with malignant and ards who needed mechanical ventilation and were admitted to a pediatric intensive care unit from january 1987 to january 1997. children with malignancy may be at higher risk of h1n1-associated arf because of underlying primary disease or immunosuppression associated with chemotherapy. we describe the clinical course and outcome of critically ill pediatric oncology/hematology patients with h1n1-associated arf. acute complications requiring admission to pediatric intensive care unit (picu) are frequent for children with cancer. in children with malignancies and immunosuppression, significant morbidity and mortality result from respiratory complications. higher mortality and morbidity are well established in children with malignancies in whom intensive care admissions are required. acute respiratory failure is common in pediatric hematopoietic cell transplant recipients and has a high mortality. our objectives are to assess respiratory support strategies and indices of oxygenation and ventilation in pediatric allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplant patients receiving invasive mechanical ventilation and investigate how these strategies are associated with mortality. pediatric allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplant recipients with respiratory failure. 
Secondhand smoke risk in infants discharged from an NICU: potential for significant health disparities? [SEP] secondhand smoke exposure (shse) threatens fragile infants discharged from a neonatal intensive care unit (nicu). smoking practices were examined in families with a high respiratory risk infant (born at very low birth weight; ventilated > 12 hr) in a houston, texas, nicu. data were collected as part of the baby's breath project, a hospital-based shse intervention trial targeting parents with a high-risk infant in the nicu who reported a smoker in the household (n = 99). infants exposed to secondhand smoke, especially preterm infants with a very low birth weight (vlbw), have an increased risk for developing health problems. secondhand smoke (shs) is a potential direct cause of sudden infant death syndrome (sids) among infants. the impact of secondhand smoke exposure (shse) in medically fragile infants born prematurely is likely to be much higher. annually, approximately two million babies are exposed to cigarette smoke in utero and postnatally through cigarette smoking of their mothers. despite the adverse effects of maternal smoking during pregnancy on the newborn's health are well-known, in the pediatric population, a high prevalence exists that is very much affected by second hand smoke (shs). infants and young children account for the largest global disease burden associated with prenatal and postnatal secondhand smoke, probably due to underdeveloped neurological, immune, and respiro-circulatory systems. prenatal exposure to cigarette smoke is associated with an increased risk of sudden infant death syndrome and possible rate increase of obstructive apnea in full-term infants but unknown in premature infants. 
Do nomograms designed to predict biochemical recurrence (BCR) do a better job of predicting more clinically relevant prostate cancer outcomes than BCR? [SEP] to develop a nomogram that allows the prediction of disease recurrence using preoperative clinical factors for patients with clinically localized prostate cancer who are candidates for laparoscopic radical prostatectomy. the predictions from this nomogram were more accurate than those using an open prostatectomy nomogram. we have externally validated a nomogram that predicts the 5-year probability of treatment failure among men with clinically localized prostate cancer treated with laparoscopic radical prostatectomy. we developed a nomogram that allows prediction of disease recurrence through use of preoperative clinical factors for patients with clinically localized prostate cancer who are candidates for treatment with a radical prostatectomy. a nomogram has been developed that can be used to predict the 5-year probability of treatment failure among men with clinically localized prostate cancer treated with radical prostatectomy. we investigated whether the addition of prostate biopsy features may enhance the accuracy of a nomogram predicting recurrence after radical prostatectomy (rp). to construct a nomogram that can be used to estimate the risk of prostate cancer (pca) and high-grade pca using readily available clinical information for men undergoing initial extended prostate biopsy (pbx). several preoperative prostate cancer nomograms have been developed that predict risk of progression using pretreatment prostate-specific antigen (psa) level, clinical stage, and biopsy gleason grade. this study aimed to build a nomogram for the prediction of gleason sum upgrading in clinically diagnosed prostate cancer. in summary, a new nomogram to predict gleason sum upgrading in clinically diagnosed prostate cancer was developed, and it demonstrated good statistical performance upon internal validation. 
Are reports of mechanical dysfunction in chronic oro-facial pain related to somatisation? [SEP] anecdotally, chronic oro-facial pain patients may perceive the painful face area as 'swollen'. a large proportion of oro-facial pain patients reported perceptual distortions of the face (55·0%). in the total group of chronic oro-facial pain patients, the present pain intensity explained 16·9% of the variance in magnitude of the perceptual distortions (r(2) = 16·9, f(31) = 6·3, p = 0·017). this study demonstrates that many chronic oro-facial pain patients may experience perceptual distortions. (i) to examine the association between self-reported mechanical factors and chronic oro-facial pain. the study examined the association of chronic oro-facial pain with a variety of self-reported mechanical factors: teeth grinding, facial trauma, missing teeth and the feeling that the teeth did not fit together properly. only two mechanical factors: teeth grinding (odds ratio (or) 2.0, 95% ci 1.3-3.0) and facial trauma (or 2.0; 95% ci 1.3-2.9) were independently associated with chronic oro-facial pain after adjusting for psychological factors. self-reported mechanical factors associated with chronic oro-facial pain are confounded, in part, by psychological factors and are equally common across other frequently unexplained syndromes. chronic facial muscle pain is a common feature in both fibromyalgia (fm) and myofascial (mf) pain conditions. idiopathic chronic pain conditions with a mismatch between anatomical abnormalities and symptoms can be categorized as somatoform pain disorder according to the dsm-iv criteria. 
Amblyopia: is visual loss permanent? [SEP] amblyopia is characterized by losses in a variety of aspects of spatial vision, such as acuity and contrast sensitivity. amblyopia refers to visual impairment resulting from perturbations in visual experience during visual development, typically secondary to strabismus, uncorrected refractive error, and/or deprivation. amblyopia designates monocular or binocular visual loss associated with form deprivation caused by obstruction or deformation of a light stimulus, strabismus, or uncorrected refractive error. while amblyopia can be efficiently treated in children, it becomes irreversible in adults, due to the decline in neural plasticity past the end of the visual cortex critical period. amblyopia is used as a comprehensive term for unexplained reduction of visual acuity, usually unilateral. amblyopia is one of the most common causes of visual deficit in childhood, and since it is treatable, at least in children, considerable efforts have been made to detect it as early in life as possible. amblyopia is a neurodevelopmental disorder of vision associated with decreased visual acuity, poor or absent stereopsis, and suppression of information from one eye. 1 in the developed world, amblyopia is the most common cause of childhood visual impairment, 3 which reduces quality of life 4 and also almost doubles the lifetime risk of legal blindness. amblyopia is reduced visual acuity in one or both eyes in the absence of any demonstrable abnormality of the visual pathway. amblyopia is reduced visual acuity in one or both eyes in the absence of any demonstrable abnormality of the visual pathway. 
Implementation of epidural analgesia for labor: is the standard of effective analgesia reachable in all women? [SEP] epidural analgesia represents one of the most effective pharmacological ways to relieve labour pain. as the decision to use epidural analgesia during labour is affected by many social, personal and medical factors, this study aimed to explore the factors contributing to a pregnant women's decision to use epidurals and to understand the benefit of implementing a health education program regarding epidural analgesia. the participating pregnant women were educated on the use of epidural analgesia during labour by a professional health educator utilizing specially designed educational materials. education on epidural analgesia during antenatal care is needed for better decision making regarding the use of epidural analgesia during labour. to compare the effects of epidural analgesia with intravenous (iv) analgesia on the outcome of labor. it is known that an increasing number of women receive epidural analgesia for labour pain. how do women experience being in labour with epidural analgesia, and what kind of midwifery care do they, consequently, need? initiation of epidural analgesia can have considerable implications for women's experience of labour. epidural analgesia is considered one of the most effective methods for pain relief during labor. an increasing number of women receive epidurals during labor and birth. 
Does HER2 immunoreactivity provide prognostic information in locally advanced urothelial carcinoma patients receiving adjuvant M-VEC chemotherapy? [SEP] to evaluate the impact of her2 immunoreactivity on clinical outcome in locally advanced urothelial carcinoma patients who received surgery alone, or methotrexate, vinblastine, epirubicin, and cisplatin (m-vec) as adjuvant chemotherapy. the authors evaluated her2 immunoreactivity using immunohistochemical staining and explored the influence of pathological parameters and her2 immunoreactivity on progression-free survival (pfs) and disease-specific overall survival (os) using univariate and multivariate cox's analyses. the her2 immunoreactivity was significantly associated with pfs (p = 0.02) and disease-specific os (p = 0.005) in advanced urothelial carcinoma patients. as for patients with adjuvant m-vec, her2 immunoreactivity was a significant prognostic factor for pfs (p = 0.03) and disease-specific os (p = 0.02) using univariate analysis, but not multivariate analysis, and not for patients receiving watchful waiting. her2 immunoreactivity might have a limited prognostic value for advanced urothelial carcinoma patients with adjuvant m-vec. to evaluate her2 immunohistochemical expression in conventional urothelial carcinoma (uc), in situ uc, and uc variants primarily in micropapillary urothelial carcinoma (mpuc). human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (her2) is one of the known oncogenes in urothelial carcinoma. to evaluate the expression of her2 receptors (previously reported to be over-expressed in malignant urothelium) in both primary tumours and metastases of transitional cell cancer, using two different staining methods and two different scoring techniques, considering the potential use of these receptors as targets for planned systemic anti-her2 nuclide-based treatment. her2 expression was evaluated with two different immunohistochemical methods in 90 patients with primary urinary bladder cancer tumours and corresponding metastases. to test whether the expression of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (her-2) is of prognostic value in a contemporary cohort of patients with urothelial carcinoma of the urinary bladder (ucb). 
Is halofantrine ototoxic? [SEP] data from animal experiments indicate haloperidol is not teratogenic, but is embryotoxic in high doses. harmane and related chemicals are toxic to the cerebellum. the ototoxicity associated with h2o2 has been controversial. following the insertion of ventilation tubes in both ears and baseline recordings of the auditory brain stem responses (abr), we instilled 2 ml of 3 percent h2o2 into their right external auditory canals (experimental ears). h2o2 did not appear to cause ototoxicity in chinchilla ears with tympanostomy tubes exposed to h2o2 instillation using a standard clinical protocol. the results suggest that high concentrations of tea tree oil applied to the round window for a relatively short time are to some extent ototoxic to the high-frequency region of the cochlea. knowing the ototoxic potential of the agents used in medical treatments is important for the protection of hearing. the aim of this study is to determine the effects of intravenous dexmedetomidine application during sevoflurane anesthesia on otoacoustic emissions (oaes). dexmedetomidine infusion affects the micromechanical function of cochlea especially in the low-frequency region. dexmedetomidine should be carefully used during general anesthesia to avoid its probable harmful effects on cochlear micromechanics. 
Visceral adipose tissue area measurement at a single level: can it represent visceral adipose tissue volume? [SEP] aim of the study was to assess the potential value of cross-sectional adipose tissue evaluation in well defined single transverse slices for estimation of volumes of metabolically important adipose tissue compartments as visceral adipose tissue (vat), nonvisceral adipose tissue (nvat), and total body adipose tissue (tat). true volumes of main adipose tissue compartments vat, tat, and nvat were carefully assessed based on whole-body magnetic resonance (mr) examinations in 367 volunteers (227 females, 140 males, age 18-69 years) at increased risk for type 2 diabetes. volumes of vat, nvat, and tat were compared with cross-sectional areas of adipose tissue in single transverse slices recorded on the level of (1) umbilicus (u), (2) head of humerus (h), (3) head of femur (f), and anthropometric data such as bmi and whr. the mri-based evaluation of the quantity and regional distribution of adipose tissue is one objective measure in the investigation of obesity. the aim of this article was to report a comprehensive and automatic analytical method for the determination of the volumes of subcutaneous fat tissue (sft) and visceral fat tissue (vft) in either the whole human body or selected slices or regions of interest. the purpose of this study was to determine to what extent the whole volumes of abdominal subcutaneous (asat) and visceral adipose tissue (vat) of patients with obesity can be predicted by using data of one body half only. we assessed anthropometry, serum adipokines, and dxa as markers of abdominal subcutaneous adipose tissue (sat) and visceral adipose tissue (vat) using magnetic resonance imaging (mri).methodswe performed a cross-sectional study that included 197 healthy adolescents (114 boys) aged 10-15 years nested within a longitudinal population-based cohort. in normal weight females a significant correlation was found between waist circumference and visceral fat area, whereas in obese females no positive correlations were found between anthropometric measurements and ct indices of visceral fat distribution. visceral adiposity was defined as a visceral fat area (vfa) measuring > 100 cm(2) by ct scanning. visceral adipose tissue (vat) is linked with the metabolic consequences of obesity, being necessary the use alternative methods of predicting this type of fat, like anthropometry. 
Necrotizing fasciitis: an indication for hyperbaric oxygenation therapy? [SEP] a survey of published english literature through searches of medline and pubmed was carried out using the following key words: "necrotizing fasciitis," "fournier's gangrene," "necrotizing soft tissue infections," "hyperbaric oxygen therapy," "and hyperbaric oxygen chambers." this article reviews the applications of hyperbaric oxygen (hbo) as an adjunctive treatment of certain infectious processes. infections for which hbo has been studied and is recommended by the undersea and hyperbaric medicine society include necrotizing fasciitis, gas gangrene, chronic refractory osteomyelitis (including malignant otitis externa), mucormycosis, intracranial abscesses, and diabetic foot ulcers that have concomitant infections. hyperbaric oxygen therapy has significantly improved the management of necrotizing fasciitis of the extremities and trunk. this report discusses our experience with cervical necrotizing fasciitis in six patients treated from 1986 to 1993 who received hyperbaric oxygen therapy. clinical presentation and microbiology are reviewed together with the rationale for hyperbaric oxygen therapy as an adjunct to broad-spectrum antibiotics and aggressive early surgical debridement. this therapy has been used as an adjunct to surgery and antibiotics in the treatment of patients with necrotizing fasciitis with the aim of reducing morbidity and mortality. to review the evidence concerning the use of hbot as an adjunctive treatment for patients with necrotizing fasciitis (nf). management of necrotizing fasciitis, a rare and potentially fatal, polymicrobial disease comprises of aggressive debridement, intravenous antibiotics and application of various adjunctives. surgical debridement and antibiotics are the mainstays of therapy for patients with necrotizing soft tissue infections (nstis), but hyperbaric oxygen therapy (hbo) is often used as an adjunctive measure. 
Is the Hawkins sign able to predict necrosis in fractures of the neck of the astragalus? [SEP] the hawkins sign, as a radiographic predictor, could exclude the possibility of developing ischemic bone necrosis after talar neck fractures, but its relationship with ankle function remains unclear. the purpose of this study was to illustrate the prognostic effect of the hawkins sign on ankle function after talar neck fractures and to study the value of early mri in detecting the avn changes after talus fractures. the occurrence of positive hawkins sign was 50%, 30%, and 33.3%, the incidence of avn was 0%, 10%, and 50%, respectively, in type i, type ii, and type iii and iv talus fractures, respectively. the hawkins sign positive group had better aofas scores than the negative group in type iii and iv fractures. the hawkins sign is a subchondral radiolucent band in the talar dome that is indicative of viability at 6 to 8 weeks after a talus fracture. the hawkins sign (if present) appeared between the 6th and the 9th week after trauma. the hawkins sign is a good indicator of talus vascularity following fracture. we introduce the concept of the partial hawkins sign in three cases of talar neck fracture that are associated with incomplete avascular necrosis. early recognition of the partial hawkins sign should lead to mri evaluation that can more readily define the involvement of the talar body and assist the treating physician in recommending when the patient can bear weight. as such the presence of battle's sign is a strong indicator that a basal skull fracture could be present in the head injured patient, as exemplified by its inclusion as a major risk factor in scoring systems designed to assess the likelihood of basal skull fracture. 
Is a mandatory general surgery rotation necessary in the surgical clerkship? [SEP] changes in the spectrum of general surgery and the delivery of surgical care have placed the requirement for a mandatory general surgery rotation in the surgical clerkship in question. we tested the hypothesis that equal mastery of surgical clerkship objectives can be obtained in a clerkship with and without general surgery. there are no specific accreditation council for graduate medical education general surgery residency program requirements for rotations in surgical critical care (scc), trauma, and burn. as acute care surgery programs have begun to integrate emergency general surgery with scc, trauma, and burn rotations, it is an ideal time to determine the optimal curriculum and duration of these important rotations for general surgery residency training. a comprehensive exposure to general surgery is essential for medical students pursuing careers in surgery. to determine if surgical clerkships influence subspecialty choice, we surveyed medical students who interviewed for general surgery training over a 2-year period at the johns hopkins hospital. the most common 3rd-year surgery clerkship uses general surgery services while limiting the involvement of subspecialty services. a novel surgery clerkship in which students were assigned to either general surgery or subspecialty services for the entire clerkship was tried at a large midwestern medical school. currently, many such curricular objectives are met through special surgical courses and rotations during postgraduate training in family medicine. with appropriate modifications in the core third-year surgery clerkship and inclusion of an appropriately designed fourth-year surgery subinternship, it is possible for surgical educators to provide students with the experience in surgery that is essential for the training of generalists. 
Is Acupuncture Efficacious for Treating Phonotraumatic Vocal Pathologies? [SEP] some reports claim that acupuncture is effective for treating dysphonia associated with benign pathological tissue changes. the objective of this study was to investigate the effectiveness of intensive acupuncture therapy for dysphonias associated with benign pathological changes with a randomized, control design. to investigate the effectiveness of acupuncture in treating phonotraumatic vocal fold lesions. significant improvement in vocal function, as indicated by the maximum fundamental frequency produced, and also perceived quality of life, were found in both the genuine and sham acupuncture groups, but not in the no-treatment group. structural (morphological) improvements were, however, only noticed in the genuine acupuncture group, which demonstrated a significant reduction in the size of the vocal fold lesions. the findings showed that acupuncture of voice-related acupoints could bring about improvement in vocal function and healing of vocal fold lesions. acupuncture intervention is frequently used to control pathologic symptoms in several visceral organs, and a growing number of studies using experimental animal models suggest that acupuncture stimulation may be involved in inducing anti-inflammatory responses. there is some evidence for the efficacy of acupuncture in chronic neck pain (cnp) treatment, but it remains unclear which acupuncture modes are most effective. these results suggest that trigger point acupuncture therapy may be more effective on chronic neck pain in aged patients than the standard acupuncture therapy. besides phonosurgery, this specific "voice therapy expulsion" technique should be considered as a valid, noninvasive, and well-tolerated therapeutic option for the treatment of selected patients with vocal fold polyps. 
Is aneurysm repair justified for the patients aged 80 or older after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage? [SEP] records of patients (aged ≥ 70 years) with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage treated with endovascular coiling were retrieved. the number of elderly patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) is increasing. although advanced age is one of the recognized risk factors for poor outcome, conservative treatment for aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage cannot provide satisfactory outcome in elderly patients. the purpose of this study was to assess the results of surgical repair for ruptured aneurysm in elderly patients. we retrospectively investigated elderly patients (ages 70-89 yr) who were undergoing surgical treatment for ruptured aneurysm during the 15-year period 1988 to 2002 and compared patients in the 8th and 9th decades of life. older patients have a higher risk for poor neurological outcomes following aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (asah). two hundred eighty-one patients >/=65 years of age with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage who were accepted for treatment at the uppsala university hospital neurosurgery clinic during 1981 to 1998 were included. population aging raises questions about extending treatment indications in elderly patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (asah). older age should not preclude a patient from aneurysm treatment. aggressive therapy for aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage is warranted in many patients whereas conservative treatment of arteriovenous malformations is customarily warranted in this age group. 
Do general practice characteristics influence uptake of an information technology (IT) innovation in primary care? [SEP] recent evaluations of it innovations in primary care have highlighted variations between centres and practices in uptake and use. we evaluated whether structural characteristics of a general practice were associated with variations in use of a web-based clinical information system underpinning a managed clinical network in diabetes, between the years 2001 and 2003. to investigate the current use, acceptance of, and the real potential of information technology in the 23 general practices in one primary care trust. although information technology (it) may improve efficiency and quality of patient care, the adoption of clinical it by physicians has been limited. this study investigates the relationships between physician practice revenue and use of clinical it. in response to the information management and technology changes proposed by the government's nhs modernization initiative this article examines the issues that gps feel to be of major significance to their work. considering the levels of it investment and adoption in primary care medical practices, a deeper understanding is needed of the factors leading to greater performance outcomes from emr systems in primary care. to describe primary care providers' (pcp) attitudes about the impact of a mature, commercial electronic health records (ehr) on clinical practice in settings with experience using the system and to evaluate whether a provider's propensity to adopt new technologies is associated with more favourable perceptions. the present study, analyzing a national physician survey (n = 4,720), seeks to explore associations of it availability and utilization with practice performance at the national level. information technology (it) is increasingly being used in general practice to manage health care including type 2 diabetes. 
Prognosis of well differentiated small hepatocellular carcinoma--is well differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma clinically early cancer? [SEP] the purpose of this study is to examine whether or not well differentiated (w-d) hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) is indeed clinically early cancer. early detection and following appropriate treatments of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) is still the gold standard for favored outcome of hcc patients; nevertheless, a small portion of hepatitis b virus (hbv)-related small hcc (<5 cm) patients got poor prognosis. hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) <2 cm in diameter has a favorable prognosis. early diagnosis and treatment of cancer may contribute substantially to complete cure, but it remains unknown whether treatment of early hepatocellular carcinoma can actually result in cure. early hepatocellular carcinoma is defined as very well-differentiated cancer containing glisson's triad. treatment of early hepatocellular carcinoma cannot provide complete cure due to the substantial risk of developing classical hepatocellular carcinoma. detection of a hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) in the early stage is critical, as clinical stage influences treatment selection and patient prognosis. very early stage hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) is defined as a single tumor with the largest diameter of the lesion measuring 2 cm or less according to barcelona liver cancer staging system. early hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) is defined as a well-differentiated cancer containing glisson's triad, but it remains unknown whether this lesion is curable by surgery. early and very early stage hepatocellular cancers (hcc) when staged clinically, if they are coincident with histological early hcc, have the best outcome in terms of recurrence rates and survival after potential curative therapy. 
Do follow-up recommendations for abnormal Papanicolaou smears influence patient adherence? [SEP] a review of the literature on adherence with recommended follow-up after an abnormal screening papanicolaou smear result reveals that many women do not receive adequate follow-up. primary care providers can influence the number of women who undergo timely colposcopy or a subsequent papanicolaou smear by addressing common barriers to follow-up. to compare adherence to follow-up recommendations for colposcopy or repeated papanicolaou (pap) smears for women with previously abnormal pap smear results. to present data on the spectrum of abnormal papanicolaou (pap) smears in adolescents and to determine factors that influence compliance with recommendations to return for repeat pap smears or for colposcopic examination. compliance with follow-up for abnormal pap smears including referral to the colposcopy clinic, and the results of repeat pap smears and colposcopy. although a sizable proportion of adolescents with abnormal pap smears have significant pathology on repeat pap smears, adolescents with abnormal pap smears have a high failure rate in keeping appointments for follow-up pap smears and colposcopy. adherence with recommended follow-up after an abnormal pap test is a critical step in the prevention of cervical cancer. the objective of this study was to determine compliance with follow-up serial papanicolaou smears after the completion of colposcopic examination and treatment as required in women with abnormal papanicolaou smears. to gain a better understanding of factors that affect follow-up and the strategies that have been found to improve follow-up after an abnormal papanicolaou (pap) smear test. a number of factors were identified that affect adherence to follow-up among women with abnormal pap smears. 
Biomolecular identification of allergenic pollen: a new perspective for aerobiological monitoring? [SEP] pollen is a major cause of allergy and monitoring pollen in the air is relevant for diagnostic purposes, development of pollen forecasts, and for biomedical and biological researches. in this article, we present a method for detecting pollen in multifocal optical microscopy images of air samples collected by a burkard pollen sampler, as a first step in an automated pollen counting procedure. in contrast, this study evaluated the effectiveness of identifying the component pollens using the metabolites extracted from an air-sampled pollen mixture. ambient air-sampled pollen from munich in 2016 and 2017 was visually identified from reference pollens and extracts were prepared. this mini-review summarizes the available data of the air pollutants no2 and ozone on allergenic pollen from different plant species, focusing on potentially allergenic components of the pollen, such as allergen content, protein release, ige-binding, or protein modification. various in vivo and in vitro studies on allergenic pollen are shown and discussed. in patients with respiratory allergy to pollen it is common to correlate the onset, duration and intensity of clinical symptoms with the count of atmospheric allergenic pollen grains. pollen monitoring is an important and widely used tool in allergy research and creation of awareness in pollen-allergic patients. here, we present a method for identification and quantification of airborne pollen using dna sequencing. airborne pollen is a recognized biological indicator and its monitoring has multiple uses such as providing a tool for allergy diagnosis and prevention. 
Does diabetes mellitus influence the efficacy of FDG-PET in the diagnosis of cervical cancer? [SEP] the role of positron emission tomography (pet) with fluorine-18-labeled fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (fdg) in cervical cancer has not yet been well defined. this study shows that dual-phase fdg-pet is superior to conventional fdg-pet or mri-ct in the evaluation of metastatic lesions in locally advanced or recurrent cervical cancer. [(18)f] fluoro-2-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography (fdg pet) has recently been established as a sensitive and specific method of detecting lymph node metastases in newly diagnosed cervical cancer. we evaluated the potential role of fdg pet in the context of suspected recurrent cervical cancer. the sensitivity and specificity of fdg pet for detecting recurrent cervical cancer were 85.7 and 86.7%, respectively. whole-body fdg pet is a sensitive and specific tool for the detection of recurrent cervical cancer in patients who have clinical findings suspicious for recurrence. the effects of diabetes mellitus (dm) on sensitivity of fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography coupled with computed tomography ((18)f-fdg pet/ct) for diagnosing pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas (pdacs) is not well known. f-fdg-pet and pet-ct are valuable methods for the assessment of recurrent cervical cancer. the role of positron emission tomography (pet) with [18f]-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (fdg) in early-stage cervical cancer is unclear. this study shows that dual-phase fdg-pet has little value in primary, nonbulky, stage ia2 to iia and mri-defined, ln-negative cervical cancer. 
Biomechanical and wound healing characteristics of corneas after excimer laser keratorefractive surgery: is there a difference between advanced surface ablation and sub-Bowman's keratomileusis? [SEP] the excimer laser has the ability to produce a highly uniform ablated surface, which may facilitate reepithelialization after photorefractive keratectomy (prk). the rate of corneal epithelial wound healing after excimer laser prk was compared with the rate of reepithelialization after manual lamellar keratectomy. to study the optical changes induced by the microkeratome cut, the subsequent laser ablation, and the biomechanical healing response of the cornea in normal laser in situ keratomileusis (lasik) eyes. the aim of this study was to compare the changes in corneal biomechanical properties following small-incision lenticule extraction (smile) versus q-value-guided femtosecond laser-assisted in situ keratomileusis (q-fs-lasik). to compare the biomechanical properties of the cornea after small-incision lenticule extraction (lenticule extraction group) with those after femtosecond laser-assisted laser in situ keratomileusis (femtosecond lasik group). after excimer laser photorefractive keratectomy, corneal epithelial and anterior stromal wound healing may produce corneal haze and variability in refractive results among patients and eyes. we report a retrospective study of 17 selected eyes that received excimer laser photorefractive keratectomy with one of three brands of laser and that exhibited regional variations in corneal wound healing as observed with slit-lamp microscopy and videokeratography (tomey tms) within the ablation zone. observe the influence of femtosecond laser cutting on corneal biomechanics during small-incision lenticule extraction (smile) or femtosecond-assisted laser in situ keratomileusis (fs-lasik) and assess the biomechanical changes following the operation. parameters of inverse concave radius, deformation amplitude ratio 2 mm or 1 mm (da ratio 2 mm or 1 mm), highest concavity radius (hc radius), biomechanically corrected intraocular pressure (biop), and central corneal thickness (cct) measured by corvis st ii were recorded at 1 day preoperatively, immediately after the lenticule or flap creation, during subsequent lenticule extraction or excimer laser ablation, and during follow-up at 1 week, 1 month and 3 months postoperatively. to assess the corneal biomechanical parameters prior to and following laser in situ keratomileusis (lasik) and epipolis laser in situ keratomileusis (epi-lasik) and evaluate the probable correlative factors. 
Does radiotherapy of the primary rectal cancer affect prognosis after pelvic exenteration for recurrent rectal cancer? [SEP] many patients with locally recurrent rectal cancer receive radiotherapy for the treatment of the primary tumour. although the value of postoperative radiotherapy has been demonstrated for subsets of patients with rectal carcinoma, the efficacy of postoperative radiation therapy for colonic carcinoma (above the peritoneal reflection) is much less clear. the aim of this study was to review the benefit of radiotherapy in t2 and t3, n0 rectal cancer patients. preoperative radiotherapy does not seem to be of significant importance in patients with t2-3, n0 rectal cancer regarding local recurrence and survival. is the prognosis for non-metastatic rectal cancer that extends beyond the bowel wall improved by adding radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy to surgery? radiotherapy for rectal cancer carries a risk of faecal incontinence (about 50% of patients), small bowel occlusion, and secondary cancers (about 1 in 15 patients). patients undergoing re-irradiation for locally recurrent, non-metastatic, rectal cancer between 2000 and 2014 were identified. re-irradiation is a beneficial treatment modality for the management of locally recurrent, non-metastatic rectal cancer. to document the clinical nature and prognosis of locally recurrent rectal cancer after total mesorectal excision (tme) with or without 5 x 5 gy preoperative radiotherapy (prt) and to identify patient-, disease-, and treatment-related factors associated with differences in prognosis after local recurrence. surgical resection of rectal cancer is associated with a high pelvic recurrence rate. 
Can a practicing surgeon detect early lymphedema reliably? [SEP] although early diagnosis is important for selecting an effective surgical treatment for secondary lymphedema, an efficient screening test for detecting early-stage lymphedema has not yet been established. earliest findings after lymphadenectomy and risk factors for lower leg lymphedema were investigated. all patients who undergo lymphadenectomy for gynecologic malignancies should be examined for secondary lower extremity lymphedema by qualitative evaluation methods on a routine schedule to determine the earliest possible diagnosis. its accuracy has only been assessed in small studies and it is not known if it can identify patients with a proximal lymphatic obstruction who may be suitable for lymphatic bypass surgery. background: early detection of lymphedema gives an opportunity for effective and successful treatment of lymphedema. however, the current diagnosis methods, except the bioimpedance analysis, perometry, and indocyanine green lymphography, have limitations in detecting early stage lymphedema. the aim of this study is to establish the role of sonoelastography in diagnosis and staging of lymphedema by using the swe technique in lymphedema patients. conclusion: swe should be a useful tool in diagnosis and distinguishing early and late stages of lymphedema. early treatment is important, but the surgical indication and the effect of surgery on pain in lymphoedema-affected limbs have not been described. ultrasonography can identify lymphatic vessels of the lower leg with precision and may aid lymphatic microsurgery for lymphedema. 
Colorectal cancer with synchronous liver metastases: does global management at the same centre improve results? [SEP] the aim of this study is to identify the effect of finding synchronous colorectal liver metastases on the performance of the surgeon whilst operating on primary colorectal cancer. the optimal surgical strategy for treating colorectal cancer with synchronous liver metastases is subject to debate. prospectively collected data on all patients with synchronous colorectal liver metastases who underwent simultaneous resection with curative intent were analyzed retrospectively. optimal surgical management for patients with synchronous colorectal cancer liver metastasis is controversial. we provide an analysis of surgical utilization and outcomes for patients presenting with synchronous colon and rectal cancer liver metastasis between simultaneous and staged approaches. the optimal treatment for synchronous liver metastasis (lm) from colorectal cancer (crc) depends on various factors. synchronous liver metastases from colorectal cancer may be resected simultaneously with the primary or as a second staged operation. we evaluated trends of resection for synchronous colorectal cancer liver metastases and associated patient outcomes. among 2,738 patients undergoing resection for colorectal cancer liver metastases, 1168 (42%) had synchronous disease. prospective randomized trials can inform the role of simultaneous versus staged resection for synchronous colorectal cancer liver metastases. 
Is motion perception deficit in schizophrenia a consequence of eye-tracking abnormality? [SEP] studies have shown that schizophrenia patients have motion perception deficit, which was thought to cause eye-tracking abnormality in schizophrenia. the known eye-tracking difficulties in schizophrenia patients may interact with their motion perception. this study introduces a novel approach to motion perception studies and highlights the importance of concurrently measuring eye movements to understand interactions between these two systems; the results argue for a conceptual revision regarding motion perception abnormality in schizophrenia. schizophrenia patients and many of their relatives show impaired smooth pursuit eye tracking. a previous study showed that motion discrimination is impaired in schizophrenia patients. many schizophrenia patients show degraded detection of coherent motion. the results of multiple investigations indicate visual motion-processing abnormalities in schizophrenia. past research suggests impairment in biological motion perception in schizophrenia. schizophrenia is often accompanied by a range of visual perception deficits, with many involving impairments in motion perception. abnormal smooth pursuit eye movements in patients with schizophrenia are often considered a consequence of impaired motion perception. 
Transgastric endoscopic splenectomy: is it possible? [SEP] the safety and feasibility of laparoscopic splenectomy and esophagogastric devascularization are still uncertain. eighty patients chose laparoscopic splenectomy and esophagogastric devascularization and 73 patients underwent the open procedure. the short-term effects of laparoscopic splenectomy and esophagogastric devascularization were better than those for open surgery, and the medium-term effects were similar between these two surgical approaches. prospective randomized studies with a greater number of cases are needed to confirm the role of laparoscopy in splenectomy and esophagogastric devascularization. splenectomy is often performed in patients who undergo total gastrectomy for cancer of the upper stomach. the safety and feasibility of laparoscopic splenectomy plus selective esophagogastric devascularization (lssd) via the spleen bed for cirrhotic portal hypertension have not been well studied. total gastrectomy with splenectomy (tgs) is sometimes performed for treatment of locally advanced gastric cancer invading the greater curvature because metastasis to splenic hilar nodes is expected. single-incision laparoscopic splenectomy has been reported and was proved to be feasible and safe. sils combining gastroesophageal devascularization for massive splenomegaly is technically feasible in the hands of surgeons with experiences of laparoscopic splenectomy. to investigate the safety and effect of laparoscopic splenectomy and esophagogastric devascularization (lsed), we performed lsed for 24 patients suffering from portal hypertension with refractory variceal bleeding while conducting osed for 30 patients. 
It's Fournier's gangrene still dangerous? [SEP] in medical treatment, we must put the possibility of fournier's gangrene in mind and treat as soon as possible. fournier's gangrene is a rare but highly mortal infectious disease characterised by fulminant necrotising fasciitis involving the genital and perineal regions. fournier's gangrene is a fatal synergistic infectious disease with necrotizing fasciitis of the perineum and abdominal wall along with the scrotum and penis in men and the vulva in women. forty-one patients with fournier's gangrene were reviewed on the parameters of age, sex, aetiological agents, predisposing factors, treatment modalities and outcomes. fournier's gangrene is still a severe disease. fournier's gangrene is a rare and potentially fatal infectious disease characterized by necrotic fasciitis of the perineum and abdominal wall, along with the scrotum and penis in men and the vulva in women. fournier's gangrene is a life-threatening acute necrotizing fasciitis of perianal,genitourinary and perineal areas. fournier's gangrene, rare but life threatening disease, is characterized by an acute necrotic infection of the scrotum, penis, or perineum. fournier gangrene is a urological emergency associated with a high mortality. fournier gangrene is associated with high mortality despite appropriate early treatment. 
Is it appropriate to implant kidneys from elderly donors in young recipients? [SEP] the aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical outcome of older cadaveric kidneys (>60 years), transplanted to young recipients (<50 years) and older recipients (>60 years). kidneys from elderly donors tend to be implanted in recipients who are also elderly. we conclude that patient and graft survival on transplanting kidneys from elderly donors to young recipients is superimposable on that obtained with young donors. in paired living kidney exchange donation from an old donor to a young recipient, it may be argued that elderly donors provide an inferior quality kidney. when considering paired kidney donation, older age donors should not necessarily be limited. in conclusion, our study showed that selected kidneys from donors older than 70 years were followed with excellent graft and patient survivals, permitting older patients on renal replacement therapy to benefit from renal transplantation. when a patient who had renal replacement therapy becomes older, an elder donor candidate may be considered as a potential donor for living-related transplantation. in the eurotransplant senior program, hla-unmatched kidneys from deceased donors aged > or = 65 yr are transplanted regionally into recipients aged > or = 65 yr. because we have become more willing to accept kidneys from donors aged > or = 75 yr than previous years, we performed a retrospective analysis of this subgroup. we compared outcomes of kidneys from donors aged > or = 75 yr with both younger-donor kidneys transplanted in the eurotransplant senior program and with younger-donor hla-matched kidneys transplanted into recipients > or = 60 yr. in conclusion, our data suggest that kidneys from deceased donors aged > or = 75 yr can be transplanted safely into recipients aged > or = 65 yr if similar donor criteria and local allocation practices are used. 
Do provider service networks result in lower expenditures compared with HMOs or primary care case management in Florida's Medicaid program? [SEP] this article provides new empirical data about the viability and the care management activities of medicaid managed-care plans sponsored by provider organizations that serve medicaid and other low-income populations. contracting with safety-net plans may not be an efficient mechanism for enabling medicaid recipients to "enter the mainstream of american health care," but it may provide states with an effective way to manage and coordinate the care of medicaid recipients, while helping to maintain the health care safety-net for the uninsured. understanding the links between medicare involvement and financial performance in rural hospitals is important for evaluating reimbursement policy under medicare's prospective payment system (pps). existing multivariate evidence suggests that medicare involvement improves pps profits in both rural and urban hospitals after controlling for other hospital- and market-specific factors. greater medicare involvement is associated with lower patient care profitability in rural hospitals but has a strong positive and significant effect on both patient care and overall (i.e., patient and nonpatient) profitability in urban ones. it has been observed that enrollees in managed care systems such as health maintenance organizations (hmos) and preferred provider organizations (ppos) have lower utilization rates and lower expenditures than those in conventional fee-for-service health insurance programs. this paper studies whether lower cost hospitals are more likely to sign contracts with hmos and ppos and thus explain the observed lower utilization rates and lower expenditures by hmo and ppo enrollees. the results show that private hospitals, teaching hospitals, hospitals accredited by jcaho, hospitals with high case mix index, and hospitals located in msas are more likely to contract with hmos and ppos than their counterparts. to identify components of the patient-centered medical home (pcmh) model of care that are associated with lower spending and utilization among medicare beneficiaries. regression analyses of changes in outcomes for medicare beneficiaries in practices that engaged in particular pcmh activities compared with beneficiaries in practices that did not. 
Assessment of carotid artery stenosis before coronary artery bypass surgery. Is it always necessary? [SEP] carotid duplex ultrasonography (dus) is routinely performed prior to coronary artery bypass graft surgery (cabg) on all patients > 65 years old because of the reported associated risk of finding concomitant carotid artery stenosis. identifying risk factors that correlate with severe carotid stenosis may result in more cost-effective screening for patients with asymptomatic carotid artery disease prior to cabg. to determine the best approach to these patients, we screened carotid arteries in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass preoperatively with noninvasive ultrasonic duplex scanning. in patients with coronary artery disease who are scheduled for coronary artery bypass graft (cabg) surgery, but who also have carotid artery stenosis, there is controversy about the role of carotid surgery. preoperative carotid artery ultrasound examination should be performed, regardless of age, in all patients with more advanced symptomatic atherosclerosis, such as a history of cerebrovascular accidents, presence of lower-extremity peripheral arterial disease, left main disease, or unstable angina. this study aimed to determine the prevalence of carotid artery stenosis (cas) due to atherosclerosis in neurologically asymptomatic patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg) for coronary artery disease (cad). a liberal policy to identify high-grade carotid stenosis using duplex ultrasound testing prior to coronary revascularization is recommended. patients with symptomatic >50% internal carotid artery stenosis should be considered for carotid endarterectomy at the time of coronary revascularization. the assessment of carotid atherosclerotic disease is an essential pre-requisite for determining a patients suitability for carotid endarterectomy to prevent ischaemic stroke. in both studies, carotid artery ultrasonography and transesophageal echocardiography were performed before coronary angiography and valve surgery. 
Should direct mesocolon invasion be included in T4 for the staging of gastric cancer? [SEP] however, many authors have considered t mesocolon invasion in agc as t4. this study was performed to evaluate the appropriate t stage for t mesocolon invasion in agc. from 1996 to 2008, 90 patients underwent curative gastrectomy with t mesocolon excision at the authors' institute under the suspicion of t mesocolon invasion based on surgical findings and without pathologic invasion to any other organ. the t stage of t mesocolon invasion in agc should be revised to ajcc/uicc stage t4, because the survival rate of t mesocolon invasion agc is lower than that of stage t2b or t3. one of the sites most frequently invaded by gastric cancer is the mesocolon; however, the uicc does not mention this anatomical site as an adjacent structure involved in gastric cancer. the purpose of this study was to characterize and classify mesocolon invasion from gastric cancer. among these, patients who showed macroscopically direct invasion into the mesocolon were compared to other patients with advanced gastric cancer. mesocolon invasion should be included in t4 for the staging of gastric cancer. the figo staging consensus agreement from 2012 indicates that bowel mucosal invasion for epithelial ovarian cancer (eoc) should be assigned to stage iv disease. preoperative diagnosis for wall invasion and lymph node metastasis is sometimes difficult in t1 gastric cancer. 
Do Surrogates of Injury Severity Influence the Occurrence of Heterotopic Ossification in Fractures of the Acetabulum? [SEP] to determine the relationship between injury severity surrogates and other patient factors with the development and severity of heterotopic ossification (ho) following open reduction internal fixation of acetabular fractures treated with a posterior approach. surrogates of injury severity, including days in the icu and non-icu hospital los >10 days, were associated with the development of ho in our cohort of acetabular fracture patients. heterotopic ossification (ho) is a common complication of the operative treatment of acetabular fractures. heterotopic ossification is a common complication of orthopaedic trauma association (ota) type c distal humerus fractures and ulnohumeral fracture dislocations. the purpose of this study was to precisely define the incidence of heterotopic ossification following major elbow trauma and to identify risk factors for the development of clinically significant heterotopic ossification and for surgical excision of elbow heterotopic ossification.current procedural terminology codes identified 156 patients who underwent operative intervention for a distal humerus fracture or an ulnohumeral fracture dislocation at 2 level i trauma centers over 6 years. severe elbow injury (p<.05) and male sex (p<.05) were associated with operative excision of heterotopic ossification. an acetabular fracture with disruption of the joint surface, if untreated, will rapidly lead to post-traumatic osteoarthritis. heterotopic ossification (ho) with subsequent pain and limitation of motion of the lower extremity is a common and significant problem for patients who suffer traumatic acetabular fracture (taf). the incidence of heterotopic ossification is markedly increased for patients requiring surgical repair depending on the degree of trauma and the type of surgical repair necessary. even though the incidence of severe heterotopic ossification after radiation therapy for total hip replacement is approximately 5% and for traumatic acetabular fracture patients it is double (10%), the actual incidence of heterotopic ossification without radiation therapy is different in the two conditions. 
Does pretreatment with statins improve clinical outcome after stroke? [SEP] in recent years, the medical literature has shown that statin treatment before and in the acute phase of ischemic stroke has a positive impact on outcome. outcome measures were 3-month good functional outcome (modified rankin scale ≤ 2); neurological improvement (reduction ≥ 4 points on the national institutes of health stroke scale [nihss]) between 24 and 72 h; and symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage (brain hematoma associated with nihss deterioration ≥ 4 points) within 72 h. multivariate analysis showed that statin treatment started in the acute phase of stroke was associated with both good functional outcome (or: 6.18; 95% ci: 1.43-26.62; p=0.015) and neurological improvement (or: 9.47; 95% ci: 1.98-45.37; p=0.005), whereas statin treatment started before stroke and continued in the acute phase was associated with symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage (or: 6.65; 95% ci: 1.58-29.12; p=0.010). data from different studies suggest a favourable association between pretreatment with statins or hypercholesterolemia and outcome after ischaemic stroke. the aim was to investigate whether treatment with statins decreases stroke severity and/or improves survival and outcome after stroke in an older population. the use of statins in patients with cad-related stroke may improve functional outcomes in specific cases. among observational studies, statin treatment at stroke onset was associated with good functional outcome at 90 days (pooled odds ratio [or], 1.41; 95% confidence interval [ci], 1.29-1.56; p<0.001), but not 1 year (or, 1.12; 95% ci, 0.9-1.4; p=0.31), and with reduced fatality at 90 days (pooled or, 0.71; 95% ci, 0.62-0.82; p<0.001) and 1 year (or, 0.80; 95% ci, 0.67-0.95; p=0.01). statin pretreatment has been associated with improved outcomes in patients with ischemic stroke. statin therapy has demonstrated benefits in ischemic stroke patients. statins may be beneficial for patients with acute ischemic stroke. we tested the hypothesis that patients pretreated with statins at the onset of stroke have less severe neurological effects and a better outcome. 
Processing fluency effects: can the content and presentation of participant information sheets influence recruitment and participation for an antenatal intervention? [SEP] various strategies have been developed and tested for improving recruitment and follow-up rates into health-behavioural research, but few have examined the role of linguistic choices and study document readability on participation rates. to assess the extent to which the title and font of participant information sheets (piss) can influence pregnant women's and trainee midwives' perceptions of an antenatal intervention. font influenced pregnant women's ratings of intervention complexity. the study objective was to evaluate the effect of a patient information video during the informed consent process of a perinatal trial. ninety women, between 19 and 33 weeks gestation, were randomised to receive written information about this perinatal trial and watch an information video or to receive written information only. these results suggest that a patient information video combined with an information sheet may result in greater participation in a research trial and may increase women's knowledge of a specific health problem and related research trial. to compare the effectiveness of touch screen system with information leaflet for providing women with information on prenatal tests. written participant information materials are important for ensuring that potential trial participants receive necessary information so that they can provide informed consent. improving readability, ease of comprehension and presentation may assist with improved participant recruitment. this study aimed to assess the effectiveness of an optimised participant information brochure and cover letter developed by mrc start regarding response and participant recruitment rates. 
Sternal fracture in growing children : A rare and often overlooked fracture? [SEP] sternal fractures in the pediatric population are uncommon. sternal fractures are rare injuries in children. sternal fractures are uncommon in the pediatric population, and sternal segment dislocations are even rarer with only a few cases reported in the literature. we report the us findings associated with a case of traumatic sternal segment dislocation in a 3-year-old girl. isolated fracture of the sternum is an uncommon injury in a child. sternal fractures are considered uncommon in pediatric patients. to describe the clinical and imaging features of sternal fractures in patients less than 18 years of age. we retrospectively reviewed 79 pediatric patients diagnosed with sternal fractures after trauma. our results suggest that sternal fractures in children are often due to lesser trauma and that associated lesions are rare. isolated sternal fractures are very rare in children. 
Is there a correlation between androgens and sexual desire in women? [SEP] the aim of this study was to investigate a possible correlation between serum levels of androgens and sexual desire in women and whether the level of adt-g is better correlated than the level of circulating androgens with sexual desire. sexual desire correlated overall with ft and androstenedione in the total cohort of women. in women aged 45-65 years, androstenedione correlated with sexual desire. in the present study, ft and androstenedione were statistically significantly correlated with sexual desire in the total cohort of women. androgens are believed to have an important biologic role in women, particularly in regulation of libido and sexual arousal, although much about their function on other systems in women is unknown. androgens have been implicated as important for female sexual function and dysfunction. the literature supports an important role for androgens in female sexual function. in exploring the implications of hormonal influences on sexual behavior for reproduction, we have focused on androgens because of the convincing evidence for androgenic effects on female sexual motivation. among hyperandrogenic women sexual behavior appears to be related to the direct effects of androgens on motivation, while the indirect effects of estrogen and progesterone are essentially eliminated. androgens play an important role in healthy female sexual function, especially in stimulating sexual interest and in maintaining desire. 
Does immediate breast reconstruction compromise the delivery of adjuvant chemotherapy? [SEP] immediate breast reconstruction following neoadjuvant chemotherapy raises concerns about increased perioperative complications and has the potential to delay planned adjuvant radiotherapy. the impact of neoadjuvant chemotherapy on the surgical outcomes of immediate breast reconstruction remains controversial. in this study we sought to determine whether immediate breast reconstruction affects the interval between surgery and adjuvant chemotherapy. the effect of neoadjuvant chemotherapy on immediate microvascular breast reconstruction is of concern because any complication might delay adjuvant treatment. complication rates and interval from surgery until adjuvant treatment of patients with mastectomy for locally advanced breast cancer followed by immediate microvascular breast reconstruction (deep inferior epigastric perforator (diep) flap, transverse rectus abdominis musculocutaneous (tram) flap, superior gluteal artery perforator (sgap) flap, transverse musculocutaneous gracilis (tmg) flap, or superficial inferior epigastric artery (siea) flap) after neoadjuvant chemotherapy were compared with those of patients who underwent immediate breast reconstruction without neoadjuvant chemotherapy. forty-seven patients with locally advanced breast cancers who underwent neoadjuvant chemotherapy before mastectomy and immediate microvascular reconstruction and 52 patients without neoadjuvant chemotherapy were identified. immediate microvascular breast reconstruction after neoadjuvant chemotherapy does not result in an increased complication rate or delay the start of adjuvant treatment even if complications occur and therefore can be performed safely in patients with locally advanced breast cancer. the increasing popularity of immediate breast reconstruction (ibr) raises concerns that this procedure may delay the time to adjuvant chemotherapy (ttc), which may negatively impact oncological outcome. in immediate two-stage implant-based breast reconstruction, adjuvant chemotherapy, when indicated, is usually conducted between the stages, which might influence the outcomes of the second-stage operation. retrospective analysis of patients in an academic breast service, who underwent mastectomy, with or without reconstruction, and received adjuvant chemotherapy. 
Human papillomavirus and pterygium. Is the virus a risk factor? [SEP] recent studies postulated the presence of a probable relationship between pterygium and neoplasia. this study aimed to investigate the role of two oncogenic viruses, human papillomavirus (hpv) and epstein-barr virus (ebv), in the development of conjunctival pterygia. polymerase chain reaction was used to identify the presence of hpv and ebv in 30 primary and 10 recurrent pterygia samples. up to now, hpv has been blamed as the major viral pathogen in the etiopathogenesis of pterygium. human papillomavirus has been associated with benign squamous tumors, intraepithelial neoplasia, and invasive squamous cancer. the role of the human papillomavirus in the pathogenesis has been the subject of many publications in the recent literature. this review discusses the recent pathological mechanisms described in the genesis of human papillomavirus-related disease. the mere presence of the human papillomavirus is not sufficient for the development of neoplasia. human papillomavirus (hpv) is a virus from the papillomavirus family that is capable of infecting humans. the frequent association of human papillomavirus infection with preinvasive and invasive cancers of the cervix has led to speculation that the viruses may be involved in the neoplastic process. 
Can PRISM predict length of PICU stay? [SEP] prism is claimed to score disease severity which has attributed an impact on length of picu stay (los). length of stay in the pediatric intensive care unit (picu) is a reflection of patient severity of illness and health status, as well as picu quality and performance. prism scores obtained after pediatric intensive care unit (picu) admission predict mortality probability, but no previous efforts to evaluate mortality risk before picu admission have been reported. our study was performed on patients admitted to picus at four pediatric tertiary care centers to derive a quantitative estimate of hospital mortality probability as a function of prism scores obtained at referring hospitals before picu transfer. the pediatric risk of mortality (prism) score is one of the scores used by many pediatricians for prediction of the mortality risk in the pediatric intensive care unit (picu). herein, we intend to evaluate the efficacy of prism score in prediction of mortality rate in picu. prism score is a good predictor for evaluation of mortality risk in picu. the main outcomes were factors associated with picu length of stay and the performance of a regression model for length of stay. to evaluate the predicted mortality rate of oncologic patients in the picu using the prism score and factors that might influence short-term outcomes. to evaluate the association of the prism iii (pediatric risk of mortality) score with the infant outcome in the pediatric intensive care unit (picu), and to determine if this score could be simplified. 
Can predilatation in transcatheter aortic valve implantation be omitted? [SEP] balloon predilatation of the aortic valve has been regarded as an essential step during the transcatheter aortic valve implantation (tavi) procedure. we hypothesize that tavi performed without predilatation of the aortic valve and using new-generation balloon-expandable transcatheter heart valves is associated with a better net clinical benefit than tavi performed with predilatation. preballooning (pb) of the stenotic aortic valve can be considered common standard during transcatheter aortic valve implantation (t-avi). transcatheter aortic valve implantation without preballooning (nopb) using the edwards sapien xt prosthesis has been described previously. direct transapical sapien 3 valve implantation without pb is feasible and safe. to assess safety and efficacy of transapical transcatheter aortic valve implantation (ta-tavi) in the absence of predilation using balloon aortic valvuloplasty (bav). predilation of the stenosed valve using bav is a routine step in ta-tavi; however, evidence supporting its clinical value is lacking, and several studies have linked it with higher complication rates. the use of a balloon expandable stent valve includes balloon predilatation of the aortic stenosis before valve deployment. the aim of the study was to see whether or not balloon predilatation is necessary in transcatheter aortic valve replacement (tavi). aortic regurgitation is considered to be a relative contraindication for transcatheter procedures, as a non-calcified aortic annulus poses the risk of an insufficient anchoring of the transcatheter aortic valve prosthesis. 
Autoerotic asphyxiation: secret pleasure--lethal outcome? [SEP] death during autoerotic asphyxial activity is usually considered accidental due to unanticipated failure of the device that was used to induce hypoxia during sexual arousal. two cases of hanging are reported in which apparently typical features of autoerotic asphyxial activity were present. although the majority of deaths that occur during autoerotic asphyxial episodes are accidental, the possibility of suicide must always be entertained, even in cases that may initially appear typical. the most commonly encountered autoerotic practice, specifically, autoerotic asphyxia, denotes death resulting from failure of a release mechanism of the apparatus designed to attain cerebral hypoxia for heightened arousal. accidental autoerotic asphyxia occurring during autoerotic activity is usually considered the unanticipated failure of a sexual stimulation device to induce hypoxia during solitary sexual arousal. deaths in an autoerotic setting are usually due to accidental asphyxia, in which the individual accidently hangs or strangles themselves while inducing hypoxia for the purpose of heightened arousal. this case demonstrates the death of a 69 year old male which has occurred in the setting of a complex autoerotic environment, not as a result of asphyxiation, but rather as a result of natural causes which is likely to have been brought about by repeated similar activity. autoerotic asphyxia is the induction of a state of oxygen deficiency to enhance sexual excitement and orgasm. autoerotic asphyxia is an increasingly recognised syndrome in which accidental death occurs during solitary sexual activity due to failure of an apparatus that was designed to produce hypoxic augmentation of the victim's sexual response. autoerotic deaths are normally classified as accidental deaths occurring during individual, and usually solitary, sexual activity in which a device, apparatus, or prop used to enhance sexual stimulation of the deceased somehow causes unintended death. 
Major depression and alcohol use disorder in adolescence: Does comorbidity lead to poorer outcomes of depression? [SEP] alcohol misuse and depressed mood are common during early adolescence, and comorbidity of these conditions in adulthood is associated with poorer health and social outcomes, yet little research has examined the co-occurrence of these problems at early adolescence. this study assessed risky and protective characteristics of pre-teens with concurrent depressed mood/early alcohol use in a large school-based sample. individual, school-related and family characteristics distinguish co-occurrence of drinking and depressive symptoms in very young adolescents. we assessed whether baseline and change in depressive symptoms were associated with use and harmful use of alcohol at 18 years 8 months. elevated depressive symptoms during adolescence are positively associated with increases in both use and harmful use of alcohol at 18 years 8 months. comorbid major depression (md) and alcohol use disorder (aud), particularly in adolescents, have been shown to be associated with poorer subsequent md outcomes. alcohol use disorders with comorbid major depression represent an especially high-risk profile for suicidal behavior, repeated suicidal behavior and completed suicide. adolescents with alcohol use disorders (auds) often have major depressive disorder (mdd). this study estimated the effects of cumulative depression during early adolescence (ages 13-15 years) on the likelihood of cannabis use disorder (cud) and alcohol use disorder (aud) at age 18. alcohol exposure in adolescence has been shown to induce depression-like behaviors in rodents. 
Cold preparation use in young children after FDA warnings: do concerns still exist? [SEP] concerns about the safety and efficacy of over-the-counter cold medications have led to a recent us food and drug administration public health advisory against their use in children <2 years of age. our aim was to study the attitude of family physicians and pediatricians toward the use of cold remedies in infants and children. despite that cold remedies are not proven to be effective and some safety issues are associated with their use in the pediatric age group, physicians still recommend them. this review summarizes recent developments in the supportive treatment of common cold symptoms in children. conventional common cold therapies are no longer recommended for use in young children because of safety concerns. the safety of cough and cold medication (ccm) use in children has been questioned. the use of over-the-counter (otc) cough and cold products in children has become a hot topic in the news in the past year due to the potential risk associated with using these products in children. the most recent recommendations were announced in october 2008 from the consumer healthcare products association (chpa) which stated that otc cough and cold medications should not be used in children less than 4 years old. recent recommendations by the food and drug administration and changes to product labeling by cough/cold product manufacturers have reduced use of these products in children younger than four years of age. serious adverse effects have been reported from cough/cold product use in infants and children, which largely result from inappropriate use by caregivers. 
Does a 4 diagram manual enable laypersons to operate the Laryngeal Mask Supreme®? [SEP] we evaluated the performance of four manikins: airsim(trade mark), bill 1, airway management trainer and airway trainer, as simulators for insertion of single-use laryngeal mask airways and the reusable lma classic. several tools exist to facilitate laryngoscopy in difficult airways. emergency medicine residents and faculty (n = 26) attempted vocal cord visualization with both viewmax and macintosh laryngoscope blades for each of 6 cadaver airways at an airway laboratory training exercise. to compare the '4-stage' teaching technique (demonstration, deconstruction, formulation, performance) with the traditional '2-stage' teaching technique (deconstruction, performance) in laryngeal mask airway (lma) insertion. the aim of the present study was to investigate whether minimally trained medical and nursing school graduates would be equally efficient in placing a laryngeal mask airway (lma) and in intubating the trachea with the macintosh blade or a videolaryngoscope in a manikin model. six different supraglottic airway devices: combitube™, laryngeal mask airway, intubating laryngeal mask airway (fastrach™), i-gel™, laryngeal tube™ and pro-seal™ laryngeal mask airway were assessed by 58 paramedic students for speed and ease of insertion in a manikin, whilst wearing either chemical, biological, radiation, nuclear-personal protective equipment (cbrn-ppe) or a standard uniform. during a paramedic refresher class and an emergency medical services teaching day conference, paramedics previously trained in the use of the lma-unique as a "rescue" airway device were instructed in the technique of tracheal intubation through the lma-unique. fifty airway novices inserted the lma supreme in anaesthetised patients undergoing elective surgery. we conclude that the lma supreme is suitable for use by airway novices. as little is reported on this novel supraglottic airway device, we describe our experiences through intubation and bailey manoeuvre using the lma protector™, and the assessment of vocal cord mobility using a flexible bronchoscope through it in three patients undergoing hemithyroidectomies. 
Can we measure mesopic pupil size with the cobalt blue light slit-lamp biomicroscopy method? [SEP] to determine if videokeratography-based pupil measurements are an accurate method of estimating pupil size under mesopic conditions. we calculated the value at which the humphrey pupil measurements can accurately predict which patients would have pupil diameters > or = 6.5 mm under low mesopic conditions. by adding a constant of 2.6 mm to the humphrey videokeratography pupil measurement, 100% of patients with a pupil diameter > or = 6.5 mm under low mesopic conditions were detected (sensitivity 100%). care should be taken when relying on topography pupil sizes and more accurate measurements of mesopic and scotopic pupil sizes should be obtained. the pupil diameter under low ambient illumination is diagnostically valuable for refractive surgery. the scotopic pupil size was measured with 3 instruments and the measurements repeated following instillations of 1% cyclopentolate. the aim of this work is to assess a previously described slit-lamp biomicroscopy-based method (slbm) for measuring pupil diameter and compare it to colvard infrared pupillometry (cip). pupil diameter was measured in 46 eyes at 2 min intervals in a low mesopic and under photopic light conditions. the mean pupil diameter was 4.8+/-1.0mm with the colvard pupillometer and 4.8+/-0.9mm with the nidek auto-refractor in low mesopic light conditions. a new computerized technique allows dynamic and binocular measurement of the pupil diameter by use of infrared light (p2000sa, procyon instruments, london, uk). 
Should circumcision be performed in childhood? [SEP] circumcision is one of the most commonly performed operations during childhood. although male circumcision is a surgical intervention that is frequently performed in children, there is no consensus about the age at which it should be performed. performing circumcision when children are less than 1 year old decreases the risk of complications due to anesthesia and lowers the costs compared with performing the procedure on older children. the effects of childhood circumcision on male sexual function have been debated. circumcision is an elective surgical procedure performed on male neonates, but a procedure that may be elected by parents and medical personnel on less than adequate information. in this review paper, the authors explore the history of circumcision as a practice, as well ad the arguments for and against its continuation as a "routine" practice. circumcision is a common procedure, but regional and societal attitudes differ on whether there is a need for a male to be circumcised and, if so, at what age. we show here that infancy is an optimal time for clinical circumcision because an infant's low mobility facilitates the use of local anesthesia, sutures are not required, healing is quick, cosmetic outcome is usually excellent, costs are minimal, and complications are uncommon. infant circumcision is safe, simple, convenient and cost-effective. circumcisions are performed either prophylactically in the neonatal period or therapeutically at a later age. 
Does a colonoscopy after acute diverticulitis affect its management? [SEP] current guidelines recommend a colonoscopy after.the resolution of acute diverticulitis. this is a retrospective analysis of patients who underwent colonoscopy after an episode of diverticulitis between november 2005 and august 2017 at three major teaching hospitals. our findings support that patients after an episode of diverticulitis should continue to get a colonoscopy. this review examines the role of colonoscopy in the evaluation of asymptomatic diverticulosis, segmental diverticular disease-associated colitis and acute diverticulitis. colonoscopy is commonly recommended after the first episode of acute diverticulitis to exclude colorectal neoplasia. the aim of this study was to assess whether colonoscopy after the first episode of acute diverticulitis is needed to exclude colorectal neoplasia. this study aimed to determine whether colonoscopy is necessary and what additional information is gained from a colonoscopy after acute diverticulitis. the current practice of a colonoscopy after acute diverticulitis needs to be reevaluated. international guidelines recommend colonoscopy following hospitalisation for acute diverticulitis. the aim of this study is to evaluate the benefit of routine colonic endoscopy after an episode of diverticulitis. 
Do instrumental activities of daily living predict dementia at 1- and 2-year follow-up? [SEP] to investigate whether problems in instrumental activities of daily living (iadl) can add to conventionally used clinical measurements in helping to predict a diagnosis of dementia at 1- and 2-year follow-up. structural equation modeling (sem) was used to investigate the relation between iadls and dementia. sem showed that iadl disability could help predict dementia in addition to the measured variables at 1-year follow-up (odds ratio (or) = 2.20, 95% confidence interval (ci) = 1.51-3.13) and 2-year follow-up (or = 2.11, 95% ci = 1.33-3.33). the purpose of this study is to determine the relative contributions of cognitive impairment and depressive symptoms on decline in activity of daily living (adl) function over 2 years in an older cohort. cox proportional hazards regression models assessed whether baseline adl disability (presence of 2+ instrumental adl and/or 1+ personal adl) predicted incident dementia after controlling for apoe status, gender, age, baseline cognitive ability (modified mini-mental state exam, 3ms-r; adjusted for education level), and baseline depressive symptoms (diagnostic interview schedule). we discuss how physical impairment and executive function may play important roles in this relationship, and how adl is useful, not just a diagnostic tool at, or after dementia onset, but also as a risk factor for future dementia, even in individuals not impaired on global cognitive tests. early diagnosis of dementia requires knowledge about associated predictors. the aim of this study was to determine the impact of mild cognitive impairment (mci) and impairment in instrumental activities of daily living (iadl) on the time to an incident dementia diagnosis. the aim of the study was to examine 1) the incidence of disability in activities of daily living (adl), in persons 78 years and older 2) explore whether being physical active earlier is a significant predictor of being disability free at follow-up and 3) describe the amount of informal and formal care in relation to adl-disability. the aim is to examine disability in instrumental activities of daily living (iadl) in elderly persons with mild cognitive impairment (mci) and alzheimer's disease (ad), further to identify items of iadl which separate the two conditions and to explore potential gender differences. 
Does the Simultaneous Use of a Neuroendoscope Influence the Incidence of Ventriculoperitoneal Shunt Infection? [SEP] ventriculoperitoneal shunt is among the most frequent neurosurgical procedures, complicated by infection and obstruction. the objective of this study was to examine if g-tube (g-tube) placement in patients with ventriculoperitoneal (vp) shunts results in shunt infection or impacts patient survival. the relationship between the use of an endoscope during ventriculoperitoneal shunt (vps) procedures and infection remains poorly defined. in this study, we sought to analyze whether the simultaneous use of an endoscope could in fact increase the infection rate associated with vps procedures. infection remains the most significant complication of ventriculoperitoneal shunt surgery and the reported rates of cerebrospinal fluid shunt infection vary widely across studies in patients with hydrocephalus. the objective of this study is to review and evaluate the infections complicating ventriculoperitoneal shunt surgery in patients with hydrocephalus. infection remains the most serious complication of ventriculoperitoneal shunt surgery. prospective studies are needed to assess the observed associations between the risk factors and incidence of infection in hydrocephalus patients treated with ventriculoperitoneal shunt surgery. limited historical data suggest that concomitant placement of both a ventriculoperitoneal (vp) shunt and percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (peg) tube is associated with an increased risk of complications, including vp shunt infections. background cerebrospinal fluid (csf) sampling is performed during ventriculoperitoneal (vp) shunting procedure surgery for early detection of infection. 
Body perception: do parents, their children, and their children's physicians perceive body image differently? [SEP] body image refers to the subjective, mental representation one makes regarding their physical appearance. to compare children's, parents' and physicians' perceptions of children's body size. we administered a structured questionnaire of body size perception using a descriptive likert scale keyed to body image figures to children ages 12 to 18 years. many factors influence the development of body image, one of which is the perception we have of our body. to compare parental report of child body image with perceived healthy weight body image in preschoolers and describe weight-counseling preferences. results suggest that gender and cultural differences in body image among adolescents are significant. the present study examined this novel concept of relational body image by investigating the extent to which individuals' body image differs across their relationships with specific others. furthermore, participants perceived differences in others' acceptance of the participant's body, body preoccupation, and body size. findings provide initial support for the concept of relational body image. this paper provides an overview of the current evidence for body-image disturbance in children/adolescents with eating disorders, and how they compare with those adults with eating disorders. 
Is a specialised training of phonological awareness indicated in every preschool child? [SEP] well-developed phonological awareness skills are a core prerequisite for early literacy development. although effective phonological awareness training programs exist, children at risk often do not reach similar levels of phonological awareness after the intervention as children with normally developed skills. training effects were partly dependent on the initial level of phonological awareness. early, intensive phonological awareness and phonics training is widely held to be beneficial for children with poor phonological awareness. phonological and phonics training is highly effective for children with poor phonological awareness, even when incorporated into whole-class teaching. previous research demonstrates that a phonological awareness based reading programme delivers excellent results in terms of literacy acquisition and improvements in speech production for children with speech and language delays. the purpose of this study was to determine if a low intensity, classroom phonological awareness program improved phonological awareness skills for preschool children with language and/or speech impairments. in preschool, one group of children received morphological awareness training, while a second group received phonological awareness training. a small-scale, longitudinal, phonological awareness training study with inner-city kindergarten children was conducted in four classrooms. the central goals of the study were the creation and evaluation of a phonological awareness training program and a preliminary look at the consequence of that training on basic phonological processes.assessment of phonological awareness and basic phonological processes was carried out in the fall of the kindergarten year, and again in the spring following an 18 week training program which incorporated both auditory and articulatory techniques for fostering metaphonological development. 
Is there any relationship between streptococcal infection and multiple sclerosis? [SEP] multiple sclerosis (ms) is an immune-mediated inflammatory demyelinating disease of uncertain etiology. to understand the effect of past group a streptococcal infection on ms, antistreptolysin o (aso) and antideoxyribonuclease b (adnase b) were measured in 21 patients with relapsing-remitting ms and 21 healthy blood donors by nephelometric assay. these findings indicate that a relationship between multiple sclerosis and streptococcal infections may exist, but to acquire a better understanding of the role of group a streptococci in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis, more studies with animal models are necessary. multiple sclerosis (ms) is the most common inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system. the results indicated septicemia is linked to an increased risk for ms. based on this hypothesis, the enterotoxigenic strains of staphylococcus aureus (s. aureus) are possible risk factors for exacerbations of ms. evidence of a direct link between chronic sinusitis and multiple sclerosis (ms) prompted examination of the old "spirochaetal hypothesis". multiple sclerosis (ms) is the most common chronic inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (cns), and whether herpes simplex virus (hsv) infection is associated with the development of ms remains controversial. various neurological disorders have been related to streptococcus pyogenes infection. only recently, and for the first time, it has been suggested that acute disseminated encephalitis may also complicate a streptococcal infection. 
Is the combination with 2-methoxyestradiol able to reduce the dosages of chemotherapeutices in the treatment of human ovarian cancer? [SEP] the estrogen metabolite 2-methoxyestradiol has shown antitumorigenic action in some epithelial tumors. in the present work we investigate its effects in ovarian cancer used alone or in combination with other apoptotic-inducing reagents such as tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand. to assess the effect of 2-methoxyestradiol, dose response and time courses in ovarian cancer and normal cells were conducted. 2-methoxyestradiol induced apoptosis in ovarian cancer cells but not in normal counterparts. 2-methoxyestradiol activates both the intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic pathways. 2-methoxyestradiol-mediated apoptosis involves reactive oxygen species generation and caspase-dependent and caspase-independent mechanisms. we also demonstrate that 2-methoxyestradiol selectively induces an additive/synergistic apoptotic response in ovarian cancer cells when used in combination with tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand. 2-methoxyestradiol, alone or in combination with tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand, should be considered as a potential treatment for ovarian cancer. 2-methoxyestradiol (2-me), an endogenous estradiol metabolite, has potent antiproliferative effects on cancer cells. a natural metabolite of oestradiol (e2), 2-methoxyoestradiol (2-meoe2), exerts both antitumour and antiangiogenic effects. 
Assessing joint line positions by means of the contralateral knee: a new approach for planning knee revision surgery? [SEP] the mechanical alignment of the knee is an important factor in planning for, and subsequently assessing the success of a knee replacement. a prospective study was undertaken comparing alignment as measured by long-leg radiographs and computer tomography to intra-operative navigation measurements in 40 patients undergoing a primary total knee replacement to test this hypothesis. a quantitative method for assessing the kinematics of the knee in the sagittal plane has been developed in order to evaluate the role of the anterior cruciate ligament following injury and reconstruction. surgical therapeutic procedures such as knee osteotomy and knee replacement depend on proper knee alignment assessment. we measured the ft angle with the use of mid-diaphyseal lines (fta), and the knee joint centre (ftb) to determine anatomical knee alignment on a short knee image. clinical interest in sagittal plane kinematic analysis of the knee undergoing total knee replacement fosters the development of simple, reliable methods to estimate femorotibial contact in a regular clinical setting. the coronal alignment of the lower limb is important for planning and assessing outcome after total knee arthroplasty. this study compared postoperative estimation of alignment and measurement of angles using both hip-to-ankle radiographs and anteroposterior (ap) knee radiographs in standing position. surgical therapeutic procedures depend on proper knee alignment assessment. retrospective study to analyse the difference between weight-bearing and non-weight-bearing alignment in osteoarthritic knees planned for patient-specific instrumented (psi) total knee arthroplasty (tka). 
Does the type of tibial component affect mechanical alignment in unicompartmental knee replacement? [SEP] malposition of the tibial components is a well-known complication of unicompartmental knee arthroplasty. in this study, we aimed to ascertain the relationship between the tibial component position and clinical outcomes of unicompartmental knee arthroplasty. the 2-year postoperative outcomes of oxford unicompartmental knee arthroplasty depended on the tibial component position. short-term loosening of the femoral components in unicompartmental knee arthroplasty that required revision to total knee arthroplasty is reported. a unicompartmental knee arthroplasty design features an all-polyethylene and conforming tibial component, and we hypothesized that this may put at risk its fixation. it is difficult to implant components in the correct rotational position in the narrow operating field in a unicompartmental knee arthroplasty. we explored whether the medial wall of the intercondylar notch could be useful for the tibial rotational reference as an alternative to the ap axis in unicompartmental knee arthroplasty. we determined whether the origins of the acl and pcl were located lateral to the line on the medial wall of the notch and whether the mediolateral dimension of the bone cut surface of the medial tibial plateau was wide enough relative to the ap dimension to use the commercially available unicompartmental knee arthroplasty tibial components when the tibia was cut parallel to the medial wall of the notch. at 90º flexion the medial wall of the intercondylar notch is almost parallel to the ap axis of the tibia at and we believe a reasonable candidate for a rotational reference of tibial placement in unicompartmental knee arthroplasty. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the biomechanical effect of the femoral and tibial component coronal alignment in varus and valgus conditions through computational simulation. 
Is tumour expression of VEGF associated with venous invasion and survival in pT3 renal cell carcinoma? [SEP] it has been shown that both serum vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) and also platelet counts are associated with survival in renal cell carcinoma (rcc). the aim of this study was to assess in patients with stage pt3apn0cm0 kidney cancer whether venous tumour involvement influenced tumour recurrence. we investigated the prognostic significance of venous tumor thrombus extension in patients with renal cell carcinoma with particular emphasis on 2 questions. to investigate the protein expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) isoforms in relation to the clinical course in patients with different renal cell carcinoma (rcc) types, as angiogenesis is essential for tumour growth and metastasis. vegf121 expression was associated with less advanced tumour stage in conventional rcc. vegf189 was associated with tumour progression; in papillary rcc, vegf189 was a significant independent prognostic factor. to identify the prognostic impact of venous tumour thrombus (vtt) in locally advanced renal cell carcinomas (rccs). high expression of the angiogenic factor vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) in tumours has been found to be associated with poor prognosis in some studies, but not in others. the aims of this study were to determine the prognostic value of vegf in operable non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) and its possible association with vascularity. microscopic vein invasion (mvi), with local destruction and invasion of the endothelium by tumor, is of controversial predictive value in renal cell carcinoma (rcc). 
Injury and poisoning mortality among young men--are there any common factors amenable to prevention? [SEP] deaths from injury and poisoning (suicide, accidents, undetermined deaths, and homicide) are the major cause of death among young men aged 15-39 years in england and wales and have been increasing in recent years. to describe common characteristics among young men who die from injury and poisoning. we employed a retrospective survey methodology to investigate factors associated with deaths by injury and poisoning among young men aged 15-39 years (n = 268) in merseyside and cheshire during 1995. alcohol and drug use are important contributory factors to injury and poisoning deaths. despite generally falling mortality and suicide rates, among young men the rates of violent death from accidents and suicide continue to rise. to review the primary causes of unintentional deaths in young adult males and suggest strategies for educating young men about reducing risks for accidental death. accidental death is the leading cause of death in males 1 to 44 years of age. motor vehicle crashes, drowning, gunshot wounds, and occupational fatalities are among the leading injuries that contribute to the unanticipated death of the young adult male. this paper explores three areas where new approaches hope to mitigate major causes of poison-related fatality. the primary cause of death for men under the age of 30 is unintentional injury and, despite health-promotion efforts and programme interventions, male injury and death rates have not decreased in recent years. 
Continuation of pregnancy after antenatal corticosteroid administration: opportunity for rescue? [SEP] to determine the duration of continuing pregnancy after antenatal corticosteroid (ac) administration and to evaluate the potential opportunity for rescue ac. in the case of threatened preterm delivery, repeat administration of antenatal corticosteroids is a common practice in women who have not delivered 7-14 days after the first course of corticosteroids. treatment with repeat dose(s) of corticosteroid was associated with a significantly increased risk of caesarean section (rr 1.11, 95% ci 1.01 to 1.22, four trials, 1523 women). this review aims to discuss current evidence on the effectiveness and safety of repeated courses of antenatal corticosteroids. drawing on advances in laboratory science, pre-clinical and clinical studies, we performed a narrative review of the scientific literature to provide a timely update on the benefits, risks and uncertainties regarding antenatal corticosteroid use in pregnancy. new research to clarify the benefits and potential risks of antenatal corticosteroid therapy is urgently needed, especially with regard to corticosteroid use in low-resource environments. we conclude that there is both significant scope and an urgent need for further research-informed refinement to the use of antenatal corticosteroids in pregnancy. to assess the benefits and risks of antenatal corticosteroid therapy for women at risk of preterm birth or undergoing pre-labour caesarean section at term and to make recommendations for improving neonatal and long-term outcomes. to administer or withhold antenatal corticosteroid therapy for women at high risk of preterm birth or women undergoing pre-labour caesarean section at term. a course of antenatal corticosteroid therapy administered within 7 days of delivery significantly reduces perinatal morbidity/mortality associated with preterm birth between 24 + 0 and 34 + 6 weeks gestation. 
Does either obesity or OSA severity influence the response of autotitrating CPAP machines in very obese subjects? [SEP] anecdotal encounters of obese patients requiring high therapeutic pressure whose osa was inadequately controlled by apap led to this study aiming to compare the effectiveness of continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) and apap (s8 autoset ii(®) , resmed, nsw, australia) in a randomised, single-blinded crossover trial. twelve morbidly obese patients with severe osa [mean±sd apnoea-hypopnoea index (ahi) 75.8±32.7, body mass index 49.9±5.2 kg m(-2) , mean pressure 16.4 cmh(2)o] were consecutively recruited, and received cpap or apap in random order for six nights at home, separated by a four-night washout. in morbidly obese osa patients without significant co-morbid disease requiring high therapeutic pressure, our data provide support for the use of either apap or manually titrated cpap. we conducted an open-label, parallel-arm, non-randomized, matched before-after study in individuals with osa who were starting cpap use (n = 12) and who were not (n = 12) to examine the effects of cpap on total body composition (via air displacement plethysmography) including fat and fat-free mass. to assess the effect of continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) or noninvasive ventilation (niv) on the occurrence of cardiovascular events in obese osa patients. we performed a noninterventional observational study in obese osa patients recruited between 2007 and 2010 at the sleep center, university of grenoble, treated with cpap or niv, and followed for 5.6 years by a single home care provider. the purpose of this paper is to assess if cpap pressures predicted oa treatment outcome in patients non-adherent to auto-cpap therapy. nocturnal cpap improves exercise tolerance and dyspnea in obese patients with osa. obese patients (body mass index, bmi > 25 kg/m2) with osa were studied awake, supine during incremental cpap titration (4-20 cmh2o, +2 cmh2o/3 mins). short-term incremental cpap leads to significant increases in bp and bpv in obese patients with osa while awake. 
Does the clinical presentation of a prior preterm birth predict risk in a subsequent pregnancy? [SEP] to assess whether women with a history of preterm birth, independent on the presence of prelabour rupture of the membranes (prom) and growth deviation of the newborn, are more likely to develop preeclampsia with preterm or preterm birth in a subsequent pregnancy. previous preterm birth is a strong predictor of subsequent preterm birth, but less is known about the causes of preterm birth following a full-term first pregnancy. however, prior prelabour caesarean also greatly increased risk of subsequent preterm prelabour caesarean (rr: 5.25, 95% ci 4.65-5.93). awareness of the risk of subsequent preterm birth following caesarean section may help inform clinical decisions around mode of first birth. we sought to evaluate the association between prior spontaneous preterm delivery and subsequent pregnancy outcome. those with a prior spontaneous preterm delivery carried a 2.5-fold increase in the risk of spontaneous preterm delivery in the current gestation over those with no prior spontaneous preterm delivery (21. prior spontaneous preterm delivery was more closely associated with subsequent early spontaneous preterm delivery at <28 weeks' gestation (relative risk, 10.6) than for spontaneous preterm delivery overall (relative risk, 2.5). the relationship between prior spontaneous preterm delivery and current outcome was not as strong for those with a very early spontaneous preterm delivery (13-22 weeks' gestation). prior spontaneous preterm delivery is highly associated with recurrence in the current gestation. history of prior preterm birth (ptb) represents one of the strongest risk factors for recurrent ptb. 
Is the Distance Worth It? [SEP] two methods of measuring perceived distance are contrasted. there are indications that the direct measure of perceived distance provided by the verbal report sometimes will be modified by cognitive factors. to test whether distances on hills are perceived as farther or are merely judged as farther, we used a variety of measures, including visual matching and blindwalking tasks, and found similar effects across all measures. a distance field is a representation where, at each point within the field, we know the distance from that point to the closest point on any object within the domain. many geographic studies use distance as a simple measure of accessibility, risk, or disparity. actual travel distance over a road network is a superior alternative, although historically an expensive and labor-intensive undertaking. taking advantage of this feature, we compare straight-line and travel distance and travel time to community hospitals from a representative sample of more than 66,000 locations in the fifty states of the united states, the district of columbia, and puerto rico. we conclude that for nonemergency travel to hospitals, the added precision offered by the substitution of travel distance, travel time, or both for straight-line distance is largely inconsequential. we propose that response bias with regard to measures of perceived distance is at the root of the conflict. visual judgements of distance are often inaccurate. 
Aripiprazole: a new risk factor for pathological gambling? [SEP] to describe a case of aripiprazole-induced problem gambling and impulse-control deficit in a gambling-naïve patient following commencement of low-dose aripiprazole. this case adds to the literature on the dopamine partial agonist aripiprazole causing or exacerbating problem gambling, and extends that literature to low-dose use of aripiprazole in the gambling naïve. when commencing a patient on aripiprazole the possibility of emergence of problem gambling and other impulse-control deficits should be monitored, even in those with no history of similar behaviours and even on a low dose. two young patients' pathological gambling emerged simply due to exposure to aripiprazole, neither related to manic or psychotic symptoms nor with history of addictive or impulsive behaviors. the probability that pathological gambling is actually due to aripiprazole is "possible" in 7 cases out of 8, and "doubtful" in one. dopamine partial agonist mechanism of aripiprazole could explain the occurrence of pathological gambling. aripiprazole (ari), an antipsychotic drug used to treat various mental health disorders, has recently been associated with the emergence of problem gambling (pbg). pharmacovigilance studies have reported a higher risk of problematic gambling (pg) in people receiving aripiprazole (ari), a partial dopamine agonist. atypical neuroleptics (amisulpride, aripiprazole, olanzapine, paliperidone, quetiapine and risperidone) have also been implicated in cases of pathological gambling, hypersexuality, and compulsive eating and shopping, with sometimes serious social and familial consequences. this paper details three case reports that suggest that pathological gambling activity may have been adversely modified following treatment for psychosis with the antipsychotic aripiprazole. 
Immune suppression by lysosomotropic amines and cyclosporine on T-cell responses to minor and major histocompatibility antigens: does synergy exist? [SEP] monomeric and dimeric soluble major histocompatibility complex (mhc) molecules down-regulate activated t cells in an antigen-specific manner in vitro. tumor-induced changes in macrophage (m phi)2 accessory activities significantly suppress t-cell recognition of allogeneic and syngeneic major histocompatibility complex (mhc) class ii molecules. t-cell reactivity against allogeneic mhc class ii molecules was significantly suppressed by tumor-bearing host (tbh) m phi in the presence of m-csf. t-cell reactivity against syngeneic mhc class ii molecules increased in the presence of m-csf when normal host (nh) m phi served as the source of syngeneic molecules. the effect of cyclosporin a (cya) immunosuppression on the murine thymic microenvironment and t lymphocyte development has been analysed using monoclonal antibodies to epithelial and lymphocyte subpopulations, macrophages and major histocompatibility complex (mhc) class ii antigens in immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry. corticosteroids induce a redistribution of lymphocytes and display an anti-inflammatory effect; the immunosuppressive effect of azathioprine seems to consist mainly of its suppression of the inflammatory response; cyclophosphamide and cyclosporine influence the immune system itself and anti-cd3 monoclonal antibodies suppress cellular immunity fairly specifically. in this study, we investigated the possible influence of immunosuppressive therapy, including cyclosporine (csa) or rapamycin (sirolimus), on the level of cd4(+)cd25(+), cd4(+)cd25(+)foxp3(+), and cd4(+)cd25(+)ctla-4(+) t cells in the peripheral blood of renal allograft recipients. we previously reported that soluble peptide/hla-a2 dimer shows peptide-specific inhibitory effects on alloresponse in a coculture of peptide-pulsed t2 cells with hla-a2 negative lymphocytes in vitro. importantly, this population showed hyporesponsiveness to the alloantigen restimulation as well as alloantigen-specific suppression on alloreactive t cells in a cell-cell contact-dependent fashion. our findings demonstrated that soluble hla-a2 dimer could efficiently induce the tolerant cd8(low)cd28(-) t cells with alloantigen-specific suppression on alloreactive t cells. 
Does induction chemotherapy have a role in the management of nasopharyngeal carcinoma? [SEP] the value of adding induction chemotherapy (ic) to concurrent chemoradiotherapy (ccrt) for the treatment of locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma (npc) remains unclear. in our recent article entitled "induction chemotherapy plus concurrent chemoradiotherapy versus concurrent chemoradiotherapy alone in locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma: a phase 3, multicentre, randomised controlled trial" published in the lancet oncology, we reported the results of a phase iii, multicenter, randomized controlled trial comparing cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil, and docetaxel (tpf) ic plus ccrt versus ccrt alone in patients with t3-4n1/txn2-3m0 npc (clinicaltrials.gov registration number nct01245959). the standard treatment of local advanced nasopharyngeal cancer is chemoradiotherapy. induction chemotherapy treatment for nasopharyngeal carcinoma (npc) is controversial. the value of adding induction chemotherapy to chemoradiotherapy in locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma (la-npc) remains controversial, yet high-risk patients with la-npc have poor outcomes after chemoradiotherapy. induction chemotherapy (ic) now is gaining recognition for the treatment of nasopharyngeal carcinoma (npc). whether neoadjuvant chemotherapy (nct) followed by concurrent chemoradiotherapy (ccrt) could improve survival in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (npc) remains controversial especially in the era of intensity-modulated radiation therapy (imrt), and we explored the role of nct for npc patients. it deserves investigation whether induction chemotherapy (ic) followed by intensity-modulated radiotherapy (imrt) is inferior to the current standard of imrt plus concurrent chemotherapy (cc) in locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma. the role of induction chemotherapy (ic) or adjuvant chemotherapy (ac) in the treatment of locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma (npc) remains controversial. to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of induction chemotherapy followed by concurrent chemoradiotherapy (the treatment group) versus concurrent chemoradiotherapy with or without adjuvant chemotherapy (the control group) for locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma. 
Treatment of contralateral hydrocele in neonatal testicular torsion: Is less more? [SEP] treatment of neonatal testicular torsion has two objectives: salvage of the involved testicle (which is rarely achieved) and preservation of the contralateral gonad. our objective in this study was to determine whether the decision to manage a contralateral hydrocele in cases of neonatal testicular torsion solely through a scrotal approach is safe and effective. we have demonstrated that approaching a contralateral hydrocele in cases of neonatal testicular torsion solely through a scrotal incision is safe and effective. contralateral hydrocele is commonly seen in cases of neonatal testicular torsion. perinatal testicular torsion is a rare emergency in a neonate that prompts immediate attention. bilateral testicular torsion in the neonate, although uncommon, is being reported with increasing frequency. we report a case of bilateral neonatal testicular torsion in a 32-week newborn in whom testicular viability may have been preserved by pre-term birth. the role of emergent intervention in prenatal testicular torsion is controversial. the timing and surgical management of neonatal testicular torsions (ntts) remain controversial, varying from immediate orchiectomy with empirical contralateral orchiopexy to expectant management with resulting atrophy of the affected testicle. at our institution, the most frequent management of unilateral neonatal testicular torsions is ioco or co, but this carries an 18% complication rate, particularly if surgery is performed early. 
Are normally sighted, visually impaired, and blind pedestrians accurate and reliable at making street crossing decisions? [SEP] the purpose of this study is to measure the accuracy and reliability of normally sighted, visually impaired, and blind pedestrians at making street crossing decisions using visual and/or auditory information. we found that normally sighted and visually impaired pedestrians were accurate and reliable in their street crossing decision-making ability when using either vision plus hearing or vision only (p > 0.05). compared to either the normally sighted (p = 0.018) or visually impaired subjects (p = 0.019), blind subjects were the least accurate with their street crossing decisions under the hearing only condition. our data suggested that visually impaired pedestrians can make accurate and reliable street crossing decisions like those of normally sighted pedestrians. we determined whether the street-crossing decisions of subjects with age-related macular degeneration (amd) were as accurate and precise as those made by young and older subjects with normal vision. street-crossing decisions in 13 amd subjects, and 20 young and 20 older control subjects with normal vision were measured along an un-signalized street for nine different gap times. the aim of this study was to evaluate the relative risk and efficiency of road crossing experienced by blind and sighted pedestrians at a single-lane roundabout with two levels of traffic volume and at two distances from the roundabout. blind and sighted participants made judgments about when they would cross a single-lane roundabout with high and low traffic volumes, at exit and entry lanes, and at the actual crosswalks and at locations farther from the roundabout. using this new metric, we observed that visually impaired subjects who travel independently are able to make street-crossing judgments that are comparable to those of normally sighted subjects. this article describes results of initial studies looking at the crossing decisions of pedestrians who are blind at an uncontrolled crossing (no traffic control) and a light controlled intersection. 
Is it Crohn's disease? [SEP] idiopathic inflammatory bowel disease consists of crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. crohn's disease can affect any part of the gastrointestinal tract, from the mouth to the anus, and is also known as regional enteritis, terminal ileitis, or granulomatous colitis. crohn's disease is a chronic, transmural inflammatory disease of the intestinal tract most frequently involving the terminal ileum and colon. inflammatory bowel disease is a complicated condition, including crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, microscopic colitis, and indeterminate colitis, that affects the intestine and several extraintestinal sites. this article reviews the epidemiology, cause and pathogenesis, clinical presentation and course, potential complications, and treatment of both crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. crohn's disease is a chronic enteritis of humans that affects the gastrointestinal tract, especially the terminal ileum, cecum and colon. intestinal biopsies of 30 patients (12 male and 18 female; mean age, 34 years; range 4-77 years) with the confirmed diagnosis of crohn's disease and 30 patients diagnosed as non-inflammatory bowel disease (19 male and 11 female; mean age, 38 years; range 13-68 years) were studied by molecular, histopathological and histochemical methods. the pathological diagnosis and differential diagnosis of crohn's disease, including ulcerative colitis, indeterminate colitis and other diseases that may mimic crohn's disease are discussed in this review, with particular emphasis on the biopsy diagnosis. crohn's disease is characterized by a chronic inflammation of the intestine of unknown aetiology. in particular, the possible relationship between cytokine pattern and the clinical behaviour of crohn's disease has been addressed. 
Is Chaalia/Pan Masala harmful for health? [SEP] matricaria chamomilla commonly known as "chamomile" (asteraceae) is a popular medicinal herb widely used in indigenous system of medicine for a variety of ailments. this study was designed to determine the pharmacological basis for the folkloric use of matricaria chamomilla in diarrhoea. the crude aqueous-methanolic extract of matricaria chamomilla (mc.cr) was studied for its protective effect in mice against castor oil-induced diarrhoea and intestinal fluid accumulation. this study indicates that matricaria chamomilla possesses antidiarrhoeal, antisecretory and antispasmodic activities mediated predominantly through k(+)-channels activation along with weak ca(++) antagonist effect. michelia champaca l. (family: magnoliaceae), commonly known as champa [hindi], is traditionally used for fertility regulation by the women of chhattisgarh state in india. to study the anti-fertility effect of hydroalcoholic leaf extract of michelia champaca linn. cnidoscolus chayamansa is a medicinal and edible plant known as chaya, is commonly used as an anti-inflammatory, antiprotozoal, antibacterial agent and as a remedy for respiratory illness, gastrointestinal disorders, and vaginal infections related with the inflammation process. topical and systemic anti-inflammatory effects were tested by tpa and carrageenan assay on balb/c mice. chagas disease is a serious public health issue in south and central america due to its high prevalence, morbidity, and mortality. chagas cardiomyopathy is the most harmful complication of chagas disease. 
Does multi-modal cervical physical therapy improve tinnitus in patients with cervicogenic somatic tinnitus? [SEP] based on the results of this study, direct trigger point acupuncture of cervical muscles may be beneficial in the treatment of somatic tinnitus with a long-duration effect. recently, a positive effect of multi-modal cervical physical therapy on tinnitus severity in patients with cst was demonstrated. to identify prognostic indicators for decrease in tinnitus severity after cervical physical therapy in patients with cst. to investigate the effect of a multimodal cervical physical therapy treatment on tinnitus complaints in patients with cst. cervical physical therapy can have a positive effect on subjective tinnitus complaints in patients with a combination of tinnitus and neck complaints. the aim of the study was to evaluate the effectiveness of electrical stimulations of the hearing organ in tinnitus treatment adapting the frequency of stimulation according to tinnitus frequency, to assess the influence of cervical spine kinesitherapy on tinnitus, as well as to evaluate hearing after electrical stimulations alone and together with cervical spine kinesitherapy. this study aims to investigate the effect of a standardized physical therapy treatment, directed to the cervical spine, on tinnitus. this study is the first to investigate the effect of a standardized physical therapy treatment protocol on somatic tinnitus with a prospective comparative delayed design and with blinded evaluator for baseline, end of therapy, and 6 and 12 weeks after therapy. in the present study the prevalence of somatic components to tinnitus were evaluated and the efficacy of two different physical treatments were compared: interx® transcutaneous dynamic electrical stimulation and manual osteopathic therapy. this study indicates the benefit of physical, manipulation therapy for those patients with somatic modulation of their tinnitus, further studies are needed to establish the diagnostic or prognostic role of posturographic measurements. 
Detailed analysis of sputum and systemic inflammation in asthma phenotypes: are paucigranulocytic asthmatics really non-inflammatory? [SEP] the use of induced sputum to assess airway inflammation in large and diverse populations with asthma has led to the recognition that significant numbers of patients do not have evidence of eosinophilic airway inflammation. eosinophilic airway inflammation is one of the hallmarks of asthma. sputum eosinophilia has been suggested as a predictor of the response to inhaled corticosteroids in asthma. the authors sought to investigate the detection of non-eosinophilic asthma using induced sputum. airway inflammation in asthma could be categorized into four inflammatory subtypes based on sputum eosinophil and neutrophil proportions. we tested the hypothesis that nonatopic asthma is associated with a predominant noneosinophilic inflammation in the airways, as assessed by induced sputum. the objective of this study was to evaluate the cytological characteristics of induced sputum (is) in atopic (aa), nonatopic asthmatics (naa) and nonatopic nonasthmatic children (nana). we assessed mediators of airway inflammation during the chronic asymptomatic phase of asthma. baseline airway inflammation of intrinsic and extrinsic asthma is characterized by eosinophilic inflammation and the th1 cytokine, ifn-gamma. although many patients with asthma develop type-2 dominated eosinophilic inflammation, a number of individuals develop paucigranulocytic asthma, which occurs in the absence of eosinophilia or neutrophilia. 
Is HIV/STD control in Jamaica making a difference? [SEP] the government of jamaica, through the ministry of health and other ministries, assisted by international funding agencies and members of non-governmental organizations, has diligently led the charge to reduce the incidence ofhiv and aids in jamaica. hiv/aids is a problem in developing countries including jamaica. this study examines the sexual behavior and attitude of non-hiv testers in jamaica in order to provide research evidence that will direct public health policies and interventions. the existing hiv prevention programs need to be expanded and fortified to target young jamaicans, particularly those who do not engage in safe sexual practices. jamaica has the second highest number of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids) cases and deaths in the caribbean and a significant number of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infected individuals have a concomitant sexually transmitted infection (sti). this study was conducted at the comprehensive health centre in jamaica, a sexually transmitted infection referral centre. findings underscore the need to integrate sti testing in the hiv care continuum and to address stigma and regional differences among msm in jamaica. to celebrate jamaica's 50th birthday after receiving independence from great britain, we summarize our collaborative published research in the prevention, treatment and care of paediatric, perinatal and adolescent hiv/aids in jamaica. public access to antiretroviral therapy (art) in jamaica has shown that a "test and treat" strategy associated with "treatment for prevention" works for hiv-infected pregnant women by reducing their hiv-attributable morbidity and mortality and reducing mother-to-child transmission (mtct) rates to < 2%, islandwide. over the past nine years, jamaica has made excellent strides to eliminate vertically transmitted hiv/aids, while reducing the hiv-attributable morbidity and mortality in pregnant women and in hiv-infected children. 
Is Panton-Valentine leucocidin associated with the pathogenesis of Staphylococcus aureus bacteraemia in the UK? [SEP] to determine whether staphylococcus aureus panton-valentine leukocidin (pvl) is expressed during human infection, anti-pvl antibody titres were compared in patients with pvl-positive and pvl-negative staphylococcal infections, and in patients with no evidence of s. aureus infection. to determine the prevalence, genetic diversity, and clinical relevance of the luksf-pv gene, encoding the bacterial toxin panton-valentine leukocidin, in staphylococcus aureus isolates from cases of bacterial keratitis in the united kingdom. panton-valentine leucocidin (pvl) is a pore-forming toxin that has been epidemiologically associated with ca-mrsa infections. a new pattern of disease caused by panton-valentine leukocidin (pvl)-positive strains of staphylococcus aureus is emerging in the uk and worldwide. the morbidity and mortality associated with panton-valentine leucocidin (pvl)-positive staphylococcus aureus suggest that this toxin is a key marker of disease severity. panton-valentine leukocidin (pvl) is an important virulence determinant of staphylococcus aureus. recently, there has been international concern at the rapid emergence of highly pathogenic strains of staphylococcus aureus associated with a toxin called panton-valentine leukocidin (pvl). the staphylococcus aureus panton-valentine leukocidin (pvl) is a pore-forming toxin secreted by strains epidemiologically associated with the current outbreak of community-associated methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (ca-mrsa) and with the often-lethal necrotizing pneumonia. panton valentine leukocidin (pvl) has been associated with invasive staphylococcus aureus soft tissue and pneumonic infections. panton-valentine leukocidin (pvl) is a pore-forming toxin associated with current outbreaks of community-associated methicillin-resistant strains and implicated directly in the pathophysiology of staphylococcus aureus-related diseases. 
Are even impaired fasting blood glucose levels preoperatively associated with increased mortality after CABG surgery? [SEP] the study goal was to determine whether pre-operative fasting blood glucose (fb-glu) is associated with an increased mortality after coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg). high glucose levels are associated with increased morbidity and mortality after coronary surgery and in intensive care. the aim was to investigate the association between preoperative disturbances of glucose metabolism and long-term all-cause mortality after coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg). glucose levels greater than 8.8 mmol/l on postoperative day 1 and having three or more hypoglycaemic episodes in the postoperative period were predictive of mortality and morbidity among patients undergoing cardiovascular surgery. thus, the goal of the current study was to examine the relationship between admission blood glucose and outcome after emergency cabg surgery. a retrospective analysis to evaluate whether admission hyperglycemia associated with increased morbidity or mortality was performed in patients after emergency cabg surgery. on multivariable analysis, admission blood glucose was identified as an independent risk factor for death after emergency cabg (p=.01; odds ratio, 1.16; 95% confidence interval, 1.04-1.29). our study shows for the first time that admission blood glucose is correlated with increased morbidity and mortality among patients undergoing emergency cabg surgery. we evaluated whether outcomes are affected by postoperative hyperglycemia in cabg patients independent of preoperative dm diagnosis. patients with blood glucose values >200 mg/dl immediately after cabg had an increased risk of complications, including mortality, independent of a clinical diagnosis of dm. 
Does positron emission tomography change management in primary rectal cancer? [SEP] this study aims to determine the role of positron emission tomography (pet)/computed tomography (ct) in changing the management plan in patients with metastatic or recurrent colorectal cancer (crc) and to evaluate the role of pet/ct in patients with an unexplained rise in carcinoembryonic antigen (cea). this study aimed to determine the positive predictive value (ppv) of positron emission tomography/computed tomography (pet/ct) with an 18f-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (fdg)-avid presacral lesion for locally recurrent rectal cancer, and the additional value of magnetic resonance imaging (mri), including diffusion-weighted imaging (dwi). fdg-pet/ct has a poor ppv for locally recurrent rectal cancer in the presacral space. our preliminary data suggest that fdg-pet is an accurate modality for detecting pelvic recurrence of rectal cancer after full-dose ebrt. [18f] fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography/computed tomography ([18f] fdg-pet/ct) may be used for tumor staging and prognosis in several tumors but its role in rectal cancer is still debated. the influence of positron emission tomography in the management of recurrent rectal cancer is well established but its role in primary rectal cancer remains uncertain. this study therefore prospectively assesses the impact of position emission tomography scanning on the management of primary rectal cancer. forty-six patients with advanced primary rectal cancer referred for consideration of adjuvant preoperative therapy underwent position emission tomography scanning. position emission tomography scanning appears to accurately change the stage or appropriately alter the therapy of almost a third of patients with advanced primary rectal cancer. efficacy of f-18 fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography combined with computed tomography (fdg-pet/ct) for determining neoadjuvant therapy response in rectal cancer is not well established. 
Can you deliver accurate tidal volume by manual resuscitator? [SEP] one of the problems with manual resuscitators is the difficulty in achieving accurate volume delivery. this study was designed to compare tidal volumes delivered by the squeezing method, physical characteristics and education and practice levels. ventilation was delivered with a manual resuscitator connected to a microspirometer and volumes were measured. the tidal volume delivered by a manual resuscitator shows large variations. how is tidal volume delivered to the patient (either directly from a power source or indirectly from an intermediate chamber)? imposed work of breathing was evaluated with decelerating inspiratory flow at a rate of 20 breaths/min at tidal volume (vt) 0.25 1 and peak flow 40 l/min, at vt 0.5 l and peak flow 80 l/min, and vt 0.81 and peak flow 120 l/min. pressure-regulated volume control ventilation (prvcv) has been suggested to be the best option, as it should ensure a prefixed tidal volume at the lowest peak inspiratory pressure. the expiratory tidal volume measured at the mask (v(te(mask))) is a good estimate of the tidal volume delivered during simulated neonatal resuscitation. high and moderate levels of tidal volume (vt) were studied (12 ml/kg and 8 ml/kg, respectively). in the second part of the study where six additional patients were studied, tidal volume was kept constant at a moderate level (8 ml/kg), and we studied the effect of shortening inspiratory time and increasing mean inspiratory flow. 
Can increases in the cigarette tax rate be linked to cigarette retail prices? [SEP] this article investigates how smokers respond to tax and price increases in their choice of discount brand cigarettes versus premium brands. to estimate how increase in the tax rate can affect smokers' choice of discount brands versus premium brands. the cost of cigarettes has been cited as a motivating factor for smokers to quit smoking, and a cigarette tax increase is an effective way to increase the cost of cigarettes. scholars have suggested that smokers may see cigarette tax increases as commitment devices to help them quit smoking. this study examines whether or not increasing the price of cigarettes, which will occur as a consequence of cigarette excise tax increases, and implementing stronger restrictions on smoking in private worksites and other public places have an impact on smoking cessation decisions of young adults, thereby influencing public health in the united states (us). cigarette price increases have been associated with increases in smoking cessation, but relatively little is known about this relationship at the level of individual smokers. the observed pattern of promoted cigarette sales is suggestive of a positive relationship between retail cigarette promotions, the msa, and state cigarette tax increases. this study examines the impact of increasing the price of cigarettes, which will occur as a consequence of cigarette excise tax increases, and implementing restrictions on smoking in private worksites, restaurants, government worksites, healthcare facilities, and other public places on young adult smoking progression. tobacco companies claim that higher taxes will force smokers into buying illicit tobacco, but if they were truly concerned about increasing illicit sales with higher prices they would only increase retail prices in line with changes in taxation. in this paper, we explore uk pricing of both factory-made cigarettes (fm) and roll-your-own tobacco (ryo) to explore the extent to which price increases were due to government tax rises or industry strategies to increase profit per pack. 
Vertical lines in distal esophageal mucosa (VLEM): a true endoscopic manifestation of esophagitis in children? [SEP] we observed an endoscopic abnormally in a group of children with histological esophagitis. we termed this finding "vertical lines in esophageal mucosa" (vlem). the esophageal mucosa had a normal appearance on 160 endoscopic studies (group 1) and vlem were the only mucosal abnormalities in 41 endoscopies (group 2). vlem may be a highly specific endoscopic feature of esophagitis in children. material and methods children who underwent esophageal multichannel intraluminal impedance-ph monitoring (mii-ph) and upper-endoscopy with esophageal biopsies were studied retrospectively. children with eosinophilic esophagitis (n = 11) and control children (n = 8) without esophagitis were prospectively evaluated by high-resolution eus with a 20-mhz catheter us probe during an endoscopic examination. high-resolution eus reveals significant expansion of the esophageal wall and individual tissue layers including the combined mucosa and submucosa, and muscularis propria in children with eosinophilic esophagitis compared with healthy control patients. to compare endoscopic and histologic features of pediatric patients with eosinophilic esophagitis (eoe) responding to proton pump inhibitor (ppi) to those not responding to ppi. this report documents 11 children with complications of reflux and the histologic finding of gastric mucosa in the esophagus. here, we present a child with ee and a characteristic endoscopic finding, "ringed esophagus". 
Does hypoglycaemia increase the risk of cardiovascular events? [SEP] study findings have suggested that hypoglycaemia is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events and mortality. emerging evidence suggests that the association between hypoglycaemia and cardiovascular events and mortality is likely to be multifactorial. severe hypoglycemia in patients with diabetes is associated with increased risk of adverse cardiovascular events and death. hypoglycemia is associated with adverse health outcomes and can result in vascular events in diabetic patients. hypoglycemia is a major risk factor for occurrence of the first major cardiovascular event in non-critically ill people with type 2 diabetes initiating insulin therapy. hypoglycaemia has been associated with increased cardiovascular (cv) risk and mortality in a number of recent multicentre trials, but the mechanistic links driving this association remain ill defined. this review aims to summarize the available data on how hypoglycaemia may affect cv risk in patients with diabetes. this was a systematic review of available mechanistic and clinical studies on the relationship between hypoglycaemia and cardiovascular risk. in addition, 88 studies have indicated that hypoglycaemia mechanistically contributes to cv risk by increasing thrombotic tendency, causing abnormal cardiac repolarization, inducing inflammation, and contributing to the development of atherosclerosis. some studies have shown that hypoglycemic episodes in diabetic patients might be associated with increased cardiovascular events. 
Does the radiographic transition zone correlate with the level of aganglionosis on the specimen in Hirschsprung's disease? [SEP] the aim of this study was to identify the incidence of transition zone pull-through (tzpt) in a cohort of children who underwent surgery for hirschsprung's disease, to identify the reasons why tzpts occurred, and to identify the functional consequences. the definitive surgical management of hirschsprung's disease (hd) depends on an unambiguous histological diagnosis of bowel aganglionosis, as well as an accurate assessment of its proximal extent from the rectum or 'leveling'. surgical management of hirschsprung disease requires resection of the aganglionic bowel and transition zone, a length of ganglionic bowel, immediately proximal to the aganglionic segment, with neuropathologic features that seem to correlate with dysmotility. the proximal ganglionic portions of colonic resection specimens from 59 patients with distal aganglionosis were analyzed with closely spaced transverse sections to map the distribution of the 3 most commonly referenced features of transition zone (partial circumferential aganglionosis, myenteric hypoganglionosis, and submucosal nerve hypertrophy). the radiographic transition zone was compared to the pathological extent of aganglionic bowel. hirschsprung disease (hscr) is conventionally defined as aganglionosis of the distal rectum and a variable length of proximal contiguous bowel with a transition zone of ganglionic, but neuroanatomically abnormal, bowel located immediately upstream. the correlation between radiographic transition zone on contrast enema in hirschsprung's disease and the total length of aganglionosis is known to be inaccurate. the aim of this study was to determine the utility and diagnostic accuracy of a plain abdominal radiograph transition zone (partz) in predicting the level of aganglionosis. in the 9 (33%) patients in whom contrast enema failed to reveal a transition zone, partz was seen in 6/9(66%) patients and correlated with the pathological level of aganglionosis in 4/6(67%) patients, p = 0.001 95% ci (-1.87 to -0.79). the aganglionic segment of bowel in hirschsprung's disease (hd) varies in length. 
Is dexamethasone an effective alternative to oral prednisone in the treatment of pediatric asthma exacerbations? [SEP] dexamethasone has been proposed as an equivalent therapy to prednisone/prednisolone for acute asthma exacerbations in pediatric patients. six randomized controlled trials in the emergency department of children ≤18 years of age comparing dexamethasone with prednisone/prednisolone for the treatment of acute asthma exacerbations were included. dexamethasone has emerged as a viable alternative to prednisone in the treatment of pediatric acute asthma exacerbations, with the potential for improved compliance secondary to decreased frequency of dosing, improved taste, and decreased cost. objective: our hospital's pediatric emergency department (ed) began using dexamethasone for treating asthma exacerbations after ed studies showed non-inferiority of dexamethasone compared to prednisone. further research comparing the effectiveness of dexamethasone to prednisone in inpatient asthmatic children with various severities of illness is needed. to evaluate in adouble-blind, randomised clinical trial the efficacy of different doses of dexamethasone versus prednisolone in controlling asthma exacerbations in children. single-dose dexamethasone was at least as effective as 5-day course of prednisolone in controlling asthma, while dexamethasone for 2 days was non-inferior to 5 days of prednisolone in children with asthma exacerbation. this study evaluates the efficacy and tolerability of dexamethasone (dex) as an alternative to prednisone/prednisolone (pred) for the treatment of pediatric asthma exacerbations in emergency department (ed). dexamethasone is a suitable alternative to pred for the treatment of pediatric asthma exacerbation in ed. to evaluate whether a single dose of intramuscularly administered dexamethasone acetate (im dex) was as safe and effective as a 5-day course of oral prednisone (po pred) in the treatment of young children with mild-moderate exacerbations of asthma. 
Mammographic screening in Sami speaking municipalities and a control group. Are early outcome measures influenced by ethnicity? [SEP] female citizens of sami (the indigenous people of norway) municipalities in northern norway have a low risk of breast cancer. the objective of this study was to describe the attendance rate and outcome of the norwegian breast cancer screening program (nbcsp) in the sami-speaking municipalities and a control group. finnish routine screening programme with mammography. evaluation of mortality from breast cancer by before-after time trends among finnish women, by geographical (by municipalities) comparisons, and by intention to screen at an individual level with individual controls who were cluster randomised and matched for age. the objectives of this study were to compare municipalities with a majority of sami in the population and a control group with regard to socioeconomic factors and health outcome. measure the prevalence of self-reported myocardial infarction (smi) in sami and non-sami populations in rural areas of norway, and explore whether possible ethnic differences could be explained by established cardiovascular risk factors. to explore the decision-making process among women invited to a mammography screening programme. to study the effectiveness of service screening with mammography in northern sweden. two counties which invited women aged 40-74 years to service screening with mammography were compared with two counties where service screening started 5-7 years later. norwegian breast cancer screening programme, implemented in different counties from 1996 to 2005. 
Do Electrochemiluminescence Assays Improve Prediction of Time to Type 1 Diabetes in Autoantibody-Positive TrialNet Subjects? [SEP] to explore whether electrochemiluminescence (ecl) assays can help improve prediction of time to type 1 diabetes in the trialnet autoantibody-positive population. ecl assays improved the ability to predict time to diabetes in these autoantibody-positive relatives at risk for developing diabetes. electrochemiluminescence (ecl) assays have shown promise for enhancing the prediction of type 1 diabetes (t1d) with autoantibodies. we assessed whether type 1 diabetes (t1d) can be diagnosed earlier using a new approach based on prediction and natural history in autoantibody-positive individuals. further, we evaluated if testing with this novel platform enables earlier detection of insulin autoantibodies in individuals that have first-degree relatives with type-1 diabetes than currently used approaches. determine if autoantibody titer magnitude and variability predict glucose abnormalities in subjects at risk for type 1 diabetes. ica512 autoantibody titers associate with progressive abnormalities in glucose metabolism in subjects at risk for type 1 diabetes. the identification of diabetes-relevant islet autoantibodies is essential for predicting and preventing type 1 diabetes (t1d). once islet autoantibody-positive individuals are identified, predicting which individuals are at highest risk for type 1 diabetes (t1d) is important. we assessed whether a risk score that incorporates levels of multiple islet autoantibodies could enhance the prediction of type 1 diabetes (t1d). 
Assessment of appropriate antimicrobial prescribing: do experts agree? [SEP] little is known about the validity and reliability of expert assessments of the quality of antimicrobial prescribing, despite their importance in antimicrobial stewardship. twenty-four doctors specialized in infectious diseases or clinical microbiology (16 specialists and 8 residents) from five hospitals were asked to assess the appropriateness of antimicrobial agents prescribed for a broad spectrum of indications in 56 paper cases. doctors specialized in infectious diseases and clinical microbiology assess the appropriateness of antimicrobials prescribed for a broad spectrum of indications with acceptable agreement and validity, regardless of their experience or hospital of employment. antimicrobial prescribing is frequently reported as appropriate or inappropriate, particularly in the icu. to develop standardized definitions of appropriateness for antimicrobial prescribing in the critical care setting. we used consensus-based modified delphi and rand appropriateness methodology to develop criteria to define appropriateness of antimicrobial prescribing. there were a total of 23 criteria agreed upon to define the following categories of antimicrobial prescribing: appropriate; effective but unnecessary; inappropriate; and under-treatment. to assess the appropriateness of prescribing systemic antibiotics for different clinical conditions in primary care, and to quantify 'ideal' antibiotic prescribing proportions in conditions for which antibiotic treatment is sometimes but not always indicated. prescribing guidelines were consulted to define the appropriateness of antibiotic therapy for the conditions that resulted in antibiotic prescriptions between 2013 and 2015 in the health improvement network (thin) primary care database. the opinions of subject experts were then formally elicited to quantify ideal antibiotic prescribing proportions for 10 common conditions. 
Is there a favorable subset of patients with prostate cancer who develop oligometastases? [SEP] a new entity of patients with recurrent prostate cancer limited to a small number of active metastatic lesions is having growing interest: the oligometastatic patients. oligometastatic prostate cancer has increasingly been recognized as a unique clinical state with therapeutic implications. it has been proposed that patients with oligometastases may have a more indolent course and that outcome may be further improved with metastasis-directed local ablative therapy. as some clinical guidelines advise against routine prostate-specific antigen screening, the possibility of more men presenting with locally advanced or de novo oligometastatic prostate cancer exists; thus, knowing how best to treat these patients may become more relevant at a population level. along with a number of other malignancies, the term "oligometastatic" prostate cancer has recently emerged. advanced prostate cancer patients can present with both widely metastatic or oligometastatic disease. accumulating clinical evidence suggests that patients with oligometastatic disease have improved clinical responses from metastasis-directed therapy. although metastatic prostate cancer is traditionally treated by systemic therapy alone, the concept of oligometastatic disease prompting ablative therapy of metastases is emerging. oligometastatic cancer has been suggested as an intermediate state between localized disease and wide-ranging metastases. the clinical significance of local treatment in oligometastatic prostate cancer (pca) has been a recent topic of interest. 
Cycloplegic autorefraction in young adults: is it mandatory? [SEP] it is unclear whether cycloplegic refraction is necessary in this age group. non-cycloplegic and cycloplegic refractions were measured by an autorefractor. cycloplegia is therefore essential for this age-group in epidemiological studies. if cycloplegia is not an option, knowledge about the increase in uncertainty for wavefront-based autorefraction is needed. the purpose of this study was to determine the repeatability, agreement, and propensity to accommodate of cycloplegic (arc) and noncycloplegic (arnc) wavefront-based autorefraction (zeiss i.profiler plus; carl zeiss vision, aalen, germany) in children aged 2 to 15 years. fifty young adults aged 20-29 years (mean age 22 ± 1.6 years) underwent non-cycloplegic autorefraction using the grand seiko wam-5500 (open view) and topcon trk-2p (closed-view) autorefractors on both eyes. cycloplegic autorefraction of the right eye was measured on 25 myopic young adults using a modified grand seiko autorefractor. in normal eyes, the repeatability of cycloplegic autorefraction was best centrally and decreased as eccentricity increased; however, repeatability in the far periphery was still better than previously reported between-visit repeatability for foveal cycloplegic subjective refraction. to evaluate the accuracy and effectiveness of noncycloplegic and cycloplegic autorefraction using two types of autorefractors (ars) compared with retinoscopy in children and adolescents. more negative values of component m and j(0) were given by non-cycloplegic autorefraction compared with cycloplegic autorefraction (p < 0.0001). 
Does screening or surveillance for primary hepatocellular carcinoma with ultrasonography improve the prognosis of patients? [SEP] surveillance of cirrhotic patients for early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma, based on ultrasonography and alpha1-fetoprotein determination, is a recommended practice. hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) can be treated effectively if detected at an early stage. surveillance for hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) is recommended in patients with cirrhosis, but the effectiveness of a surveillance program in clinical practice has yet to be established. ultrasonography should be used for screening of hepatocellular carcinoma, but there are few reports on the relationship between liver ultrasonographic findings and the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc). contrasting data have so far been reported on the utility and efficacy of screening patients with cirrhosis for early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc). a regular ultrasonographic follow-up, timed at 3- to 6-month intervals according to the risk of hcc development in patients with cirrhosis, allows the detection of liver carcinoma at an early stage in a high proportion of patients, possibly improving the prognosis of the disease. hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) may be detected at a relatively early stage in patients with liver cirrhosis regularly followed by screening programs using ultrasonography (us) and alpha-fetoprotein (afp) measurement. surveillance of cirrhotic patients for early diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc), based on ultrasonography and alpha-fetoprotein (afp) measurement, is widely used. international guidelines suggest ultrasound surveillance for hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) early diagnosis in liver cirrhosis (lc) patients, but 40% of nodules <2 cm escape detection. although there is no definitive evidence that hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) screening in high-risk groups improves survival, many physicians screen high-risk populations with various tools such as alpha-fetoprotein (afp) and ultrasonography (usg). 
"Would a man smell a rose then throw it away? [SEP] rose is an ornamental plant which contains one of the world's top cut flowers. vase life of cut rose flower is short. rose-oxide is a fragrance found in roses and rose oil. we are all familiar with shakespeare's quote from romeo and juliet 'a rose by any other name would smell as sweet'. steam distillation is used to isolate scent of rose flowers. rose aromatic water is commonly used in european cuisine and aromatherapy besides its use in cosmetic industry for its lovely scent. for example, the smell of rose is often described with its source category (flower). this is the case when rose odor is described with a verbal label referring to its use in fragrance practices ("body lotion," cosmetic for example). to this end, functional mri was used in a within-subjects design comparing brain responses to four different odors (peach, chocolate, linden blossom, and rose) under two conditions whereby smells were described either (1) with their source category label (food and flower) or (2) with a practice category label (body lotion). in summary, our findings offer a new look at olfactory perception by indicating differential brain responses depending on whether odors are named according to their source or practice category. 
Department of Transportation vs self-reported data on motor vehicle collisions and driving convictions for stroke survivors: do they agree? [SEP] research on stroke survivors' driving safety has typically used either self-reports or government records, but the extent to which the 2 may differ is not known. we compared government records and self-reports of motor vehicle collisions and driving convictions in a sample of stroke survivors. in our population of stroke survivors, self-reports of motor vehicle collisions and driving convictions differed from government records. in future studies, the use of both government and self-reported data would ensure a more accurate picture of driving safety post-stroke. the self-report of motor vehicle crashes was compared to state records among all active drivers (n = 358) in a representative cohort of community-living individuals age 72 years and older in new haven, connecticut, in 1989. self-report and state records provide complementary information for the ascertainment of crashes among older drivers, although in this sample self-report yielded more events. this study sought to estimate the prevalence of driving after stroke and to determine whether stroke survivors receive advice and evaluation about driving. a convenience sample of stroke survivors was surveyed regarding driving status following stroke, driving exposure, advice received about driving, and evaluation of driving performance. these findings suggest that many stroke survivors are making decisions about their driving capabilities without professional advice and/or evaluation. objectives the purpose of this study was to examine how older drivers self-report collisions in comparison to what was recorded in their official driver abstract as well as insurance claims, in a prospective study. 
Neoadjuvant Imatinib in Locally Advanced Gastrointestinal stromal Tumours, Will Kit Mutation Analysis Be a Pathfinder? [SEP] gastrointestinal stromal tumours (gists), although rare, are increasingly recognized, characterized immuno-phenotypically in most cases by a mutation in c-kit. proven efficacy of imatinib mesylate in gastrointestinal stromal tumour (gist) has led to its use in advanced disease and, more recently, in adjuvant and neoadjuvant settings. gastrointestinal stromal tumors (gist) have a wide range of mutations, but can mostly be treated with imatinib, until eventually resistance towards this tyrosine kinase inhibitor is acquired. in gastrointestinal stromal tumors (gists), an activating mutation in c-kit predicts treatment response; its presence in other soft tissue tumors is unexplored. neoadjuvant imatinib (neo-im) therapy may facilitate r0 resection in primary gastrointestinal stromal tumors (gists) that are large or in difficult anatomic locations. a gain-of-function mutation of c-kit is the crucial step in tumorigenesis of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (gist). the c-kit receptor tyrosine kinase is constitutively activated in the majority of gastrointestinal stromal tumours (gist). imatinib (im) a selective inhibitor of c-kit, is indicated for the treatment of kit-positive unresectable and/or metastatic gist, and has tripled the survival time of patients with metastatic gist. imatinib is a protein-tyrosine kinase inhibitor with antitumour effects in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumour (gist) that is indicated for the treatment of unresectable and/or metastatic gist and as adjuvant therapy in patients with kit-positive gist. cell lines with kit mutations that are common in patients with gist were sensitive to imatinib at low in vitro concentrations. 
Does the lipid-lowering peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors ligand bezafibrate prevent colon cancer in patients with coronary artery disease? [SEP] bezafibrate is a widely used hypolipidemic agent and is known as a ligand of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (ppars). the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (ppar)-α agonist fenofibrate is used as a lipid-lowering agent to reduce cholesterol and triglyceride in blood. fibrates are ligands for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (pparalpha) that modulate risk factors related to atherosclerosis by acting at both systemic and vascular levels. recent studies suggest a potential role of lipid lowering drugs, fibrates and statins, in anticancer treatment. epidemiological studies have shown a positive association of colon cancer with hyperlipidemia. furthermore, signaling generated by peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (ppar) alpha and gamma ligands, suggested to be candidate tumor preventive agents, has been shown to lower serum triglyceride levels. in the present study, we assessed hyperlipidemia in apc-deficient mice, model animals for human familial adenomatous polyposis, and examined the effects of pioglitazone and bezafibrate, respectively, ppargamma and pparalpha agonists, on both hyperlipidemia and intestinal polyposis. treatment of apc(1309) mice with 100 and 200 ppm pioglitazone or bezafibrate for 6 weeks from 6 weeks of age caused dose-dependent reduction in serum triglycerides and cholesterol, along with reduction in the numbers of intestinal polyps to 67% of the control value. obesity is a risk factor for colon cancer, possibly due to elevated levels of circulating cytokines derived from adipose tissue. fibrate drugs are ligands for the fatty acid receptor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (ppar)alpha, and the lipid-lowering effects of this class of drugs are mediated by the control of lipid metabolism, as directed by pparalpha. 
Does self-efficacy mediate the relationship between transformational leadership behaviours and healthcare workers' sleep quality? [SEP] this paper is a report of a study conducted to investigate the longitudinal relationship between transformational leadership behaviours and employees' sleep quality, and the mediating effects of self-efficacy. structural equation modelling was used to investigate the relationships between transformational leadership, self-efficacy and sleep quality at both time points independently (cross-sectionally) and longitudinally. direct relationships between transformational leadership and sleep quality were found. the relationship between leadership and employees' sleep quality was not mediated by employees' self-efficacy. however, more research is needed to examine the mechanisms by which transformational leadership brings about improved sleep quality; self-efficacy was not found to be the explanation. self-efficacy was found to fully mediate the relationship between transformational leadership and well-being and team efficacy was found to partially mediate the relationship between transformational leadership and job satisfaction and fully mediate the relationship between transformational leadership and well-being. sleep leadership refers to supervisor behaviors that aim to improve employees' sleep, such as showing concern for the quantity and quality of employees' sleep. regarding self-reported sleep outcomes, higher employees' ratings of sleep leadership were associated with less sleep disturbance and less sleep-related impairment among employees. this study underscores the importance of including sleep as a potentially important determinant when assessing leadership effectiveness. to identify factors impacting self-efficacy for sleep. 
Does microbial contamination influence the success of the hematopoietic cell transplantation outcomes? [SEP] microbial contamination can be a marker for faulty process and is assumed to play an important role in the collection of hematopoietic progenitor cell (hpc) and infusion procedure. we aimed to determine the microbial contamination rates and evaluate the success of hematopoietic cell transplantation (hct) in patients who received contaminated products. bacterial contamination of peripheral blood hematopoietic cells collected for autologous bone marrow transplantation occurs sporadically. studies of the relationship between the gastrointestinal microbiota and outcomes in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-hct) have thus far largely focused on early complications, predominantly infection and acute graft-versus-host disease (gvhd). microbiological contamination of manipulated blood products, including hematopoietic progenitors obtained from peripheral blood, is an infrequent but persistent problem in transplant units. we studied the incidence of bacterial contamination in autologous peripheral blood progenitor cell transplants in two of the bench processing steps, as well as the repercussions in the post-transplant course affecting incidence of infections, transfusion requirements and time to engraftment. studies of the microbiome in the setting of haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (sct) have shown evidence that intestinal microbes appear to play a particularly important role in determining the outcome of treatment, impacting complications such as infection or graft-versus-host disease. the intestinal microbiota can influence responses to cancer chemotherapy and the role of the microbiota in affecting allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation outcomes is increasingly appreciated. relationships between microbiota composition and clinical outcomes after allogeneic hematopoietic-cell transplantation have been described in single-center studies. the microbiota composition of fecal samples obtained from patients who were undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic-cell transplantation at four centers was profiled by means of 16s ribosomal rna gene sequencing. 
Very high serum CA 19-9 levels: a contraindication to pancreaticoduodenectomy? [SEP] ca 19-9 is the most sensitive and specific marker currently used in the diagnosis of pancreatic cancer. we report an unusual case of falsely elevated ca 19-9 levels in a patient with a history of resected pancreatic cancer. no previous cases of falsely elevated ca 19-9 levels have been reported in the context of a known history of pancreatic cancer. furthermore, this case demonstrates that even markedly elevated ca 19-9 levels in patients being assessed for recurrence of pancreatic cancer need to be carefully interpreted in the context of other clinical findings. ca19-9 values are regularly measured in patients with pancreatic cancer. this study was designed to evaluate the usefulness of adjusted preoperative ca 19-9 levels in predicting a prognosis of pancreatic cancer. ca 19-9 nonproduction is not associated with improved survival after pancreatic cancer resection, as has previously been asserted, when compared with patients with normal and elevated levels. the study aims to determine the clinical interpretation and the diagnostic value of ca 19-9 level in pancreatobiliary diseases with coexistent obstructive jaundice. this case report demonstrates the challenges of interpreting elevated serum ca19.9 levels in a patient with pancreatic cancer. ca 19-9 (carbohydrate antigen 19-9) is a tumor marker widely used for surveillance of patients with pancreatic cancer. 
Perioperative care in an animal model for training in abdominal surgery: is it necessary a preoperative fasting? [SEP] this study aimed to assess the influence of prolonged preoperative fasting on prognosis in elective surgery. patients in the regular preoperative fasting time group had less duration of mechanical ventilation support after surgery [245 (177, 450) min vs 315 (210, 812) min (p=0.021)] and the postoperative myocardial injuries (myocardial injury 2 cases vs 11 cases, p=0.038) and reoperation percentages (reoperation 0 cases vs 7 cases, p=0.044) were lower compared to the prolonged preoperative fasting time group. prolonged preoperative fasting time led to unfavorable outcomes after gastrointestinal operations. thus, reducing preoperative fasting time is likely to accelerate postoperative recovery in gastrointestinal surgery patients. taken together, a rat model of abdominal surgery using anesthetic methods and perioperative treatment similar to those used in the clinic was successfully developed. this article looks to summarise the latest guidelines regarding perioperative fasting for adult and paediatric patients, the underlying evidence behind these guidelines and finally review current literature which will inform future practice. preoperative fasting is an established procedure to be practiced for patients before surgery, but optimal preoperative fasting time still remains controversial. before surgery, patients in the control group were managed with conventional preoperative fasting time, while patients in the "enhanced recovery after surgery (eras)" group were managed with "shortened preoperative fasting time" and "reduced laxative medication." the results suggest that preoperative management with "shorted preoperative fasting time" and "reduced administration of laxatives" is effective in the maintenance of tbw in elective surgical patients. increasing evidence suggests that preoperative fasting, as was the clinical practice for many decades, might be associated with untoward consequences and that a standardized preoperative intake of nutrients might be advantageous; this is a component of the enhanced recovery after surgery (eras) concept. 
Are physicians aware of the side effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors? [SEP] we assessed the risk for angioedema associated with the use of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (aceis), angiotensin receptor blockers (arbs), and the direct renin inhibitor aliskiren. since adverse effects due to angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors frequently occur in cutaneous locations, this review summarizes the spectrum of expected and unexpected adverse effects of these drugs, possible associated mechanisms, and their basic functions for dermatologists. angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors are one of the most used medication among patients with arterial hypertension. in most cases, ace inhibitors caused side effects are mild; however, from 0.1% to 0.7% of patients can develop life threatening adverse effect, angioedema. our case highlight the importance of educating clinicians about ace inhibitor-induced angioedema, as potentially fatal adverse drug reaction. angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ace-i) are considered safe, but they are associated with characteristic side effects, namely cough and angioedema, usually requiring discontinuation. angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors frequently are prescribed for the management of cardiovascular disorders. the safety profiles of the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, captopril and enalapril, are the focus of this review. adverse effects are reviewed as those associated with sulfhydryl compounds and as those considered class-specific adverse effects of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. while converting enzyme inhibitors are well tolerated, they still have some side effects, which rightly or wrongly are attributed to the lack of specificity of the target enzyme for the renin-angiotensin cascade. 
Residual fundus or neofundus after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy: is fundectomy safe and effective as revision surgery? [SEP] despite excellent long-term results, insufficient weight loss, weight regain, and pathologic gastroesophageal reflux disease may require revisional procedures after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (lsg). recurrent gastroesophageal reflux is a common complication after fundoplication and is often treated with revision fundoplication. we report our experience with laparoscopic redo fundoplication. laparoscopic fundoplication was completed in 89% of first-time redo operations and 68% of second revisions with average operative times of 2.2 +/- 1.0 and 2.6 +/- 0.9 hours, respectively. revision laparoscopic fundoplication is a technically challenging operation but can usually be completed and is characterized by a low rate of complications. fifty-six percent (n=34) of the patients regarded the result of their reoperative surgery as excellent, good or satisfactory at a mean follow-up of 51 months; 66% of the patients had no significant reflux symptoms after re-fundoplication. these suboptimal results show that surgical treatment for gastro-oesophageal reflux disease in general is far from being perfect and this is even more marked after reoperative antireflux surgery, as fundoplication revision can result in severe complications. up to 30 % of patients who have undergone laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy require revision surgery for inadequate weight loss, weight regain, and/or the development of severe upper gastrointestinal symptoms. the aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of laparoscopic fundectomy (lf) in cases of a residual fundus/neofundus development regarding gerd symptoms. fundectomy was indicated when a residual fundus/neofundus was associated with severe gerd symptoms. 
Are physician estimates of asthma severity less accurate in black than in white patients? [SEP] racial differences in asthma care are not fully explained by socioeconomic status, care access, and insurance status. it is unknown if accuracy of physician estimates differs between black and white patients, and how this relates to asthma care disparities. we hypothesized that: 1) physician underestimation of asthma severity is more frequent among black patients; 2) among black patients, physician underestimation of severity is associated with poorer quality asthma care. blacks were significantly more likely than white patients to have their asthma severity underestimated (or = 1.39, 95% ci 1.08-1.79). among black patients, underestimation was associated with less use of daily inhaled corticosteroids (13% vs 20%, p < .05), less physician instruction on management of asthma flare-ups (33% vs 41%, p < .0001), and lower ratings of asthma care (p = .01) and physician communication (p = .04). biased estimates of asthma severity may contribute to racially disparate asthma care. interventions to improve physicians' assessments of asthma severity and patient-physician communication may minimize racial disparities in asthma care. morbidity from asthma is disproportionately higher among black patients than among white patients, and black patients constitute the minority of participants in trials informing treatment. we assessed whether there were racial disparities in asthma management and outcomes in a managed care organization that provides uniform access to health care and then determined to what degree these disparities were explained by differences in ses, asthma severity, and asthma management. even in a health care setting that provides uniform access to care, black race was associated with worse asthma outcomes, including a greater risk of ed visits and hospitalizations. 
Does laparoscopic surgery decrease the risk of atrial fibrillation after foregut surgery? [SEP] these results indirectly offer that there may be a reduction in risk of af, ventricular arrhythmia, and sudden cardiac death after obesity surgery. there is limited evidence regarding the effectiveness of surgical left atrial appendage occlusion (s-laao) for reducing the risk of thromboembolism. among older patients with af undergoing concomitant cardiac surgery, s-laao, compared with no s-laao, was associated with a lower risk of readmission for thromboembolism over 3 years. surgical exclusion of the left atrial appendage (laa) can be performed at the time of cardiac operation as a potential modality to decrease cardioembolic risk attributable to atrial fibrillation (af), but it remains unclear if this decreases stroke incidence. to evaluate the association of surgical laao performed during cardiac surgery with risk of stroke, mortality, and development of subsequent af. surgical laao vs no surgical laao during cardiac surgery. among patients undergoing cardiac surgery, concurrent surgical laao, compared with no surgical laao, was associated with reduced risk of subsequent stroke and all-cause mortality. the purpose of this study was to determine whether surgical left atrial appendage (laa) exclusion performed during mitral valve surgery is associated with a reduction in cerebrovascular events in patients with atrial fibrillation. surgical left atrial appendage occlusion (slaao) may be associated with a lower risk of thromboembolism in patients with atrial fibrillation undergoing cardiac surgery. thoracoscopic left atrial appendectomy is a minimally invasive procedure for left atrial appendage occlusion in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation, particularly those at a great risk for both stroke and bleeding despite appropriate oral anticoagulant therapy. 
The Main Gate Syndrome: a new format in mass-casualty victim "surge" management? [SEP] what are the threats facing the military health system (mhs) in the first quarter of the 21st century? a predetermined metropolitan triage system which directs trauma victims of a mci to the appropriate medical center and prevents overcrowding of the level i facility with less severe injured patients will assure that critically injured patients of a suicide bombing attack will receive a level of care that is comparable with the care given to similar patients under normal circumstances. terrorist violence has emerged as an increasingly common cause of mass casualty incidents (mci) due to the sequelae of explosive devices and shooting massacres. the problem of surge capacity in the wake of a terror-related emergency has lead to a number of interesting proposals designed to mitigate the effects of crowds as well as deficiencies in patient care capacities. the most controversial of these is a proposal to close hospital doors in the wake of a mass casualty terror event. however, several specific challenges posed by mass casualty events make closing hospitals doors undesirable. importantly, these challenges are related to features of terrorist events that distinguish such events from circumstances of "normal" surge that might result in, for example, closure of emergency rooms. the sheer number of fatalities from the pandemic have been unlike any other in recent memory and needed the rapid creation of new protocols and paradigms to manage the situation. this required rapidly escalating mortuary capacity to manage the increased fatalities from the pandemic with the establishment of lines of communication and networking with governmental entities, institution of new policies for patient flow, and implementation of worker infection control and well-being plans. a high influx of patients during a mass-casualty incident (mci) may disrupt patient flow in an already overcrowded emergency department (ed) that is functioning beyond its operating capacity. 
Do communication disorders extend to musical messages? [SEP] effective musical communication requires conveyance of the intended message in a manner perceptible to the receiver. communication disorders that impair transmitting or decoding of structural features of music (e.g., pitch, timbre) and/or symbolic representation may result in atypical musical communication, which can have a negative impact on music therapy interventions. this study compared recognition of symbolic representation of emotions or movements in music by two groups of children with different communicative characteristics: severe to profound hearing loss (using cochlear implants [ci]) and autism spectrum disorder (asd). conveyance of emotions or movements through music may be decoded differently by persons with different types of communication disorders. music and speech both communicate emotional meanings in addition to their domain-specific contents. several questions have subsequently arisen particularly with regard to the precise mechanisms underlying the communication of musical meaning as well as the role of specific musical features. these findings not only provide critical evidence for a double association of music and speech, but also argue for the reconceptualization of communicative disorders within a cultural framework. there has been much debate over whether music can convey extra-musical meaning. the results show that even short musical sounds outside of a musical context are capable of conveying meaning information, but that sounds require more elaborate processing than other kinds of meaningful stimuli. effects of music on language processing have been reported separately for syntax and for semantics. 
Do patients with rheumatoid arthritis established on methotrexate and folic acid 5 mg daily need to continue folic acid supplements long term? [SEP] co-prescription of folic acid in patients receiving low dose oral methotrexate is recommended because it reduces adverse events and prolongs the use of methotrexate (mtx). patients who did not see a rheumatologist were 23% less likely to receive folic acid compared to patients who did have a rheumatologist visit during the baseline period (rr (95% ci) 0.77 (0.72, 0.82). backgrounds folic acid dose at ≦5 mg/week has been recommended for rheumatoid arthritis (ra) patients to decrease risk of methotrexate adverse effects. we examined the influence of high-dose folic acid on methotrexate efficacies and safety in japanese ra patients. the prevalence of methotrexate adverse effects was not significantly different between the patients taking folic acid less and more than 5 mg/week. plasma homocysteine levels were determined in patients who participated in a randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled trial of folate supplementation (1 mg/day) during methotrexate therapy for rheumatoid arthritis. the use of methotrexate in rheumatoid arthritis is reviewed. to review the evidence for benefits and harms of folate (folic acid or folinic acid) supplementation on methotrexate (mtx) treatment for rheumatoid arthritis (ra), to assess whether or not folate supplementation would reduce mtx toxicity or reduce mtx benefits, and to decide whether a higher mtx dosage is essential. methotrexate, a folic acid antagonist, is being employed more frequently in an attempt to control rheumatoid arthritis that has not responded adequately to conventional therapies. to investigate the effect of methotrexate (mtx) treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (ra) on folate metabolism, and to determine the effect of low dose folic acid on toxicity, efficacy, and folate status. 
Can infundibular height predict the clearance of lower pole calyceal stone after extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy? [SEP] to determine the influence of pelvicalyceal angle, size of the lower calyx infundibulum and lowerpole calyceal anatomy in predicting the clearance of fragments after extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (eswl) for lower calyceal stones. stone-free rates for lower caliceal stones after extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy (swl) are persistently poor. as stone-free rates vary with lithotripter type, we have compared the applicability of caliceal-pelvic height (cph) in the prediction of stone clearance in patients treated with three different lithotripters within one center. we determined whether there is a significant relationship between the spatial anatomy of the lower pole on preoperative excretory urography and stone fragment clearance after shock wave lithotripsy. the anatomical factors affecting lower pole stone clearance after shock wave lithotripsy were evaluated retrospectively in 108 patients. as the general experience with extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (eswl) for renal calculi broadens, it is increasingly evident that the clearance of stone fragments in lower pole calices needs to be improved. as the general experience with extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (eswl) for renal calculi broadens, it is increasingly evident that the clearance of stone fragments in lower pole calices needs to be improved. to investigate the effect of stone fragmentation on late stone recurrence by comparing the outcome of extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy (eswl) and non-fragmenting percutaneous nephrolithotomy (pcnl), and to investigate factors contributing to recurrent calculi. to determine factors influencing the clearance of fragments after extra-corporeal shock wave lithotripsy (eswl) for lower pole calyceal (lpc) stones. to assess the impact of lower pole calyceal anatomy on clearace of lower pole stones after extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy (eswl) by means of a new and previously defined radiographic measurement method. 
Does lung ischemia and reperfusion have an impact on coronary flow? [SEP] reperfusion following ischaemia (t180 versus t60) induced a progressive decline in cardiovascular function, evidenced by a decrease in mean arterial blood pressure, cardiac output and ejection fraction which was not restored at t300. reperfusion injury of the lung after ischemia is associated with altered alveolar blood flow and ventilation-perfusion mismatch, which is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality after lung transplantation. we examined the effect of ischemia and reperfusion on the tone of individual subpleural arterioles in the pulmonary circulation by using video microscopy with polarized epiillumination. overall pulmonary vascular resistance increased during early reperfusion but returned to baseline level during late reperfusion. constriction of small arterioles by ischemia and reperfusion can have a significant effect on the early phase of ventilation-perfusion mismatch and pulmonary dysfunction by altering alveolar perfusion. reduced coronary reserve during reperfusion may cause postischemic diastolic dysfunction in pressure-overload-induced hypertrophy. we studied the effect of coronary flow regulation (simulated hyperemic or depressed flow) on postischemic cardiac function during reperfusion. manipulations in coronary flow during reperfusion did not affect postischemic cardiac function in control or aortic constriction hearts, suggesting that depressed coronary flow during early reperfusion is not a primary cause of postischemic diastolic dysfunction in the hypertrophied myocardium. pulmonary dysfunction following lung ischaemia-reperfusion is a well-known phenomenon, which may contribute to post-cardiac surgical morbidity. lung ischaemia-reperfusion caused expression changes in over 50 additional genes, including many novel genes not previously associated with lung ischaemia-reperfusion. 
Is a patient's self-reported health-related quality of life a prognostic factor for survival in non-small-cell lung cancer patients? [SEP] the impact of health-related quality of life (hrqol) on survival has been investigated in patients with various cancers. the aim of this prognostic factor analysis was to investigate if a patient's self-reported health-related quality of life (hrqol) provided independent prognostic information for survival in non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) patients. several studies have recently reported on the importance of quality of life (qol) in predicting the survival of patients with lung carcinoma. to confirm these reports, the relationship between survival and qol, as measured by the european organization for research and treatment of cancer (eortc) quality of life questionnaire and duke-unc social support scale, was examined within a group of 206 patients with advanced nonsmall cell lung carcinoma treated in a randomized clinical trial conducted by the cancer and leukemia group b (calgb 8931). health-related quality of life (hrqol) has been shown to be a prognostic factor for cancer survival in randomized clinical trials and observational "real-world" cohort studies; however, it remains unclear which hrqol domains are the best prognosticators. the finding that health-related quality of life provides distinct prognostic information beyond known sociodemographic and clinical measures, not only around cancer diagnosis (baseline) but also at follow-up, has implications for clinical practice. patient-assessed health-related quality-of-life (hrqol) scores, together with demographic and clinical factors in stage iii non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) patients, are important prognostic factors for survival and may be helpful in determining thoracic radiotherapy (trt) strategy. health-related quality of life (hrqol) after cancer diagnosis is prognostic for overall survival (os). the objective of this study is to evaluate whether patient-reported baseline health-related quality of life (hrql) measured by the functional assessment of cancer therapy-general (fact-g) instrument is predictive of survival for patients with advanced lung cancer. evidence has suggested a clinically meaningful relationship between self-reported quality of life (qol) of a patient with cancer at the time of receiving a cancer diagnosis and overall survival (os). 
Transient tachypnea of the newborn (TTN): a role for polymorphisms in the beta-adrenergic receptor (ADRB) encoding genes? [SEP] to evaluate whether the trp64arg polymorphism in the beta3-adrenergic receptor (ar) gene is associated with decreased birth weight and might account for some of the association between birth weight and impaired insulin sensitivity, the beta3-ar genotype was assessed in 296 neonates of singleton pregnancies, including 76 neonates classified as small for gestational age (sga) and 220 neonate classified as appropriate for gestational age (aga). it is established that transient tachypnea of the newborn (ttn) is associated with an increased risk of early childhood asthma. we hypothesized that polymorphisms in the region encoding for the second transmembrane spanning domain of the epithelial sodium channel may be one factor in the pathogenesis of transient tachypnoea of the newborn. we thus searched for polymorphisms in this region in neonates with transient tachypnoea of the newborn. forty-three neonates with transient tachypnoea of the newborn (gestational age [mean +/- sd]: 38.3 +/- 1.2 completed weeks; birthweight: 3088 +/- 426 g), 57 neonates with rds (gestational age: 29.6 +/- 3.5 completed weeks; birthweight: 1272 +/- 638 g), and 50 healthy controls were enrolled prospectively. we conclude that reasons other than polymorphisms in the second transmembrane spanning domain cause transient tachypnoea of the newborn. the region encoding the n-terminal of human β2-adrenergic receptor gene (adrb2) shows several polymorphisms. this study aimed to evaluate the effects of β2-adrenergic receptor (adrb2) gene polymorphisms on ritodrine therapy outcomes in patients with preterm labor. variation in the beta-1 and beta-2 adrenergic receptor genes (adrb1 and adrb2, respectively) may influence cardiovascular reactivity including orthostatic stress. in this retrospective cohort study, we tested whether variation in the gene encoding the β2-adrenergic receptor (adrb2) influences perioperative arterial blood pressure and consequently the use of vasopressors. 
Is duration of psychological treatment for depression related to return into treatment? [SEP] it is unclear whether depressed patients who respond to treatment, and subsequently recover, manifest a significant degree of residual symptomatology and enduring psychosocial impairment. the purpose of this study was to compare the social functioning and symptoms of depressed outpatients who responded to acute treatment, and had a sustained recovery from major depression for 6 months, with psychiatrically normal community samples. participants who remitted (n=41) from their depression were then inducted into a longitudinal follow-up protocol. longer time to treatment entry was predictive of longer time to relapse. a greater number of previous depressive episodes was associated with decreased time to treatment entry. although published guidelines recommend the continuation of treatment for depression until full remission of symptoms and restoration of functioning, little is known about how often remission is achieved in usual practice and the precipitants of treatment termination when treatment outcome has not been optimal. many individuals treated for depression suffer relapse or recurrence after treatment. 51 individuals, who were successfully treated/discharged from psychiatric care 12 months prior, were assessed regarding current depressive status and regarding relapse and recurrence. a group of 45 patients with recurrent major depression treated with combined pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy in a similar fashion for two consecutive episodes showed comparable mean times to stabilization of between 11 and 12 weeks. we aimed to evaluate the effect of personality pathology on time to remission of patients randomly assigned to 1 of 2 treatment strategies for depression and to determine whether personality pathology moderated the effect of treatment assignment on outcome. 
Does shaving the incision site increase the infection rate after spinal surgery? [SEP] to determine whether shaving the incision site before spinal surgery causes postsurgical infection. spine surgeons usually shave the skin of the incision site immediately before surgery is performed. however, evidence from some surgical series suggests that presurgical shaving may increase the postsurgical infection rate. a total of 789 patients scheduled to undergo spinal surgery were randomly allocated into 2 groups: those in whom the site of operation was shaved immediately before surgery (shaved group; 371 patients) and the patients in whom presurgical shaving was not performed (unshaved group; 418 patients). a postoperative infection developed in 4 patients in the shaved group and in 1 patient in the nonshaved group (p < 0.01). the shaving of the incision site immediately before spinal surgery may increase the rate of postoperative infection. we hypothesized that a higher surgical invasiveness score will increase the risk for surgical site infection following spine surgery. numerous studies have reported on post- operative infection following spinal arthrodesis for spinal deformity. certain factors may increase the risk of surgical site infection (ssi) in patients who undergo surgical treatment for spinal deformities. the purpose of this study was to determine the rate of spinal wound infection following spinal deformity surgery in a single surgeon's practice and to identify risk factors for infection, particularly those related to type of deformity and surgical procedures performed. 
The influence of atmospheric pressure on aortic aneurysm rupture--is the diameter of the aneurysm important? [SEP] the rate of aortic aneurysm rupture correlates with the aneurysm's diameter, and a higher rate of rupture is observed in patients with larger aneurysms. according to the literature, contradictory results concerning the relationship between atmospheric pressure and aneurysm size have been reported. in this paper, we assessed the influence of changes in atmospheric pressure on abdominal aneurysm ruptures in relationship to the aneurysm's size. the highest frequency of the admission of patients with a ruptured aortic aneurysm was observed during periods of winter and spring, when the highest mean values of atmospheric pressure were observed; however, this observation was not statistically confirmed. a statistically non-significant trend towards the higher rupture of large aneurysms (> 7 cm) was observed in the cases where the pressure increased between the day before the rupture and the day of the rupture. the results of this study do not support the hypothesis that there is a direct link between atmospheric pressure values and abdominal aortic aneurysm ruptures. previous studies have shown that abdominal aortic aneurysm rupture (aaar) may be associated with atmospheric pressure, with conflicting results. generally, the maximal diameter of the aneurysm is used as a predictor of rupture; however, biomechanical properties may be a better predictor than the maximal diameter. risk for rupture of an abdominal aortic aneurysm is widely believed to be related to its maximum diameter. our computer models showed that the stress within the wall of an abdominal aortic aneurysm and possibly the potential for rupture are as dependent on aneurysm shape as they are on maximum diameter. 
Do French lay people and health professionals find it acceptable to breach confidentiality to protect a patient's wife from a sexually transmitted disease? [SEP] to determine under what conditions lay people and health professionals find it acceptable for a physician to breach confidentiality to protect the wife of a patient with a sexually transmitted disease (std). the concept of breaching confidentiality to protect a wife from her husband's std was favoured much more by lay people and psychologists than by physicians (mean ratings 11.76, 9.28 and 2.90, respectively, on a scale of 0-22). the patient's stated intentions to protect his wife and to inform her of the disease had the greatest impact on acceptability. most people in france are influenced by situational factors when deciding if a physician should breach confidentiality to protect the spouse of a patient infected with std. among solutions to the problems of hiv/aids, a public health preventive measure has been proposed to notify the sexual partners of patients, this being a justifiable exception to professional secrecy. confidentiality is a basic concept in medical ethics and protecting confidentiality is considered as physicians' duty. in some occasions, this protection is in conflict with the right of the patient's sexual partner, who should be informed about the possibility of being infected. the old literature on whether medical confidentiality may be breached to warn a spouse of a risk of contracting syphilis from his/her partner - a deep and rich literature - has become relevant once again in the context of hiv infection and aids. this paper examines the reasoning and method employed in: the catholic approach centered around the patient's (property) right to the secret; a (generic) model of justice, utilizing minimal principles of non-aggression and restitution; and an approach involving the elimination of unstable alternatives: the view that public health officials, but not the spouse, may/must be notified; and, that maintaining that the physician is at liberty to disclose but is not obliged to do so. do patients and health care workers have the legal right to know each other's hiv status? 
Do somatic complaints predict subsequent symptoms of depression? [SEP] painful and non-painful somatic symptoms are often reported in patients with depressive disorder. the proper identification of depression-relevant somatic symptoms is important for the accurate diagnosis of depression, development of treatment strategies and measurement of outcome. the objective of this study was to characterize the relationship between somatic symptoms and depression in patients diagnosed with major depressive disorder (mdd), using data from randomized drug trials carried out by a pharmaceutical company. somatic symptoms have been suggested to negatively affect the course of major depressive disorder (mdd). therefore, somatic symptoms in depression are related to concomitant anxiety, tendency to amplify somatic distress, and difficulty identifying and communicating emotional distress. recent studies suggest that depression is associated with somatic pain. evidence suggests substantial comorbidity between symptoms of somatization and depression in clinical as well as nonclinical populations. in particular, it is unclear whether somatic complaints may heighten the risk for the subsequent development of depressive symptoms. we report findings on the link between symptoms of somatization (assessed using the scl-90-r) and depression 5 years later (assessed using the ces-d) in an initially healthy cohort of community adults, based on prospective data from the reno diet-heart study. our findings suggest that somatic complaints may represent one, but not necessarily the most important, risk factor for the subsequent development of depressive symptoms in women in nonclinical populations. 
Are women with major depression in pregnancy identifiable in population health data? [SEP] little is known about the prevalence and comorbidity of major depressive episode (mde) during pregnancy in the general population. this study presents nationally representative data on the prevalence, correlates, and psychiatric comorbidities of depression in women during pregnancy and postpartum in the united states. these results indicate that depression during pregnancy and postpartum is associated with a large range of psychiatric disorders. untreated depression during pregnancy may have adverse outcomes for the mother and her child. to examine whether a pre-gestational diagnosis of depression is a risk factor for adverse obstetric and neonatal outcome. a retrospective cohort study investigating maternal characteristics, obstetrical and perinatal outcomes in singleton pregnancies of women with and without a diagnosis of depression was conducted. pregnant women diagnosed with depression are at an increased risk for preterm birth, low birth weight, and css. current estimates of the prevalence of depression during pregnancy vary widely. numbers and percentages of depressed patients, by weeks of gestation or trimester, were reported. the present study examined risk factors for depression during pregnancy in a very large population sample. 
Remote ischemic postconditioning: does it protect against ischemic damage in percutaneous coronary revascularization? [SEP] remote ischemic preconditioning may result in reduction in infarct size during percutaneous coronary intervention (pci). remote ischemic preconditioning (ripc) may limit myocardial infarction by improving microvascular function and maintaining myocardial blood flow. remote ischemic preconditioning by transient limb ischemia reduces myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention. the aim of the study we report here was to assess the effect of remote ischemic preconditioning on endothelial function in patients with acute myocardial infarction who underwent primary percutaneous coronary intervention. in group i (n = 23), remote ischemic preconditioning was performed before primary percutaneous coronary intervention (intermittent arm ischemia-reperfusion through 4 cycles of 5-minute inflation and 5-minute deflation of a blood-pressure cuff to 200 mm hg). we demonstrated for the first time that remote ischemic preconditioning before primary percutaneous coronary intervention significantly improves endothelial function in patients with acute myocardial infarction, and this effect remains constant for at least a week. background remote ischemic preconditioning (ripc) attenuates myocardial damage during elective and primary percutaneous coronary intervention. conclusions the index of microcirculatory resistance and coronary flow reserve are acutely improved by remote ischemic preconditioning. to assess the impact of pre-procedural remote ischemic preconditioning on the incidence of myocardial complications following percutaneous coronary intervention. remote ischemic preconditioning is known to elicit production of a blood-borne cardioprotective factor that is infarct sparing in models of ischemia-reperfusion injury and myocardial damage reducing after cardiopulmonary bypass in human subjects. 
Does combining antiretroviral agents in a single dosage form enhance quality of life of HIV/AIDS patients? [SEP] this research study answered the following question: what is the experience of taking multiple drug therapies for persons with hiv infection? in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection, combined treatment with several agents may increase the effectiveness of antiviral therapy. we studied the safety and efficacy of saquinavir, an hiv-protease inhibitor, given with one or two nucleoside antiretroviral agents, as compared with the safety and efficacy of a combination of two nucleosides alone. in this double-blind trial, patients with hiv infection were randomly assigned to receive either saquinavir (1800 mg per day) plus both zidovudine (600 mg per day) and zalcitabine (2.25 mg per day) or zidovudine plus either saquinavir or zalcitabine. this drug combination reduced hiv-1 replication, increased cd4+ cell counts, and decreased levels of activation markers in serum more than did treatment with zidovudine and either saquinavir or zalcitabine. the effect of combination protease inhibitor therapy (ritonavir plus saquinavir) on functional measures of cell-mediated immunity in 41 hiv-infected patients from one center of a multicenter trial was investigated. combination antiretroviral therapy (cart) has improved quality of life for hiv-infected patients. the long-term efficacy of combination antiretroviral therapy may relate to augmentation of anti-human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1) cd8(+) t-cell responses. standard-of-care for hiv-infected patients consists of combining three antiretroviral drugs. however, other therapeutic strategies could be beneficial given long-term toxicity and quality of life (qol) issues associated with taking multiple antiretroviral drugs for many years. 
The inverse equity hypothesis: does it apply to coverage of cancer screening in middle-income countries? [SEP] it is uncertain whether the inverse equity hypothesis-the idea that new health interventions are initially primarily accessed by the rich, but that inequalities narrow with diffusion to the poor-holds true for cancer screening in low and middle income countries (lmics).this study examines the relationship between overall coverage and economic inequalities in coverage of cancer screening in four middle-income countries. coverage for breast cancer screening was 10.5% in south africa, 19.3% in china, 33.8% in russia and 43% in mexico, and coverage for cervical cancer screening was 24% in south africa, 27.2% in china, 63.7% in mexico and 81.5% in russia. economic inequalities in screening participation were substantially lower or non-existent in countries with higher aggregate coverage, for both breast cancer screening (rii: 14.57 in south africa, 4.90 in china, 2.01 in mexico, 1.04 in russia) and cervical cancer screening (rii: 3.60 in china, 2.47 in south africa, 1.39 in mexico, 1.12 in russia). economic inequalities in breast and cervical cancer screening are low in lmics with high screening coverage. these findings are consistent with the inverse equity hypothesis and indicate that high levels of equity in cancer screening are feasible even in countries with high income inequality. socioeconomic differences in screening have been well documented in upper-income countries; however, few studies have examined socioeconomic status (ses) over the life-course in relation to cancer screening in lower-income and middle-income countries. here, we examine individual, parental and life-course ses differences in breast and cervical cancer screening among women in india, china, mexico, russia and south africa. improving knowledge of the benefits of cancer screening and integrating cancer screening into routine healthcare practice for low ses women are actionable strategies that may significantly improve screening rates in low-income and middle-income countries. however, evidence on prevalence levels of cervical cancer screening in low- and middle-income countries (lmics) is sparse. social inequalities has been shown for participation in colorectal cancer screening and recently in the initial stool sample blood test. 
Identification of racial disparities in breast cancer mortality: does scale matter? [SEP] the current results suggest that modifiable societal factors are responsible for apparent racial disparities in breast and prostate cancer survival observed at larger geographic scales. racial/ethnic disparity in breast cancer-specific mortality in the united states is well documented. we examined whether accounting for racial/ethnic differences in the prevalence of clinical, patient, and lifestyle and contextual factors that are associated with breast cancer-specific mortality can explain this disparity. we examined the contribution of variables in a previously reported cox regression baseline model plus additional contextual, physical activity, body size, and comorbidity variables to the racial/ethnic disparity in breast cancer-specific mortality. our analysis suggests progress towards race-ethnic and area-socioeconomic disparity goals for breast cancer, especially when measured on the absolute scale. it is well known that there is a significant racial divide in breast cancer incidence and mortality rates. higher breast cancer mortality rates for african-american than non-hispanic white women are well documented; however, it remains uncertain if this disparity occurs in disease subgroups defined by tumor molecular markers and stage at diagnosis. background: the black-to-white disparity in breast cancer survival is increasing, and racial residential segregation is a potential driver for this trend. several factors may account for racial differences in breast cancer mortality including socioeconomic factors, access to screening mammography and timely treatment, and biological factors. differences in survival of breast cancer have been noted among racial and ethnic groups, but the reasons for these disparities remain unclear. 
Does the leukocyte count correlate with the severity of injury? [SEP] both lymphocytosis and lymphopenia have been observed following trauma and each has been claimed to predict mortality. the purpose of this study was to determine the early serial changes in peripheral leucocyte counts following injury. a whole blood cell counter was used to measure serial total leucocyte, granulocyte, lymphocyte and monocyte counts from 20 patients in the first 3 h following blunt injury. rapid mobilisation and subsequent redistribution of leucocytes occurs early following injury. previous studies have suggested that elevated neutrophils, monocytes, and neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (nlr) may be associated with poor outcomes in intracerebral hemorrhage (ich). these findings suggest that acute neutrophil activation is an early event after trauma and may be implicated as "a vulnerable window" for leukocyte-mediated end organ injury. to compare the initial and 4-h post-injury lymphocyte subsets and cytokine levels between patients with minor and major injury. we found that major injury is associated with a drop in absolute cd4 cell count (but not in the cd8 cells), a rise in absolute b-cell count (but not in the nk-cells or monocytes), and a rise in il-6 (but not in the il-1, il-5, il-10, tnf-a). we found evidence of a measurable early inflammatory response to trauma, using cytokine levels and lymphocyte subset counts. leukocytosis is associated with hemorrhage volume and early neurologic deterioration after intracerebral hemorrhage (ich). 
Can transcranial direct current stimulation be useful in differentiating unresponsive wakefulness syndrome from minimally conscious state patients? [SEP] to assess the efficacy of transcranial direct current stimulation (tdcs) on improving consciousness in patients with persistent unresponsive wakefulness syndrome (uws) (previously termed persistent vegetative state [pvs]) or in a minimally conscious state (mcs). the aim of this study is to investigate the mechanisms underlying the differences in spontaneous electroencephalography (eeg) between patients in vegetative/unresponsive wakefulness syndrome, minimally conscious state, emergence of the minimally conscious state and age-matched healthy control subjects. transcranial direct current stimulation (tdcs) is a non-invasive technique recently employed in disorders of consciousness, and determining a transitory recovery of signs of consciousness in almost half of minimally conscious state (mcs) patients. unresponsive wakefulness syndrome is a disorder of consciousness wherein a patient is awake, but completely non-responsive at the bedside. left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex anodal transcranial direct current stimulation (tdcs) was applied in a group of patients with disorders of consciousness to determine the effects of modulation of spontaneous oscillatory brain activity. 12 patients in an unresponsive wakefulness syndrome (uws) and 12 in a minimally conscious state (mcs) underwent 2-weeks active and 2-weeks sham tdcs. transcranial magnetic stimulation (tms) represents a useful complementary approach in the study of sleep pathophysiology. transcranial direct current stimulation (tdcs) has been reported to be a promising technique for consciousness improvement for patients with disorders of consciousness (doc). evaluation of consciousness needs to be supported by the evidence of brain activation during external stimulation in patients with unresponsive wakefulness syndrome (uws). transcranial direct current stimulation (tdcs) over the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (ldlpfc) was reported to promote the recovery of signs of consciousness in some patients in a minimally conscious state (mcs), but its electrophysiological effects on brain activity remain poorly understood. 
Aromatase inhibitor-related musculoskeletal symptoms: is preventing osteoporosis the key to eliminating these symptoms? [SEP] musculoskeletal symptoms are the most common adverse effects of aromatase inhibitors and often result in therapy discontinuation. to determine the effect of acupuncture in reducing aromatase inhibitor-related joint pain. to evaluate the effect of concurrent prescription antiarthralgia pharmacotherapy on persistence to aromatase inhibitor therapy in treatment-naïve postmenopausal women. aromatase inhibitor use for postmenopausal hormone-sensitive breast cancer patients often results in drug-induced osteoarthropathy, while its accurate mechanism has not been clarified. we investigated the implication of female hormones and several cytokines in osteoarthropathy complicated with aromatase inhibitor treatment, and the efficacy of vitamin e on the severity of osteoarthropathy, in breast cancer patients. for women with breast cancer, bone mineral density screening is recommended with long-term aromatase inhibitor use because of the risk of osteoporosis due to estrogen deficiency. for women with breast cancer, bone mineral density screening is recommended with long-term aromatase inhibitor use because of the risk of osteoporosis due to estrogen deficiency. menopausal hormone decline contributes significantly to the risk of osteoporosis. for women with breast cancer, bone mineral density screening is recommended with long-term aromatase inhibitor use because of risk of osteoporosis due to estrogen deficiency. for women with breast cancer, bone mineral density screening is recommended with long-term aromatase inhibitor use because of risk of osteoporosis due to estrogen deficiency. 
Could different follow-up modalities play a role in the diagnosis of asymptomatic endometrial cancer relapses? [SEP] periodic follow-up after primary treatment for breast cancer is a common procedure for the early detection of recurrent disease in the asymptomatic state. we investigated which percentage of recurrences is detected during follow-up, which diagnostic tools are helpful to detect recurrent disease and which factors are of prognostic significance once recurrent disease has been established in patients treated for cervical cancer stage ib-iva. we investigated which percentage of recurrences is detected during follow-up, which diagnostic tools are helpful to detect recurrent disease and which factors are of prognostic significance once recurrent disease has been established in patients treated for cervical cancer stage ib-iva. we conducted a retrospective review of patients who developed recurrence after surgical treatment, with or without adjuvant therapy, for locoregional endometrial carcinoma. patients who develop asymptomatic recurrences of their endometrial carcinoma do not seem to have a better prognosis than those who present with symptomatic recurrences. to evaluate the relationship between the way recurrence was detected and survival after treatment for endometrial cancer. early stage endometrial cancer carries a low risk of recurrence. to determine current practice and to assess the value of routine follow-up procedures for endometrial cancer surveillance. follow-up after endometrial cancer treatment varies in italy. in this retrospective study, women with asymptomatic recurrence have shown a better clinical outcome compared with those with symptomatic relapse. 
Locoregional opening of the rodent blood-brain barrier for paclitaxel using Nd:YAG laser-induced thermo therapy: a new concept of adjuvant glioma therapy? [SEP] under the hypothesis that local delivery of chemotherapeutic agents into the brain parenchyma induce opening of the blood-brain barrier (bbb), we evaluated the opening of bbb after convection-enhanced delivery of nimustine hydrochloride into the brain parenchyma. nd:yag laser-induced thermo therapy (litt) of rat brains is associated with blood-brain barrier (bbb) permeability changes. we address the question of whether litt-induced locoregional disruption of the bbb could possibly allow a locoregional passage of chemotherapeutic agents into brain tissue to treat malignant glioma. animals were perfused with paclitaxel, and high-pressure liquid chromatography (hplc) was employed to analyze the content of paclitaxel in brain and plasma samples. the aim of this study was to find out the effect of lfu irradiation on blood-tumor barrier (btb) permeability in rat c6 glioma model and the possible mechanism. photon activation therapy is a binary system being investigated as a potential therapeutic modality to improve the treatment of malignancies, particularly the highly lethal and malignant brain tumor, glioblastoma multiforme. to demonstrate the feasibility of using focused ultrasound to enhance delivery of 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (bcnu) to glioblastomas in rats with induced tumors and determine if such an approach increases treatment efficacy. in animals with the avian sarcoma virus-induced glioma, osmotic blood-brain barrier modification resulted in significantly increased delivery of methotrexate to the tumor-bearing hemisphere (including the tumor, the brain around the tumor, and the brain distant to the tumor), compared to the nonmodified hemisphere or to control animals. these studies provide evidence that the blood-brain barrier exists in tumors and is a factor in drug delivery to tumors. to evaluate the efficacy of pulsed low-dose radiation therapy (plrt) combined with temozolomide (tmz) as a novel treatment approach for radioresistant glioblastoma multiforme (gbm) in a murine model. 
Preoperative tracheobronchoscopy in newborns with esophageal atresia: does it matter? [SEP] esophageal atresia with or without a tracheo-esophageal fistula is a challenging anomaly in neonates. to determine if birth-weight (bw) influences primary surgical management of newborns undergoing operation for esophageal atresia and tracheo-esophageal fistula (ea-tef). very low birth weight infants are less likely to achieve a definitive primary anastomosis during emergent repair of esophageal atresia, and have a higher mortality. we performed a brief bronchoscopy in 42 newborn infants with esophageal atresia and tracheoesophageal fistula (tef). the procedure appeared to be safe and beneficial, and should be considered for all infants with esophageal atresia and tef. a neonate with vacterl association including tricuspid atresia was scheduled for thoracoscopic esophageal atresia with tracheoesophageal fistula (ea/tef) repair and laparoscopic gastrostomy tube placement. we present the anesthetic management of a neonate with unpalliated tricuspid atresia who underwent thoracoscopic tracheoesophageal fistula repair. the intraoperative management of a neonate with esophageal atresia (ea) and distal tracheoesophageal fistula (tef) is a true anesthetic challenge. an infant with esophageal atresia (ea) had delayed diagnosis of proximal tracheoesophageal fistula (tef) and severe tracheomalacia. we recommend bronchoscopy via laryngeal mask or rigid bronchoscopy to rule out associated tef in infants diagnosed with esophageal atresia, as flexible bronchoscopy via endotracheal tube may not provide complete visualization of the trachea. 
Is horizontal semicircular canal ocular reflex influenced by otolith organs input? [SEP] otolith organs input influences the axis of horizontal semicircular canal ocular reflex; therefore, the plane of compensatory eye movements induced by the horizontal canal stimulation is not always parallel to the canal. to clarify whether horizontal canal ocular reflex is influenced by otolith organs input. the torsional vestibulo-ocular reflex (tvor), which is mainly driven by input from the semicircular canals, has been shown to be augmented by otolith input: its gain is increased in the upright as compared to the supine head orientation. we tested whether otolith input in right/left ear down and upside-down orientation also contributes to the tvor. in contrast to current models of canal-otolith interaction, which predict equal responses in upright and upside-down orientations, we found that the tvor in the upside-down position is significantly decreased, possibly due to an additive interaction of canal and otolith signals. to study presumed efferent-mediated responses, we determined if afferents responded to head rotations that stimulated semicircular canals other than the organ being innervated. the natural stimulus for the semicircular canals is rotation of the head, which also might stimulate the otolith organs. the aim of this study was to examine the interaction of signals from the semicircular canals and the otolith organs during off-vertical axis rotation (ovar). off vertical axis rotation (ovar) is a stimulus that can be used to assess the otolith-ocular reflex. the normal horizontal vestibulo-ocular reflex (hvor) is largely generated by simultaneous stimulation of the two horizontal semicircular canals (hsccs). 
Is perforation of the appendix a risk factor for tubal infertility and ectopic pregnancy? [SEP] to critically assess the evidence that appendiceal perforation is a risk factor for subsequent tubal infertility or ectopic pregnancy. review of the literature yielded estimates of the risk of adverse fertility outcomes ranging from 1.6 (95% confidence interval [ci] 1.1 to 2.5) for ectopic pregnancy after an appendectomy to 4.8 (95% ci 1.5 to 14.9) for tubal infertility from perforation of the appendix. the methodologic weaknesses of the studies do not permit acceptance of increased risk of tubal pregnancy or infertility as a consequence of perforation of the appendix, so a causal relationship cannot be supported by the data currently available. this report describes a case of perforated appendicitis and ectopic pregnancy following in-vitro fertilization (ivf) and embryo transfer. ruptured appendicitis has been implicated in causing scarring, which can lead to infertility and/or ectopic pregnancy. to assess the degree of association and the quality of evidence supporting the relation among appendectomy, female fertility outcomes, and ectopic pregnancy. appendectomy is significantly associated with an increased risk of ectopic pregnancy but not significantly associated with future infertility in women. the cases reported here suggest the possibility that an ectopic pregnancy can produce an inflammatory reaction of the appendix. ectopic pregnancy as an etiological stimulus for acute appendicitis is discussed. appendicitis in pregnancy is especially dangerous because perforation of the appendix increases the likelihood of maternal and fetal morbidity significantly. 
Serovar specific immunity to Neisseria gonorrhoeae: does it exist? [SEP] the serovars of neisseria gonorrhoeae that are predominant in a community change over time, a phenomenon that may be due to the development of immunity to repeat infection with the same serovar. this study evaluated the epidemiologic evidence for serovar-specific immunity to n. gonorrhoeae. etiology, transmission and protection: neisseria gonorrhoeae (the gonococcus) is the etiological agent for the strictly human sexually transmitted disease gonorrhea. neisseria gonorrhoeae is the etiological agent of gonorrhoea, which is a sexually transmitted disease widespread throughout the world. n. gonorrhoeae does not improve immune response in patients with reinfection, suggesting that gonococcus displays several mechanisms to evade immune response and survive in the host. an assay of bactericidial antibody has been developed to study the host response to infection with neisseria gonorrhoeae. this test for antibody was performed on the sera of women who were exposed to n. gonorrhoeae but who did not become infected, of patients with various types of genital infection with n. gonorrhoeae, and of a small number of individuals with no history of gonorrhea. neisseria gonorrhoeae is an exclusive human pathogen that causes the sexually transmitted disease, gonorrhea. the sexually transmitted infection gonorrhoea is on the rise worldwide and an increased understanding of the mechanisms of colonization and pathogenesis of neisseria gonorrhoeae is required to aid development of new treatment and prevention strategies. these data indicate that the gonococcal nhba contributes to several aspects of the colonization and survival of n. gonorrhoeae and may be a target for new antimicrobial or vaccines. 
May student examiners be reasonable substitute examiners for faculty in an undergraduate OSCE on medical emergencies? [SEP] the aim of this study is to assess the reliability of student tutors as osce examiners and their acceptance by their peers. to determine the feasibility and acceptability of a student-run mock osce (mosce) as a learning experience for medical students of all 4 years. the aim of this work is to evaluate the peer-assisted teaching student tutors as examiners in an orthopedic surgery osce station. this study describes the design and implementation of a peer-run mock osce exam for medical students, and the feasibility, acceptability and perceived impact of this educational initiative. to help reduce pressure on faculty staff, medical students have been used as raters in objective structured clinical examinations (osces). the objectives of this study were: (i) to compare expert faculty examiner (fe) and student-examiner (se) assessment of students' (candidates') performances on a formative osce; (ii) to assess se feedback provided to candidates, and (iii) to seek opinion regarding acceptability from all participants. student-examiners appear to be a viable alternative to fes in a formative osce in terms of their ability to both complete checklists and provide feedback. objective structured clinical examination (osce) is a key part of medical student assessment. to compare the effect of student examiners (se) to that of faculty examiners (fe) on examinee performance in an osce as well as on post-assessment evaluation in the area of emergency medicine management. it seems quite admissible and justified to encourage medical students to officiate as examiners in undergraduate emergency medicine osce formative testing, but not necessarily in summative assessment evaluations. 
Are endothelial cell patterns of astrocytomas indicative of grade? [SEP] we evaluated the vascular pattern of 17 astrocytoma surgical specimens (seven from children and 10 from adults), and four normal brains obtained at autopsy, utilizing antibody to glial fibrillary acidic protein (gfap) and von willebrand factor (vwf) utilizing confocal microscopy. diffuse, low grade astrocytoma (three cases) showed a staining pattern similar to control tissue; intermediate grade (one case), anaplastic astrocytoma (three cases) and gliobastoma multiforme (six cases) showed an increased vessel density with multiple small vessels (glomeruloid clusters), some with prominent intimal hyperplasia, loss of vessel wall integrity, and with numerous vwf-positive single cells/microvessels within the tumor substance. evaluation of astrocytomas utilizing antibody to vwf and confocal microscopy aids in the grading of these neoplasms. to evaluate the relationship between microvascular density and the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) and kit as possible markers of angiogenic stimulus in astrocytic tumors and correlate it with histopathological grading. bfgf and vegf expression levels in neoplastic astrocytes and endothelia were significantly different in various grades of astrocytoma. astrocytoma vasculature patterns differ according to histological grade of malignancy with glioblastoma multiforme (who grade iv) showing most extensive endothelial proliferation. in particular, tumor vascularity has known importance in astrocytomas, in which endothelial proliferation is a criterion for anaplasia in many grading schemes. endothelial cell proliferation is a significant biological feature of malignant astrocytomas. distinctive histological features permit astrocytomas to be graded into levels of anaplasia, and these histological grades correlate with biological behavior and patient prognosis. because the expression of this family of receptor proteins is greater in higher-grade tumors, a graded series of both reactive and neoplastic astrocytic lesions in humans was evaluated. 
Do healthier lifestyles lead to less utilization of healthcare resources? [SEP] health care is a less important determinant of health than behaviour and the environment but paradoxically, spending on health in most countries suggests the opposite. the social environment influences health outcomes for older adults and could be an important target for interventions to reduce costly medical care. although smoking, alcohol consumption, physical inactivity and poor diet are associated with poorer health that may lead a person to consult a general practitioner (gp), previous work has shown that unhealthy lifestyles cluster among low socioeconomic groups who are less likely to seek primary healthcare. this study investigated patterns of gp consultations in relation to the clustering of unhealthy lifestyles among a large sample of adults aged 45 years and older in new south wales, australia. after adjustment, participants scoring 7 unhealthy lifestyles were 24% more likely than persons scoring 0 unhealthy lifestyles not to have attended any gp consultation in the 12-month time period. among those who attended at least one consultation, those with 7 unhealthy lifestyles reported 7% fewer consultations than persons with 0 unhealthy lifestyles. physical activity and healthcare utilization has negative association. compared to sedentary leisure time the odds ratio for health care utilization decreased with increasing level of lpta; physically active 0.89 (95 % ci: 0.81-0.96), for average exercise 0.74 (0.67-0.81) and for vigorous exercise 0.65 (0.60-0.72). while the mediation analysis illustrated that the indirect effects were strong (and in the expected order so that higher levels of ltpa were more negatively associated with poor health) and highly significant, the direct effects suggested that higher levels of physical activity were more positively associated with healthcare utilization than lower levels. these results suggest that even though higher physical activity in total decreases the healthcare utilization, parts of the association that is not mediated through srh actually increase healthcare utilization. 
Antral follicle assessment as a tool for predicting outcome in IVF--is it a better predictor than age and FSH? [SEP] ultrasound follicular count (antral follicle count, afc) is a necessary tool for measuring ovarian reserve, whereby the estimated number of follicles responsive to fsh can predict the number of oocytes retrieved in ivf cycles and may be the basis for individualized ovarian stimulation therapy. does an increased fsh dose result in higher cumulative live birth rates in women with a predicted poor ovarian response, apparent from a low antral follicle count (afc), scheduled for ivf or icsi? to assess the value of antral follicle count (afc) and other parameters as predictors of pregnancy in in vitro fertilization (ivf). this study was designed to assess the capability of ovarian reserve markers, including baseline fsh levels, baseline anti-müllerian hormone (amh) levels, and antral follicle count (afc), as predictors of live births during ivf cycles, especially for infertile couples with advanced maternal age and/or male factors. to investigate whether anti-müllerian hormone (amh) is better than antral follicle count (afc) in predicting oocyte yield and embryo quality after controlled ovarian hyperstimulation for in vitro fertilization (ivf). basal follicle-stimulating hormone (fsh) and age are predictors of successful outcome in in vitro fertilization (ivf). the purpose of this study was to determine which indicator of ovarian reserve--basal (day 3) fsh or the ccct--is the better predictor of ivf success in the critical age group of women over the age of 40. to provide recommendations for the standardized use of the antral follicle count (afc) which is used to predict ovarian response to gonadotrophin stimulation during assisted reproductive technology treatment. literature concerning the physiology and measurement of ovarian antral follicles was reviewed, clinical and technical considerations regarding antral follicle measurement were discussed, and an operational definition of afc was developed. this test appears to be better than basal follicle-stimulating hormone (fsh) as a prognostic measure of ovarian reserve. 
Do all ethnic groups in New Zealand exhibit socio-economic mortality gradients? [SEP] first, to establish whether a deprivation gradient in all-cause mortality exists for all ethnic groups within new zealand; second, if such gradients do exist, whether their absolute slopes are the same; and third, if such gradients exist, what impact the unequal deprivation distributions of the different ethnic groups have on the observed ethnic inequalities in life expectancy at birth. to explore the contributions of socio-economic and demographic factors to ethnic disparity among older adult (65+) all cause and cause-specific mortality differentials among māori, pacific, asians and non-māori, non-pacific non-asian (nmnpna) in new zealand. the results demonstrate that clear ethnic mortality gradients persist into old age and the mortality level of most groups was influenced by varying distribution of socio-economic factors. this paper explores whether inequalities in mortality by education were greater, and increased more, in new zealand than in nordic countries (denmark, finland, norway), and determines the contribution of cvd to these differences and trends. mortality inequalities in new zealand were at the high end of the nordic range when standardised by age only, but were mid-range when also standardised by ethnicity. we hypothesised that ethnic and socio-economic inequality in mortality might vary by region in new zealand. in this paper, we determine trends in colorectal cancer mortality by ethnicity and socio-economic position in new zealand. to examine all-cause mortality differentials among new zealand's (nz) immigrant population. our study intends to answer two questions: first, do immigrants have a mortality advantage relative to their nz-born counterparts of the same ethnicity? european/other and asian immigrants have a mortality advantage relative to their nz-born counterparts, which declines as length of residence increases. 
Can normal knee kinematics be restored with unicompartmental knee replacement? [SEP] unicompartmental replacement can be an alternative to tibial osteotomy in younger, active patients with unicompartmental knee disease. therefore, it was hypothesized that the knee kinematics after unicompartmental replacement may also be unchanged. to test this hypothesis, knee kinematics and quadriceps tension were recorded before and after replacement with a unicompartmental design and then with a tricompartmental design. in this in vitro cadaver study, the tricompartmental replacement significantly changed knee kinematics while the unicompartmental replacement preserved normal knee kinematics. it is common to assert that restoration of normal knee kinematics is essential for the best functional result after knee arthroplasty. previous studies using the progression of the geometric centre axis have suggested that kinematics after unicompartmental arthroplasty is markedly different from the normal. the clinical relevance is that medial unicompartmental arthroplasty cannot restore the motion of the knee to normal in the living knee. function and kinematics following unicondylar knee arthroplasty (uka) have been reported to be close to the native knee. an aim of using oxford medial unicompartmental knee replacement (ukr) implants is to accurately restore normal ligament tension in the knee, thereby restoring normal kinematics. unicompartmental knee replacement has become a surgical alternative for treating isolated medial or lateral osteoarthritis of the knee or avascular necrosis of the femoral condyls. 
Are serum leptin levels a prognostic factor in advanced lung cancer? [SEP] leptin phenotype has been suggested to be a possible biomarker for the diagnosis and prognosis of different neoplasms. this study is aimed at identifying leptin as a prognostic factor in colorectal cancer (crc). the aim of this study was to evaluate the expression and clinical significance of leptin in lung cancer. serum leptin levels in lung cancer patients were significantly higher compared to those in controls and leptin expression in lung cancer tissue was markedly increased than that in normal lung tissue (both p<0.050). determination of leptin levels might provide useful predictive information for lung cancer. the aim of the present study was to evaluate pre-treatment concentrations of leptin in patients with advanced lung cancer and to investigate possible associations between their levels and clinicopathological variables, response to therapy and overall survival. the serum leptin levels at diagnosis were significantly lower in lung cancer patients than those in control subjects (4.75±4.91 ng/ml, 9.67±8.02 ng/ml; p<0.001). nevertheless, we demonstrated a significant correlation between serum leptin levels and bmi in lung cancer patients (correlation coefficient: 0.303; p>0.010). our results showed that the serum leptin level has no prognostic indications in advanced lung cancer patients. leptin is decreased in lung cancer, and there is lack of correlation with tumour‑related factors including prognosis. 
Is fetal gender associated with emergency department visits for asthma during pregnancy? [SEP] to investigate if fetal gender (1) affects the risk of having an emergency department (ed) visit for asthma; and (2) is associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes among women who had at least one visit to the ed for asthma during pregnancy. we performed a multivariable analysis using logistic regression to model the risk of having an ed visit for asthma, with fetal gender being one of the predictors. while having an ed visit for asthma was positively associated with teenage pregnancy, low income, and presence of pregnancy-induced hypertension, it was not associated with fetal gender (or 1.01, 95% ci 0.85-1.19). fetal gender was not a significant predictor of adverse pregnancy outcomes among women who had an asthma ed visit during pregnancy. fetal gender does not affect the risk of having an ed visit for asthma during pregnancy, and it is not associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes among women who had an asthma-related ed during pregnancy. we sought to determine if pregnancy status affected the treatment of women presenting to a tertiary emergency department for care of acute asthma exacerbations. recent studies have found that asthmatic women pregnant with a female fetus reported more symptoms and had slightly lower lung function than women pregnant with a male fetus. in order to further investigate this association, we studied the effect of fetal sex on maternal asthma exacerbations and the use of asthma medications during pregnancy. women pregnant with a female fetus were compared to women with a male fetus with respect to their rate of asthma exacerbation, their weekly doses of inhaled short-acting beta(2)-agonists (saba), and their daily dose of inhaled corticosteroids (ics) during pregnancy. based on the results, we conclude that fetal gender is unlikely to affect maternal asthma during pregnancy to the point where acute care and medications are more often required among women pregnant with a female fetus. 
Stretch-sensitive KCNQ1 mutation A link between genetic and environmental factors in the pathogenesis of atrial fibrillation? [SEP] genetic factors play an important role in the pathogenesis of atrial flutter (af). the purpose of this study was to investigate the proarrhythmic effect of v241f kcnq1 mutation in human atrium using the electrophysiological model of human atrium. recently, many studies have investigated the relationship between human atrial fibrillation and the single nucleotide polymorphism (snp) of rs1805127 (a>g) in kcne1 gene, but the results were still inconsistent and inconclusive. mutations in transmembrane domains of the kcnq1 subunit of the i(ks) potassium channel have been associated with familial atrial fibrillation. we have investigated mechanisms by which the s1 domain s140g kcnq1 mutation influences atrial arrhythmia risk and, additionally, whether it can affect ventricular electrophysiology. we intended to investigate, whether such variants may also modulate atrial repolarization and predispose to af. this study suggests that atrial fibrillatory rate obtained from the surface ecg is at least in part determined by kcne1 (s38g) genotype, implying that this variant exerts functional effects on atrial electrophysiology. recent studies suggest that genetic mutation of the slow delayed rectifier potassium channel (i(ks)) may underlie atrial fibrillation (af). we recently reported that an s140g mutation in human kcnq1, an alpha subunit of potassium channels, was involved in the pathogenesis of familial atrial fibrillation (af), but it is not clear whether the mutation is associated with other cardiac arrhythmias. the purpose of this study was to further explore the association of the kcnq1 s140g mutation with cardiac arrhythmias. 
Are adult body circumferences associated with height? [SEP] recent reports on body regional mass scalings to height have advanced understanding differences in adult heights. these studies resulted in conjectures on how regional lengths and circumferences may scale to height. in this study, the objective was to determine whether childhood height is related to adult adiposity and whether the association is independent of childhood levels of bmi and triceps skinfold thickness. the longitudinal relations of childhood height to relative weight and skinfold (sum of subscapular and triceps) thicknesses in adulthood were examined in a larger sample (n = 1055) of 2- to 8-year-olds who were followed for an average of 18 years. adult height in individuals has been linked to health and nutrition in childhood, and to health outcomes in later life. both birth length and birth weight are associated with height in adulthood and may have independent contributions to adult body size, but the effects of gestational age on these associations have not been fully evaluated. length and weight at birth each contributed independently to adult stature and body weight. in adults the bmi correlates with sh/height. the mean cross-sectional areas of the legs of adults are correlated positively with upper body masses and negatively with leg lengths. height not only was associated with bmi but also showed similar correlations with the skinfold sum and with percentage body fat; furthermore, the magnitudes of these associations decreased with age. 
Would corrected QT dispersion predict left ventricular hypertrophy in hypertensive patients? [SEP] we explored whether qt corrected dispersion (qtcd) can identify left ventricular hypertrophy (lvh) in hypertensives. hypertensive patients with left ventricular hypertrophy (lvh) have increased qt dispersion, which is considered an early indicator of end-organ damage and a non-invasive marker of risk for clinically important ventricular arrhythmias and cardiac mortality. at baseline, hypertensive patients showed qt dispersion (56.9 +/- 6.4 vs. 31.7 +/- 8.4 ms, p < 0.001) and qtc dispersion (58.3 +/- 6.2 vs. 33.2 +/- 7.8 ms, p < 0.001) significantly higher than control subjects. there have been reports demonstrating an association between increased qt dispersion and ventricular arrhythmia in a variety of pathological cardiac conditions, including left ventricular hypertrophy. right ventricular hypertrophy is associated with an increase in qtc dispersion. aim of this study was to investigate qt dispersion, ventricular arrhythmias, and left ventricular mass index in elderly hypertensive and normotensive patients. hypertensive patients had greater left ventricular mass index (p = .006) and higher qtc dispersion (p = .004) than controls. this study evaluated the correlation of left ventricular hypertrophy and qt dispersion in patients with systemic hypertension. qt dispersion, determined using the standard electrocardiogram, showed an increase as left ventricular mass determined by echocardiography increased in hypertensive patients. the heart rate-corrected qt dispersion (67 +/- 37 versus 53 +/- 21 milliseconds, p < .05) and qt apex dispersion (55 +/- 22 versus 44 +/- 16 milliseconds, p < .01) were significantly longer in the patients with left ventricular hypertrophy than in those without hypertrophy. 
Traumatic aortic injury: does the anatomy of the aortic arch influence aortic trauma severity? [SEP] we investigate whether the anatomy of the aortic arch influences the severity of aortic injury. aortic injury was assessed in accordance with the recommendations of the society of vascular surgery. the mean aortic arch index and mean aortic arch angle were 6.8 cm and 58.3°, respectively, in the type i injury group; 4.4 cm and 45.9° in the type iii group; 3.3 cm and 37° in the type iv group. a multivariate analysis confirmed that the aortic arch angle was significantly associated with the occurrence of type iii damage (or 1.5; 95% ci 1.03-2.2). the severity of tai is influenced by the sharpness of the aortic arch. there is an inverse relationship between the severity of aortic injury and the aortic arch index. rupture of the aortic isthmus is the most common presentation; however, injury can occur more proximally in the arch vessels or the aortic root. to assess aortic arch morphology and aortic length in patients with dissection, traumatic injury, and aneurysm undergoing tevar, and to identify characteristics specific to different pathologies. this was a retrospective analysis of the aortic arch morphology and aortic length of dissection, traumatic injury, and aneurysmal patients. arch anatomy has significant morphologic differences when comparing aortic pathologies. 
Inpatient versus outpatient management of neutropenic fever in gynecologic oncology patients: is risk stratification useful? [SEP] this study aimed to evaluate the utility of risk stratification of gynecologic oncology patients with neutropenic fever (nf). risk stratification of patients with febrile neutropenia (fn) into those at "high risk" and "low risk" of developing complications helps in making decisions regarding optimal treatment, such as whether to treat with oral or intravenous antibiotics, whether to treat as inpatient or outpatient and how long to treat. we reviewed the course and outcome of gynecologic oncology patients with neutropenic fever (nf), and identified low-risk patients who might be candidates for outpatient management. fever and neutropenia commonly complicated cytotoxic cancer therapy. the objective of our study was to assess guideline adherence and clinical outcomes associated with the management of high- and low-risk febrile neutropenia patients presenting to the emergency department. fever in neutropenic cancer patients is often due to the development of an infection. although this treatment strategy has evolved from experience in high-risk patients with hematological malignancies, in whom bacterial infection can result in substantial morbidity and mortality, it has been adopted for all patients with febrile neutropenia, largely because of the inability of clinicians to reliably distinguish between patients who are at high risk for developing such morbidity/mortality and those who are not. the development of risk-assessment models has facilitated the recognition of high-, moderate-, and low-risk subgroups among febrile neutropenic patients and allows the administration of outpatient antibiotic therapy to the moderate- and low-risk groups, with the same degree of efficacy and safety as hospital-based therapy. strategies for the management of chemotherapy-induced febrile neutropenia (fn), including assessment tools for determining which patients are at low risk for fn complications and can be treated in the outpatient setting, are discussed. this study evaluated the correlation between the risk of febrile neutropenia (fn) estimated by physicians and the risk of severe neutropenia or fn predicted by a validated multivariate model in patients with nonmyeloid malignancies receiving chemotherapy. 
Should chest wall irradiation be included after mastectomy and negative node breast cancer? [SEP] following mastectomy, patients aged 35 to 76 years with operable breast cancer underwent postoperative irradiation of the chest wall and regional lymph nodes. in correlation with the nodal status in the era of modern radiotherapy, the chest wall recurrence (cwr) rate was investigated in pt1-2n0-1 breast cancer patients after a mastectomy without post-mastectomy radiotherapy (pmrt). 1) should breast irradiation be given to women with early stage invasive breast cancer (stage i and ii) following breast conservation surgery (lumpectomy with clear resection margins and axillary dissection)? to make recommendations about the use of breast irradiation in women with early stage invasive breast cancer following breast conservation surgery. to evaluate the survival impact of omission of radiotherapy after breast-conserving surgery and the changes with time. postmastectomy chest wall irradiation is recommended for high-risk breast cancer patients, such as those with ≥4 positive nodes. adjuvant chest wall irradiation after mastectomy remains a core and highly effective element in the loco-regional management of early breast cancer. following radical mastectomy, no residual breast parenchyma remains, and thus radiation therapy of the entire chest wall may represent overtreatment in the patients, especially those without lymph node metastasis (n0). we therefore implemented partial chest wall radiation therapy for patients with n0 breast cancer and positive and/or close margins after mastectomy. partial chest wall radiation therapy may offer recurrence- and disease-free survival without local recurrence in n0 mastectomy patients with positive/close surgical margins. 
Can bisphosphonate treatment be stopped in a growing child with skeletal fragility? [SEP] bisphosphonates are employed with increasing frequency in various pediatric disorders, mainly associated with osteoporosis. after cessation of bisphosphonate treatment in children, skeletal radiologic changes have been documented including dense metaphyseal lines of the long bones and "bone in bone" appearance of the vertebrae. although bisphosphonate use in the pediatric population was pioneered for compassionate use in the treatment of osteogenesis imperfecta, they are being increasingly used for the treatment and prevention of bone loss in children at risk of hyperresorptive bone loss. these studies suggest that bisphosphonate administration does not adversely affect skeletal growth. the bmd at both sites decreased precipitously within 24 months of stopping treatment, raising the question as to whether bisphosphonates can be stopped in a growing child with skeletal fragility. this case has led us to consider whether bisphosphonate therapy can be discontinued in a child with fragility fractures before his/her linear growth has ceased? pediatric patients are being treated with bisphosphonates for low bone mineral density. in the present review we discuss the pharmacological aspects of bisphosphonates and related bone pathophysiology, review the pediatric literature on the role of bisphosphonates in childhood diseases and our experience with these drugs. bisphosphonates provide the pediatrician with an opportunity to treat mineral and bone disorders of childhood which until recently did not have satisfactory therapy, at the same time, being aware of the theoretical concerns on microdamage accumulation in bone, bone quality and teratogenic potential of these drugs. in this review, the authors address the role of and experience with bisphosphonate therapy in disorders of childhood. 
Regional anesthesia as compared with general anesthesia for surgery in geriatric patients with hip fracture: does it decrease morbidity, mortality, and health care costs? [SEP] we hypothesized that total hip arthroplasty with regional anesthesia is associated with less postoperative morbidity and mortality than total hip arthroplasty with general anesthesia. compared with general anesthesia, regional anesthesia for total hip arthroplasty was associated with a reduction in deep surgical site infection rates, hospital length of stay, and rates of postoperative cardiovascular and pulmonary complications. hip fracture surgery is a common procedure, and the geriatric population with its multiple comorbid conditions is at most at risk of developing anesthesia-related complications. the aim of the present study was to assess the differences in thirty-day morbidity and mortality for patients undergoing hip fracture surgery with spinal versus general anaesthesia. patients who underwent hip fracture surgery with general anaesthesia had a higher risk of thirty-day complications as compared to patients who underwent hip fracture repair with spinal anaesthesia. surgeons should consider using spinal anaesthesia for hip fracture surgery. at our institution, a regional anesthesia program was instituted for patients undergoing surgery for hip fracture. the average cost of hospitalization in patients who received surgery for hip fracture was no different between patients who receive regional or general anesthesia ($16,789 + 631 vs $16,815 + 643, respectively, p = 0.9557). there is no difference in postoperative morbidity, rates of rehospitalization, in-patient mortality or hospitalization costs in geriatric patients undergoing regional or general anesthesia for repair of hip fracture. we conclude that there are marginal advantages for regional anaesthesia compared to general anaesthesia for hip fracture patients in terms of early mortality and risk of deep vein thrombosis. 
Does blood pressure change in treated hypertensive patients depending on whether it is measured by a physician or a nurse? [SEP] to determine whether there are differences between blood pressure (bp) measured by the nurse (nbp), bp measured by the physician (pbp) and self-measured bp in treated hypertensive patients and, if found, to evaluate their clinical importance. the difference between physician-systolic bp and nurse-systolic bp was 5.16 mmhg (95% ci 2.62-7.7; p<0.001). systolic bp measured by the nurse in treated hypertensive patients is significantly lower than the readings obtained by the physician, and are almost identical to ambulatory bp monitoring. blood pressure determination by the nurse is desirable not only for diagnosis but also to evaluate the level of control of blood pressure during the follow-up of treated hypertensive patients. self-measurement of blood pressure is increasingly used in clinical practice, but how it affects the treatment of hypertension requires further study. to compare use of blood pressure (bp) measurements taken in physicians' offices and at home in the treatment of patients with hypertension. to investigate whether blood pressure (bp) control in primary care could be improved by nurses taking responsibility for managing hypertensive patients. nurses could take more responsibility for managing hypertensive patients. a study was undertaken to answer the question: "for those ambulatory patients who attend the emergency department, does routinely measuring their blood pressure and providing written information about hypertension and advising them to see their general practitioner if indicated, compared with no measurement or advice, lead to subsequent interventions (drug therapy, life style advice) to control blood pressure?" to assess whether a physician-nurse team model could improve long-term hypertension control rates by active intervention and modification of antihypertensive drug regimens based on home blood pressure (bp) measurements. 
Treadmill testing of children who have spina bifida and are ambulatory: does peak oxygen uptake reflect maximum oxygen uptake? [SEP] the authors looked for differences in the energy expenditure patterns of ambulant children with cerebral palsy and spina bifida. oxygen consumption was measured according to type of cerebral palsy or level of spina bifida lesion, and in healthy children. the rate of oxygen consumption (ml/kg/min) was significantly higher in the children with diplegia than in those with hemiplegia or with spina bifida or the healthy children. with emerging interest in exercise and lifestyle interventions for children and adolescents with spina bifida, there is a need for appropriate measurements in exercise testing. the purpose of this study was to assess both reliability and agreement of maximal and submaximal exercise measures in "normal ambulatory" and "community ambulatory" children and adolescents with spina bifida. maximal exercise outcomes were measured using a graded treadmill test. both maximal and submaximal measures of exercise testing can be used for discriminative purposes in ambulatory children and adolescents with spina bifida. this cross-sectional study investigates deficits and associations in muscle strength, 6-minute walking distance (6mwd), aerobic capacity (vo(2peak)), and physical activity (pa) in independent ambulatory children with lumbosacral spina bifida. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the reliability of a thoracic electrical bioimpedance based device (physioflow) for the determination of cardiac output and stroke volume during exercise at peak oxygen uptake (peak vo(2) in children. )o2peak) in children with spina bifida (sb), considering peak workload (wpeak), peak heart rate, age, sex, anthropometric measures, walking level, physical activity level, and level of the lesion. 
Is the probability of prenatal diagnosis or termination of pregnancy different for fetuses with congenital anomalies conceived following assisted reproductive techniques? [SEP] the aim of this study was to identify whether pregnancies conceived via assisted reproductive technologies were more or less likely to be subjected to an invasive procedure compared with pregnancies that were conceived spontaneously. prenatal diagnostic techniques both enable and force women and couples to make decisions about whether to continue a pregnancy where the fetus has an anomaly. in selected cases, accurate diagnosis of the specific malformation may have an effect on fetal and neonatal prognosis, and on prenatal counseling of the parents. fetal abnormalities are congenital abnormalities identified prenatally. among art births conceived after fresh embryo transfer, infants born to mothers with ovulation disorders had a higher prevalence of nonchromosomal birth defects (arr, 1.53; 95% ci, 1.13-2.06) than those born to mothers without the diagnosis, and use of assisted hatching was associated with birth defects among singleton births (arr, 1.55; 95% ci, 1.10-2.19). the aim of this study was to assess the impact of prenatal diagnosis in portugal in pregnancies with congenital anomalies. children born after assisted reproductive technology, particularly singletons, have been shown to have an increased risk of congenital malformations compared with children born after spontaneous conception. we wished to study whether there has been a change in the past 20 years in the risk of major congenital malformations in children conceived after assisted reproductive technology compared with children spontaneously conceived. the relative risk of being born with a major congenital malformation between all assisted reproductive technology children and children spontaneously conceived remained similar through all four time periods (p = 0.39). when comparing children conceived after assisted reproductive technology and spontaneously conceived, the relative risk of being born with a major congenital malformation did not change during the study period. 
Is there a relationship between complex fractionated atrial electrograms recorded during atrial fibrillation and sinus rhythm fractionation? [SEP] prolonged and fractionated right atrial endocardial electrograms are characteristic of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (idiopathic or associated with sick sinus syndrome). complex fractionated atrial electrograms provide an important tool for identifying arrhythmogenic substrates that can be used to guide catheter ablation for atrial fibrillation (af). this study investigated the extent of fractionation of paced right atrial electrograms in patients with and without paroxysmal atrial flutter (afl) or atrial fibrillation (af). slow conduction through nonuniform anisotropic atrial muscles, represented by fractionated electrograms, may favor the generation of atrial tachyarrhythmias. increased delays in the individual potential of the fractionated atrial electrograms may be related to the development of afl and af. complex fractionated atrial electrograms (cfae) may contain information concerning the electrophysiological substrate of atrial fibrillation (af); therefore they are of interest to guide catheter ablation treatment of af. distinctive electrocardiographic patterns for atrial fibrillation, sinus rhythm and atrial extrasystoles, sinus arrhythmia and atrial flutter were found by analysing the frequency distribution of cycle lengths of the electrocardiogram. complex fractionated atrial electrograms (cfae) have been considered to be helpful during catheter ablation of atrial fibrillation (af). it is unclear whether atrial substrate with complex fractionated electrograms (cfaes) is related to arrhythmogenesis. we hypothesized that the frequency spectra of fibrillatory electrograms may reflect the complexity of activities perpetuating atrial fibrillation (af). 
Does rural or urban residence make a difference to neonatal outcome in premature birth? [SEP] to estimate the incidence of various neonatal morbidities and the associated risk of death in home-cared neonates in rural setting. these findings indicate modest effects of individual- and neighbourhood-level socioeconomic indicators and risk for psychosis by place at birth within a rural environment. therefore, we aim to estimate the independent effect of poverty and urban-rural classification on term infant mortality. similarly, the odds of term infant mortality increased with increasing rurality, from 1.3 (95% ci: 1.2, 1.5) in medium metro counties to 1.7 (95% ci: 1.5, 2.0) in non-core counties compared to large fringe metro counties. high poverty and very rural counties remained associated with term infant mortality independent of individual maternal sociodemographic, health and obstetric factors. the measurement presented in this paper--the average of the percentage of infants of very low birthweight and neonatal deaths occurring among residents of a geographic area at a perinatal center--provides a means of comparing the extent of perinatal regionalization in various geographic areas and time periods. utilising vital statistics birth record data, this study examined the association between neighbourhood deprivation and the risk of a term small-for-gestational-age (sga) birth among non-hispanic whites and non-hispanic blacks in eight geographical areas. this study explores the impact of early motherhood on neonatal mortality, and how this differs between countries and regions. breastfeeding rates are lower among infants living in rural areas of the united states, yet there are limited data on whether hospital breastfeeding support differs between rural and urban areas. examination of 2011 mpinc scores by 7 domains of care revealed that hospitals in less urbanized counties had lower scores than those in metropolitan urbanized counties for feeding of breastfed infants, breastfeeding assistance, staff training, and structural and organizational aspects of care delivery; for 3 of these practices, scores were 10 or more points lower-breastfeeding assistance, structural and organizational aspects of care, and staff training. 
Is the use of cyanoacrylate in intestinal anastomosis a good and reliable alternative? [SEP] to present anastomosis with cyanoacrylate as a cheap, simple, fast, and available technique for anastomosis in urological, vascular, gynecological, and general surgical procedures. cyanoacrylate anastomosis may in the future present a fast, convenient, simple, and affordable option in the treatment of patients requiring anastomosis. microvascular anastomosis using cyanoacrylate adhesive has a reputation among researchers as an alternative to conventional sutures. the aim of this study was to determine the feasibility of intravascular stenting (ivas) as a temporary stent during sutureless microvascular anastomosis with cyanoacrylate adhesive. when compared to sutures, cyanoacrylates were found to be as effective as sutures in low tension lacerations and for the attachment of some full-thickness skin grafts. cyanoacrylates have been advocated as a protective seal in colonic anastomosis to prevent leakage. in order to assess the effects of n-butyl-2-cyanoacrylate on left colonic anastomosis it was compared to the sutured anastomosis in the rat. left colonic anastomosis with n-butyl-2-cyanoacrylate in rats does not improve the healing process; on the contrary, it has a negative influence during the first week. as a consequence, the routine use of n-butyl-2-cyanoacrylate in colonic anastomosis in the clinical situation does not appear to be justifiable. we feel that although it takes marginally longer, iso-amyl cyanoacrylate offers an effective and safe alternative to sutures for muscle recession in strabismus surgery. 
Is trabecular bone related to primary stability of miniscrews? [SEP] the clinical success of orthodontic miniscrews is strictly related to primary stability, which depends on bone viscoelastic properties too. in this study, we evaluated the short time mechanical response of native bone to miniscrews, by a laboratory test based on dynamic loading. to verify whether bone mineral density (bmd) of cortical bone, trabecular bone, and total bone influence the primary stability of orthodontic miniscrews and to verify whether there is a correlation between the measurement of bmd by cone-beam computed tomography (cbct) and central dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (dexa). to compare the primary stability of miniscrews inserted into bone blocks of different bone mineral densities (bmds) with and without cortical bone, and investigate whether some trabecular properties could influence primary stability. miniscrews 1.4 mm in diameter and 6 mm long were inserted into the bone blocks, and primary stability was evaluated by insertion torque (it), mini-implant mobility (ptv), and pull-out strength (ps). intergroup comparison showed lower levels of primary stability when the bmd of trabecular bone was lower and in the absence of cortical bone (p≤.05). the purpose of this study was to evaluate the correlations between bone characteristics, orthodontic miniscrew designs, and primary stability. in this in-vitro experimental study, strong correlations were observed among miniscrew geometry, bone characteristics, and primary stability. miniscrew has been a widely used bone anchor. compared with mini-implant that necessitates osseointegration; mechanical retention is a determining factor for primary stability of miniscrew. 
Is there any evidence of a "July effect" in patients undergoing major cancer surgery? [SEP] the purpose of this study is to test for the july effect in patients undergoing primary total shoulder arthroplasty (tsa). the "july effect" refers to the phenomenon of adverse impacts on patient care arising from the changeover in medical staff that takes place during this month at academic medical centres in north america. there has been some evidence supporting the presence of the july effect, including data from surgical specialties. on the whole, the data confirm an absence of a july effect in patients undergoing major cancer surgery. the "july effect" refers to the assumed increased risk of complications during the months when medical school graduates transition to residency programs. with this study, the authors sought to determine whether evidence exists for the presence of a july effect among total joint arthroplasty (tja) procedures. to determine whether a "july phenomenon" exists for neurosurgical mortality or complications. the belief that july, when resident physicians' training year begins, may be associated with increased risk of patient morbidity and mortality is known as the "july effect." to evaluate for the presence and magnitude of the "july effect" within elective spine surgery. to evaluate the "july effect," as a possible risk factor for perioperative complications in otolaryngology microvascular reconstruction during the transitional period in the academic calendar. 
Is it necessary to insert a nasobiliary drainage tube routinely after endoscopic clearance of the common bile duct in patients with choledocholithiasis-induced cholangitis? [SEP] little is known about whether a routinely inserted endoscopic nasobiliary drainage (enbd) tube improves the clinical course in patients with choledocholithiasis-induced acute cholangitis after clearance of choledocholithiasis. a total of 104 patients with choledocholithiasis-induced acute cholangitis who underwent primary endoscopic treatment were compared according to insertion of an enbd tube (51 in the enbd group and 53 in the no-enbd group). the aim of the present study was to investigate whether it is reasonable to insert an endoscopic nasobiliary drainage (enbd) tube in patients with endoscopic sphincterotomy (est) and repeated clearance of common bile duct (cbd) stones. to determine the efficacy of nasobiliary tube drainage in patients with postcholecystectomy biliary leaks and provide our experience with management of biliary leak using nasobiliary drains. choledocholithiasis is traditionally managed by endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography or t-tube insertion following common bile duct exploration. in the majority of patients undergoing laparoscopic choledochotomy, it is advisable to insert a t-tube into the duct after ductal exploration, as bile sludge or fibrin deposits may obstruct the papilla and cause postoperative cholangitis. based on our experience in open surgery, a limited transverse choledochotomy is preferred, which reduces the possibility of damaging the common bile duct blood supply. because of the hazards associated with cholecystectomy and choledochotomy in acute biliary tract disease, cholecystostomy may be performed as an emergency procedure. the treatment of patients with bile duct stones and acute suppurative cholangitis is emergent biliary decompression either by endoscopic sphincterotomy, nasobiliary drainage, or stent insertion. endoscopic sphincterotomy, in addition to biliary stent insertion, is not required for successful biliary decompression in patients with severe acute cholangitis. 
Storage of vaccines in the community: weak link in the cold chain? [SEP] if temperatures are not maintained, the vaccine may lose its potency and would no longer be effective in fighting disease; this is called the cold storage problem. livestock vaccines (lv) are often stored on-farm, in a refrigerator (fridge), prior to use and little is documented about the storage conditions during this period. since vaccines may lose their potency if transported or stored outside the recommended temperature range (2-8 degrees c), we carried out a study in the darwin area of the northern territory of australia to determine the links in the cold chain, including the extent of vaccine monitoring, and whether the vaccines were being exposed to unsafe temperatures. cold chain for vaccines a is a system for storing and transporting vaccines at very low temperatures to maintain their effectiveness before use. requirement of a cold-chain, however, complicates stockpiling and the logistics of vaccine distribution. the challenge of keeping vaccines cold at health posts given the unreliability of power sources in many low- and middle-income countries and the expense and maintenance requirements of solar refrigerators has motivated the development of passive cold storage devices (pcds), containers that keep vaccines cold without using an active energy source. vaccines currently available across the globe are stored and transported in a continuous cold-chain at 2-8°c or below -20°c. these countries already have several limitations for effective storage, maintenance and distribution of vaccines in a cold-chain and this introduction is expected to further stress this fragile ecosystem. the center of disease control and prevention reports that professionals in clinic setting may not be adequately storing and handling vaccine, leading to insufficient immunity of vaccinated individuals. this article provides information about proper cold chain storage and handling of vaccine and offers resources to begin, or reinforce, proper procedures in the occupational health unit to secure an effective immunization program. 
Is the clinically positive axilla in breast cancer really a contraindication to sentinel lymph node biopsy? [SEP] clinically positive axillary nodes are widely considered a contraindication to sentinel lymph node (sln) biopsy in breast cancer, yet no data support this mandate. here we report the results of sln biopsy in a selected group of breast cancer patients with palpable axillary nodes classified as either moderately or highly suspicious for metastasis. clinical axillary examination in breast cancer is subject to false-positive results, and is by itself insufficient justification for axillary lymph node dissection. standard axillary treatment confirmed the sn to be negative in 37 of 40 patients, whereas three patients revealed positive non-sentinel lymph nodes (false-negative rate: 8.8%). snb accurately staged the axilla in multifocal breast cancer and may become an alternative to complete axillary lymph node dissection in node negative patients with multifocal breast cancer. sentinel lymph node biopsy has been established as the preferred method for staging early breast cancer. a prior history of mastectomy may not be an absolute contraindication to sentinel lymph node biopsy. sentinel lymph node biopsy has rapidly become the standard of care in the primary treatment of breast cancer. sentinel lymph node biopsy (slnb) is widely employed to detect axillary lymph node metastases in breast cancer patients with clinically negative (n0) axillae. sentinel lymph node biopsy (slnb) has proved to be an accurate alternative to complete axillary lymph node dissection (alnd) in clinically node-negative breast cancer patients. 
Convulsions and retinal haemorrhage: should we look further? [SEP] the prevalence of retinal haemorrhages after convulsions is not well established. as these haemorrhages are considered characteristic of child abuse, we investigated their occurrence after convulsive episodes to see whether the finding of haemorrhage should prompt further investigation. one child was found with unilateral retinal haemorrhages following an episode of a simple febrile convulsion. retinal haemorrhages following a convulsive episode are rare. to evaluate the likelihood that, in children under the age of 2 years, convulsions alone may cause retinal haemorrhages. therefore, using hanley's rule of three, the upper limit of 95% confidence interval of retinal haemorrhages following convulsions in children under the age of 2 years, is less than 10/100. in children under the age of 2 years convulsions alone are unlikely to cause retinal haemorrhages. by combining the results of this study with those previously reported from this unit in older children, the upper limit of 95% confidence interval of retinal haemorrhages, following convulsions in children under the age of 14 years, is less than 5/100. therefore, the finding of retinal haemorrhages in a child admitted with a history of convulsion should trigger a meticulous search for other causes of these haemorrhages, particularly non-accidental injury. retinal haemorrhages are an important component of the clinical effects of non-accidental head injuries which have significant visual morbidity. 
Are patients willing participants in the new wave of community-based medical education in regional and rural Australia? [SEP] community-based medical education is growing to meet the increased demand for quality clinical education in expanded settings, and its sustainability relies on patient participation. patients in regional and rural settings were willing partners in developing skills of junior medical students, who had greater involvement in patient consultations than previously reported for urban students. the support of patients from regional and rural settings could facilitate the expansion of primary care-based medical education in these areas of workforce need. community-based rural education opportunities have expanded in australia, attracting more medical students to placements in rural and remote settings. australian government initiatives to address medical workforce shortages in rural australia include increasing the intake of students of rural background and increasing exposure to rural medicine during training. the cost of rural exposure through student placements is not insignificant, and there is a need to identify which aspects are most effective in increasing the uptake of rural practice, thereby helping to address the medical workforce shortage experienced in rural australia. this paper describes an initiative in the rural curriculum for medical students. australian government initiatives promote rural training placements, supported medical school places, and incentives that attract doctors to areas of need. medical education in australia is currently entering a new era, including support for the significant extension of medical students and general practitioner (gp) registrars' training programs in rural communities. positive rural clinical placement experiences inclusive of supportive ongoing learning opportunities and rural community living contribute positively to medical students' interest in future rural medical practice. 
Can Flexible Instruments Create Adequate Femoral Tunnel Lengths at 90° of Knee Flexion in Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction? [SEP] with the introduction of a new arthroscopic drill guide and accessory instrumentation, a single tibiofemoral tunnel is created through which an anterior cruciate ligament graft can be anatomically and isometrically positioned. a lateral femoral tunnel placed at the insertion of the posterolateral bundle of the anterior cruciate ligament can restore knee function comparably to anatomical femoral tunnel placement. lateral tunnel placement can restore rotatory and anterior knee stability similarly to an anatomical reconstruction when the knee is near extension. the objective of our study was to evaluate the effect that knee flexion angle while femoral tunnels are being drilled may have on the length of these tunnels, in anatomical reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament. we measured the lengths of anteromedial and posterolateral tunnels for the anterior cruciate ligament in 20 unpaired anatomical knee specimens (10 right and 10 left knees), all with the cartilage and cruciate ligaments intact. the mean anteromedial femoral tunnel lengths measured with the knees flexed at 90°, 110° and 130° were 33.7 (± 3.72) mm, 37.4 (± 2.93) mm and 38.8 (± 3.31) mm, respectively. the purpose of this study was to determine the influence of knee flexion angle for drilling the femoral tunnel during anterior cruciate ligament (acl) reconstruction via the anteromedial (am) portal on resulting tunnel orientation and length. this study evaluated the ability of flexible instruments compared with rigid instruments to place anatomic femoral tunnels in anterior cruciate ligament reconstructions by use of both transtibial drilling and anteromedial drilling without hyperflexion. flexible instruments compared with rigid instruments can facilitate the creation of anatomic femoral tunnels by use of anteromedial drilling without hyperflexion. to compare a femoral physeal sparing anterior cruciate ligament (acl) reconstruction technique utilizing a posteromedial portal to traditional transphyseal techniques with regards to anatomic tunnel positioning and proximity to important neurovascular structures. 
Quality of life in lung cancer patients: does socioeconomic status matter? [SEP] socioeconomic status is known to influence the prevalence, severity and mortality of obstructive lung diseases, but it is uncertain whether it affects the use of diagnostic spirometry in patients initiating treatment for these conditions. socioeconomic inequalities are known to influence the survival of cancer patients due to differences in treatment modalities and disease extent at diagnosis. effects of socioeconomic factors and cancer-related variables on patient survival were also evaluated. lung cancer mortality rates are higher in more deprived populations. differences in the survival of colon cancer patients by socioeconomic status have been demonstrated in several populations, but the underlying reasons for the differences are not well understood. cancer patients in lower socioeconomic groups are significantly less likely to die at home and experience more barriers to access to palliative care. we examined whether social inequalities are present for the occurrence of lung cancer. the absence of social inequalities in survival after lung cancer suggests equality in medical treatment of the disease. socioeconomic status (ses) has been associated with early mortality in cancer patients. historically, non-small-cell lung cancer (nsclc) patients who are non-white, have low incomes, low educational attainment, and non-private insurance have worse survival. 
Are Biochemical Markers of Bone Turnover Representative of Bone Histomorphometry in 370 Postmenopausal Women? [SEP] biochemical markers of bone turnover may correlate with rates of bone loss in a group of postmenopausal women, but it is uncertain how useful they are in predicting rates of bone loss in the individual. biochemical markers of bone turnover reflect the resorptive and reconstructive effects that act on the skeleton. bone turnover markers were measured in 599 women (aged 25-74 years). high bone marker levels are a risk factor for osteoporosis in postmenopausal women, but variability of measurements has raised doubts about their clinical use in an individual patient. bone turnover is a dynamic process, which increases in postmenopausal period. the aim of our study was to test whether a group of postmenopausal women could be divided into subgroups of high and low bone turnover rate using different pairs of bone turnover markers (one resorption, one formation). the results obtained appear to support the view that bone turnover rate in postmenopausal women is distributed in the bimodal fashion. to examine the ability of commercially available biochemical markers of bone formation and resorption to predict hip bone loss, we prospectively obtained serum and timed 2-h urine specimens from 295 women age 67 years or older who were not receiving estrogen replacement therapy. the study included the following measures: 1) bone balance index (bbi) created by estimating the relationship between resorption (urinary n-telopeptide) and formation (osteocalcin) markers when the total formation equals the total resorption in 685 women with stable bone mineral density (bmd) (>5 y before the final menstrual period [fmp]) and applying this relationship to measured bone turnover markers in 216 women beginning to lose bone (≤2 y from fmp); and 2) annualized percentage declines over the following 3-4 years in the lumbar spine (ls) and femoral neck (fn) bmd. in 82 postmenopausal women, randomly allocated to either low-dose sequential hrt or no hrt, serum bsp was measured and compared with established specific biochemical markers of bone resorption [urinary deoxypyridinoline (dpd), pyridinoline (pyd) and amino-terminal telopeptide (ntx)] and markers of bone formation [serum osteocalcin (oc) and bone-specific alkaline phosphatase (balp)]. 
Should early extubation be the goal for children after congenital cardiac surgery? [SEP] this study aimed to present experience of early extubation after congenital heart surgery and to explore the factors that affect successful immediate postoperative extubation and early extubation. very early extubation of children after cardiac surgery has been suggested as a safe alternative to prolonged postoperative intubation but is still not common practice. we present our experience with very early extubation in an inclusive group of children after cardiac surgery. successful early extubation of even young children is possible and easily accomplished in most children undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass, even with complex procedures, but advantages of extubation in the operating room vs. immediate icu extubation remain unclear. early extubation in infants postcardiac surgery lowers pediatric icu stay and sepsis without increasing the risk of mortality or reintubation. in order to reduce or eliminate the adverse effects of prolonged ventilation in pediatric congenital heart disease (chd) surgical patients, the concept of early extubation has been analyzed at our tertiary care hospital. immediate extubation in the operating room after congenital heart surgery is practiced with rising frequency at many cardiac institutions to decrease costs and complications. this study was undertaken to determine the feasibility of early extubation of the neonate and young infant after surgical repair of congenital heart lesions. early extubation can be accomplished safely in many neonates and young infants undergoing cardiac operations for repair of congenital heart defects and can shorten hospital stay and reduce costs. of 220 pediatric patients recovering from surgical repair of congenital heart disease, 147 (67%) met our criteria for early extubation and were extubated either in the operating room or within 6 h after admission to the surgical icu. 
Does delivery mode affect women's postpartum quality of life in rural China? [SEP] to explore the impact of delivery mode on women's postpartum quality of life in rural china and probe factors influencing postnatal quality of life. under the circumstance of increasing high caesarean section rate in rural china, the impact of delivery mode on postnatal quality of life remains unclear. delivery mode did not affect postpartum quality of life in rural china. socio-cultural determinants may contribute more in influencing postnatal quality of life. null findings in impact of delivery mode on postpartum quality of life may cause more difficulties in maternal decision-making for vaginal delivery in rural china. this study explores women's expectations and experiences of the quality of childbirth care in rural china. this study examined the relation between mode of delivery and subjective birth experience (e.g., perception of control, social support during labor and delivery), and mothers' descriptions of their babies and their maternal self-esteem, both powerful predictors of maternal caregiving behavior. to assess the effects of mode of delivery and time since birth on chronic pelvic pain (cpp) and health-related quality of life (hrqol) among primiparous chinese women. we aim to measure the development of both cesarean and vaginal-delivered children by ages and stages questionnaires (asq) and explore the association between mode of delivery and developmental outcome in poor rural areas in china. postpartum visits (ppvs) are still underutilized in rural china, and identification of factors that influence ppv use is important in ensuring the utilization of maternal health services and for wellbeing of women. 
Menopausal hormone therapy and irregular endometrial bleeding: a potential role for uterine natural killer cells? [SEP] the main objective of this study was to explore the role of uterine natural killer (unk) cells and their regulatory cytokine il-15 in irregular bleeding in ht users. the relationship between endometrial unk cells (cd56+) and bleeding patterns was measured. this is the first report of unk cells and their association with regulating cytokines in postmenopausal endometrium and demonstrates a possible mechanism by which ht may induce irregular bleeding. the purpose of this study was to assess the in vitro effect of gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist on natural killer cell activity in women with and without endometriosis and to ascertain whether gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist effects on natural killer cell activity are direct or mediated solely through the hypoestrogenic state that they produce in vivo. the cytotoxicity of natural killer cells that were obtained from patients with endometriosis was reduced significantly (p<.001) with leuprolide. natural killer cell cytotoxicity was significantly lower in patients with endometriosis than in control patients (p=.029). these findings suggest a direct immunomodulatory role of gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist on natural killer cell activity and confirm previous findings that patients with endometriosis have reduced natural killer cell cytotoxicity. natural killer (nk) cells host in the human endometrium with dedicated role in reproductive physiology. here we report a primary endometrial nk-cell lymphoma of a 48 year-old patient presenting with irregular bleeding. uterine natural killer cells (unk) have been thought to play a key role in endometriosis and infertility. 
Percutaneous ethanol injection for benign cystic thyroid nodules: is aspiration of ethanol-mixed fluid advantageous? [SEP] sonographically guided percutaneous ethanol injection has been recently proposed as a treatment for nonfunctioning benign thyroid nodules such as cysts or solid nodules. the objective of this study was to compare the efficacy of ethanol injection in thyroid cysts and solid nodules. sonographically guided percutaneous ethanol injection is more effective for thyroid cysts than for solid thyroid nodules. we evaluated the differences between percutaneous ethanol injection with and without aspiration of ethanol-mixed fluid for treatment of benign cystic thyroid nodules. we examined 60 patients with benign cystic thyroid nodules confirmed by fine-needle aspiration biopsy and divided them into 2 groups according to nonaspiration (group a, n = 30) or aspiration (group b, n = 30) of ethanol-mixed fluid after intracystic ethanol injection. percutaneous ethanol injection without aspiration of ethanol-mixed fluid seems to be the preferable method of treatment of benign cystic thyroid nodules from the perspective of both the physician and the patient. percutaneous ethanol injection may prove a safe and effective tool for the therapy of thyroid cysts. we examined the efficacy and safety of ultrasound guided percutaneous ethanol injection for the treatment of benign cystic thyroid nodules in euthyroid patients. ultrasound guided percutaneous ethanol injection of cystic thyroid nodules is a safe, low-cost and effective therapeutic procedure in patients with benign thyroid cystic nodules. our results show that sonographically guided percutaneous injection of ethanol can be used as an alternative treatment of autonomous thyroid nodules with the aim of eliminating the possible risk factors of surgery and radioiodine. 
Can the growth rate of a gallbladder polyp predict a neoplastic polyp? [SEP] the aim of this study was to evaluate whether the growth rate of a gallbladder (gb) polyp is a predictive indicator for neoplastic polyps. on multivariate analysis, however, the growth rate was not related to the neoplastic nature of a polyp, but older age (>60 y) and large size (>10 mm) were significantly associated with neoplastic polyps. patient's age (>60 y) and large polyp size (>10 mm) were significant predictive factors for neoplastic gb polyps. differentiation between a benign polyp and polypoid carcinoma of the gallbladder is often difficult when the polyp is more than 1 cm in diameter. we report a rare case of a large fibrous polyp of the gallbladder mimicking a carcinoma. large fibrous polyps of the gallbladder should be considered in the differential diagnosis of benign and malignant polypoid lesions of the gallbladder. differentiation between an inflammatory polyp and polypoid gallbladder carcinoma is difficult when the polyp is more than 1 cm in diameter. inflammatory polyp should be considered as a differential diagnosis of hypervascular gallbladder polyps that measure more than 1 cm in diameter. tumors larger than 1 cm in size are strongly related to malignancy, but they are not always primary tumors of the gallbladder. the gallbladder's epithelial similarity to the colon raises the possibility that gallbladder polyps (gbp) may occur more frequently in acromegaly. 
Are performance measurement systems useful? [SEP] a systematic review of the introduction and use of outcome-based performance management systems for public health organizations found differences between their use as a management system (which requires rigorous definition and measurement to allow comparison across organizational units) versus for improvement (which may require more flexibility). what is included in performance measurement/management systems is influenced by ease of measurement, data quality, ability of organization to control outcomes, ability to measure success in terms of doing things (rather than preventing things) and what is already happening. the desire to improve the quality of health care has prompted the increased use of performance measures. a well-designed performance measurement system is vital for ensuring that organisations deliver cost-effective, high-quality services that meet the needs of service users. this article discusses what the author considers to be the eight essentials of performance measurement. performance assessments help to quantify the level of adherence with practice standards and are often used to measure and compare the quality of care. a better understanding of the conditions under which performance indicators can be used to improve accountability for outcomes and promote quality improvement could help policy-makers develop more effective performance management systems. drawing on the performance governance and quality improvement literature, we developed a framework that distinguishes between the practice of using information to verify levels of performance in market-oriented performance management approaches and using indicators to monitor and promote improvement through building capacity for using data in service and professional networks. understanding how and for what purpose performance information is used in everyday practice will advance theory and help inform decision-makers in designing the conditions that effectively contribute to performance accountability and improvements. health system performance reports, whether they be confidentially distributed to the provider or made available to the public, are not only used as a stimulus for quality improvement, but can also be used to inform policy, apportion funding, or in rare cases, punish poorly performing providers. 
Does para-cervical block offer additional advantages in abortion induction with gemeprost in the 2nd trimester? [SEP] the majority of abortions are performed using a para-cervical block (without general anaesthesia) and involve a significant amount of pain. the combination of mifepristone (ru486) and prostaglandin is effective in the induction of abortion in the second trimester. we have investigated further whether misoprostol, a synthetic prostaglandin e1 analogue, can reliably induce second trimester abortion in 70 women pre-treated with mifepristone, and whether different routes of administration affect the induction-to-abortion interval. to examine the effect of the interval between mifepristone and misoprostol administration on induction time (first misoprostol dose to abortion), total procedure time (mifepristone administration to abortion), and safety and efficacy in second-trimester induction abortion (13-24 weeks). we compared two methods of epidural analgesia during second trimester termination of pregnancy, with the primary aim of assessing the incidence of motor block. we aimed to determine whether second-trimester abortion using isosorbide mononitrate (imn) in addition to gemeprost is more effective and reduces side effects compared with gemeprost alone. imn in addition to gemeprost is effective for second-trimester abortion, but is associated with more headache compared with gemeprost alone. the postoperative analgesic efficacy of a paracervical blockade (pcb) as an adjunct to general anesthesia (ga) during outpatient abortion (dilatation and curettage) is unclear, and the present study was initiated to evaluate if pcb is of significant importance per- or postoperatively. for the purpose of reducing the side effects and complication rate when inducing second trimester abortion, intracervically administered pge2 gel was tested for the first time and compared with a single intraamniotic instillation of pgf2 alpha by a randomized allocation of 41 consecutive patients in the 13th to 24th week of gestation. the methods proved of equal value as regards the abortion success rate and the induction-abortion interval, whereas the incidence of gastrointestinal side effects on intracervical application of pge2 gel was only half as high and the occurrence of diarrhea significantly lower (p less than 0.05) with this non-invasive method than with intraamniotic pgf2 alpha. 
Does insulin resistance drive the association between hyperglycemia and cardiovascular risk? [SEP] several observational studies have shown that higher insulin levels are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. insulin resistance is not simply a problem of decreased glucose uptake in response to insulin, but a multifaceted syndrome that significantly increases the risk for cardiovascular disease. insulin resistance is strongly associated with arterial hypertension and a pathogenetic role in the development of arterial hypertension has been suggested. insulin resistance (ir) and hyperinsulinaemia are both related to an increased cardiovascular risk, but whether ir predicts coronary heart disease (chd) independently of other risk factors in patients with type 2 diabetes (t2d) is a topic of considerable controversy. a number of risk factors for cardiovascular disease, including hypertension, are associated with the insulin resistance syndrome. high plasma insulin has been shown to be associated with the risk of coronary heart disease in nondiabetic subjects in prospective population studies. these results provide the first direct evidence that asymptomatic atherosclerosis is associated with insulin resistance. among nondiabetic subjects, insulin resistance has been associated with increased cardiovascular risk factors, including dyslipidemia, hypertension, impaired fibrinolysis, and coagulation. we conclude that insulin-resistant type 2 diabetic subjects have more atherogenic cardiovascular risk factor profiles than insulin-sensitive type 2 diabetic subjects and that this is only partially related to increased obesity and an adverse body fat distribution. insulin resistance has emerged out as a concept linking diabetes mellitus and hypertension. 
Are there risk factors that increase the rate of staple line leakage in patients undergoing primary sleeve gastrectomy for morbid obesity? [SEP] staple-line leak and haemorrhage are the most serious complications following sleeve gastrectomy. we conclude that inflammatory gastric conditions are unlikely to predispose patients to staple-line leaks or haemorrhages following sleeve gastrectomy and that selective pre-operative gastroscopy may be an appropriate standard of care. sleeve gastrectomy is a common procedure in recent years for treatment of morbid obesity however leak from staple-line is its main challenging complication. sleeve gastrectomy is one of the most commonly performed procedures in obesity and metabolic operation with leakage and stenosis being serious complications. staple line leakage is a well-known complication after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (lsg). although laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (lsg) is safe and efficacious treatment for morbid obesity, this procedure is associated with major staple line complications including leakage and bleeding. the most feared complication following laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (lsg) is the leak that occurs at the staple line. staple-line bleeding and leakage are the most common serious complications of laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy. identification of new factors such as "the numbers of stapler firings used during laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (lsg)" as a predictor for complications can lead to optimization of the patient care at bariatric centers. to determine the association between perioperative morbidity and the number of stapler firings during laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy. 
Chronic functional somatic symptoms: a single syndrome? [SEP] functional somatic symptoms refer to physical symptoms that cannot be (bio) medically explained. the aim of this study was to investigate whether fibromyalgia and failed back surgery syndromes (fms-fbss) may be evaluated under the single heading of functional somatic syndromes (fss) with respect to their symptomatological characteristics such as intensity, frequency, age of onset, duration, painful areas, fear of pain, and pain coping styles; familial characteristics such as family history of chronic medical illness, psychopathology and pain; and psychological characteristics such as manner of dealing with pain, fear of pain, alexithymia, symptom interpretation, somatosensory amplification and depression. functional somatic syndromes (fss) are characterised by the presence of one or multiple chronic symptoms that cannot be attributed to a known somatic disease. somatic symptom disorder is a condition in which a patient's subjective report of physical symptoms is associated with distress; disruption of day-to-day functioning; or disproportionate thoughts, feelings and behaviours regarding the symptoms, whether or not they are associated with an identified medical condition. when patients present with persistent bodily complaints that cannot be explained by a symptom-linked organic pathology (medically unexplained symptoms), they are diagnosed with 'functional' somatic syndromes (fss). the term functional somatic syndrome has been applied to several related syndromes characterized more by symptoms, suffering, and disability than by consistently demonstrable tissue abnormality. patients with functional somatic syndromes have explicit and highly elaborated self-diagnoses, and their symptoms are often refractory to reassurance, explanation, and standard treatment of symptoms. although discrete pathophysiologic causes may ultimately be found in some patients with functional somatic syndromes, the suffering of these patients is exacerbated by a self-perpetuating, self-validating cycle in which common, endemic, somatic symptoms are incorrectly attributed to serious abnormality, reinforcing the patient's belief that he or she has a serious disease. a six-step strategy for helping patients with functional somatic syndromes is presented here. some have suggested that cfs is a "functional somatic syndrome" in which symptoms of fatigue are inappropriately attributed to a serious illness. 
Actinobaculum schaalii, a cause of urinary tract infections in children? [SEP] actinobaculum schaalii can cause urinary tract infections (utis) and occasionally septic complications. actinobaculum schaalii is common among elderly people with suspected uti and may be clinically significant, when found alone or together with other bacteria, among children and patients treated for kidney stones. actinotignum schaalii (formerly actinobaculum schaalii) is a gram-positive, facultative anaerobic rod that is typically involved in urinary tract infections in elderly patients or those with underlying urological pathologies. actinotignum schaalii (former named actinobaculum schaalii) can cause urinary tract infections (utis) and bacteraemia, mainly in the elderly. actinobaculum schaalii is a gram-positive bacillus increasingly reported as a causative agent of urinary tract infections as well as invasive infections, mainly in the elderly and patients with underlying urological conditions. to inform that actinobaculum schaalii can colonize the urine and cause urinary tract infection in children. actinotignum schaalii is an anaerobic, gram-positive commensal organism of the urogenital tract. reported here is the case of a 5-year old boy with a pyeloureteral junction (puj) obstruction and pyelonephritis caused by actinobaculum schaalii, an actinomyces-like organism. pyelonephritis or any other urinary tract infection caused by actinobaculum schaalii has not been described in children before. actinobaculum schaalii is an emerging pathogen particularly involved in urinary tract infection of elderly people and/or patient with urological risk factors of urinary tract infection. 
Prevalence of chronic conditions among Medicare Part A beneficiaries in 2008 and 2010: are Medicare beneficiaries getting sicker? [SEP] medicare beneficiaries who have chronic conditions are responsible for a disproportionate share of medicare fee-for-service expenditures. the objective of this study was to analyze the change in the health of medicare beneficiaries enrolled in part a (hospital insurance) between 2008 and 2010 by comparing the prevalence of 11 chronic conditions. we conducted descriptive analyses using the 2008 and 2010 chronic conditions public use files, which are newly available from the centers for medicare and medicaid services and have administrative (claims) data on 100% of the medicare fee-for-service population. medicare part a beneficiaries had more chronic conditions on average in 2010 than in 2008. analyzing the prevalence of 11 chronic conditions by using medicare claims data provides a monitoring tool that can guide health care providers and policy makers in devising strategies to address chronic conditions and rising health care costs. after adjusting for sociodemographic, behavioral, and system characteristics and compared with those without adl difficulties, medicare enrollees were more likely to report dissatisfaction with the overall quality of their health care as their number of activity restrictions increased (1-2 adls: odds ratio [or]=1.5; 95% confidence interval [ci], 1.2-2.0; 3-4 adls: or=1.7; 95% ci, 1.2-2.4; 5-6 adls: or=1.9; 95% ci, 1.4-2.8). disability is a significant independent risk factor for dissatisfaction with health care in the medicare population. using data from the 1997 national survey of america's families for adults and children, we examine differences in health status and utilization among welfare recipients and welfare leavers who did and did not retain medicaid. responses to 1996 medicare current beneficiary survey. of an estimated 33.58 million non-institutionalized medicare beneficiaries, 64.1% (estimated 21.51 million) reported at least one disabling condition. 
Does successful completion of the Perinatal Education Programme result in improved obstetric practice? [SEP] observational studies have shown sustained local improvements in perinatal outcomes associated with the use of the practical obstetric multi-professional training - (prompt) training package. this study evaluated the impact of a prenatal patient education program on the knowledge and attitudes of pregnant women receiving care from an urban health department clinic. the evaluation was undertaken to determine whether attendance at prenatal classes was related to either higher levels of pregnancy-specific knowledge or more favorable attitudes toward childbearing and child rearing. participants who underwent elective caesarean section and who had the educational counselling had significantly lower depression scores [mean 2.6 (sd 2.6)] compared with those receiving routine care [mean 3.9 (sd 3.2)]. the purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of consultation and instruction in the preparation classes for delivery on pregnancy consequences, including choosing the type of delivery, the performed type of delivery, and infant's weight. the aim of the study was to investigate if practical obstetric team training improves the patient outcome and clinical management of pph. these new findings may have clinical implications since they confirm that training was effective concerning the management of postpartum haemorrhage. the aim was to evaluate the effectiveness of birthing classes through the analysis of the occurrence of c-section, epidural analgesia, behavior during labor and delivery of the women who participated to the course as compared to those who did not attend it. this study identified several positive factors that confirm the results of other studies indicating that antenatal classes are effective for women giving birth for the first time/nulliparous women, based on an analysis of childbirth outcomes, in order to improve maternal and neonatal health. the aim of this study was to evaluate whether maternal education level influences women to plan elective repeat caesarean section rather than attempt a vaginal birth after caesarean. 
Do patients with localized prostate cancer treatment really want more aggressive treatment? [SEP] to determine the patterns and predictors of aggressive local therapies for patients with clinically advanced (ct3) prostate carcinoma, as the usa national cancer institute considers external beam radiotherapy (ebrt) to be the most appropriate treatment for these patients, and currently there is less evidence supporting the use of radical prostatectomy (rp). clinical trials are needed to rigorously assess the effects of different local treatment strategies on clinical outcomes in men with ct3 prostate carcinoma. locally advanced prostate cancer is a treatment dilemma. as with prostate cancer in general, there is no clear evidence that aggressive intervention (ie, surgery or radiation) is superior to noninvasive interventions (eg, delayed treatment or androgen ablation). given the indolent nature of prostate cancer and the substantial risks of treatment-related harms, the effects of cancer and treatment on quality of life are important patient-centered outcomes. management of localized and advanced prostate cancer benefits from several therapeutic options with a surprising improvement in terms of clinical outcome. a significant proportion of patients present with locally advanced prostate cancer with inherent higher risk of local recurrence and systemic relapse after initial treatment. high-risk tumors exhibit a more aggressive natural history and have higher positive margin and recurrence rates after radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy alone, where unimodality therapy likely represents undertreatment. there is an ongoing debate about the proper management of localized prostate cancer in older men. the optimal treatment of patients with localized prostate cancer remains controversial. 
Does music influence stress in mechanically ventilated patients? [SEP] our results suggest that listening to music leads to higher sedation scores in sedated, mechanically ventilated icu patients. music interventions have been used to reduce anxiety and distress and improve physiological functioning in medical patients; however its efficacy for mechanically ventilated patients needs to be evaluated. to examine the effects of music interventions with standard care versus standard care alone on anxiety and physiological responses in mechanically ventilated patients. results indicated that music listening may be beneficial for anxiety reduction in mechanically ventilated patients; however, these results need to be interpreted with caution due to the small sample size. music listening may have a beneficial effect on heart rate, respiratory rate, and anxiety in mechanically ventilated patients. the purpose of this study was to explore the influence of music on stress in a sample of patients over the duration of ventilatory support. music is considered an ideal therapy for reducing stress in patients receiving mechanical ventilation. to explore the influence of music on serum biomarkers of the stress response in patients receiving ventilatory support. this article reviews the evidence support music as an adjunctive intervention with mechanically ventilated patients. to examine selected psychophysiologic responses of mechanically ventilated patients to music. 
Does reducing spasticity translate into functional benefit? [SEP] the ability to objectively measure spasticity, related to cerebral stroke, is important in the rehabilitation therapies since many therapeutic modalities have been developed over the years to reduce spasticity. the unproven clinical expectation is that function would be improved were spasticity to be reduced. however, understanding whether a decrease in spasticity level, if any, would lead to improving muscle performance and gait parameters is not based on evidence and needs to be clarified. management of spasticity seeks to reduce its burden on patients and to limit secondary complications. when combined with the efforts of rehabilitation specialists, neurologists, and physical/occupational therapists, the orthopaedic management of spasticity can help patients maintain and regain function and independence as well as reduce the risk of long-tem complications. recent findings suggest that spasticity may be characterized more appropriately by a decrease in the stretch reflex threshold than by an increase in gain. spasticity can lead not only to pain and potential secondary complications such as contracture and pressure sores but also to significant functional impairment. the clinician must identify specific goals of spasticity treatment and assess the potential benefit of spasticity, particularly as it pertains to transfers and ambulation. postactivation depression is decreased in patients with spasticity and partially restored by physical exercise in spinal cord injured patients. spasticity is usually a useful substitute for deficiency of motor strength. 
Is the holmium:YAG laser the best intracorporeal lithotripter for the ureter? [SEP] the holmium:yag (yttrium aluminum garnet) laser is integral to the operation and is the preferred flexible intracorporeal lithotrite. holmium:yttrium-aluminum-garnet (ho:yag) laser lithotripsy is the standard lithotrite in ureteroscopy. recently, the holmium:yag laser has been used with a wide range of potential urological applications, including intracorporeal lithotripsy of urinary calculi. we believe that holmium:yag laser is an excellent treatment modality for managing ureteral calculi. the holmium:yttrium aluminum garnet (ho:yag, holmium) laser is an intracorporeal lithotrite that is widely used in the surgical management of urinary lithiasis. since the holmium:yttrium-aluminum-garnet (ho:yag) laser is the flexible lithotrite of choice for ureteral stones, its application to ureteral strictures associated with ureteral calculi is convenient. in summary, the ho:yag laser has demonstrated its efficacy as a method of intracorporeal lithotripsy. in addition to its soft tissue applications holmium:yag laser has also been found an excellent intracorporeal lithotripter for all kinds of stones. between june 1997 and december 2002, 205 patients with a diagnosis of ureteric calculi were treated with ureteroscopy using holmium:yag laser as an intracorporeal lithotriptor. ureteroscopic holmium:yag laser lithotripsy is a safe, technically feasible and efficacious treatment for ureteral stones. 
Metered-dose inhalers. Do health care providers know what to teach? [SEP] inhaled medications are the mainstay of asthma therapy, but significant deficiencies exist in the knowledge and skills of physicians regarding use of metered-dose inhalers (mdi) and spacer devices. before education, metered-dose inhaler misuse was similarly common in the teach-to-goal and brief intervention groups (92% vs. 84%, respectively; p = 0.2). metered-dose inhaler misuse was not significantly less common in the teach-to-goal group than in the brief instruction group at 30 days (54% vs. 70%, respectively; p = 0.11), but it was immediately after education (11% vs. 60%, respectively; p < 0.001) and at 90 days (48% vs. 76%, respectively; p = 0.003). in adults hospitalized with asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, in-hospital teach-to-goal instruction in inhaler technique did not reduce inhaler misuse at 30 days, but it was associated with fewer acute care events within 30 days after discharge. while initial education and regular evaluation of inhaler technique in patients are emphasized in the management of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, health care professionals are not experienced in using inhalers. this study assessed whether internal medicine residents used common inhalers correctly and whether a single teaching session successfully improved their performance. despite the importance of adequate inhaler technique in the care of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, physicians have often been shown to have poor knowledge of correct inhaler use. physicians in the intervention group were asked to respond to a questionnaire on inhaler use and to demonstrate the correct use of a metered-dose inhaler (mdi), an mdi with a pacing chamber and a multidose dry-powder inhaler. these intervention subjects were then instructed on proper inhaler usage by a qualified nurse educator. to evaluate an education program on metered-dose inhaler (mdi) technique designed for nurses and trained medication aides (tmas). 
Does the bracket-ligature combination affect the amount of orthodontic space closure over three months? [SEP] to investigate the effect of bracket-ligature combination on the amount of orthodontic space closure over three months. informed consent was obtained and participants were randomly allocated into one of three groups: (1) conventional pre-adjusted edgewise brackets and elastomeric ligatures; (2) conventional pre-adjusted edgewise brackets and super slick(®) low friction elastomeric ligatures; (3) damon 3mx(®) passive self-ligating brackets. the hypothesis that reducing friction by modifying the bracket/ligature interface increases the rate of space closure was not supported. to compare the rates of retraction down an archwire of maxillary canine teeth when bracketed with a self-ligating bracket was used on one side and a conventional bracket on the other. in 43 patients requiring maxillary premolar extraction, a self-ligating bracket (damon3, smartclip) was used on the maxillary canine on one side and a conventional bracket (victory series) on the other. the differences between the conventional and self-ligating brackets were statistically significant: paired t-test, smartclip, p < .0043; damon3, p < .0001). the retraction rate is faster with the conventional bracket, probably because of the narrower bracket width of the self-ligating brackets. damon 3 orthodontic brackets (ormco, orange, calif), combining a self-ligating bracket with a composite bracket pad were the subject of an in-vitro bonding study to determine the shear bond strength to enamel and adhesive remaining on the teeth with various enamel and bracket preparation procedures. improper orthodontic bracket position may necessitate bracket removal and rebonding to establish correct bracket position. to assess transversal tooth movements and buccal bone modeling of maxillary lateral segments achieved with active or passive self-ligating bracket systems in a randomized clinical trial. 
Health habits and vaccination status of Lebanese residents: are future doctors applying the rules of prevention? [SEP] a cross-sectional study was performed on students of the lebanese university (lu), faculties of medicine, dentistry, pharmacy and public health. since, in this population, very few individuals were able to present a proof of adequate vaccination, it is recommended to systematically vaccinate healthcare students in lebanon against mmr. aim: despite having a generally positive attitude toward vaccinations, medical students show gaps in their own immunization histories and knowledge about vaccinations. to assess knowledge and beliefs of family physicians in lebanon regarding influenza and pneumococcal vaccines, to identify adult immunization barriers, to assess physicians' use of evidence-based strategies to improve adult immunization and identify barriers to implementation of such strategies. all 52 lebanese family physicians attending the annual family medicine conference in beirut in november 2009 were asked to fill a self-administered questionnaire that included items inquiring about knowledge, beliefs, attitudes, barriers to these vaccines and their opinions regarding strategies to improve immunization rate. we used data on a stratified random sample of 809 quebec physicians to determine the extent to which the integration of prevention into medical practice was related to physicians' sociodemographic background, area of specialization, medical practice characteristics, and professional attitudes. among factors positively associated with physicians' preventive practices were favorable attitudes toward prevention, patient education and patient-oriented activities, being in primary care medicine or in a medical specialty such as cardiology, gastroenterology, or pneumology, practicing in a public community health center on a salary basis, working in a group practice, having an office-based practice, devoting time to research activities, being older, and being a woman. because physicians' practices could be modified to reduce missed opportunities for human papillomavirus (hpv) vaccination, our goal was to: (1) describe self-reported practices regarding recommending the hpv vaccine; (2) estimate the frequency of parental deferral of hpv vaccination; and (3)identify characteristics associated with not discussing it. aim: accordingly, this study aimed to reflect the lebanese population adherence by determining their level of knowledge and practice during this pandemic. health promotion and disease prevention must be addressed in medical education, and the assessment of future physicians' health preventive perceptions and behaviors is a critical step in the process. 
Does vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia have the same evolution as cervical intraepithelial neoplasia? [SEP] vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia is a little known disease which could be related to risk factors different from simple hpv infections. to ascertain wheter vaginal lesions have a natural history similar to cervical lesions. carcinoma in situ or invasive cervical carcinoma develops from a low-grade intraepithelial lesion of the cervix over time. high-grade vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia, a precursor lesion to vulvar squamous cell carcinoma, is subdivided into 2 types, classic or usual vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (cvin) and differentiated vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (dvin). its association with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia is found in 65% of cases, with vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia in 10% of cases, while for others, the association with concomitant cervical or vulvar intraepithelial neoplasias is found in 30-80% of cases. risk factors for the development of vain are similar to those for cervical neoplasia, i.e. infection with high-risk human papillomavirus (hpv) is the main cause of intraepithelial and invasive neoplasias of the female genital tract, but the aetiology of verrucous carcinoma is still unknown. vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia is a precancerous lesion of the vulva, which has been referred to in the past with varied terminology. we report a case of vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia and concomitant cervical intraepithelial neoplasia in a 30 year old female. specific human papillomavirus (hpv) types are strongly associated with intraepithelial neoplasia and invasive cancer of the cervix. 
Should general practitioners call patients by their first names? [SEP] six hundred four patients in three primary care office settings were asked whether they preferred to be addressed by their physician by their first or last name and whether they preferred to address their physician by first or last name. of the patients expressing a preference, 96 percent preferred that their physician address them by first name while 87 percent noted that this gesture actually occurred. forty percent of the patients preferred to address the physician by first name while 14 percent actually did so. these findings suggest that physicians can feel comfortable addressing almost all of their patients by first name and that many of their patients may desire to address them by their first name. to assess the acceptability to patients of the use of patients' first names by doctors and doctors' first names by patients in general practice. response by patients to questionnaire on attitude to use of first names. most patients (324) did not, however, want to call the doctor by his or her first name. general practitioners should consider using patients' first names more often, particularly with younger patients. a survey was carried out to see if patients were happy to be called in by number, first name, surname, full name, or title (mr/mrs/miss/ms) followed by surname. in contrast, patients from the hiv clinics preferred to be called in by first name rather than number, surname, full name or title. 
Transesophageal echocardiographic assessment of left ventricular function in brain-dead patients: are marginally acceptable hearts suitable for transplantation? [SEP] echocardiography is now widely available and is a reliable tool to assess left ventricular dysfunction in brain-dead donors. fifty-five potential brain-dead heart donors (age 38 +/- 11 years) were prospectively evaluated by transesophageal echocardiography (tee) before harvesting. tee is useful to assess left ventricular function in potential brain-dead donors. one reason for refusal of donor hearts is the development of left ventricular systolic dysfunction, a condition reported to occur in up to 42 % of adults with brain death. the aims of our study are to examine the prevalence and describe longitudinal changes in cardiac dysfunction after brain death. the prevalence of cardiac dysfunction after adult brain death is high, but given enough time and support, many of these donors have improvement in cardiac function, ultimately leading to transplantation. the present study observes the natural course of brain death-induced myocardial dysfunction, and investigates whether low-dose dobutamine stress echocardiography could identify reversible myocardial dysfunction in brain-dead patients. we hypothesized that an early echocardiographic evaluation in severe brain injury (performed within 12 hours from icu admission) could allow the detection of potentially reversible left ventricular (lv) abnormalities and thus the initiation of tailored treatment whose effects could be assessed at a second echocardiogram performed when brain death develops. moreover, after transplantation, graft systolic and diastolic functions were impaired in the 5-h brain-dead group, while they were identical in the 1-h brain-dead group compared with the corresponding controls. brain death was associated with decreased left-ventricular contractility (dp/dtmax: 4895 ± 505 versus 8037 ± 565 mm hg/s; ejection fraction: 27 ± 5 versus 44 ± 5%; emax: 2.2 ± 0.3 versus 4.2 ± 0.3 mm hg/μl; preload recruitable stroke work: 59 ± 5 versus 96 ± 6 mm hg; 5 h after brain death versus before brain death; p < 0.05) and impaired cardiac relaxation (dp/dtmin: -4734 ± 575 versus -9404 ± 550 mm hg/s and prolonged tau, p < 0.05) compared with controls. 
Attenuation of ischemia/reperfusion-induced ovarian damage in rats: does edaravone offer protection? [SEP] to evaluate the protective effect of erdosteine, an antiapoptotic and antioxidant agent, on torsion-detorsion evoked histopathological changes in experimental ovarian ischemia-reperfusion (ir) injury. to determine whether ischemia followed by reperfusion can induce ovarian oxidative damage, we created a model of adnexal ischemia-reperfusion by using rats. to evaluate the effects of erythropoietin (epo) as an antioxidant and tissue protective agent and study the biochemical and histopathological changes in experimental ischemia and ischemia/reperfusion (i/r) injury in rat ovaries. administration of epo is effective in reversing tissue damage induced by ischemia and/or ischemia/reperfusion in ovaries. the aim of this study was to investigate whether prophylactic treatment with edaravone prevents ischemia/reperfusion (i/r)-induced ovarian damage during pneumoperitoneum in an experimental rat model. administration of different doses of edaravone in rats significantly prevented degenerative changes in the ovary (p < 0.0001). these results indicate that prophylactic treatment with edaravone prevents i/r-induced ovarian damage during pneumoperitoneum in an experimental rat model. to investigate the effectiveness of controlled reperfusion (cr) on ovarian tissue malondialdehyde, total glutathione and 8-hydroxyguanine levels and infertility rates in a rat model of induced ischemia-reperfusion (i/r) injury with unilateral oophorectomy. edaravone administered during the last 3 min of ischemia, prior to reperfusion induces a pharmacological postconditioning in vivo against renal ischemia/reperfusion injury in rats. to evaluate the effects of sildenafil on antioxidant enzyme activities, lipid peroxidation and histopathological changes in ovarian tissue after ischemia-reperfusion (i/r) injury in a rat model. 
Does the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale favor left hemisphere strokes? [SEP] the national institutes of health stroke scale (nihss) is an established measure of neurological impairment; however, it can award more points for tests of presumed left-hemisphere function, such as language, than for tests of right-hemisphere function, such as neglect. this difference may be important if a low nihss score is used to exclude patients with right-hemisphere stroke from clinical trials or established treatments. the aim of this study was to investigate whether the relationship between acute nihss score and acute stroke volume as determined by acute diffusion- and perfusion-weighted mri (dwi and pwi) differs between right- and left-sided stroke. among patients with dwi lesions larger than the median volume (9 cm3), 8 of 37 with right-sided stroke had an nihss score of 0 to 5 compared with 1 of 39 patients with left-sided stroke (p=0.01). patients with right-sided stroke may have a low nihss score despite substantial dwi lesion volume. the national institutes of health stroke scale (nihss) awards higher deficit scores for infarcts in the dominant hemisphere when compared with otherwise similar infarcts in the nondominant hemisphere. in a large unselected community-dwelling population, we examined the frequency of clinical left- and right-sided strokes and transient ischemic attacks (tias) and compared it with the frequency of left- and right-sided infarcts on mri. ischemic strokes were more frequently left-sided (57.7%; 95% confidence interval, 53.7-61.6) than right-sided, similar to tias (57.8% left-sided; 53.4-62.3). clinical ischemic strokes and tias are more frequently left-sided than right-sided, whereas this difference is not present for infarcts on mri. to compare early impairment of level of consciousness between patients with right and left hemispheric stroke. 
Can a Novel Surgical Approach to the Temporomandibular Joint Improve Access and Reduce Complications? [SEP] with the aid of recent refinements in temporomandibular joint surgery, it is often possible to release a bony ankylosis directly within the joint space. over time, different techniques have been described to obtain broad access to the temporomandibular joint (tmj), in order to allow good visibility, minimizing post-operative complications at the same time. several techniques have been proposed for the management of perforation of or severe damage to the temporomandibular joint disc, with a wide range of success rates reported. we describe a new method using a pedicled sliding flap of the tragal cartilage. temporomandibular joint arthoscopy is a minimal invasive surgical procedure commonly used to effectively treat some internal derangement of the tmj. temporomandibular joint arthroscopy provides a minimally invasive surgical means of gaining access to the tmj. although most painful conditions affecting the temporomandibular joint (tmj) can be managed non-surgically, when such treatment fails, surgery is often recommended as an alternative. this article provides the information needed by the clinician to determine when surgery should be done for chronic tmj pain and what can be accomplished by such treatment. the endaural approach to the temporomandibular joint overcomes some of the drawbacks associated with the commonly used superior posterolateral and anterolateral approaches. surgical duration, maximum interincisal opening, mandibular deviation, occlusion, and temporomandibular joint function at 6 months after surgery were comparable between groups. 
Young-Burgess classification of pelvic ring fractures: does it predict mortality, transfusion requirements, and non-orthopaedic injuries? [SEP] the objectives of this study were to evaluate the ability of the young-burgess classification system to predict mortality, transfusion requirements, and nonorthopaedic injuries in patients with pelvic ring fractures and to determine whether mortality rates after pelvic fractures have changed over time. mortality at index admission, transfusion requirement during first 24 hours, and presence of nonorthopaedic injuries as a function of young-burgess pelvic classification type. the purpose of this study was to evaluate potential differences between the pelvic ring injury classification systems by tile and by young and burgess with regard to their predictive value on mortality, transfusion/infusion requirement and concomitant injuries. two-hundred-and-eighty-five consecutive patients with pelvic ring fractures were analyzed for mortality within 30 days after admission, number of blood units and total volume of fluid infused during the first 24h after trauma, the abbreviated injury severity (ais) scores for head, chest, spine, abdomen and extremities as a function of the tile and the young-burgess classifications. pelvic ring fracture stability may be a marker of associated injuries. the purpose of this study was to determine whether instability of the pelvic ring as assessed by tile's classification is a predictor of death in patients with pelvic fractures. the presence of pelvic ring fracture was found to be an independent risk factor for mortality in the blunt trauma population based on both statistical methods (odds ratios, 1.9 [p < 0.001] and 2.1 [p < 0.0007]). the presence of pelvic ring fracture seems to represent a clinically significant independent risk factor for mortality, even after accounting for the association with potentially severe additional body system injuries. pelvic ring fracture is often combined with other injuries and such patients are considered at high risk of mortality and complications. this retrospective study reviewed patients who sustained an unstable pelvic ring fracture with injury severity score (iss) ≥ 5. 
Is vitamin D deficiency a feature of pediatric celiac disease? [SEP] vitamin d deficiency has been described in autoimmune diseases, but its status in prepubertal children with cd has not been adequately studied. screening for vitamin d status in celiac disease (cd) has been recommended but the literature provides varying support. the purpose of this review is to examine the prevalence of vitamin d deficiency in pediatric gastrointestinal disease, specifically celiac disease and inflammatory bowel disease (ibd); to discuss the role of vitamin d and its deficiency in gastrointestinal disease pathophysiology; and to present current literature regarding diagnosis and treatment of vitamin d deficiency in these pediatric gastrointestinal diseases. vitamin d deficiency is common in children with gastrointestinal symptoms and disease processes. in celiac disease, vitamin d status should be routinely assessed at the time of diagnosis and during subsequent follow up if deficient. suboptimal vitamin d status commonly occurs in children with gastrointestinal disease. it is advisable to check serum 25-hydroxy vitamin d levels in children with newly diagnosed celiac disease and ibd. in celiac disease, vitamin d status should be assessed during subsequent follow up if deficient. children with celiac disease (cd) are at risk for decreased bone mineral density (bmd) because of fat-soluble vitamin malabsorption, inflammation and/or under-nutrition. to evaluate vitamin d status and supplementation in the pediatric population with common gastrointestinal diseases. 
Is unsafe sexual behaviour increasing among HIV-infected individuals? [SEP] in the current context of increasing unsafe sex, hiv incidence may have evolved, depending on hiv prevalence in sexual networks and, among hiv-infected persons who practice unsafe sex, on their infectivity and partners' hiv serostatus. we examined calendar trends in sexual behaviours at risk of hiv-1 transmission (sbr) among 967 adults followed since primary hiv infection (anrs primo cohort) and relationship with current treatments and viral load. behaviors associated with increased risk for sexual transmission of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) by infected persons include unprotected intercourse, multiple sex partners, use of crack cocaine, failure to disclose serostatus to sex partners, and trading sex for money or drugs. some sexually active, hiv-infected persons in the united states continue to practice risky behaviors. higher hiv prevalence among msm exhibiting homosexual behavior for ≤1 year is of specific concern, as this accounts to recent infections and indicates the increased vulnerability of the infection among the new entrants.substance-use resulting in high-risk sexual behavior was significantly associated with higher hiv prevalence among mr-msm. practice of risky sexual behaviors is the major effective driver of the hiv epidemic among hiv-positive individuals. the aim of this study was to assess the prevalence of risky sexual behavior and associated factors among people living with hiv attending antiretroviral therapy (art) clinic at nekemte referral hospital. this review examines the empirical literature on disclosure of hiv status and subsequent sexual risk behaviors of hiv-positive individuals. as many as one in three persons living with hiv-aids continue to practise unprotected sexual intercourse and these practices often occur with hiv-negative or unknown hiv serostatus (serodiscordant) partners. the current study examined the rates of hiv transmission risk behaviours in non-regular (e.g. 
Cholestasis associated with small bowel atresia: do we always need to investigate? [SEP] cholestasis occurs frequently in patients with small bowel atresia (sba) and is often attributed to prolonged parental nutrition. we characterized cholestasis and analyzed the pertinence of investigating this patient population. cholestasis was evaluated for incidence, severity, and evolution. all patients with short bowel (4) and 60% (6/10) of patients with a delay of enteral feeding more than 14 days postoperatively had cholestasis. small bowel atresia is frequently associated with postoperative cholestasis that will resolve with time. definitive exclusion of biliary atresia in the infant with cholestatic jaundice usually requires operative cholangiography. the purpose of this study was to determine if percutaneous cholecystocholangiography (pcc) prevents unnecessary laparotomy in infants whose cholestasis is caused by diseases other than biliary atresia. to evaluate if an increased risk of cholelithiasis exists in patients with ulcerative colitis, biliary ultrasonography was performed on 159 patients with inflammatory bowel disease, 114 patients with ulcerative colitis, and 45 patients with crohn's disease. cholestasis in early infancy represents a diagnostic dilemma and most of these infants suffer either from extrahepatic biliary atresia or idiopathic neonatal hepatitis. diagnosis of biliary atresia (ba) in infants presenting with cholestatic jaundice (cj) requires exploratory surgery with cholangiography. 
Are financial incentives cost-effective to support smoking cessation during pregnancy? [SEP] financial incentives appear to be effective in promoting smoking cessation in pregnancy. the present study examines how financial incentives for smoking cessation during pregnancy may work, by exploring pregnant women’s experiences of trying to stop smoking, within and outside of a financial incentives scheme. if demonstrated to be effective, financial incentives could be proposed as part of health care interventions to help pregnant smokers quit. to assess the efficacy of financial incentives on smoking abstinence among french pregnant smokers. in this report we provide a narrative review of research on the use of financial incentives to promote abstinence from cigarette smoking during pregnancy, an intervention wherein women earn vouchers exchangeable for retail items contingent on biochemically-verified abstinence from recent smoking. results from six controlled trials with economically disadvantaged pregnant smokers support the efficacy of financial incentives for increasing smoking abstinence rates antepartum and early postpartum. the systematic use of financial incentives has promise as an efficacious intervention for promoting smoking cessation among economically disadvantaged pregnant and recently postpartum women and improving birth outcomes. financial incentives were the single most effective intervention for smoking cessation in pregnancy in a recent cochrane review, but based on a few small trials in the united states using only 7-day point prevalence measures of cessation. enrolment on an incentive scheme in an unselected english cohort of pregnant smokers was associated with prolonged cessation rates comparable to those reported in us trials. this paper reports on the acceptability of incentives for reducing smoking in pregnant women and the perceived size of incentive that would encourage smoking cessation during pregnancy. 
Can medical students contribute to quality assurance programmes in day surgery? [SEP] the present study sought to gather information on the basic surgical skills of graduating medical students and to establish whether factors influencing the students' competence could be identified and used to improve the teaching of basic surgical skills at medical schools. working experience clearly enhanced the surgical skills of medical students. health care delivery has undertaken a major shift from inpatient management to ambulatory surgical care with increasing emphasis on quality assurance (qa) processes. educational opportunities for medical undergraduate programmes are being sought in the day surgery environment. our study was undertaken to explore ways in which senior medical students can actively contribute to qa processes as part of an undergraduate day surgery educational programme. educational opportunities for medical undergraduate programmes are being sought in the day surgery environment. our study was undertaken to explore ways in which senior medical students can actively contribute to the qa processes as part of an undergraduate day surgery educational programme. fifty-nine final year medical students followed allocated patients with common surgical conditions through all phases of the day surgery process. we recommend that students have a formally recognized place in day surgery qa programmes, to close the qa loop and to adequately prepare them for medical practice in the 21st century. this observational study seeks to investigate the effect of medical students on operative time and complications. 
Measurement of head and neck paragangliomas: is volumetric analysis worth the effort? [SEP] the aim of this study was to assess the reproducibility of different measurement methods and define the most workable technique for measuring head and neck paragangliomas, to determine the best method for evaluating tumour growth. thirty tumours, including carotid body, vagal body, jugulotympanic tumours and conglomerates of multiple tumours, were measured in duplicate, using linear dimensions, manual area tracing and an automated segmentation method. due to the irregular shape of paragangliomas in the temporal bone and conglomerates, the manual area tracing method showed better results in these tumours (26% and 8% versus 54% and 47%). due to a relatively good reproducibility, fast and easy application, we found the linear dimension method to be the most pragmatic approach for evaluation of growth of carotid and vagal body paragangliomas. ssr-derived volumetric parameters provide a quantitative imaging biomarker for whole-body tumor burden, and may hold potential as a clear-cut measure for assessment of treatment response. tumor volume was measured by three-dimensional constructive interference in steady state images in 52 unselected vestibular schwannomas. we propose a new technique to accurately determine the volume of cerebellopontine angle (cpa) tumors. volume measurements are more accurate indicators of the mass of the tumor. conclusion three-dimensional volumetric assessment of vs provides a more sensitive measure of tumor growth when compared with linear diameter assessment. volumetric assessments have the greatest clinical utility, sensitivity and accuracy in measuring tumor size and growth. 
Three-dimensional ultrasound-validated large-core needle biopsy: is it a reliable method for the histological assessment of breast lesions? [SEP] the use of three-dimensional (3d) ultrasound may help to determine the exact position of the needle during breast biopsy, thereby reducing the number of core samples that are needed to achieve a reliable histological diagnosis. the aim of this study was to demonstrate the efficacy of 3d ultrasound-validated large-core needle biopsy (lcnb) of the breast. biopsy of 235 us visible breast lesions was performed using us-guided 18-gauge core needles (18-gcn). us-guided 18-gcnb for sonographically-demonstrated discrete mass lesions with pnpv is an accurate core needle biopsy technique of breast cancer. background: core needle biopsy (cnb) is an alternative to surgical biopsy in establishing the histopathological diagnosis of mammary lesions. core needle biopsy is a preferable breast biopsy technique under ultrasound guidance. ultrasound-guided, vacuum-assisted biopsy has a definitive role in the diagnosis of breast lesions. ultrasound (us)-guided core needle biopsy is considered the gold standard procedure with regard to preoperative diagnosis of breast carcinomas. the aim of the present study was to assess the diagnostic accuracy of ultrasound-guided core needle biopsy (us-cnb) of breast lesions, comparing smaller needles (16- and 18-gauge) with the 14-gauge needle, and to analyze the lesion characteristics influencing us-cnb diagnostic performance. to elucidate whether breast imaging can predict final histologic diagnosis of lesions of uncertain malignant potential diagnosed at ultrasound core needle biopsy (cnb). 
Can bone thickness and inter-radicular space affect miniscrew placement in posterior mandibular sites? [SEP] the purposes of this study are to report the alveolar process thickness and inter-radicular space in the posterior region of the mandible, to assess the impact of different miniscrew insertion angle protocols, and to identify differences between the genders or types of malocclusion. bone thickness and bone depth are important factors when placing miniscrews. mean bone thickness at commonly used sites for orthodontic miniscrew placements in the maxilla. assessment of bone thickness in maxillary frst molar region for miniscrew placement during the mixed dentition period with reference to the following variables a) mesio-distal bone width b) buccal cortical plate thickness c) palatal cortical plate thickness d) bucco-palatal bone depth. the mean values for the mesiodistal width, buccopalatal depth, buccal and palatal cortical bone thickness were found to be sufficient for miniscrew placement up to 1.2mm diameter and 10mm length. the bone thickness measurement and assessment of safe zone in maxillary posterior region from the present study showed potential for miniscrew placement in pediatric age group. cortical bone thickness, bone width, insertion depth, and proximity to nerves are important factors when planning and placing orthodontic miniscrews. the objective of this study was to anatomically assess the mandibular buccal shelf in a white patient population as the insertion site for orthodontic miniscrews by investigating these 4 variables. as investigations revealed a positive correlation of miniscrew stability to periimplant bone quality, it has been the aim of this study to analyze the bone structure of resection preparations of human mandibles histologically by investigating the samples according to age, gender and exposure to radiotherapy. the aim of this study was to evaluate bone depth, cortical bone thickness, and vestibulolingual bone dimension of the mandibular retromolar trigone and anterior ramus region to evaluate what are its most suitable sites for miniscrew insertion in adults. 
Do general practice selection scores predict success at MRCGP? [SEP] however, the relationship between selection  and performance in the royal college of general practitioner examinations (mrcgp) has yet to be explored. to explore the predictive validity of general  practice selection scores using the akt and csa elements of the mrcgp as a final outcome measure. the general practice selection process is predictive of future performance in the mrcgp. gp selection was compared to objective selection criteria on identifying patients, who would benefit from a mr the most. mrcgp and mrcp(uk) are the main entry qualifications for uk doctors entering general [family] practice or hospital [internal] medicine. the performance of mrcp(uk) candidates who subsequently take mrcgp allows validation of each assessment. this paper examines the long-term validity of cmt and gp selection methods in predicting performance in the membership of royal college of physicians (mrcp(uk)) examinations. we performed a longitudinal study, examining the extent to which the gp and cmt selection methods (t1) predict performance in the mrcp(uk) examinations (t2). looking at mrcp(uk) part 1, part 2 written and paces scores, both cmt and gp selection methods show evidence of predictive validity for the outcome variables, and hierarchical regressions show the gp methods add significant value to the cmt selection process. cmt selection methods predict performance in important outcomes and have good evidence of validity; the gp methods may have an additional role alongside the cmt selection methods. 
The Deformity Angular Ratio: Does It Correlate With High-Risk Cases for Potential Spinal Cord Monitoring Alerts in Pediatric 3-Column Thoracic Spinal Deformity Corrective Surgery? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to determine whether the deformity angular ratio (dar) can reliably assess the neurological risks of patients undergoing deformity correction. the data from 35 pediatric spinal deformity correction procedures with thoracic 3-column osteotomies were reviewed. identifying accurate radiographical, patient, and procedural risk factors in the correction of severe deformities can help prepare the surgical team to improve safety and outcomes when carrying out complex spinal corrections. the axial spinal cord classification correlated with ionm alerts and greater severity of spinal deformity in pediatric scoliosis patients. surgery in a child with spinal deformity is challenging. to report the incidence of and risk factors for intraoperative cardiopulmonary arrest (ica) in children undergoing spinal deformity surgery. spinal deformities in children are associated with comorbidities that can pose substantial risks during surgery. the purpose of this study is to review the postoperative complications in pediatric patients undergoing spine surgery and to establish a preoperative classification that stratifies surgical risk and case difficulty. corrective spine surgery for complex pediatric deformity is challenging and carries a substantial risk. the newly established surgical risk stratification based on patient-specific clinical and radiographic factors can guide surgeons in their preoperative planning and surgical management of severe spine deformity in order to achieve optimal outcomes. 
Does age moderate the effect of personality disorder on coping style in psychiatric inpatients? [SEP] our aim is to investigate personality traits and coping in older bipolar patients and the relationship between coping and personality. 75 older patients (age > 60) with bipolar i or ii disorder in a euthymic mood completed the utrecht coping list and the neo personality inventory ffi and were compared to normative data. older bipolar patients show more passive coping styles compared to healthy elderly. older bipolar patients have more passive coping styles. the association between coping styles and personality traits is comparable to reports of younger adult patients with bipolar disorder. longitudinal studies are warranted to explore if coping and personality change with ageing in bipolar patients and to determine which coping style is most effective in preventing mood episodes. this study addresses the question whether personality is a predictor for becoming depressed in late life. we examined the association of personality pathology and treatment outcome related to age and treatment modality. the interaction between personality and age was examined among those treated with cbt (n=90); the interaction between personality and treatment modality was examined among the older subgroup (n=34). personality disorder traits are relatively prevalent among older adults, and can be associated with complex and chronic difficulties, including suicide risk. 
Autoxidation products of both carbohydrates and lipids are increased in uremic plasma: is there oxidative stress in uremia? [SEP] the existence of an increased oxidative stress in chronic renal failure is supported by evidence of increased lipid, carbohydrate, and protein oxidation products in plasma and cell membrane. chronic uremia is associated with increased modification of protein caused by reactive carbonyl compounds derived from both carbohydrates and lipids. chronic uremia appears to be in a state of an increased oxidative stress. precursor carbonyl compounds derived from carbohydrates and lipids are indeed elevated in uremic circulation. the presence of oxidative stress in crf is evidenced by an overabundance of lipid, carbohydrate, and protein oxidation products in the plasma and tissues of uremic patients and animals. depletion of antioxidants and the presence of products of free radical damage in plasma suggest that oxidative stress is increased in uremia. thus, uremia is associated with accumulation of an endogenous oxidizing activity at much higher concentrations than in subjects with normal renal function. evidence suggests an imbalance between antioxidant and oxidant-generating systems resulting in oxidative stress in uremic patients. in conclusion, we propose the measurement of aopp as a reliable marker to estimate the degree of oxidant-mediated protein damage in uremic patients and to predict the potential efficacy of therapeutic strategies aimed at reducing such an oxidative stress. the accumulation in uremic plasma of reactive carbonyl compounds (rco) derived from both carbohydrates and lipids ("carbonyl stress") contributes to uremic toxicity by accelerating the advanced glycation and lipoxidation of proteins. 
Can 'high-risk' human papillomaviruses (HPVs) be detected in human breast milk? [SEP] the aim of our study was to determine the presence of 'high-risk' hpv dna in human breast milk. using polymerase chain reaction techniques, we evaluated the presence of hpv infection in human breast milk collected from 21 hpv-positive and 11 hpv-negative mothers. this preliminary case-control study indicates the absence of mucosal 'high-risk' hpv types in human breast milk. human papillomavirus (hpv) dna has been detected in the oral cavity of infants and breast cancer tissue, suggesting its vertical transmission through maternal milk. we determined whether hpv is detected in maternal milk and is vertically transmitted by breast-feeding. several studies have recently reported the detection of oncogenic human papillomaviruses (hpv) in human milk of a minority of lactating mothers. standard (liquid) and in situ polymerase chain reaction (pcr) techniques were used to identify hpv and ebv in human milk samples from normal lactating australian women who had no history of breast cancer.high risk human papillomavirus was identified in milk samples of 6 of 40 (15%) from normal lactating women - sequencing on four samples showed three were hpv 16 and one was hpv 18. the presence of high risk hpv and ebv in human milk suggests the possibility of milk transmission of these viruses. human papillomavirus (hpv) dna has been detected in breast milk, but its origin has remained obscure. human papillomavirus (hpv) testing of 223 breast milk samples 3 days postpartum was performed with polymerase chain reaction, hybridization, and sequencing. 
Quaternary cytoreductive surgery in ovarian cancer: does surgical effort still matter? [SEP] one of the cornerstones of ovarian cancer therapy is cytoreductive surgery, which can be performed by surgeons with different specialty training. extensive (ultraradical) surgery may facilitate complete cytoreduction in ovarian cancer with potential survival benefit but with greater morbidity. primary surgery with diagnostic and cytoreductive intent should be performed in accordance with the european guidelines of staging in ovarian cancer. the surgical management of advanced epithelial ovarian cancer involves cytoreduction, or removal of grossly-evident tumor. residual disease after surgical cytoreduction of ovarian cancer has been shown to be strongly associated with survival. the purpose of this article is to review the role of maximum surgical effort in primary and recurrent ovarian cancer. the role of surgery in recurrent ovarian cancer (roc) is debated. in carefully selected patients, optimal cytoreductive surgery performed by highly specialized gynecologic oncologists might represent a useful tool in adjunction to chemotherapy for the management of roc. worldwide, much effort is used every day to perform optimal surgery in the treatment of epithelial ovarian cancer. new studies are necessary to define the role of surgery in the overall management of ovarian cancer more precisely. 
Chemotherapy and survival in advanced non-small cell lung carcinoma: is pneumologists' skepticism justified? [SEP] this finding has raised skepticism toward pneumonectomy as a surgical option for patients with regionally advanced nonsmall-cell lung cancer. a review of 315 nonsmall-cell lung cancer patients (196 male [62%]) undergoing pneumonectomy over a 15-year period was undertaken. pulmonary squamous cell carcinoma has not benefited from improvements in chemotherapy over the past decade, compared with non-squamous non-small-cell lung cancer. the results of several randomized trials suggest a marginal survival benefit for patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer after treatment with chemotherapy. chemotherapy prolongs survival in patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. physicians were queried about their likelihood to recommend chemotherapy to patients with stage iv lung cancer with varying performance status (eastern cooperative oncology group performance status 0 [good] v 3 [poor]) and presence or absence of tumor-related pain. strong consensus among oncologists exists for chemotherapy in patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer and good performance status. the role of chemotherapy in the treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (nsclc) has been a subject of debate for many years. until recently, chemotherapeutic intervention in advanced and metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) has been viewed with a certain degree of nihilism. the role of chemotherapy in the treatment of advanced non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) has been debated over three decades, but it is only relatively recently that chemotherapy has become a standard of care for this disease. 
Does topical ropivacaine reduce the post-tonsillectomy morbidity in pediatric patients? [SEP] to compare the effect of ropivacaine plus dexamethasone and ropivacaine alone as infiltration anesthesia on postoperative pain, nausea and vomiting, and oral intake in children after tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy. two hundred pediatric patients scheduled for tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy were prospectively enrolled and randomly placed in a ropivacaine with dexamethasone group (rd) or a ropivacaine alone group (r). pre-incisional bupivacaine infiltration into the tonsillar fossa has been used as a method of relieving post-operative pain in children. pain control in pediatric patients undergoing tonsillectomy remains a dilemma. the aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of the peritonsillar injection of bupivacaine and pethidine on postoperative pain in children undergoing snare-dissection tonsillectomy. patients received injections, in the tonsillar fossae, of isotonic sodium chloride solution or 0.5% ropivacaine hydrochloride with epinephrine immediately following tonsillectomy. ropivacaine with epinephrine injection does not reduce pain postoperatively and adversely affects behavior scores, neck pain scores, and retching frequency compared with placebo. therefore, this study was designed to compare the effects of bupivacaine 0.5% with 1:200,000 epinephrine administered after tonsillectomy either as topical spray or submucosal infiltration on postoperative pain in children. postoperative respiratory depression is of concern in children undergoing adenotonsillectomy receiving postoperative opioids and may be mitigated with intraoperative bupivacaine. postoperative outcomes were compared between those who received intraoperative bupivacaine before (pre-tonsillectomy) or after (post-tonsillectomy) tonsil removal and those who did not (none) using χ2 test and analysis of variance. 
Is pain a clinically relevant problem in general adult psychiatry? [SEP] this study aimed to examine the associations between levels of pain intensity and depressive symptoms among community-dwelling adults aged 50 years and older with schizophrenia spectrum disorders. given the widespread efforts to manage pain and related mental health complications in older adults without serious mental illnesses, it is likewise important that community-based mental health professionals monitor and address intense pain and related depressive symptoms among older adults with schizophrenia. the study aimed to investigate to what extent general psychopathology is associated with subjective experience of pain in psychiatric outpatients without comorbidity with severe physical diagnosis and whether there are any differences in the experience of pain between genders or diagnoses. pain and its subjective experience play a central role in psychiatric disorders, and it is a great burden for patients and caregivers. although it is perceived as a significant problem for surgical patients and those with terminal malignancy, there is a paucity of evidence regarding the prevalence of pain in general medical patients. pain is common among medical patients. to identify the prevalence and characteristics of chronic pain in schizophrenic patients and to compare the quality of life in patients with and without chronic pain. the assessment of pain in older persons with psychiatric illness is particularly challenging for health care professionals. a study was conducted to explore pain assessment and management issues in geriatric psychiatry. seventy-four staff members of a geriatric psychiatry service at regional mental health care london, st joseph's health care london, london, ontario completed a survey to assess current pain assessment and management practice for geriatric psychiatry patients, and to identify indicators used to assess pain in this population. 
Does concomitant anterior/apical repair during midurethral sling improve the overactive bladder component of mixed incontinence? [SEP] midurethral sling (mus) can improve overactive bladder (oab) symptoms. we hypothesized that women with mixed urinary incontinence (mui) experience greater improvement in the oab component of their symptoms after concomitant mus and aa repair compared with mus alone. limited evidence guides operative technique in primary midurethral sling (mus) lysis or excision at the time of repeat sling placement for persistent or recurrent stress urinary incontinence (sui). assortments of suburethral sling procedures have become increasingly important in the treatment of stress urinary incontinence (sui). to evaluate de novo and resolved urgency and urgency urinary incontinence (uui) after midurethral sling operations in patients with stress urinary incontinence (sui) and mixed urinary incontinence (mui). this study aims to compare the post-operative rates of stress urinary incontinence (sui) after abdominal sacral colpopexy (asc) with either burch or mid-urethral sling, tension-free vaginal tape (tvt), or no anti-incontinence procedure. mid-urethral slings performed with asc have lower rates of post-operative sui. we describe an operation that increases bladder neck resistance in patients with urinary incontinence. this study aims to present an alternative technique with the use of a transobturator hybrid sling (autologous fascia lata with a synthetic sling) in two patients with complex urethral diverticulum (cud), urinary stress incontinence (sui) and a large incisional infraumbilical hernia. to evaluate the efficacy, complications, and managements of the readjustable midurethral sling (remeex system) for the treatment of recurrent stress urinary incontinence (sui) after previous anti-incontinence surgeries or intrinsic sphincter deficiency (isd). 
Does the use of atypical antipsychotics as adjunctive therapy in depression result in cost savings? [SEP] the american psychiatric association recommends adjunctive atypical antipsychotics as a treatment option when response to antidepressants is inadequate. compared with adjunctive olanzapine or quetiapine, adjunctive aripiprazole was associated with lower mean total and mental health-related medical costs and with lower odds of total and mental health-related hospitalizations in patients with depression. while the clinical utility of atypical antipsychotics has been established in patients with major depressive disorder (mdd) who are refractory to antidepressant therapy, their cost-effectiveness is unknown. analysis of data from both clinical and experimental studies allows a conclusion that atypical antipsychotics, such as aripiprazole (ari), may also be effective in treating depression in addition to antidepressants. atypical antipsychotic medications are widely prescribed for the adjunctive treatment of depression, yet their total risk-benefit profile is not well understood. we thus conducted a systematic review of the efficacy and safety profiles of atypical antipsychotic medications used for the adjunctive treatment of depression. atypical antipsychotic medications for the adjunctive treatment of depression are efficacious in reducing observer-rated depressive symptoms, but clinicians should interpret these findings cautiously in light of (1) the small-to-moderate-sized benefits, (2) the lack of benefit with regards to quality of life or functional impairment, and (3) the abundant evidence of potential treatment-related harm. several studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of adjunctive antidepressant drug therapy to improve the depressive or negative symptoms of schizoaffective disorder, however, monotherapy with atypical antipsychotics may be advantageous. atypical antipsychotics, which have fewer side effects than traditional antipsychotics, have been used as monotherapy or adjunctively with antidepressants to treat depressive disorders with or without psychotic symptoms. atypical antipsychotics are used as monotherapy or as augmentation therapy for management of late-life depression. 
Can patients be anticoagulated after intracerebral hemorrhage? [SEP] anticoagulants are widely used to prevent recurrence of ischemic stroke in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, but in some patients, they also cause bleeding, particularly intracranial hemorrhage. patients receiving anticoagulation therapy who present with any type of intracranial hemorrhage--including subdural hematoma, epidural hematoma, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and intracerebral hemorrhage (ich)--require urgent correction of their coagulopathy to prevent hemorrhage expansion, limit tissue damage, and facilitate surgical intervention as necessary. the focus of this review is acute ich, but the principles of management for anticoagulation-associated ich (aaich) apply to patients with all types of intracranial hemorrhage, whether acute or chronic. anticoagulation-treated patients presenting with intracranial hemorrhage, including subdural hematoma, epidural hematoma, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and intracerebral hemorrhage, require urgent correction of their coagulopathy to prevent worsening hemorrhage and to facilitate surgical intervention when necessary. the use of fixcc accelerated correction of warfarin-related anticoagulation in the presence of intracranial hemorrhage. anticoagulation-related intracerebral hemorrhage (ich) is often fatal, and rapid reversal of anticoagulation is the most appealing strategy currently available for treatment. intravenous thrombolysis is an effective treatment in acute stroke patients, but it increases the risk of intracerebral hemorrhages. intracerebral hemorrhage is a well-recognized complication of anticoagulation therapy. therapeutic anticoagulation can be safely accomplished in select patients with traumatic intracranial hemorrhage. therapeutic anticoagulation can be accomplished in select patients with intracranial hemorrhage, although close monitoring with serial ct scans is necessary to demonstrate stability of the hemorrhagic focus. 
Diagnostic and therapeutic ureteroscopy: is dilatation of ureteral meatus always necessary? [SEP] this study presents initial experience in endoscopic meatal dilatation of obstructive ureterocele in adult patients. endoscopic meatal dilatation of stenotic ureterocele in adult patients is safe and effective thus, try to find the orifice of ureterocele is suggested. an endourologic technique for a safe and adequate ureteral meatotomy has been devised. voiding urethrography with compression of the urethral meatus was evaluated as part of excretory urography in patients with symptoms involving the lower urinary tract. during ureteroscopy ureteral balloon dilation may be necessary to allow for passage of endoscopic instruments or access sheaths. we assessed the efficacy and complications associated with ureteral balloon dilation. a single ureteral stricture was attributable to balloon dilation. ureteral balloon dilation may decrease the need for a secondary procedure in patients undergoing ureteroscopy to manage proximal ureteral and intrarenal stones. the objective of this study was to describe the endoscopic oblique meatotomy technique using scissors and cold cutting to treat benign obstructive pathology of the ureterovesical junction. oblique ureteral meatotomy is a safe and effective treatment for benign obstructive pathology of the ureterovesical junction and has a low index of complications. 
Does managed care enable more low income persons to identify a usual source of care? [SEP] (1) to examine the effects of managed care on the likelihood of low-income persons having a usual source of care and a usual physician, and; (2) to examine the association between usual source of care and access. having a usual physician can be an effective tool in improving access to care for low-income populations, although it is most effective when combined with insurance coverage. however, the effectiveness of managed care in linking more low-income persons to a medical home is uncertain, and may have unintended consequences for uninsured persons. despite a recent policy emphasis on managed care as the preferred method of financing and delivering care to medicaid beneficiaries and other indigent populations, there is little information on the availability or the characteristics of primary care providers in low-income neighborhoods. without primary care availability, managed care's promise of greater access to quality care for low-income populations may fall short. hmo enrollees face lower financial barriers to care and are more likely to report a regular source of care than those enrolled in other types of insurance, but they are more likely to report access problems related to the organization of care delivery. studies reported on in this article suggest that the low-income population might be more effectively served, and at less expense, by health maintenance organizations that provide service on a prepaid, capitation basis. this datawatch examines the relationship between managed care enrollment and access to care for low-income adults with medicaid and compares their experience with that of low-income, privately insured managed care enrollees. medicaid managed care enrollees are more likely than low-income, privately insured managed care enrollees to be poorer, have health problems, and experience access problems. compared with low-income populations in fee-for-service care, managed care enrollees, whether in medicaid or privately insured, are not appreciably different in having a usual source of care, having a regular provider, or emergency room use but report more problems in obtaining care and are more likely to be dissatisfied with their health plans. 
Knee extensor strength, dynamic stability, and functional ambulation: are they related in Parkinson's disease? [SEP] knee extensor strength is an important correlate of physical function in patients with knee osteoarthritis; however, it remains unclear whether standing balance is also a correlate. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the cross-sectional associations of knee extensor strength, standing balance, and their interaction with physical function. these findings suggest that although standing balance was related to physical function in patients with knee osteoarthritis, this relationship was complex and dependent on knee extensor strength level. knee extensor strength and knee extension range of motion (rom) are important predictors of physical function in patients with a total knee arthroplasty (tka). the purpose of this study was to examine whether changes in knee extensor strength mediate the association between changes in knee extension rom and self-report physical function. mediation analyses, adjusted for clinicodemographic measures, revealed that the association between changes in knee extension rom and sf-36 physical function was mediated by changes in knee extensor strength. in patients with tka, knee extensor strength mediated the influence of knee extension rom on physical function. these results suggest that interventions to improve the range of knee extension may be useful in improving knee extensor performance. previous investigations have demonstrated leg strength deficits in persons with parkinson's disease (pd) as compared to neurologically-normal adults. measurements of knee extensor power may be a useful tool for clinicians when assessing and setting milestones during rehabilitation. 
Is distance to provider a barrier to care for medicaid patients with breast, colorectal, or lung cancer? [SEP] this study examined whether differences in state-level medicaid policies affect delays in time to surgery (tts) among women diagnosed with breast cancer. state-level medicaid policies and patient characteristics can affect receipt of timely surgery among medicaid beneficiaries with breast cancer. the distance patients travel for specialty care is an important barrier to health care access, particularly for those living in rural areas. in this insured population, travel distance to radiation facilities may pose a significant burden for breast cancer patients, particularly among those living in rural areas. we examined whether geographic distance, a contributor to urban-rural health disparities, differentially influences treatment initiation and completion among insured urban and rural cervical cancer patients. distance was an access barrier for insured cervical cancer patients in urban areas whereas rural patients may require more intensive outreach, support, and resources, even among those living closer to treatment. distance to oncology service providers and rurality may affect receipt of guideline-recommended radiation therapy (rt), but the extent to which these factors affect the care of medicare-insured patients is unknown. however, a recent study suggests that distance to care may affect urban and rural cancer patients differentially. healthcare systems must consider the diverse and differential barriers encountered by urban and rural residents to improve access to high quality cancer care. distance to provider may be an obstacle to chemotherapy for some groups of low-income colon cancer patients. 
Can folic acid protect against congenital heart defects in Down syndrome? [SEP] individuals with down syndrome are at high risk for congenital heart defects and have been shown to have abnormal folate metabolism. these data were used to determine whether a lack of periconceptional maternal folic acid supplementation is associated with congenital heart defects in down syndrome. lack of maternal folic acid supplementation was more frequent among infants with down syndrome and atrioventricular septal defects (odds ratio [or], 1.69; 95% confidence interval [ci], 1.08-2.63; p = 0.011) or atrial septal defects (or, 1.69; 95% ci, 1.11-2.58; p = 0.007) than among infants with down syndrome and no heart defect. our results suggest that lack of maternal folic acid supplementation is associated with septal defects in infants with down syndrome. the beneficial effect of additional folic acid in the periconceptional period to prevent neural tube defects, orofacial clefts, and conotruncal heart defects in the offspring has been shown. although the mechanisms remain unclear, multivitamins containing folic acid may also protect against other birth defects, including congenital heart defects. cardiac abnormalities are one of the most common congenital defects observed in individuals with down syndrome. considerable research has implicated both folate deficiency and genetic variation in folate pathway genes with birth defects, including both congenital heart defects (chd) and down syndrome (ds). several studies have suggested a protective effect of folic acid (fa) on congenital heart anomalies. down syndrome (ds) infants are known to have a high frequency of heart anomalies. 
Are there mental health differences between francophone and non-francophone populations in manitoba? [SEP] research suggests that canadian francophones living in minority contexts have little access to health services in french and are more likely to receive poorer health services. we examined whether francophones in one nova scotia (ns) community showed different patterns of health service use from anglophones in similar rural communities, or the ns population overall. francophones may experience poorer health due to social status, cultural differences in lifestyle and attitudes, and language barriers to health care. our study sought to compare mental health indicators between francophones and non-francophones living in the province of manitoba. outside urban areas, francophones had lower rates of diagnosed substance use disorder (rate ratio [rr] = 0.80; 95% ci 0.68 to 0.95) and of suicide and suicide attempts (rr = 0.59; 95% ci 0.43 to 0.79), compared with non-francophones, but no differences were found between the groups across the province in rates of diagnosed mood disorders, anxiety disorders, dementia, or any mental disorders after adjusting for age, sex, and geographic area. when surveyed, francophones were less likely than non-francophones to report that their mental health was excellent, very good, or good (66.9%, compared with 74.2%). the discrepancy in how francophones view their mental health and their rates of diagnosed mental disorders may be related to health seeking behaviours in the francophone population. it is important to understand cultural differences in patients' ideas about mental illness in treatment settings. the aim of the present study was to investigate differences in illness perceptions between māori and new zealand europeans diagnosed with schizophrenia. differences between māori and new zealand european patients' beliefs about their mental illness may be related to traditional māori beliefs about mental illness. 
Does type 1 diabetes mellitus affect Achilles tendon response to a 10 km run? [SEP] the load-response behaviour of tendons may be altered in type 1 diabetes mellitus (t1dm) as hyperglycaemia accelerates collagen cross-linking. previous research has shown that plantar fascia and achilles tendon thickness is increased in diabetes. this study shows that plantar fascia and achilles tendon thickness is increased in the early stages of type ii diabetes and that bmi is related more to plantar fascia than achilles tendon thickness. the prevalence of tendinopathies is increased in subjects with diabetes mellitus. the aim of the study was to assess the morphologic characteristics of the achilles tendon in subjects with diabetes in comparison with controls without diabetes. diabetes may predispose to achilles tendinopathy and particularly to achilles enthesopathy. in this case-control study we determined whether patients with diabetes had poorer ultrasonographic structure in their achilles tendons compared to age-matched controls. people with type 1 diabetes or type 2 diabetes, and age-matched controls, had computerised ultrasound tissue characterisation of both achilles tendons. af-value was higher in type 1 diabetes (1.55±0.17) than in their controls (1.39±0.18, p<0.001) and in type 2 diabetes (2.28±0.38) compared to their controls (1.84±0.32, p<0.001) achilles tendons of type 2 diabetes patients contained more echo-types iii+iv (14.1±7.9%) than matched controls (8.0±5.4%, p<0.001). type 2, and possibly type 1, diabetes patients showed poorer ultrasonographic achilles tendon structure that may be a risk factor for tendinopathy. 
Fragility of the esophageal mucosa: a pathognomonic endoscopic sign of primary eosinophilic esophagitis? [SEP] eosinophilic esophagitis is an immune-mediated chronic disease of the esophagus characterized by symptoms related to esophageal dysfunction and tissue eosinophilia. up to 2015, 48 cases of eosinophilic esophagitis and esophageal atresia were reported, with dysmotility, reflux, and long-term acid suppression involvement. eosinophilic esophagitis (eoe) is a rare disease of the esophagus that is characterized by eosinophilic infiltrate within the esophageal mucosa resulting in chronic inflammation and stenosis. eosinophilic esophagitis (eoe) is a clinico-pathological entity characterised by symptoms of esophageal dysfunction and eosinophilia on esophageal mucosal biopsies in the absence of other causes of esophageal eosinophilia. eosinophilic esophagitis (eoe) is a clinicopathological condition characterized clinically by symptoms of esophageal dysfunction, with typical endoscopic findings and intra-epithelial eosinophilia on biopsy. endoscopic examination of the upper gastrointestinal tract visualizes esophageal stenosis, and histological examination of the biopsy specimen reveals increased eosinophils in the esophageal mucosa. some patients with eosinophilic esophagitis (ee) (>15 eosinophils/high-power field on esophageal mucosal biopsies and lack of response to acid suppression and/or normal ph probe study) demonstrate incidental eosinophilic inflammation of the gastric mucosa. eosinophilic esophagitis (eoe) is an emerging disease defined by esophageal dysfunction, by typical endoscopic findings and by abnormal eosinophilic inflammation within the esophagus. eosinophilic esophagitis is specific disease that involves an isolated esophageal eosinophilic inflammation and clinical symptoms that do not respond to acid-suppression therapy or are associated with normal esophageal ph monitoring. eosinophilic esophagitis (eoe) is a clinicopathological condition characterized clinically by symptoms of esophageal dysfunction in the absence of acid reflux, with typical endoscopic findings and eosinophilia on biopsy. 
Does cup-cage reconstruction with oversized cups provide initial stability in THA for osteoporotic acetabular fractures? [SEP] total hip arthroplasty (tha) requires bone reconstruction in case of severe acetabular injury, with risk of dislocation, especially postoperatively. we questioned whether cementing a cage to the reconstructed acetabular defect and pelvis would improve the rate of mechanical failure for patients with type 3 defects (paprosky et al.) cementing the cage to the pelvis can offer an advantage for treating severe acetabular defects. the findings of this study may aid in the development and evaluation of fixation strategies for acetabular cups allowing geriatric acetabular fracture patients earlier weight bearing after primary hip arthroplasty. immediate total hip arthroplasty (tha) has potential advantages, but achieving acetabular component stability is challenging and, at early followup, reported revision rates for loosening are high. this study measured acetabular component stability and the initial surface contact achieved between the acetabular component and unfractured region of the pelvis after tha using an oversized acetabular component and cup-cage reconstruction. use of a dual mobility cup cemented in a acetabular reconstruction cage device limits the risk of instability and does not hinder the acetabular fixation during tha revisions. this study confirms the advantage of dual mobility cups during acetabular reconstruction cemented in antiprotrusio cages as a way to limit, without eliminating, the risk of dislocation. porous-coated cups have been widely used in acetabular reconstruction after failed treatment of acetabular fractures, and good results have been reported with the use of these cups; however, the durability and functionality of modular trabecular metal (tm) acetabular components in acetabular reconstruction after failed treatment of acetabular fractures remain unclear. we prospectively followed 53 hip revision acetabular arthroplasty procedures performed with trabecular metal cups for contained defects with 50% or less contact with native bone. 
Pulmonary valve replacement in adults late after repair of tetralogy of fallot: are we operating too late? [SEP] pulmonary valve replacement (pvr) is commonly performed late after tetralogy of fallot (tof) repair. pulmonary valve replacement is performed increasingly late after correction of tetralogy of fallot. background patients with repair of tetralogy of fallot (rtof) who are approaching adulthood often exhibit pulmonary valve regurgitation, leading to right ventricle (rv) dilatation and dysfunction. in this review, we will appraise the evidence supporting pulmonary valve replacement in the adult with repaired tetralogy of fallot, as well as the optimal timing and mode of intervention. pulmonary valve replacement (pvr) is being performed more commonly late after the correction of tetralogy of fallot. few topics in adult congenital heart disease have approached the level of scrutiny bestowed on pulmonary valve replacement (pvr) strategies late after tetralogy of fallot (tof) repair. pulmonary valve incompetence is usually well tolerated after tetralogy of fallot repair but may result in late progressive right heart failure as manifested by increasing fatigue, dyspnea, and frequently arrhythmias. all patients who underwent pulmonary valve replacement in our center late after repair of tetralogy of fallot were reviewed. pulmonary valve replacement is infrequently required after repair of tetralogy of fallot. as the population of patients who have had repair of tetralogy of fallot ages, pulmonary valve replacement will become a more frequent consideration. 
Xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis: a premalignant condition? [SEP] xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis is a chronic inflammatory disease of the gallbladder, a variant of the chronic cholecystitis. a focal type of xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis is found simultaneously with gastric cancer diagnosed preoperatively. etiopathologic factors of xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis might have relation with cancer, but xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis itself may not be the direct cause for cancer. xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis is a rare variant of chronic cholecystitis, which can involve adjacent organs including liver, colon and duodenum mimicking gallbladder cancer. herein, the authors report a new case of xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis concomitant with gallbladder adenocarcinoma in a 65-year-old female patient. xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis is a benign chronic inflammation of the gallbladder that can morphologically mimic carcinoma. xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis is an unusual and destructive form of chronic cholecystitis and is indistinguishable from other forms of cholecystitis which makes preoperative diagnosis and surgery difficult. to review the demographic and clinical aspects of xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis; to study the possibility of preoperative diagnosis and to identify the causes for difficult surgery. all cases histopathologically diagnosed as xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis over a period of six years from october 1999 to september 2005 at kasturba medical college hospital, manipal, india were included in the study. histologically, xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis was associated with malignancy in one (3.03%) patient. 
Does TDP-43 type confer a distinct pattern of atrophy in frontotemporal lobar degeneration? [SEP] abnormal processing of tar dna binding protein 43 (tdp-43) has been identified as a major factor in neuronal degeneration during amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als) or frontotemporal lobar degeneration (ftld). the majority of cases of frontotemporal lobar degeneration and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis are pathologically defined by the cleavage, cytoplasmic redistribution and aggregation of tar dna binding protein of 43 kda (tdp-43). frontotemporal lobar degeneration (ftld) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als) are types of major tdp-43 (43-kda tar dna-binding protein) proteinopathy. tar dna-binding protein 43 (tdp-43) is the disease protein in frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin-positive inclusions (ftld-u) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als). frontotemporal lobar degeneration (ftld) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als) are examples of tdp-43 proteinopathy. frontotemporal lobar degeneration with tdp-43 immunoreactive inclusions (ftld-tdp) may appear as sporadic (sftld-tdp) or linked to mutations in various genes including expansions of the non-coding region of c9orf72 (c9ftld). frontotemporal lobar degeneration (ftld) is pathologically heterogeneous with the tar dna binding protein 43 kda (tdp-43) proteinopathy the most common substrate. previous work has identified atrophy patterns across tdp-43 subtypes with type a showing greater frontotemporal and parietal atrophy, type c predominantly anterior temporal, and type b predominantly posterior frontal. tar dna-binding protein 43 (tdp-43) is a major pathological protein of sporadic and familial frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin-positive, tau-negative inclusions (ftld-u) with or without motor neuron disease (mnd). transactive response dna binding protein 43 (tdp-43) proteinopathy is the major hallmark of frontotemporal lobar degeneration and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. 
Is oncoplastic surgery a contraindication for accelerated partial breast radiation using the interstitial multicatheter brachytherapy method? [SEP] breast-conserving surgery followed by breast irradiation is generally considered to be contraindicated in such patients owing to the high cumulative radiation dose to the breast. prior therapeutic radiation to the breast region is considered an absolute contraindication to breast conservative surgery, and mastectomy is considered the treatment of choice. in later years, interstitial brachytherapy with rigid needles or multiple flexible catheters has been used to deliver an additional (boost) dose to the tumor bed after breast-conserving surgery and whole-breast irradiation. in the past two decades, the new concept of accelerated partial breast irradiation opened a new perspective for breast brachytherapy. the first technique utilized in early accelerated partial breast irradiation studies was multicatheter interstitial brachytherapy. in this article, we give an overview of the past achievements, current status, and future perspectives of breast brachytherapy. in such patients, breast conserving surgery (bcs) followed by breast irradiation is generally considered contraindicated owing to the high cumulative radiation dose. lumpectomy followed by breast irradiation is generally considered to be contraindicated in such patients owing to the high cumulative radiation dose to the breast. intraoperative radiotherapy (iort) is increasingly used during breast conserving surgery. the purpose of this analysis was to estimate secondary cancer risks after iort compared to other modalities of breast radiotherapy (apbi - accelerated partial breast irradiation, ebrt - external beam radiotherapy). 
Diagnostic characteristics of child bipolar I disorder: does the "Treatment of Early Age Mania (team)" sample generalize? [SEP] to evaluate the discriminative ability of the child behavior checklist (cbcl) to identify children with structured interview-derived diagnosis of bipolar disorder. we evaluated the convergence of cbcl scales with the diagnosis of mania in 31 children with mania, 120 children with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, and 77 prepubertal normal control children aged 12 years or younger. follow-up studies involving larger samples may conclusively estimate the biological specificity between pediatric bipolar disorder and other disorders, which overlap clinically. the authors compared axis i diagnoses in parents of children with narrow phenotype bipolar disorder and parents of youth with severe mood dysregulation. in recent years, increasing numbers of children have been diagnosed with bipolar disorder. an emerging literature compares children with severe mood dysregulation and those with bipolar disorder in longitudinal course, family history, and pathophysiology. phenomenological and treatment differences between children and adolescents with bipolar i disorder in a public mental health system were examined. this practice parameter reviews the literature on the assessment and treatment of children and adolescents with bipolar disorder. children who receive a diagnosis of bipolar disorder in community settings typically present with rapid fluctuations in mood and behavior, often associated with comorbid attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and disruptive behavior disorders. for pediatric patients with bipolar i disorder and symptoms of mania, medication monotherapy has been shown to lead to symptom amelioration. 
Estimation of basal metabolic rate in Chinese: are the current prediction equations applicable? [SEP] to develop predictive equations for basal metabolic rate (bmr) in healthy chinese adults and to evaluate factors that may influence bmr. measuring the bmr of chinese adults by indirect calorimetry. the better-fitting equation for predicting bmr in chinese adults is bmr = 13.88 x weight (kg) + 4.16 x height (cm) - 3.43 x age (years) - 112.40 x sex (men = 0; women = 1) +54.34. the equations developed in this study predict bmr more accurately for chinese adults. the equations developed in this study are recommended for clinical use in healthy chinese adults who are within normal limits for body weight. background the predictive value of adiposity indices and the newly developed index for cardiometabolic risk factors and cardiovascular diseases (cvds) remains unclear in the chinese population. this study aimed to measure the basal energy expenditure (bee) of chinese healthy adults and establish an accurate predictive equation for this population. the current recommendations on dietary energy requirements in china have been based on total energy expenditure (tee) derived from theoretical factorial calculations expressed as multiples of basal energy expenditure (bee). equations based on simple anthropometric measurements to predict body fat percentage (bf%) are lacking in chinese population with increasing prevalence of obesity and related abnormalities. (1) to examine the validity of existing prediction equations (pree) for estimating resting energy expenditure (ree) in obese chinese children, (2) to correlate the measured ree (mree) with anthropometric and biochemical parameters and (3) to derive a new pree for local use. 
Does rugby headgear prevent concussion? [SEP] objective multiple studies have illustrated that rugby headgear offers no statistically significant protection against concussions. however, there remains concern that many players believe rugby headgear in fact does prevent concussions. regression analysis illustrated that those who believed headgear prevented concussions were or would be more likely to engage in aggressive play (p = 0.001). conclusions nearly 40% of collegiate rugby players surveyed believed headgear helped to prevent concussions despite no scientific evidence that it does. those who believed headgear prevented concussion were, on average, 4 times more likely to play with increased aggressive form than those who believed headgear did not prevent concussions (p = 0.001). research has found protective headgear offers no significant protection against concussions but suggests a large proportion of players perceive headgear to be effective in preventing concussions. there appears to be a good awareness in uk players that protective headgear is not effective at preventing concussions. rugby is one of the few contact sports that do not mandate protective headgear, possibly because studies have shown poor efficacy for protection related to concussion pathology with existing headguards. this innovative headgear may prevent some of the negative sequel associated with concussion pathology. further research is required to determine the effectiveness of protective headgear in reducing the risk of injury in rugby, whether the use of headgear places a player at a greater risk of injury through altered behaviour and the reasons why players currently choose not to wear headgear. 
Spinal subdural hematoma: a sequela of a ruptured intracranial aneurysm? [SEP] spinal subarachnoid hemorrhages (sah) can extend into the intracranial subarachnoid space, but, severe cerebral vasospasm is rare complication of the extension of intracranial sah from a spinal subarachnoid hematoma. to report a case of an acute supratentorial subdural hemorrhage (sdh) of a previous head injury site and cerebellar hemorrhage, after an incidental dural tear during spine surgery. intracranial hemorrhage, such as subdural, cerebellar, subarachnoid, and epidural hemorrhage after a dural tear during spinal surgery, is a rare and poorly recognized complication. headache, nausea, and postoperative stupor after spinal surgery, especially after an accidental durotomy, should be considered possible indications of intracranial hemorrhage, and affected patients should be investigated with computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. intracranial aneurysm with the first manifestation of acute subdural hematoma (asdh) is rare in the field of neurosurgery. background: the most common cause of intracranial subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) is an intracranial aneurysm or other vascular lesion; however, spinal lesions have also been implicated. a patient with subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) due to rupture of a saccular aneurysm arising at the origin of the intradural intraspinal vertebral artery is presented. spinal subdural hematoma (sdh) secondary to intracranial aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) occurs rarely and can cause neurologic deficits. rupture of an intracranial aneurysm may cause symptomatic sdh in the lumbosacral spine as well as subarachnoid hematoma. the authors report the case of a spinal intradural schwannoma presenting with intracranial subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah). 
Can shape analysis differentiate free-floating internal carotid artery thrombus from atherosclerotic plaque in patients evaluated with CTA for stroke or transient ischemic attack? [SEP] patients presenting with transient ischemic attack or stroke may have symptom-related lesions on acute computed tomography angiography (cta) such as free-floating intraluminal thrombus (fft). the objective of our study is to determine whether quantitative shape analysis can accurately differentiate fft from atherosclerotic plaque. purpose to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy and reliability of computed tomographic (ct) angiography to distinguish true cervical internal carotid artery (ica) occlusion from pseudo-occlusion (defined as an isolated intracranial thrombus that impedes ascending blood flow) in the context of acute stroke. a lack of visualization of the proximal internal carotid artery (ica) on computed tomography angiography (cta) in acute ischemic stroke may be caused by an atherosclerotic occlusion or a pseudo-occlusion by a massive thrombus in the ica. computed tomographic angiography can provide accurate diagnosis and characterization of internal carotid thrombus and lead to prompt therapeutic intervention. we aimed to determine whether the angiographic characteristics of recently symptomatic carotid stenosis predict risk of subsequent ischaemic stroke independently of the degree of stenosis. first, two observers compared the angiographic characteristics of patients who subsequently suffered a carotid distribution ischaemic stroke ipsilateral to the stenosis (n = 50) with those of stroke-free controls (n = 100) matched for the degree of stenosis of the symptomatic internal carotid artery. atherosclerotic disease of the carotid artery is an important cause of ischemic stroke. we evaluated carotid plaque morphologic features by using cta in addition to stenosis in the setting of symptomatic hemispheric tia/stroke to identify factors that may predict plaque activity. six hundred seventy-three patients (408 men; ages, 18-91 years; mean, 65.8 +/- 15.2 years) presenting with hemispheric ischemic symptoms and having a cta that included imaging of both carotid arteries within 24 hours were studied. 
Dementia and aphasia in motor neuron disease: an underrecognised association? [SEP] cognitive impairment in the absence of lesions indicative of alzheimer's disease and other dementing conditions has long been recognized in a subgroup of patients with motor neuron disease mnd), including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. cognitive, and particularly aphasic, symptoms associated with motor neurone disease (mnd) are still frequently described as rare and "recently discovered". the association of motor neuron disease (mnd) with rapidly progressive aphasic dementia has been recognized as a distinct clinical syndrome within the group of frontotemporal dementias (ftds). we performed cognitive, neuro-imaging and neuropathological studies on a 71-year-old male with rapidly progressive aphasic dementia and mnd. frontotemporal dementia and motor neuron disease share clinical, genetic and pathological characteristics. biomarkers of motor system function were abnormal in frontotemporal dementia. the neurophysiological index was reduced in frontotemporal dementia (1.1) compared with controls (1.9, p < 0.001), indicating a degree of lower motor neuron dysfunction, although remained relatively preserved when compared with motor neuron disease (0.7, p < 0.05). motor system dysfunction in frontotemporal dementia may result from pathological involvement of the primary motor cortex, with secondary degeneration of lower motor neurons in the brainstem and anterior horn of the spinal cord. dementia is thought to be an uncommon complication of motor neuron disease (mnd). once thought to impact only voluntary motor function, als/motor neuron disease (mnd) is now seen as a multi-system disorder in which a minority of patients experience mild cognitive dysfunction or frontotemporal dementia. 
Does solid culture for tuberculosis influence clinical decision making in India? [SEP] tuberculosis (tb) remains a major public health problem in developing countries. the diagnosis of tuberculosis is still challenging in primary care settings in endemic countries like india. the aim of this multicentric prospective study in india was to assess the performance of the quantiferon tb-gold in tube (qft-git), tuberculin skin test (tst) and microbiological results as additional tools for diagnosing active tuberculosis (tb) and latent infection (ltbi) according to human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) status. in india, musculoskeletal tuberculosis (tb) accounts for 10%-25% of extrapulmonary tb. tuberculosis (tb) is india's major public health problem. a large number of tuberculosis cases are continuously being reported from india and other developing countries leading to high morbidity and mortality. india has a high burden of drug-resistant tuberculosis (tb), although there is little data on multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (mdr-tb). tuberculosis (tb) is one of the common infections in the world, especially in developing countries like india. multidrug resistance tuberculosis (mdr-tb) is an important public health problem for india but there is a paucity of data related to the prevalence of mdr-tb in india. for the purposes of comparison, pretreatment cultures from british patients with pulmonary tuberculosis were examined by the same series of identification tests.cultures identifiable as mammalian tubercle bacilli were obtained from all the 341 indian patients admitted to the chemotherapy study. 
Diffusion-weighted echo-planar MR imaging of primary parotid gland tumors: is a prediction of different histologic subtypes possible? [SEP] this study aimed to evaluate the value of diffusion-weighted imaging (dwi) and gadolinium-enhanced dynamic magnetic resonance imaging (mri) for differentiating benign and malignant parotid gland tumors, and for characterizing the various histological types (pleomorphic adenoma, and warthin's and malignant tumors). magnetic resonance imaging may have a place in the diagnostic work-up of parotid tumors. the purpose of this article is to illustrate the mr imaging findings of parotid tumors and to correlate them to pathologic findings. the mr imaging may be helpful in differentiation of benign and malignant tumors of the parotid gland, and can provide important clues in the diagnosis of their histologies. the aim of the present review is to evaluate conventional and functional/advanced mr methods, as well as multiparametric mri applications combining them in the diagnosis of parotid gland tumors. the role of dynamic magnetic resonance imaging (mri) in the preoperative differential diagnostics of parotid tumors is unclear. the aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between pathological classification of parotid gland tumors and conventional mri - diffusion-weighted imaging findings and also contribute the possible effect of apparent diffusion coefficient (adc) to diagnosis. our aim was to determine the value of echo-planar diffusion-weighted mr imaging (epidwi) in differentiating various types of primary parotid gland tumors. in 136 patients, a primary parotid gland tumor was confirmed by histology. to evaluate the diagnostic performance of histogram parameters derived from diffusion-weighted imaging (dwi) for differentiating malignant from benign parotid gland tumors compared with that of hotspot region of interest (roi)-based apparent diffusion coefficient (adc) measurement. 
Is there a role for endothelin-1 in the hemodynamic changes during hemodialysis? [SEP] there is mounting evidence that endothelin-1 (et-1) may play a vital role in these hemodynamic changes. this review focuses on the involvement of endothelin-1 in pathogenesis and pathophysiology of acute and chronic renal failure with regard to its hemodynamic and nonhemodynamic effects. higher plasma endothelin-1 is associated with adverse clinical events in patients receiving hemodialysis independent of previously described risk factors. to establish the role of endothelin-1 and nitric oxide in the pathogenesis of hypertension in patients on chronic hemodialysis by correlating endothelin-1 and no plasma concentrations to the level of arterial hypertension with respect to angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitor therapy. we determined plasma concentrations of endothelin-1 and no in patients on chronic hemodialysis (chd) before and after hemodialysis treatment. endothelin-1 plasma concentration was significantly higher in chd patients before hemodialysis treatment than in healthy controls. endothelin-1 plasma concentration was also significantly higher in chd patients after hemodialysis than in healthy controls. there was a significant decrease in endothelin-1 plasma concentration after hemodialysis in comparison with its values before hemodialysis. in chd patients, a positive correlation was found between endothelin-1 plasma concentration and systolic blood pressure after hemodialysis, irrespective of ace inhibitors therapy. no and endothelin-1 play a significant role in etiology of the hemodynamic changes of blood pressure during the dialysis. 
Do risk factors for suicidal behavior differ by affective disorder polarity? [SEP] although negative affect in general has been widely associated with suicide, the role of specific emotions and affect features in depression and suicidality is unclear. this study examined the potential of three major components of the affect structure as predictors of suicidal behavior. the influence of affective disorder polarity on subsequent suicide attempts or completions and any differential effect of suicide risk factors by polarity were assessed in a prospective cohort. mixed-effects, grouped-time survival analysis assessed risk of suicidal behavior and differential effects of risk factors for suicidal behavior by polarity. age, hopelessness and active substance abuse but not polarity predicted suicidal behavior. although depression and anxiety severity were univariate risk indicators for suicidal ideation and attempted suicide, only depression severity remained a risk indicator for suicidal ideation and attempted suicide in multivariate analyses. affective temperaments are associated with suicidal risk, but their predictive value relative to diagnosis of major affective disorder is uncertain. we compared diagnoses, affective-temperament ratings (temps-a), and other potential risk factors in 956 psychiatric inpatients, using bivariate analyses and multivariable logistic regression modeling for associations with suicidal status. measures of affective temperament-types were independently and more strongly associated with lifetime suicide attempt than was diagnosis of a major affective disorder. we also explored if other aspects of temperament relate to suicidality. 
Multidisciplinary breast cancer clinics. Do they work? [SEP] multidisciplinary clinics (mdcs) play a prominent role in coordinating complex cancer care delivered by multiple providers from different disciplines. the breast care consultation center (bccc) is a multidisciplinary center providing, in a single setting, a complete outpatient facility for women who have been diagnosed with or suspected of having breast cancer. a multidisciplinary team is ideal for the evaluation of breast lesions that are suspicious for malignancy as it provides one-stop shopping and same-day diagnosis and therapeutic decisions. through the concerted efforts of many patients, health-care providers, legislators, and other supporters, the past decade has seen the development of the first clinics dedicated to the care of patients with inflammatory breast cancer in the usa and other countries. the contemporary management of breast cancer is a complex endeavor that requires a truly collaborative team approach, characterized by ongoing communication and active information-sharing among the multiple disciplines involved. patients attending comprehensive breast centers receive care from a broad-based multidisciplinary team that most often includes surgeons, radiologists, pathologists, medical oncologists, radiation oncologists, plastic/reconstructive surgeons, primary care physicians, gynecologists, nurses, social workers, patient advocates, and genetic risk counselors. the comprehensive interdisciplinary breast center represents a model for delivering breast care in an efficient and cost-effective manner. it is a better way of caring for women with breast disease and allows for an interdisciplinary treatment by various specialists working and communicating with each other. as breast cancer care undergoes further changes, the comprehensive breast center facilitates progress and serves as a model for other disease-specific interdisciplinary programs. in an attempt to improve the care they provide for their patients with breast cancer, the authors' institution developed a multidisciplinary breast cancer clinic (mdbcc) to offer "one-stop shopping" consultation and support for newly diagnosed breast cancer patients. 
Is the international normalised ratio (INR) reliable? [SEP] reliable international normalized ratio (inr) determination depends on accurate values for international sensitivity index (isi) and mean normal prothrombin time (mnpt). local isi calibration can be performed to obtain reliable inr. the international normalized ratio (inr) was established as a means of standardizing the prothrombin time regardless of the thromboplastin used in the individual laboratories. when the international normalised ratio (inr) is used for control of oral anticoagulant therapy the same result should be obtained irrespective of the laboratory reagent used. the international normalized ratios (inr) system allows valid comparisons in results and quality of performance to be made between users of different thromboplastin reagents. the interlaboratory variation of the international normalized ratio (inr) in various external quality assessment schemes is still relatively high. it is hoped that calculation of the international normalized ratio (inr) from the isi will permit accuracy and conformity in reporting laboratory assays of warfarin effect even across a range of different techniques. an understanding of the international normalized ratio (inr)--which was developed to standardize reporting of the prothrombin time (pt) and provide consistent regulation of anticoagulation--is important. the international normalized ratio (inr) is widely used to monitor oral anticoagulation and to evaluate patients with coagulation disorders. this scale is called international normalized ratio (inr). 
Are there associations of health status, disease activity and damage in SLE patients? [SEP] a 2 year longitudinal observational study, measuring health status (short-form 36. visual analog scale for pain and fatigue, modified health assessment questionnaire, patient global assessment of disease activity), disease activity, and organ damage in 87 patients with sle. on a group level the sle patients showed stable health status measures and disease activity scores 2 years after baseline, but organ damage scores increased significantly. as well, to study possible correlations between health status measures and demographic and disease variables in the patients with sle. disease activity and organ damage were assessed in the patients with sle. our study showed that patients with sle and ra have a multidimensional involvement of health status compared to healthy controls. to examine the effect of disease activity and damage on health-related quality of life (hrqol) in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). to evaluate the relationship between self-reported quality of life and disease activity, damage, impairment, disability, and handicap in systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). the objective of this study was to determine the association between disease activity status and health-related quality of life (hrqol) in systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) patients. outcome in sle patients should include assessment of disease activity and chronic damage and also measurement of health-related quality of life and the economic impact of the disease. in 56 sle patients we assessed disease activity (sledai), functional limitations (haq), psychological distress (scl-90-r), defence styles (defence style questionnaire), hostility (hdhq), coping with health-stressors (sense of coherence scale) and hrqol (whoqol-bref). 
PSA repeatedly fluctuating levels are reassuring enough to avoid biopsy? [SEP] we prospectively evaluated whether free psa improves the specificity of psa and can be useful as a clinical guide to avoid repeat prostate biopsies in patients with persistent psa elevations, normal digital rectal examinations, and previous negative prostate biopsies. the use of serum prostate-specific antigen (psa) as a screening tool for prostate cancer in asymptomatic men is hugely controversial in the light of randomised controlled trials failing to demonstrate a benefit without risk of significant overtreatment. although prostate-specific antigen (psa) testing is common, little is known about the pattern of retesting by either psa values or subsequent prostate biopsies. poor follow-up of high psa values may lead to delayed diagnosis. the indications for repeat prostate biopsy for persistently increased prostate specific antigen (psa) in men with prostate cancer never detected on previous biopsy are not clear. to report the 2-year clinical and biochemical follow-up of symptomatic men who had a high prostate-specific-antigen (psa) level, for whom our policy has been to avoid biopsy in those with a normal repeat psa, as minimizing negative prostate biopsies is an important goal in managing men with a high psa, where the decision for biopsy based on one high value may be inappropriate. in symptomatic men referred with a raised psa level and who have a normal dre and normal repeat psa, prostatic biopsy can be safely avoided. patients with persistent psa elevations, normal digital rectal examinations, and multiple negative biopsies present a clinical dilemma. a total of 115 cases with negative repeat biopsy were followed by evaluating psa kinetics and ratio of percent free psa (f/t) and by performing second repeat biopsy. to avoid unnecessary repeat biopsies, cases with a suspicion of cancer after negative biopsy can be divided into two groups: one that requires additional biopsies and one with an average change in psa of <1 ng/ml/year and no change in f/t, which is recommended for surveillance as stable disease without biopsy over a specified time period. 
Is zero central line-associated bloodstream infection rate sustainable? [SEP] central line-associated bloodstream infection (clabsi, hereafter referred to in this paper as "bloodstream infection") is a leading cause of hospital-acquired infection. the rate of bloodstream infection associated with central venous catheters placed in the ed was 1.93 per 1,000 catheter-days (95% confidence interval 0.50 to 3.36). central line-associated bloodstream infection (clabsis) is an important healthcare-associated infection in the critical care units. this was a multicenter, quasiexperimental, 140-month, acute care study comparing central line-associated bloodstream infection rates associated with positive or negative intravenous connectors to a zero fluid displacement connector. a decrease in central line-associated bloodstream infections was found after changing from either negative or positive intravenous connectors to the zero fluid displacement connector (p = .004) with total cost savings of over $3 million. central line-associated bloodstream infections (clabsis) have been reduced in number but not eliminated in our intensive care units with use of central line bundles. despite successful efforts to improve overall central line-associated bloodstream infections (clabsi) rates, little is known about clabsi rates or even central venous catheter insertion practices in the emergency department. intravenous needleless connectors (ncs) with a desired patient safety design may facilitate effective intravenous line care and reduce the risk for central line-associated bloodstream infection (cla-bsi). we performed a prospective, observational study to determine the rate of central line-associated bloodstream infection (clabsi) and cvc occlusion using a negative displacement connector with an alcohol disinfecting cap. we initiated surveillance for central line-associated bloodstream infections (clabsis) outside the icu setting and studied the impact of a multimodal intervention on the incidence of clabsis across multiple hospitals. 
Is gastric electrical stimulation superior to standard pharmacologic therapy in improving GI symptoms, healthcare resources, and long-term health care benefits? [SEP] studies performed to date have shown that electrical stimulation of the stomach and intestines can create or modulate motility functions in the gastrointestinal (gi) tract. therefore, electrical stimulation of gi organs may become a valuable alternative to medication and surgical approaches in the treatment of gi motor dysfunctions. despite such limitations, gastric electrical stimulation remains a helpful intervention in some patients with severe gastroparesis who fail to respond to medical therapy. gastric electrical stimulation (ges) has been suggested as a therapy for patients with gastric motility disorders or morbid obesity. gastric electrical stimulation (ges) is a low-morbidity treatment option that may be effective for refractory symptoms in patients with gastroparesis of diabetic or idiopathic etiology. high-frequency gastric electrical stimulation is a new therapeutic option to improve refractory nausea and vomiting, in gastroparetic patients. therefore, we have hypothesized that high-frequency gastric electrical stimulation could be also effective in patients suffering from refractory vomiting and nausea with normal gastric emptying, and we have compared the symptomatic efficacy of high-frequency gastric electrical stimulation between patients with delayed and normal gastric emptying. our results suggest that high-frequency gastric electrical stimulation could be an effective therapy for treating chronic, severe vomiting and nausea whether gastric emptying is delayed or not. gastric electrical stimulation has been proposed as a therapeutic option. we have assessed the effect of gastric electrical stimulation on symptoms, medical treatment, body weight and gastric emptying in patients with intractable symptomatic gastroparesis in a non-placebo-controlled study. 
Should pulp chamber pulpotomy be seen as a permanent treatment? [SEP] pulp capping/pulpotomy procedures, where all or part of the pulp is retained, relies upon an accurate assessment of the pulp condition, and the careful management of the remaining healthy tissue. the aim of this article is to provide an overview of the aetiology of pulp disease in immature teeth and to review current evidence of the outcome of conservative pulp treatment. however, this clinical treatment protocol should be considered a permanent procedure? pulpotomy is the amputation of coronally infected pulp tissue to maintain the vitality and function of the radicular pulp. partial pulpotomy (cvek pulpotomy) is the treatment of choice for injured permanent incisor teeth with exposed vital pulp tissue and immature apices. in such cases, the preferred treatment modality is pulpectomy. the objective of pulpectomy is complete removal of necrotic and irreversibly infected pulp of an affected tooth but, in spite of chemomechanical preparation and copious irrigation of canal, there are chances of failure of pulp therapy due to the entrapped micro organisms in the canal space owing to the tortuous and complex nature of the root canal system and change in their morphology with root resorption. however, permanent tooth pulpotomy with the new calcium-silicate based cements (mineral trioxide aggregate and biodentine) can help preserve the tooth pulp vitality and promote healing and repair foregoing the more invasive root canal therapy procedure. these include direct and indirect pulp capping, pulpotomy or pulpectomy. these include direct and indirect pulp capping, pulpotomy or pulpectomy. 
Does transverse apex coincide with coronal apex levels (regional or global) in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis? [SEP] to identify radiographically if there is a correlation of the sagittal thoracolumbar alignment to the axial vertebral rotation and coronal scoliotic curvature in thoracolumbar/lumbar (tl/l) adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (ais). to evaluate the impact of proximal thoracic segment (t1-t5) on global thoracic kyphosis, as well as its influence on cervical alignment (lordotic, kyphotic or straight) in patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (ais). to determine if differences exist in the sagittal alignment of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (ais) patients with thoracic versus thoracolumbar curve patterns. an increased pelvic incidence, associated with both thoracic and thoracolumbar curves when compared with the normal adolescent population, does not appear to be the potential determinant of the development of thoracic versus thoracolumbar scoliosis, but may be a risk factor for the development of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. one of the characteristics of reported observations in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (ais) is that the thoracic spine is longer anteriorly than posteriorly, more pronounced around the apex than the transitional zones. adolescent idiopathic scoliosis is a trunk deformity of the spine with lateral deviation and rotation in the transverse plane. although this method is widely accepted as the benchmark in scoliosis assessment, it has some limitations and restrictions in practical applications because it is measured on a pa (posterior-anterior or back to front) x-ray image, such as potential harmfulness from radiation exposure and high cost.in this paper, a novel evaluation index for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis measurement and diagnosis is introduced to complement the existing assessment index, such as the cobb's angle, the differences of shoulder height, etc. vertebral anterior overgrowth has been suggested as part of the etio-pathogenesis of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (ais). morphological changes in the scoliotic vertebrae, measured as anterior-posterior differences in the vertebral height, are related to the sagittal spinal profile suggesting the morphology of the vertebra contributes to the sagittal curvatures of the spine in ais; nonetheless, such relationship between the vertebral morphology and the sagittal profile was not evident in non-scoliotic controls. a long thoracolumbar sagittal rectitude is sometimes present in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. 
Does the Child Health Computing System adequately identify children with cerebral palsy? [SEP] this paper assesses the usefulness of the child health computing system as a source of information about children with cerebral palsy. a comparative survey of information held on the child health computing system (chcs) and the northern ireland cerebral palsy register (nicpr) in one health and social services board in northern ireland was carried out. the sample comprised children with cerebral palsy aged 5-9 years. unless improvements are made in case ascertainment, case validation and recording activities, the evidence suggests that the chcs will not be able to provide the same quality of information for needs assessment and surveillance of very low birthweight infants in relation to cerebral palsy as is provided by a specialist case register. neuro imaging is currently recommended as a standard evaluation in children with cerebral palsy. though diagnosis of cerebral palsy is essentially clinical, neuro imaging improves the understanding of the neuro-anatomical basis for function in cp. in this study, a population-based comprehensive cerebral palsy registry was used to identify children whose cerebral palsy could be attributed to a cerebral malformation. the clinical features of these children were then compared with other children with cerebral palsy. data on 9654 children with cp born between 1976 and 1998 and registered in 17 european registers belonging to the scpe network (surveillance of cerebral palsy in europe) were analyzed. cerebral palsy (cp) is the most common significant motor impairment in childhood. 
Are we seeing the effects of public awareness campaigns? [SEP] monitoring awareness of a public education campaign can help to better understand the extent of sustained population-level exposure to the campaign. the impact of awareness campaigns and behavioral responses on epidemic outbreaks has been reported at times. how effective are such campaigns in changing health-related attitudes and behaviors, however, and how has the literature in this area progressed over the past decade? first, i discuss the importance of health mass media campaigns and raise the question of whether they are capable of effectively impacting public health. the overriding conclusion is the following: the literature is beginning to amass evidence that targeted, well-executed health mass media campaigns can have small-to-moderate effects not only on health knowledge, beliefs, and attitudes, but on behaviors as well, which can translate into major public health impact given the wide reach of mass media. policy interventions such as public health mass media campaigns disseminate messages in order to improve health-related knowledge, attitudes, beliefs and behaviors at the population level. these findings have important implications for framing messages in public health campaigns to address obesity, and suggest that certain types of messages may lead to increased motivation for behavior change among the public, whereas others may be perceived as stigmatizing and instill less motivation to improve health. health promotion campaigns are used to raise awareness about health issues with the purpose of improving health outcomes and community wellbeing. they are important for increasing community awareness of health behavior changes. evidence strongly suggests that public health communication campaigns can succeed in changing health-related cognitions and behaviors. 
Is breast cancer prognosis inherited? [SEP] retrospective studies provide conflicting interpretations of the effect of inherited genetic factors on the prognosis of patients with breast cancer. several lines of evidence suggest that alleles influencing breast cancer risk might also be associated with breast cancer survival. in conclusion, we show that there is little overlap between the breast cancer risk single nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) identified so far and the snps associated with breast cancer prognosis, with the possible exceptions of lsp1-rs3817198 and tnrc9-rs3803662. population-based studies have shown a concordance of breast cancer survival among first-degree relatives (fdrs), suggesting a heritable component. breast cancer patients in the poor familial survival risk group were more likely to be diagnosed at later stages than those in the good familial survival risk group. our study shows that breast cancer prognosis clusters within families and suggests that the hereditary component is independent of patient and tumor characteristics and type of treatment. prognosis in breast cancer is one of the most important subjects currently studied because of the heterogeneity of the disease even inside the same clinical stage. several studies have investigated prognosis among brca1/2 mutation carriers and noncarriers, but the prognostic impact on outcomes of breast cancer patients has not been determined. women diagnosed with breast cancer have heterogeneous survival outcomes that cannot be fully explained by known prognostic factors, and germline variation is a plausible but unconfirmed risk factor. in this article we discuss why family history is no substitute for hereditary breast cancer with regard to studying survival and possible reasons why studies using family history yield contradictory results, why brca2-associated breast cancer should be considered a unique entity, and what methodological problems may exist, especially with regard to family-based studies. 
Does nuchal translucency thickness in the first trimester predict GDM onset during pregnancy? [SEP] this study was planned to evaluate whether increased nuchal translucency (nt) thickness in the first trimester of gestation can be related to onset of gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm) during pregnancy. this study aims to research whether there is a relationship between first trimester nuchal translucency (nt) measurements and pregnancy complications such as gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm), gestational hypertension (ght), intrauterine growth restriction (iugr) and oligohydramnios. nuchal translucency (nt) thickness is one of the major screening markers during the first trimester that could be influenced by several factors. to compare the nuchal translucency (nt) thickness at 11-14 weeks of gestation in women who will later develop gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm) with that of women with normal glucose tolerance (ngt) in the second trimester of pregnancy. increased fetal nuchal translucency measured in the first trimester is associated with an elevated frequency of chromosomal abnormalities, yet no reference intervals for transvaginal sonographic measurements of fetal nuchal translucency in that period of development have been established. an increased nuchal translucency (nt) thickness at 11 to 14 weeks gestational age is a common finding for down syndrome, trisomy 18 and cardiac defects. the current study was designed to evaluate whether increased nuchal translucency can predict gestational diabetes mellitus. in conclusion, increased nuchal translucency seems to be predictive for impaired glucose tolerance and macrosomia, which are associated with gestational diabetes mellitus. with the observation of alterations in biochemical markers in pregnancies conceived after assisted reproduction, this review presents current information related to the thickness of nuchal translucency in these pregnancies. this study aimed to evaluate whether higher serum tg level during early first trimester is associated with gdm. 
Are the arginine vasopressin V1a receptor microsatellites related to hypersexuality in children with a prepubertal and early adolescent bipolar disorder phenotype? [SEP] the vasopressin v1b receptor (avpr1b) gene has been shown to be closely associated with bipolar disorder and depression. arginine vasopressin has been shown to affect social and emotional behaviors, which is mediated by the arginine vasopressin receptor (avpr1a). genes involved in the regulation of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis are responsible for altered susceptibility to mood disorders. the aim of this study was to analyze the possible association of crhr1 and avpr1b gene variants with bipolar disorder and major depressive disorder (mdd). polymorphisms of crhr1 and avpr1b may modify susceptibility to mood disorders. variation in the avpr1a gene, which codes for a receptor for the neurohormone vasopressin, has been found to relate to autism risk. vagal reactivity to stress in children has been associated with future psychiatric outcomes. differences in cortisol secretion may differentiate individuals at high compared to low genetic risk for bipolar disorder (bd) and predict the onset or recurrence of mood episodes. the arginine vasopressin (avp) system plays an important role in social behavior. affective neuroscience research that investigates core symptoms of pediatric bipolar disorder (pbd) may be effective in differentiating pbd phenotypes. 
Stage I non-small cell lung carcinoma: really an early stage? [SEP] the american joint committee on cancer defines stage i non-small cell lung carcinoma (nsclc) as consisting of patients with a t1 or t2 primary tumor designation and no evidence of hilar or mediastinal nodal disease (n0) or metastatic spread (m0). resection is the treatment of choice for patients with stage i non-small cell lung cancer. stage i non-small cell lung cancer has been further subdivided into ia (t1n0m0, tumor size < or = 3 cm without visceral pleural invasion) and ib (t2n0m0, tumor size > 3 cm or any size with visceral pleural invasion). the aim of this study was to evaluate the prognostic factors in patients with resected stage i non-small cell lung cancer with a diameter of 3 cm or less. we retrospectively reviewed the clinicopathologic characteristics of 445 patients with resected stage i non-small cell lung cancer with a diameter of 3 cm or less who were treated at taipei veterans general hospital between 1980 and 2000. stage ia non small cell lung carcinoma (nsclc) represents early cancer and is best treated by surgery. we analyzed 335 cases of pathologic stage ia non-small cell lung carcinoma treated between 1988 and 2003 by complete resection. the pathologic stage ia non-small cell lung carcinomas comprised 259 adenocarcinomas, 65 squamous cell carcinomas, and 11 large cell neuroendocrine carcinomas. detection of early stage non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) is commonly believed to be incidental. early lung adenocarcinoma is well-recognized as a small-sized non-invasive adenocarcinoma or localized non-mucinous bronchioloalveolar carcinoma (lnmbac); however, the molecular events associated with these early lesions are not clear. 
Does Residency Selection Criteria Predict Performance in Orthopaedic Surgery Residency? [SEP] factors that are consistently ranked as being important in the selection of candidates into orthopaedic residency programs include performance during orthopaedic rotation, united states medical licensing examination (usmle) step 1 score, alpha omega alpha honor medical society membership, medical school class rank, interview performance, and letters of recommendation. high usmle step 1 scores have been shown to correlate with high orthopaedic in-training examination scores and improved surgical skill ratings during residency, whereas higher numbers of medical school clinical honors grades have been correlated to higher overall resident performance, higher residency interpersonal skills grading, higher resident knowledge grading, and higher surgical skills evaluations. orthopaedic residency programs have members of the resident selection committee review medical school performance measures for the purpose of screening candidates to interview and, subsequently, include on their rank order lists for the residency match process. the purpose of this study was to identify the surgical procedures most frequently performed in orthopaedic residency and in early surgical practice and to identify surgical procedures performed more often or less often in orthopaedic residency compared with early surgical practice. however, these traditional objective measures show mixed correlation to clinical success in orthopedic surgery residency. this review aims to summarize the current understanding of non-cognitive factors influencing performance in orthopaedic surgical residency. to examine this question, residents in an orthopedic residency program were tracked for one year, and their activities were compared with the procedure requirements established by the residency review committee (rrc) for orthopaedic surgery. orthopaedic surgery has an extremely competitive residency selection process. the authors discuss which attributes of an orthopaedic surgery residency applicant are the most important in obtaining a position. the most important attributes to obtaining a residency were performance on a local rotation (externship), class rank, and interview performance according to faculty. 
Optimism and survival: does an optimistic outlook predict better survival at advanced ages? [SEP] growing research finds that higher optimism is associated with lower mortality, yet it is critical to understand whether this prolonged longevity is accompanied by good health. this study tested whether higher optimism was associated with increased likelihood of healthy aging. higher optimism was associated with increased likelihood of healthy aging, suggesting that optimism, a potentially modifiable health asset, merits further research for its potential to improve health in aging. the aim of this study was to examine whether an optimistic outlook predicts survival among the oldest-old. an optimistic outlook appears to be a significant predictor of survival among the oldest-old women. maintaining good cognitive function is important for successful aging, and it has been suggested recently that having and optimistic outlook may also be valuable. higher levels of optimism have been related prospectively to better subjective well-being in times of adversity or difficulty (i.e., controlling for previous well-being). dispositional optimism, defined as a generalized tendency to positive outcome expectancies, is associated with well-being and successful aging. using longitudinal data from the berlin aging study, the authors examined whether future orientation and optimism change in older adults (70-104 years) and whether changes in future perception precede changes in well-being. we aimed to determine whether dispositional optimism is a stable trait over time and whether it is independently related to lower cardiovascular mortality in elderly men. 
Is it better to be big? [SEP] the answers are legion; here i examine why bigger bodies represent survival skill, and how this power symbolism is embodied by behaviors that guide larger persons toward the top of the social hierarchy. bigness is a complex concept comprising tallness, boniness, muscularity and fattiness. data show that most people worldwide want to be big--both tall and fat. we examined whether the apparent size of an object is scaled to the morphology of the relevant body part with which one intends to act on it. it has become increasingly clear that a larger brain can confer cognitive benefits. we therefore hypothesize that a larger brain is especially beneficial for distinct and gradually more complex aspects of cognition. large-brained individuals are hence cognitively more flexible, which probably yields fitness benefits, as they may adapt more quickly to social and/or ecological cognitive challenges. our results also suggest that a larger brain becomes especially advantageous with increasing cognitive complexity. despite considerable interest in the forces shaping the relationship between brain size and cognitive abilities, it remains controversial whether larger-brained animals are, indeed, better problem-solvers. here, using a global database of 493 species, we provide evidence showing that mammals with enlarged brains (relative to their body size) live longer and have a longer reproductive lifespan. 
Is arch form influenced by sagittal molar relationship or Bolton tooth-size discrepancy? [SEP] this study was done to investigate if dental arch widths correlated with vertical facial types and if there are any differences in arch widths between untreated male and female adults in south indian population. the results showed that male arch widths were significantly larger than those of females (p < 0.05) and there was a significant decrease in inter arch width as the mp-sn angle increased in untreated adult south indian population. it was concluded that the dental arch width is associated with gender, race and vertical facial morphology. tooth size discrepancies of the maxillary and mandibular arches is an important factor for achieving this goal. the aim of this study was to determine the relationship between the bolton overall and anterior ratio and the relationship between first molars according to the angle classification, and the size of overjet and overbite. tooth size and morphology of anterior teeth influence interarch relationships. this thickness-adjusted ratio provides a superior prediction for the sum of anterior tooth width compared with the bolton analysis. dental arch form is one of the most important characteristics of dentition. the objectives of this study were to investigate if a relationship exists between the dental arch width (transverse dimension) and sagittal skeletal and dental parameters in orthodontic patients. according to statistical analysis a significant positive correlation between sagittal parameters and arch width measures exists between sna and uicw and between licw and lal. 
Cold knife conization vs. LEEP. Are they the same procedure? [SEP] currently, there are two methods of cervical conization, the laser and the cold knife. to determine whether cold knife conization (ckc) or loop electrosurgical excisional procedure (leep) is the better option for the treatment of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) under specific circumstances. for instance, we can perform conization using a traditional "cold knife" (scalpel), co2 laser with focal bundle, radiothermic or fine needle electroconization (loop electrosurgical excision procedure-leep-; large loop excision of transition zone-lletz-). traditional cold knife conization has been replaced by laser conization and by the loop electrosurgical excisional procedure (leep). patients undergoing leep were at higher risk of having positive surgical margins in comparison to patients undergoing laser conization (11.2% vs. 4.2%). to compare the short-term outcome of cold-knife conization between suture and non-suture (with monsel's solution pack) methods. between february, 1990 and march, 1992, 142 patients underwent cold-knife conization were randomly allocated into 2 groups. cold knife conization is a surgical procedure that allows both diagnosis and treatment of cervical lesions at the same time. cases that underwent cold knife conization for cin2/3 within the study period were included. a total of 173 women underwent cold knife conization for cin2/3 within the study period. 
Are pectins involved in cold acclimation and de-acclimation of winter oil-seed rape plants? [SEP] the hypothesis was tested that pectin content and methylation degree participate in regulation of cell wall mechanical properties and in this way may affect tissue growth and freezing resistance over the course of plant cold acclimation and de-acclimation. de-acclimation promoted leaf expansion and reversed most of the cold-induced effects, with the exception of pectin methylesterase activity. the results show that the temperature-dependent modifications in pectin content and their methyl esterification degree correlate with changes in tensile strength of a leaf tissue, and in this way affect leaf expansion ability and its resistance to freezing and to fungus pathogens. a possible role of photosynthetic apparatus during cold de-acclimation was studied in oilseed rape (brassica napus var. studies of differences in transcriptional levels of winter rapeseed (brassica rapa l.) under cold stress can improve our understanding of transcript-mediated cold stress responses. in this study, two winter rapeseed varieties, longyou-7 (cold-tolerant) and lenox (cold-sensitive), were used to reveal morphological, physiological, and transcriptome levels after 24 h of cold stress, and 24 h at room temperature, to identify the mechanism of tolerance to cold stress. fully cold-acclimated seedlings of winter (with incomplete vernalization) and spring oilseed rape were subjected to deacclimation under temperatures of 2/12, 12/2, 12/12, 12/20, 20/12 and 20/20 degrees c (day/night) and a 12 h photoperiod. both spring and winter cultivars of oilseed rape reached the maximal frost resistance after 6 weeks at +5 degrees c. photosynthetic apparatus of both cultivars acclimated to functioning in cold. in this study, the effects of γ-pga on the physiological responses of rape seedlings subject to cold stress were investigated using hydroponic experiments. in conclusion, we suggest that the ca(2+)/cpks signal pathway is involved in the γ-pga-mediated enhancement of cold resistance in rape seedlings. 
Updating emotional content in working memory: a depression-specific deficit? [SEP] previous research has demonstrated that depressed individuals are less able than are nondepressed persons to expel irrelevant negative information from working memory (wm), thereby exacerbating the effects of negative content on cognition. findings indicate that a valence-specific deficit in wm may contribute to the inability of depressed individuals to regulate emotion, and provide empirical support for formulations that implicate positive insensitivity in the maintenance of depression. the present study examined the impacts of major depressive disorder (mdd) on visual and prefrontal cortical activity as well as their connectivity during visual working memory updating and related them to the core clinical features of the disorder. impairment in working memory updating is typically associated with the retention of irrelevant negative information which can lead to persistent depressive mood and abnormal affect. these results highlight the role of information updating deficits in the cognitive control and symptomatology of depression. these findings suggest that memory deficits for positive information associated with depression are related to how this information is initially processed. difficulties in the ability to update stimuli in working memory (wm) may underlie the problems with regulating emotions that lead to the development and perpetuation of mood disorders such as depression. to examine the ability to update affective material in wm, the authors had diagnosed depressed and never-disordered control participants perform an emotion 2-back task in which participants were presented with a series of happy, sad, and neutral faces and were asked to indicate whether the current face had the same (match-set) or different (break-set or no-set) emotional expression as that presented 2 faces earlier. after transforming reaction times to control for baseline group differences, depressed and nondepressed participants exhibited biases in updating emotional content that reflects the tendency to keep negative information and positive information, respectively, active in wm. in this study we investigated whether depression symptom severity is associated with disengagement from a working memory task (paced auditory serial addition task; pasat) with parametric adjustment of task difficulty. 
Does ultrasound imaging before puncture facilitate internal jugular vein cannulation? [SEP] ultrasound-guided internal jugular vein (ijv) cannulation is known for increasing success rate and decreasing rate of complications. ultrasound guidance is recommended for cannulation of the internal jugular vein. systematic use of ultrasound guidance has improved clinical success rates and reduced complications, but better knowledge of topographic relationships of the internal jugular vein and common carotid artery is desirable. to investigate whether prepuncture ultrasound evaluation of vascular anatomy facilitates internal jugular vein cannulation compared with landmark-guided puncture. the right internal jugular vein was cannulated using either anatomic landmarks or prepuncture ultrasound (3.75/7.5 mhz) guidance. prepuncture ultrasound evaluation did not improve the result of right internal jugular vein cannulation compared with the respiratory jugular venodilation-guided approach. point-of-care ultrasound guidance using a linear probe is well established as a tool to increase safety when performing a supradiaphragmatic cannulation of the internal jugular central vein. ultrasound guidance for cannulation of the internal jugular vein has been shown to increase the success rate and reduce the incidence of complications in infants and children. we compared the use of a small caliber audio-doppler probe with an ultrasound scanner for cannulation of a central venous (cv) line via the right internal jugular vein in infants and children. ultrasound-guided ijv cannulation in neurosurgical patients at risk for intracranial hypertension does not impair significantly jugular venous flow and indirectly cerebral venous return. 
Should prostate specific antigen be adjusted for body mass index? [SEP] body mass index (bmi) may alter serum prostate specific antigen (psa) and percent free psa (%fpsa) and may mask the risk of prostate cancer. body mass index does not affect psa or %fpsa in men without known prostate cancer, who undergo prostate cancer screening. higher body mass index is linked to lower prostate specific antigen. this has given rise to concerns that prostate specific antigen may be less reliable for predicting prostate cancer among obese men. we tested the accuracy of prebiopsy prostate specific antigen for predicting prostate cancer across body mass index categories. mean adjusted prostate specific antigen for normal weight, overweight and obese subjects on placebo was 7.73, 7.17 and 6.79 ng/ml (p-trend=0.192), and on dutasteride 3.16, 2.93 and 2.62 ng/ml (p=0.008). in a multiethnic cohort of participants in a prostate cancer-screening clinic, obesity was associated with decreased psa levels. we propose including body mass index in clinical decision-making for appropriate treatment recommendation for patients with low-intermediate risk pca. to evaluate the effect of the body mass index (bmi) as it relates to the predictive value of the preoperative prostate-specific antigen (psa) level regarding the tumor volume at radical prostatectomy. we evaluated the association of body mass index (bmi) with prostate cancer, biopsy gleason sum, and amount of cancer using logistic and linear regression analyses adjusting for age at biopsy, race, prostate-specific antigen level, digital rectal examination findings, and prostate volume among 787 consecutive men undergoing prostate biopsy between 1998 and 2002 at an equal-access medical center. 
Does obstructive sleep apnea affect aerobic fitness? [SEP] current research is inconclusive as to whether obstructive sleep apnea severity directly limits exercise capacity and lowers health-related quality of life (hrqol). the aim of this study was to evaluate the association of obstructive sleep apnea severity with determinants of exercise capacity and hrqol. greater obstructive sleep apnea severity was associated with older age, higher body weight, higher body mass index, lower peak aerobic capacity, a higher percentage of peak aerobic capacity at a submaximal exercise intensity of 55 watts, and lower physical component summary score from the sf-36. obstructive sleep apnea severity has no independent association with exercise capacity or hrqol. exercise capacity is impaired in obstructive sleep apnea (osa). preliminary evidence suggests that treatment with nocturnal continuous positive airway pressure (ncpap) may improve dyspnea in obese patients with obstructive sleep apnea (osa), but the effect on exercise tolerance is unknown. responses to exercise by patients with obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (osas) are clinically relevant to reducing body weight and cardiovascular risk factors. most of the associated comorbidities and causes of these sleep disorders are known to negatively impact cardiorespiratory fitness; however, little is known about the direct relationships between cardiorespiratory fitness, obstructive sleep apnea and central sleep apnea. this article provides a systematic analysis of existing peer reviewed, published clinical studies pertaining to the relationship between cardiorespiratory fitness and sleep-related breathing disorders in adults. in obstructive sleep apnea (osa), recurrent obstruction of the upper airway leads to intermittent hypoxia (ih) during sleep, which can result in impairment of cardiac function. 
The effect of an intracerebroventricular injection of metformin or AICAR on the plasma concentrations of melatonin in the ewe: potential involvement of AMPK? [SEP] the relations between the circadian rhythms of melatonin and prolactin, and the effect of melatonin infused into the third ventricle or the mediobasal hypothalamus (mbh) on prolactin secretion and dopamine (da) release were studied in anestrous ewes under increasing daylength conditions. these data suggest that short-term infusions of melatonin stimulate the secretion of prolactin in the ewe under increasing daylength conditions, and that this effect is not mediated by changes in da release. the intracerebroventricular infusions of vehicle (control), melatonin, naloxone and melatonin in combination with naloxone were made in ewes in the luteal phase of the estrous cycle, from 2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. in the present investigation we have examined the ability of melatonin to modify the pulsatile lh secretion induced by treatment with a da antagonist (sulpiride, sulp) or opioid antagonist (naloxone, nal) in intact mid-anestrous ewes. the melatonin infusions also restored the reproductive response to the inductive photoperiod: in every ewe, the negative feedback effects of estradiol upon lh secretion were diminished after transfer from long to short days. the aim of this study was to investigate whether melatonin might modulate the daily prolactin secretion in the ewe during a period of ovarian activity and, if so, whether this modulatory action of melatonin was related to the presence of estradiol in the organism. melatonin was infused into the third brain ventricle (100 microgram/100 microliter/h) from 14.00 to 18.00 h. the concentration of prolactin increased significantly during the infusion of melatonin in late follicular-phase ewes, but not in luteal-phase ewes, as compared to the concentration before the infusion: range from 204.0 +/- 31.7 to 272.2 +/- 50.1 ng/ml vs. range from 68.2 +/- 31.8 to 94.7 +/- 33.1 ng/ml (mean +/- sem, n = 4, p < 0.01) and to the concentration noted during control infusions: range from 130.0 +/- 58.0 to 179.3 +/- 55.6 ng/ml (mean +/- sem, n = 4, p < 0.05). in ovariectomized ewes, the concentration of prolactin during infusion of melatonin increased significantly, unrelated to the presence of estradiol, as compared to the concentration before infusion: range from 136.7 +/- 20.3 to 260.0 +/- 11.6 ng/ml vs. range from 41.6 +/- 2.6 to 152.3 +/- 14.6 ng/ml in ovx ewes (mean +/- sem, n = 4, p < 0.01) and range from 161.5 +/- 66.5 to 250.2 +/- 24.3 ng/ml vs. range from 61.2 +/- 1.7 to 159.2 +/- 43.3 ng/ml in ovx+e2 ewes (mean +/- sem, n = 4, p < 0.01). concentrations during infusion of melatonin in ovx and ovx+e2 ewes were also significantly higher than during the control infusions: range from 7.2 +/- 1.7 to 22.2 +/- 4.1 ng/ml (mean +/- sem, n = 4, p < 0.001). these results indicate that melatonin may affect the daily secretion of prolactin in ewes during the breeding season, and suggest that the variable response of prolactin to the melatonin signal in intact and ovariectomized ewes relates to the interaction between both ovarian steroids - estradiol and progesterone - and the prolactin-releasing factor. 
Literacy after cerebral hemispherectomy: Can the isolated right hemisphere read? [SEP] maintaining language functions after left hemisphere lesions has been associated with compensatory right hemisphere activation. reading ability in controls and patients significantly (p < 0.05, corrected) predicted activations in a left hemisphere middle temporal region that was part of the normal sentence reading system. we conclude that proficient reading skills following left anterior temporal lobe resection for mtle rely on two mechanisms: (i) integrating regions from the normal system (i.e. these findings suggest that the right hemisphere may have an independent visual lexicon and may provide an alternative although less efficient route to reading. the literature pertaining to the representation of language in the right hemisphere of hemispherectomy and callosotomy patients is reviewed to ascertain whether it provides an empirical basis for the assertions that (1) the right hemisphere participates in the recovery of language in aphasia, (2) the right hemisphere mediates the reading errors of deep dyslexic and pure alexic patients, and (3) the right hemisphere plays a fixed role in normal reading processes. we investigated reading skills in individuals who have undergone left cerebral hemispherectomy and in readers with developmental dyslexia to understand diverse characteristics contributing to reading difficulty. although dyslexia is a developmental disorder, left hemispherectomy requires that patients (re)establish the language process needed to perform the language-based tasks in the nondominant (right) hemisphere to become readers. participants with developmental dyslexia (dd; n = 11) and participants who had undergone left hemispherectomy (hemi; n = 11) were matched on age and gender, and were compared on timed and untimed measures of single word and pseudo-word reading. patients with prenatal lesions leading to an isolated right hemisphere (rh) have the potential to develop reading to a degree comparable to that in persons with dyslexia for single word reading. oral naming and reading showed better performance by the right hemisphere than the left, whereas both hemispheres were proficient in auditory comprehension. 
Characterization of the gender dimorphism after injury and hemorrhagic shock: are hormonal differences responsible? [SEP] experimental studies conducted on laboratory animals have demonstrated that gender differences affect the outcome following trauma-hemorrhage but, it is not clear yet whether the manipulation of sex steroids during clinical trauma affects the outcome. this study was designed to determine whether gender based changes occur in cytokine responses after trauma-hemorrhage. an analysis of current literature on sexual dimorphism in response to trauma-hemorrhage revealed conflicting reports on the role of gender in outcomes of trauma patients. thus, these experimental findings collectively suggest that female sex hormones (i.e., estrogen) produce salutary effects following trauma-hemorrhage whereas male sex steroids (i.e. such dramatic differences in the outcome of trauma-hemorrhage in proestrus females and males clearly suggest that the prevailing sex hormonal levels at the time of injury play a critical role in shaping the host response to trauma-hemorrhage. regardless of the type and severity of injury, gender dimorphism in outcomes following trauma have been reported, with females having lower mortality than males, suggesting that sex steroid hormones (ssh) play an important role in the response of body systems to trauma. several clinical and experimental studies show a gender dimorphism of the immune and organ responsiveness in the susceptibility to and morbidity from shock, trauma, and sepsis. studies in human as well as animal models indicate a gender-specific responsiveness of the immune and organ systems with regard to shock, trauma, and sepsis. laboratory studies demonstrate gender dimorphism following trauma/hemorrhagic shock (t/hs). gender-specific immune responses have been found after trauma-hemorrhage. 
Can communication with terminally ill patients be taught? [SEP] good communication at the end-of-life is important for patient outcomes and satisfaction. classroom and bedside palliative care training have been effective in improving resident communication with patients at the end-of-life, yet the educational mechanisms that promote development remain uncharacterized. to provide practical strategies to enhance the quality of communication in the palliative and end-of-life medical care settings. the components of effective and compassionate care at the end of life require successful communication with patients, families, and members of the health care team. the need for improved clinical education surrounding the way difficult news is delivered and how to initiate end-of-life (eol) discussions with seriously ill patients and their families is essential. decision aids can help caregivers, with the aid of trained professionals, to communicate with patients about their terminal illness. quality end-of-life care requires effective communication skills, yet medical and nursing students report limited opportunities to develop these skills, and that they lack confidence and the related competence. our purpose was to design, implement, and evaluate an educational intervention employing simulated patient actors to enhance students' abilities to communicate with dying patients and their families. simulation was found to be an effective means of preparing students to communicate with dying patients and their families. interprofessional care is critical for patients at the end of life (eol), but programs to teach communication skills to medical and nursing students are rare. 
Delays in time to primary treatment after a diagnosis of breast cancer: does it impact survival? [SEP] delay in the diagnosis of breast cancer is associated with worse stage distribution at diagnosis and decreased survival. delays in the diagnosis of breast cancer are associated with advanced stage and poor survival, but the importance of the time interval between lumpectomy and initiation of radiation therapy (rt) has not been well studied. this study demonstrated that delays of over 12 weeks in receiving treatment for metastatic breast cancer were related to adverse survival outcomes measured from initiation of first treatment. the purpose of this study was to evaluate whether delays from diagnosis to initial treatment in breast cancer impacts survival. delayed first treatment (>90 vs ≤30 days postdiagnosis) was associated with worse overall survival in patients with invasive nonmetastatic (hr: 2.25, 95% ci 1.55-3.28) and metastatic (hr: 2.09, 95% ci 1.66-2.64) breast cancer. delay in seeking treatment for breast cancer is a barrier to the early diagnosis and management of the disease, resulting in a poorer prognosis. treatment delays in breast cancer are generally thought to affect prognosis but the impact on survival remains unclear. indicators for breast cancer care include time to primary treatment. the purpose of this study was to evaluate whether time to primary treatment (tpt) in breast cancer impacts survival. this review critically examines the available literature on delay in breast cancer. 
Are increased carotid artery pulsatility and resistance indexes early signs of vascular abnormalities in young obese males? [SEP] to provide insight into the factors by which obesity in itself may directly lead to early arterial damage, we aimed to determine early sonographic markers of obesity-related vascular dysfunction in young obese males. the mean pulsatility index, resistance index, body mass index, waist circumference, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, homeostasis model assessment for insulin resistance, plasma fasting glucose, insulin, c-peptide, triglycerides, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and high-sensitivity c-reactive protein were statistically higher in obese subjects than in healthy controls. our results suggest that depressed vessel compliance and increased vascular resistance are features of young, obese, normotensive subjects independently of and in addition to cardiovascular risk factors. as changes in arterial wall properties may be incipient in young obese subjects, future studies will be required to demonstrate whether early intervention such as diet and exercise in this population can improve vascular functions. increased carotid intima-media thickness (cimt) is considered a marker of early-onset atherosclerosis and it seems to predict cardiovascular events both in obese and diabetic subjects. a positive correlation between insulin levels (basal and after oral glucose load) and cimt of common, internal and external carotid artery was found in obese subjects (p < 0.03). increased carotid intima-media thickness (c-imt) is considered a marker of early-onset atherosclerosis and it has been found in obese children and adolescents, but the risk factors associated with this population remain to be elucidated. the increased carotid intima-media thickness (cimt) correlates with the presence of atherosclerosis in adults and describes vascular abnormalities in both hypertensive children and adolescents. to determine whether impaired brachial endothelial (flow-mediated dilation, fmd) and smooth muscle function (nitroglycerin-mediated dilation, ntgmd), and remodelling of the common carotid artery (cca) develop before puberty in obese children. to assess whether carotid artery findings reflect atherosclerosis elsewhere, we studied the association between common carotid intima-media thickness and lower extremity arterial atherosclerosis among the first 1000 participants of the rotterdam study. 
Are acceptance rates of a national preventive home visit programme for older people socially imbalanced? [SEP] home visits for a high-risk population rather than the general population seems a promising approach. we therefore studied the effects of a home visiting program for older people with poor health. participants in the intervention group (n = 160) received eight home visits by a trained home nurse over an 18-month period; a multidimensional geriatric assessment of problems was included. preventive home visits including comprehensive geriatric assessment for potentially frail older people are increasingly implemented in general practice. combining home-based over- 75 health checks with influenza vaccination can improve uptake among older patients. this paper is a report of a process evaluation of the content, patient compliance and participant experiences of a home visiting programme for older people with self-reported health problems. systematic home visits by nurses to older people are a public health strategy to improve their functional abilities and prevent institutionalization. one hundred and sixty people (aged 70-84 years) participated in the programme and were visited eight times during an 18-month period (february 2003-october 2004) by experienced home nurses. a health visiting programme, performed by home nurses, is feasible and appreciated by frail elders. preventive home visits (phv) may contribute to identify risks and needs in older people, and thereby delay the onset of functional decline and illness, otherwise often followed by home care or admission to hospital or nursing homes. 
Does open access publishing increase the impact of scientific articles? [SEP] open access (oa) publishing, whereby authors, their institutions, or their granting bodies pay or provide a repository through which peer-reviewed work is available online for free, is championed as a model to increase the number of citations per paper and disseminate results widely, especially to researchers in developing countries. as open-access journals have become increasingly common, it has provided more options for researchers to publish their work and improved access of information to the public. open access journals benefit researchers and the general public by promoting visibility, sharing and communicating. the era of open access (oa) publication, a platform which serves to better disseminate scientific knowledge, is upon us, as more oa journals are in existence than ever before. open access provides researchers another opportunity of publishing, besides the traditional publication in subscription-based journals. first results of them show that, among others, the higher visibility, indexing, impact factor and better accessibility are factors for an open-access-publication. as a result, we wondered whether articles published in fully open-access journals would be more likely to be cited than articles in other kinds of journals. does free access to journal articles result in greater diffusion of scientific knowledge? using a randomized controlled trial of open access publishing, involving 36 participating journals in the sciences, social sciences, and humanities, we report on the effects of free access on article downloads and citations. articles placed in the open access condition (n=712) received significantly more downloads and reached a broader audience within the first year, yet were cited no more frequently, nor earlier, than subscription-access control articles (n=2533) within 3 yr. 
In vivo visualization of pyloric mucosal hypertrophy in infants with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis: is there an etiologic role? [SEP] hypertrophic pyloric stenosis is a common infantile disorder characterized by enlarged pyloric musculature and gastric-outlet obstruction. we studied pyloric tissue from nine infants with infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis and seven control infants and children. in the pyloric tissues from patients with infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis, the enteric nerve fibers in the hypertrophied circular musculature were enlarged and distorted and did not contain diaphorase activity, whereas the activity in the myenteric plexus and the longitudinal musculature was preserved. we suggest that a lack of nitric oxide synthase in pyloric tissue is responsible for pylorospasm in infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. in infants with ihps, the pyloric mucosa constitutes approximately one third of the cross-sectional diameter of the pyloric mass and fills and obstructs the pyloric canal. to determine if there is increased flow to the pylorus in infants with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis (hps) and, if so, whether the flow is localized to the muscle layer, mucosal layer, or both. recently attempts have been made to demonstrate the possible role of hypergastrinemia in the production of congenital hypertrophic pyloric stenosis in infants. eleven infants with congenital hypertrophic pyloric stenosis, ranging in age from three to 11 weeks, were evaluated for fasting and postprandial serum gastrin levels. two to ten weeks following successful pyloromyotomy, a similar evaluation was undertaken to demonstrate the possible role of elevated serum gastrin levels in the etiology of congenital hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis (ihps) is characterized by hypertrophy of the pyloric muscle. 
Does the early adopter of drugs exist? [SEP] drug abuse is a common problem in the united states. initiation of "gateway" substances (i.e. these results suggest the "gateway" pattern at least partially reflects unmeasured common causes rather than causal effects of specific drugs on subsequent use of others. the earliest stages of involvement with illicit drugs have been understudied. this study sheds light on the epidemiology of the earliest stages of drug involvement in the usa. this article articulates a subcultural basis to the evolving popularity for different illicit drugs primarily based on empirical research in the united states, especially among inner-city populations. this subcultural view provides insight into the widespread use of licit drug, the dynamics of drug eras (or epidemics), the formation of drug generations, and the apparent "gateway" phenomenon. drug abuse has been a national social problem in the united states for decades and is often complicated by the emergence of new types of abused drugs or new forms of abuse. this suggests that sex differences in drug involvement emerge early in the process. many drugs are used or abused in social contexts without understanding the ramifications of their use. 
Does high blood pressure reduce the risk of chronic low back pain? [SEP] among chronic hemodialysis patients with hypertension, blood pressure should be lowered. current guidelines recommend treating hypertension in patients with peripheral artery disease (pad) to reduce the risk of cardiac events and stroke, but the effect of reducing blood pressure on lower extremity pad events is largely unknown. thus, the method used to lower blood pressure may be important. reduction of high blood pressure has an effect on coronary mortality and morbidity lower than expected. in healthy individuals, elevated resting blood pressure (bp) is associated with reduced pain responsiveness and lower temporal summation. this study evaluated whether resolution of chronic pain was associated with greater bp-related hypoalgesia compared to nonresolution. higher resting systolic bp was significantly associated with higher pain threshold and tolerance, and lower temporal summation only in the group with resolved functional abdominal pain (p < .05). hierarchical regressions revealed that interactions between bp and resolution of chronic pain were significant only for pain tolerance (p < .05). findings hint at sex differences in the extent to which resolution of chronic pain is associated with bp-related hypoalgesia. whether greater bp-related hypoalgesia is a consequence of, or alternatively a contributor to, resolution of chronic pain warrants further investigation. 
Does responsibility affect the public's valuation of health care interventions? [SEP] the provision of research-based information about health care effectiveness to patients and the promotion of greater patient involvement in health care decision-making are likely to have a complex range of effects on: the information provided to patients; patients' acquisition of skills; patients' knowledge and emotions; how decisions are made; the quality of decisions; professional-patient relationships; the use of health care; the health of patients; satisfaction; and the organisation and cost of health services. opinions about which effects are most important and how they should be measured and valued will be influenced by a variety of factors, including: the rationales and motives underlying interest in patient involvement in decision-making; the forms of patient involvement envisaged; and the types of interventions being considered. there are a number of impulses towards public participation in health care decision making including instrumentalist, communitarian, educative and expressive impulses and the desire for increased accountability. despite increasing recognition of the importance of involving patients in decisions on preventive healthcare interventions, little is known about how well patients understand and utilise information provided on the relative benefits from these interventions. little is known about the public's opinion of who should control the delivery of health care, about how the costs of health care are perceived, or about how the delivery of care should be financed. or, which strategies are the most effective for promoting preventive care? health state valuation is a key input in many economic evaluations that inform resource allocation across competing healthcare interventions. empirical evidence has shown that, in preference elicitation surveys, respondents may value a health state differently if they are aware of the condition causing it ('labeling effects'). differences reported in health state values, using labeled and unlabeled states, demonstrate that condition labels affect the results of valuation studies, and can have important implications in decision-analytic modelling and in economic evaluations. based on theories of public policy, this paper tries to find out if patients behave akin to 'responsible citizens' and can provide differentiated expectations between three healthcare dimensions. 
Nasal fractures:  is closed reduction satisfying? [SEP] nasal fractures are commonly treated by primary closed reduction. retrospective chart review of patients with nasal fractures treated by closed reduction at the wellington regional plastic, maxillofacial and burns unit, new zealand over a 2-year period was undertaken. closed reduction has been used as the standard treatment modality for nasal fractures for many years. closed reduction is the treatment of choice for most nasal bone fractures. our study result suggests that ultrasound-guided closed reduction is superior to blind closed reduction in those patients with plane ii nasal fractures. closed reduction is generally recommended for acute nasal bone fractures, and rhinoplasty is considered in cases with an unsatisfactory outcome. concomitant rhinoplasty with fracture reduction can be performed for acute nasal bone fracture patients, and it might lead to better aesthetic outcomes. for centuries, these injuries have been managed with closed reduction, but because of low surgeon satisfaction rates and high revision rates, open reduction is advocated in cases involving severe deviation of the nasal dorsum associated with septal fractures. owing to the abundance of other concomitant facial fractures with nasal bone fractures, this approach can be used in patients with combined injuries to the facial skeleton, in whom an open reduction of the nasal bones is also required. among all facial fractures, nasal bone fractures are the most common, and they have been reduced by closed reduction (cr) for a long time. 
Do improvements in outreach, clinical, and family and community-based services predict improvements in child survival? [SEP] many studies suggest that quality childcare can positively influence children's outcomes in a wide range of domains, including mental health. in this study, we examine community differences in the quality of childcare and the mental health of children attending childcare centres in three communities in british columbia, canada. we hypothesized that the better than expected child outcomes in the resilient community were due to better quality childcare in this community. access to child health services remains integral to improving child health outcomes. there is growing evidence that early intervention services have had a positive influence on the developmental outcome of children with established disabilities or those considered "at risk" for disabilities and their families. community benefit is defined as programs and services that address broad community health needs and provide measurable improvement in health access, health status and use of health care resources. how does the presence of hospitals and/or health systems in your community enhance community benefit? systems of care (socs) have the potential to enhance underserved families' access to integrated health and support services. accumulating evidence has shown that high-quality early childhood education and care may be an effective way of promoting children's optimal health and development, especially for the most disadvantaged. in resource-poor developing countries, significant improvements in child survival, growth, and development can be made by: (a) shifting from sectoral programmes (for example, in nutrition or immunization) to holistic strategies such as the integrated management of childhood illnesses (imci) and (b) improving household and community care and health-seeking practices as a priority, while concurrently strengthening health systems and the skills of health professionals. 
Does spontaneous remission occur in polyarteritis nodosa? [SEP] polyarteritis nodosa is a rare disease resulting from blood vessel inflammation (vasculitis), causing damage to organ systems and featuring an extended range of possible symptoms. the cause of polyarteritis nodosa is unknown. in the present report we describe the presentation and treatment of polyarteritis nodosa involving the hard palate in an 88-year-old caucasian woman. we successfully treated a case of polyarteritis nodosa via a pharmacological approach, which we describe here. based on the autopsy and the patient's clinical course, the final diagnosis was polyarteritis nodosa. prognosis is favorable and progression to systemic polyarteritis nodosa is rare. a case of biopsy documented polyarteritis nodosa is reported in which the patient presented with bilateral iritis, vitritis, and a retinal vasculitis involving both the retinal arteries and veins, a feature not described previously. the existence of a limited cutaneous form of polyarteritis nodosa remains controversial. we conclude that benign cutaneous polyarteritis nodosa is not necessarily benign and is closely related to systemic polyarteritis nodosa. polyarteritis nodosa (pan) is a rare form of primary systemic vasculitis with heterogeneous presentations, treatments and disease course. 
Gluten tolerance in adult patients with celiac disease 20 years after diagnosis? [SEP] 14 day gc at ≥ 3 g of gluten/day induces histological and serological changes in the majority of adults with coeliac disease. retrospective study of 20 cases of adult celiac disease (> 14 years old at diagnosis). celiac disease can develop at any age, but outcomes of adults with positive results from serologic tests for tissue transglutaminase antibodies (ttga) without endoscopic determination of celiac disease (called celiac autoimmunity) have not been thoroughly evaluated. we investigated the proportion of adults with celiac autoimmunity at a community medical center and their progression to celiac disease. altogether 177 adult celiac disease patients adhering to a long-term strict gluten-free diet were enrolled. here, we report on a 72-year-old patient who suffered from celiac disease (cd) that had been diagnosed 20 years before. to evaluate clinical and psychological status of adults with childhood diagnosis of coeliac disease who were re-exposed to gluten after only a few years and now on a gluten-containing diet, compared with adults with recent diagnosis of coeliac disease, and adults who remained on gluten-free diet after childhood diagnosis. a total of 195 adults with a biopsy suggestive of coeliac disease in childhood, who either had adhered to a gluten-free diet for at least 1 year after diagnosis and now are either on gluten-free diet (n = 110) or on gluten-containing diet (n = 85), and adults with newly diagnosed coeliac disease (n = 165) underwent a medical check-up. to address this question, a retrospective analysis of the clinical and biological status of adult coeliac patients diagnosed in childhood, who remained on a normal diet after gluten challenge and were clinically silent, was carried out. long-term latency developed in about 20% of cd patients who remained symptom free after gluten reintroduction. 
Do symptoms predict COPD in smokers? [SEP] we examined serial changes in spirometry and clinical copd questionnaire (ccq) scores (measuring respiratory symptoms and health-related quality of life) in copd participants by smoking status during a smoking cessation trial. the diagnosis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) should be suspected in patients with risk factors (primarily a history of smoking) who report dyspnea at rest or with exertion, chronic cough with or without sputum production, or a history of wheezing. chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) is a progressive respiratory disease characterized by cough, dyspnea, and sputum production caused by inhalation of harmful chemicals, such as tobacco smoke. copd should be suspected in patients with a significant smoking history, shortness of breath, and sputum production. we sought to examine the association between respiratory symptoms and other markers of copd severity with intention to quit smoking among a cohort of patients with probable copd. heavy smoking is associated with the development of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd). smoking is a risk factor for developing chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd), but there are no good indicators for early identification of subjects who will develop symptomatic copd. however, many current and former smokers who do not meet established spirometric criteria for the diagnosis of this disease have symptoms and clinical courses similar to those with diagnosed copd. cigarette smoking has been causally linked several diseases, primarily lung cancer and chronic obstructive lung disease (copd). the diagnosis of copd currently involves an assessment of smoking and/or occupational exposures, a history of cough, sputum and dyspnea and spirometric measures of airflow obstruction and since spirometric measures take long follow up times to detect significant changes, surrogate measures of outcome capable of predicting long-term health changes have been sought for. 
Search engine as a diagnostic tool in difficult immunological and allergologic cases: is Google useful? [SEP] individuals are increasingly turning to search engines like google to obtain health information and access resources. analysis of google search queries offers a novel approach, which is part of the methodological toolkit for infodemiology or infoveillance researchers, to understanding population health concerns and needs in real time or near-real time. after reading this article clinicians will be able to identify various conditions, which will enhance their ability to appropriately make correct decisions for prompt and efficient management of their patients with allergic or nonallergic diseases of the head and neck. in this work, we explore how such tools can support non-expert, patient-centered health information search. to provide a general overview of informatics and its interface with allergy/immunology. the pubmed interface to medline was searched with the keywords asthma, allergy, or immunology together with the keywords informatics, bioinformatics, and information technology to retrieve the articles relevant to this review. a survey of informatics, with emphasis on the relevance to allergy, asthma, and immunology, is presented. various search engines such as google, yahoo!, bing, and ask.com can play an important role in obtaining medical information for both medical professionals and lay people. to compare major internet search engines in their usability of obtaining medical and health information. google, yahoo!, bing, and ask.com are by and large effective search engines for helping lay users get health and medical information. 
Uniformity of evidence-based treatments in practice? [SEP] evidence-based health care aims to utilize the best available evidence from scientific methods and apply this evidence to clinical and public health practice. evidence of the benefits and risks of treatment is derived from randomized controlled clinical trials, systematic reviews, and expert panels. evidence based clinical practice has been defined as the conscientious, explicit and judicious use of the current best evidence in making decisions about the care of individual patients. we review the principles and practice of evidence based clinical practice using examples from the urology literature. although practising evidence-based medicine is the goal of most physicians, it can be a real challenge to sift through the vast body of data to determine the best strategies. most clinical guidelines regard replicated randomized controlled trials (rcts), metaanalyses, and systematic reviews as the highest level of evidence to support treatment recommendations. evidence-based evaluation of treatment is a pivotal component of an effective and satisfying clinical practice. the present article outlines the basic principles of evidence based medicine (ebm) and how they should guide clinical practice. conversely a high level of evidence supports other interventions that have not been so widely adopted. evidence-based medicine is the conscientious, explicit, and judicious use of current best evidence in making decisions about the care of individual patients. 
Do approved doctors and medical referees in the UK agree when assessing a seafarer's fitness? [SEP] this study aims to investigate the extent of agreement between approved doctors (ads) and medical referees (mrs) when they assess a seafarer's fitness. to study the extent of agreement between the medical referees (mrs) and the determinants of agreement between the mrs. a total of 232,878 seafarer medical examinations were carried out by approved doctors (ads) between 2003 and 2009. to assess variability of opinion regarding fitness to dive among doctors currently doing diving medical examinations. anonymous, reply-paid postal survey containing 15 clinical scenarios for which respondents were asked to declare the prospective scuba diver fit, unfit, fit after investigation or to offer specialist referral. there is no consensus among doctors who perform diving medical examinations as to what constitutes fitness to dive; current guidelines need to be improved. to determine the consensus and concordance with published standards and expert opinion among new zealand's designated diving doctors (ddds) and general practitioners (gps) regarding medical fitness-to-dive. a postal survey canvassed doctors' opinions regarding fitness-to-dive of 20 'real-life' applicants with potentially relevant medical conditions. and thus with the recruitment of seamen by a professional commission of medical specialists, the appropriate number of medical consultations per 1 crewmen during the voyage was on average 2.1; with the recruitment of seamen by general practitioners, usually employed in the dispensary--the figure for the voyage was 6. standards to assess the quality of doctors and clinics performing pre-employment medical examinations (pemes) were developed for international maritime health association (imha) quality, a not for profit organisation, created to provide an ethically sound and professional accepted accreditation system that would benefit seafarers having pemes and employers, insurers and national maritime authorities seeking valid assessments of seafarers' fitness for duty. this paper explores some current issues for certifying medical practitioners in the united kingdom (uk), particularly general practitioners (gps), who provide medical advice to their patients on fitness for work. 
Hepatorenal syndrome: are we missing some prognostic factors? [SEP] important progress has been made recently regarding the pathogenesis and treatment of hepatorenal syndrome (hrs). hepatorenal syndrome (hrs) is defined as the occurrence of renal dysfunction in a patient with end-stage liver cirrhosis in the absence of another identifiable cause of renal failure. median survival was 21 (interquartile range [iqr], 8, 70) days for those diagnosed with hepatorenal syndrome and 12 (iqr, 3, 43) days for those diagnosed with acute tubular necrosis (p=0.25). median transplant-free survival was 15 (iqr, 5, 37) days for those diagnosed with hepatorenal syndrome and 14 (iqr, 4, 31) days for those diagnosed with acute tubular necrosis (p=0.60). this phenomenon is called hepatorenal syndrome (hrs), which is associated with a poor prognosis showing a median survival of less than 2 months if renal replacement therapy is necessary. hepatorenal syndrome (hrs) is associated with a poor prognosis. in patients with cirrhosis and renal failure, hepatorenal syndrome is associated with a worse prognosis than kidney dysfunction due to other conditions but only hrs type 1 has independent prognostic relevance in addition to the meld score in these patients. the aim of the present study is to investigate the controllable and uncontrollable poor prognostic factors for hepatectomy in patients with hbv-related cirrhosis. survival rates and risk factors for survival and recurrence were analysed in all patients diagnosed between 2000 and 2010 with hcc in a non-cirrhotic liver and in the absence of well-established risk factors. the purpose of this study was to ascertain the prognosis of patients with hepatorenal syndrome (hs) prior to orthotopic liver transplantation (olt) by comparisons with a group of selected patients with normal renal function (nrf) pretransplantation who developed acute renal failure (arf) in the early postoperative period. 
Vaginal dose assessment in image-guided brachytherapy for cervical cancer: Can we really rely on dose-point evaluation? [SEP] the aim of this study is to analyse the dosimetry to the pelvic lymph nodes and its correlation to point b using ct based high dose rate brachytherapy of carcinoma cervix. three-dimensional image-guided brachytherapy allows assessment of oar dose with dose volume histograms (dvhs). brachytherapy treatment planning in cervix carcinoma patients using two dimensional (2d) orthogonal images provides only point dose estimates while ct-based planning provides volumetric dose assessment helping in understanding the correlation between morbidity and the dose to organs at risk (oars) and treatment volume. in this prospective study, 20 patients with cervical cancer stages (iib-iiib) were planned for a brachytherapy dose of 7gy per fraction for three fractions using 2d image-based treatment plan and ct-based plan. to compare intracavitary brachytherapy dose estimation for organs at risk (bladder and rectum) based on semi-orthogonal reconstruction of radiographs on non-isocentric x-ray unit and computed tomography (ct) - based volumetric planning in cervical cancer. to investigate the feasibility of our novel image-based high-dose-rate interstitial brachytherapy (hdr-isbt) for uterine cervical cancer, we evaluated the dose-volume histogram (dvh) according to the recommendations of the gynecological gec-estro working group for image-based intracavitary brachytherapy (icbt). intracavitary brachytherapy plays a major role in management of cervical carcinoma. to investigate the feasibility of image-based intracavitary brachytherapy (ibicbt) for uterine cervical cancer, we evaluated the dose-volume histograms (dvhs) for the tumor and organs at risk (oars) and compared results from the ibicbt plan and the standard manchester system (manchester plan) in eight patients as a simulation experiment. treatment data from 50 fractions of hdr brachytherapy of cervical cancer were reviewed, the pelvic lymph nodes were contoured, and dose-volume histogram parameters were obtained. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the feasibility of assessing bladder and rectal point doses, using orthogonal radiographs without treatment planning, for vaginal cylinder applicator (vc), high-dose-rate (hdr) vaginal cuff brachytherapy (bt) after hysterectomy. 
Prescriptions as a proxy for asthma in children: a good choice? [SEP] the aim of this study was to assess the prevalence of dispensed anti-asthmatic medications as a proxy of asthma among children and adolescents aged 0-19 years in norway. asthma is a common chronic illness in children and a successful symptom control improves quality of life. the aim of this review is to describe the clinical pharmacology of the drugs commonly used to manage chronic asthma in children and identify areas where further study might be useful to determine their best use. although anti-asthma medications are amongst those most frequently under or over prescribed it is generally accepted that prescriptions for such agents can be used as a proxy for disease prevalence. the aims of this study were to estimate prevalence and incidence of childhood asthma in a representative italian area by analysing three years of anti-asthmatic prescriptions and hospitalizations of subjects with chronic or first time treatment, and to underline appropriateness of therapeutic choices. despite national initiatives to improve asthma medical treatment, the appropriateness of physician prescribing for children with asthma remains unknown. this study measures trends and recent patterns in the pediatric use of medications approved for reversible obstructive airway disease (asthma medications). to describe the use of preventive medications among a group of urban children with mild persistent to severe persistent asthma and to evaluate the degree to which their health care providers are aware of their asthma severity. each child's health care provider was asked to assess the child's asthma severity and use of medications based both on their knowledge of the child and review of the medical record. when providers were aware of their patient's asthma symptoms, most of the children were prescribed maintenance medications. 
Does the familial transmission of drinking patterns persist into young adulthood? [SEP] parental drinking has been shown to be associated with offspring drinking. to explore the long-term (10-year) transmission of familial drinking during adolescence to offspring drinking patterns in young adulthood. the association between familial drinking and offspring drinking in young adulthood exhibits clear non-linear trends. the aims of this study were to determine whether this pattern applies to the population as a whole and to identify those for whom heavy drinking in early adulthood does lead to continued high levels of consumption throughout the life course. hangover susceptibility appears to be partially heritable and related to family history of alcohol use disorders. previous studies have examined the heritability of alcohol consumption, or related phenotypes, from adolescence into adulthood, frequently finding that total heritability changes over time. we studied drinking-discordant twin pairs to evaluate such confounds to ask: will between-family associations replicate in within-family comparisons? our analyses control for shared family background, and, partly or fully, for shared genes, to yield within-family replications and more compelling evidence than previously available that adolescent alcohol abuse disrupts transitions into early adulthood. the present study seeks to understand the extent to which drinking of family members is differentially associated with the endorsement of alcohol expectancy in late childhood. genetic and peer influences are robust predictors of heavy episodic drinking in youth, but little is known about the interplay between polygenic risk and peer influences as they impact developmental patterns of heavy episodic drinking. 
Proof of concept study: does fenofibrate have a role in sleep apnoea syndrome? [SEP] prevalence of central versus obstructive sleep apneas is controversial but may be therapeutically relevant. fenofibrate, a selective (1)ppar-alpha activator, is prescribed to treat human dyslipidemia. fenofibrate also suppressed liver apociii mrna levels and markedly increased lipoprotein lipase mrna levels, known to enhance serum tg catabolism. these results demonstrate that fenofibrate improves lipid abnormalities partly via inhibition of tg production and partly via clearance of tg-rich apob particles by elevating lpl and reduced apociii. these results suggest fenofibrate as a coadjutant drug for the treatment of obesity. the objective of the research project was to investigate whether fenofibrate treatment may alter the biochemical content of the oxidized ldl and consequently its ability to impair the endothelium-dependent relaxation in hyperlipidemic patients. fenofibrate is a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (pparalpha) agonist that has been widely used to treat dyslipidemia. previous studies have suggested that fenofibrate plays a role in cell proliferation and the development of hepatocarcinoma, but the underlying mechanism has not been fully characterized. the aim of the present study was to examine effect of fenofibrate on some parameters of oxidative stress. treatment with fenofibrate significantly reduced the level of conjugated dienes, a measure of ldl oxidation, and increased gpx activity. 
Can mental imagery functional magnetic resonance imaging predict recovery in patients with disorders of consciousness? [SEP] to determine the potential prognostic value of using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fmri) to identify patients with disorders of consciousness, who show potential for recovery. we investigated neural correlates of consciousness in these patients compared with patients with disorders of consciousness and healthy controls, by multimodal imaging. in this cross-sectional, multimodal imaging study, patients with unresponsive wakefulness syndrome, patients in a minimally conscious state, and patients who had emerged from a minimally conscious state, diagnosed with the coma recovery scale-revised, were recruited from the neurology department of the centre hospitalier universitaire de liège, belgium. apart from a deeper understanding of the neural correlates of consciousness, these findings have clinical implications and might be particularly relevant for outcome prediction and could inspire new therapeutic options. we suggest that hallmarks of the recovery of consciousness are associated with neural activity to higher-order cognitive tasks and increased resting state connectivity. the purpose of the present study is to find an effective and accurate magnetic resonance imaging (mri) method for predicting recovery of consciousness in patients with severe tbi. an increasing amount of studies suggest that brain dynamics measured with resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fmri) are related to the state of consciousness. to address this issue, and validate the interpretation of prior work linking brain dynamics and consciousness, we performed a longitudinal fmri study in patients recovering from coma. we employed functional mri (fmri) to assess whether (1) patients with disorders of consciousness (doc) retain the ability to willfully engage in top-down processing and (2) what neurophysiologic factors distinguish patients who can demonstrate this ability from patients who cannot. sixteen volunteers, 8 patients in vegetative state (vs), 16 minimally conscious patients (mcs), and 4 exit from mcs (emcs) patients were enrolled in a prospective cross-sectional fmri study. 
The nurse cystoscopist: a feasible option? [SEP] fourteen urology nurse practitioners with no previous experience of cystoscopy were taught the basic techniques of flexible cystoscopy. nurse-led cystoscopy has become an established service for bladder tumour surveillance patients. the role of the nurse cystoscopist has been developed to include diagnostic cystoscopy with telephone follow-up and counselling. the availability of the flexible cystoscope for outpatient procedures has further increased the number of cystoscopists. there is a growing demand for flexible cystoscopy, and nurse involvement can help meet this. support for nurse cystoscopy from the ukcc depends on nurses' professional accountability and competence. it is important that national guidelines are adhered to if nurses are to undertake flexible cystoscopy safely. to determine whether incorporation of routine intraoperative cystoscopy for evaluation of potential urinary tract injury into gynecologic residency training provides sufficient experience to justify hospital credentials after graduation. incorporation of cystoscopic urinary tract evaluation into routine gynecologic surgical training is good medical practice and provided a mechanism whereby obstetrics and gynecology residents could obtain intraoperative cystoscopy hospital privileges after graduation. either cystoscopy with a laparoscope or a cystoscope. 
Is cardiovascular evaluation necessary prior to and during beta-blocker therapy for infantile hemangiomas? [SEP] although consensus guidelines for pretreatment evaluation and monitoring of propranolol therapy in patients with infantile hemangiomas (ih) have been formulated, little is known about the cardiovascular side effects. data were reviewed for patients evaluated by a single hemangioma specialist and a single pediatric cardiologist prior to initiation of propranolol for infantile hemangioma. the indication and extent of cardiac screening before oral propranolol therapy (opt) in patients with infantile hemangioma (ih) has been challenged. screening electrocardiography (ecg) before initiation of propranolol for treatment of infantile hemangiomas (ih) is controversial. the present study was designed to aid in the evaluation of pretreatment cardiac and effects of propranolol on vital signs in pediatric hemangioma patients. hemangiomas in infants or children, even in small or premature infants, can be treated with propranolol without significant cardiac side effects. to evaluate the medical literature on the use of β-blockers, through different routes, for the treatment of periorbital infantile hemangiomas and to summarize the recommendations available on dosage and monitoring. β-blockers for the treatment of infantile hemangioma are now considered to be first-line treatment. to evaluate the efficacy and adverse effects of propranolol in mexican pediatric patients diagnosed with infantile hemangioma, treated with an extemporaneously compounded solution of propranolol. an open prospective observational study at the children's hospital of the californias in tijuana, mexico was performed on ambulatory pediatric patients between the ages of 3 and 12 months diagnosed with infantile hemangioma. 
Is specialty care associated with improved survival of patients with congestive heart failure? [SEP] previous studies suggest that specialty care is more costly but may produce improved outcomes for patients with acute cardiac illnesses. to determine whether patients with congestive heart failure who are cared for by cardiologists experienced differences in costs, care patterns, and survival compared with patients of generalists. in this observational study of patients hospitalized with congestive heart failure, cardiologist care was associated with greater costs and resource use and no difference in survival at 30 days of follow-up. to investigate whether management by subspecialty cardiologists impacts the outcomes of patients with subspecialty-specific diseases. studies have suggested that cardiologists may provide higher quality heart failure care than generalists. we assessed specialty care in a sample of medicare patients hospitalized nationwide with heart failure between 1998 and 1999 (n = 25,869). previous studies suggest that patients with heart failure (hf) treated by cardiologists have improved outcomes compared with patients treated by other physicians. physician specialty-related differences in hf outcomes appear to reflect a combination of both case-mix differences and differences in the use of certain heart failure processes of care. whether specialty care improves survival among patients with heart failure remains controversial. we evaluated specialty care and outcomes in 25869 medicare beneficiaries hospitalized with heart failure in the united states from 1998 through 1999. 
Can the prognosis of polymyalgia rheumatica be predicted at disease onset? [SEP] the objectives of this study were to evaluate the frequency and characteristics of the peripheral musculoskeletal manifestations in polymyalgia rheumatica (pmr), evaluate if pmr with peripheral synovitis represents a subset with a more severe disease, and examine for clinical and laboratory characteristics at onset of pmr that might later predict rheumatoid arthritis (ra). patients with polymyalgia rheumatica have been shown to have an increased risk of peripheral arterial disease on longitudinal follow-up. alternatively, polymyalgia rheumatica can be associated with vasculitis, even in the absence of clinical giant cell arteritis, and peripheral vascular disease may represent subclinical vasculitis. because recent-onset inflammatory arthritis exhibits considerable clinical and prognostic variability, it is important to attempt to predict which patients are likely to have a poor prognosis as early as possible. most prognostic studies have looked at patients who fulfilled proposed criteria for a definite diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis (ra) or other well-defined conditions; less information exists concerning predictive factors for other types of early arthritis. to examine prognosis in early arthritis, the authors assessed the long-term outcome in a cohort of patients who presented with inflammatory arthritis of short duration. prognostic factors in juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (jra) include polyarticular onset, polyarticular disease course, and rheumatoid factor positivity; in the systemic onset subtype, persistence of systemic features at 6 months after onset confers a worse prognosis. the differential diagnosis between polymyalgia rheumatica (pmr) and elderly onset rheumatoid arthritis (eora) in pmr-like presentation may represent several problems at the beginning of the disease, since the patterns of these pathologies may show largely overlapping areas. to determine the frequency and clinical features of patients with polymyalgia rheumatica (pmr) and normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate (esr) at diagnosis or during relapse/recurrence. polymyalgia rheumatica is a common disease affecting the elderly population. 
Should ascitis volume and anthropometric measurements be estimated in hospitalized alcoholic cirrotics? [SEP] medical records of all consecutive patients who reported alcohol consumption up to the time of hospital admission and who had undergone a liver biopsy in the gastroenterology unit of the university hospital centre of tirana (albania), were reviewed. ascitis and undernutrition are frequent complications of cirrhosis, however ascitis volume and anthropometric assessment are not routinely documented or considered in prognostic evaluation. population (n = 25, all males with alcoholic cirrhosis) was recruited among patients hospitalized for uncomplicated ascitis. measurements included ultrasonographically estimated ascitis volume, dry body mass index/bmi , upper arm anthropometrics, hematologic counts and liver function tests. nevertheless, similar matches for mortality were documented with ascitis volume and dry bmi, and arm circumference below the 5th percentile was highly significantly associated with rehospitalization. a greater association than hitherto acknowledged, between ascitis volume and anthropometric measurements from one side, and long-term rehospitalization and mortality from the other, was demonstrated in male stable alcoholic cirrhotics. the objectives were to (1) compare anthropometric data of hospitalized alcoholic and nonalcoholic patients and (2) evaluate the association between alcoholism and protein-energy malnutrition. one hundred chronic alcoholics admitted for treatment to the alcoholism ward, without clinical signs of liver failure, were studied. however, patients with alcoholic hepatitis and/or cirrhosis had a significantly higher percentage of ideal body weight, compared to alcoholics with normal livers or less severe histological alterations (109.7 +/- 20.3 versus 95.6 +/- 12.5, sd, p less than 0.005). twenty-seven consecutively hospitalized patients with ascites secondary to alcoholic cirrhosis of the liver were studied, and 28 control subjects were studied with the use of an echocardiographic method to detect pericardial effusion and to evaluate their left ventricular (lv) function. 
The use of audit to identify maternal mortality in different settings: is it just a difference between the rich and the poor? [SEP] this paper is aimed at improving our ability to assess the magnitude of maternal mortality in developing countries, where reliable data on maternal deaths are scarce. this study explores the impact of early motherhood on neonatal mortality, and how this differs between countries and regions. effective methods for measuring maternal mortality in developing countries are important, particularly in assessing interventions aiming for safer motherhood. estimates of maternal mortality in a rural ethiopian community are reported, made by direct observation, a case-control approach, and the sisterhood method. to compare maternal morbidity and mortality in two urban populations with contrasting availability of health care, and to test the hypothesis that differences in maternal outcome result mainly from the management of delivery in health facilities. we sought to determine the ratio, causes, and key risk factors of maternal deaths in institutions located at different socioeconomic settings. this analysis considers the usefulness of maternal mortality ratio (mmr) as an indicator of obstetric care in the context of low overall maternal mortality. we examine timing of death and maternal age to measure whether there are differences between country groups for older mothers. it is concluded that national levels of maternal mortality in sub-saharan africa most likely vary from 250 to 700 per 100,000 live births, in proportion to the variation in overall levels of mortality in the countries. such studies should analyse coverage of deliveries, coverage of maternal deaths, causes of maternal deaths, socioeconomic differentials, perinatal mortality and should pay special attention to the increasing problem of abortion-related mortality. 
Could the extent of lymphadenectomy be modified by neoadjuvant chemotherapy in cervical cancer? [SEP] to assess the role of neoadjuvant chemotherapy in women with early or locally-advanced cervical cancer. randomised trials comparing neoadjuvant chemotherapy with surgery in women with early or locally-advanced cervical cancer who had not undergone any prior treatment likely to interfere with the treatment comparison. whilst these results appear to indicate that neoadjuvant chemotherapy may offer a benefit over surgery alone for women with early-stage or locally-advanced cervical cancer, the evidence is based on only a small number of trials, and further research may be warranted. to assess the role of neoadjuvant chemotherapy in women with early or locally advanced cervical cancer. randomised controlled trials (rcts) comparing neoadjuvant chemotherapy with surgery in women with early or locally advanced cervical cancer who had not undergone any prior treatment likely to interfere with the treatment comparison. therefore, it remains unclear whether neoadjuvant chemotherapy consistently offers a benefit over surgery alone for women with early-stage or locally advanced cervical cancer. this study aimed to test the hypothesis that the addition of adjuvant chemotherapy to definitive radiotherapy or concurrent chemoradiotherapy improves survival in patients with pelvic lymph node-positive cervical squamous cell carcinoma. adjuvant chemotherapy significantly improved 3-year distant metastasis-free survival in patients with pelvic lymph node-positive cervical squamous cell carcinoma. to assess the role of neoadjuvant chemotherapy to achieve radical surgery in a larger number of patients with locally advanced/or bulky stage ib cervical carcinoma. we conducted a trial to determine whether neoadjuvant chemotherapy would improve disease-free survival and overall survival in stage ib-iii cervical cancer. 
Do Wound Cultures Give Information About the Microbiology of Blood Cultures in Severe Burn Patients? [SEP] burn injuries facilitate invasive infections and sepsis not only by destroying the continuity of the protective skin barrier but also through systemic effects. the burn wound, blood, and urine samples are frequently cultured to determine the pathogen agent. the patients were evaluated with respect to age, gender, burn etiology, the total body surface area burned (tbsa), the presence of inhalation injury, sepsis, positive cultures, the microorganisms cultured in wound-blood-urine samples, and septic focus. the utility of anaerobic blood culturing is often debated in the general population, but there is limited data on the modern incidence, microbiology, and utility of obtaining routine anaerobic blood cultures for burned patients. we performed a retrospective review of the burned patients electronic medical records database for all blood cultures drawn between january 1997 and september 2005. three hundred and forty-five single species events (619 total blood culture isolates) were noted in 240 burned patients. anaerobic versus aerobic culture growth was recorded in 310 of 619 (50.1%) burned patient blood culture sets. of all microbiological tests performed, blood cultures have the most impact on patient care. to define clinical features of surgical patients in whom postoperative blood cultures are likely to identify pathogens. blood cultures detect bacteremia in individual patients and help define local pathogen and resistance spectra. 
Are behavioural risk factors to be blamed for the conversion from optimal blood pressure to hypertensive status in Black South Africans? [SEP] this review assesses results from clinical trials on lifestyle and pharmacologic interventions to identify which approaches most effectively prevent adverse hypertension-related outcomes in african descendent populations. we examined whether traditional cardiovascular risk factors and health behaviours of black south africans predict large artery stiffness 10 years later. high blood pressure occurs commonly in individuals of african origin, leading to an increased risk of cardiovascular and end-stage renal disease (esrd). there is an emerging burden of cardiovascular disease among urban black africans in south africa, which has been largely explained by the transition from traditional african lifestyles to more westernized behavior. we examined the role of health behaviors in explaining the excess burden of sub clinical vascular disease seen in black africans compared to caucasians. among hypertensive patients, those with african ancestry present with distinctive metabolic characteristics and cardiovascular profile. as a result, the effective and safe hypertension management of patients with african ancestry is of critical importance for reducing cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. the prevalence of hypertension and the incidence of complications from uncontrolled elevated blood pressure in blacks is much greater than in the white population. hypertension is one of the most important risk factors for cardiovascular disease and has a high prevalence in south africa and other low- and middle-income countries. therefore, this study investigated knowledge on and perceptions about hypertension of community members in a rural area in limpopo, south africa with the aim to increase awareness of hypertension and cardiovascular disease in the local population. 
Systematic use of patient-rated depression severity monitoring: is it helpful and feasible in clinical psychiatry? [SEP] the findings are discussed in relation to a growing body of literature investigating prognostic indicators in the context of models of collaborative care for depression. classification of depression severity can guide treatment decisions. in mental health care, treatment effects are commonly monitored by symptom severity measures. this study aimed to investigate the relationship between symptom severity and well-being in the treatment of patients with major depressive disorder (mdd). in the present article, we propose adopting the concept of psychiatric vital signs to facilitate measurement-based care. in the present report from the rhode island methods to improve diagnostic assessment and services project, we examined the frequency of depression and anxiety in a diagnostically heterogeneous group of psychiatric outpatients to determine the appropriateness of considering their measurement as psychiatric vital signs. the objectives of this systematic review were 1) to evaluate the validity of electronic self-monitoring tools as a method of evaluating mood compared to clinical rating scales for depression and mania and 2) to investigate the effect of electronic self-monitoring tools on clinically relevant outcomes in bipolar disorder. electronic self-monitoring of mood was considered valid compared to clinical rating scales for depression in six out of six studies, and in two out of seven studies compared to clinical rating scales for mania. routine monitoring of depression symptoms and suicide risk is essential for appropriate treatment planning and risk management, but not well implemented by clinicians. clinician-rated measures are used in clinical trials and measurement-based clinical care settings to assess baseline symptoms and treatment outcomes of major depressive disorder (mdd), with a widely held dictum that they are sufficient in assessing the patient's clinical status. 
Treadmill training post stroke: are there any secondary benefits? [SEP] fast treadmill training improves walking speed to a greater extent than training at a self-selected speed after stroke. faster treadmill walking facilitates a more normal walking pattern after stroke, without concomitant increases in common gait compensations, such as circumduction. treadmill training, with or without body weight support using a harness, is used in rehabilitation and might help to improve walking after stroke. to determine if treadmill training and body weight support, individually or in combination, improve walking ability, quality of life, activities of daily living, dependency or death, and institutionalisation or death, compared with other physiotherapy gait training interventions after stroke. overall, the use of treadmill training with body weight support in walking rehabilitation for patients after stroke increased the walking velocity and walking endurance significantly. overall, the use of treadmill training with body weight support in walking rehabilitation for patients after stroke did not increase the walking velocity and walking endurance at the end of scheduled follow-up significantly. overall, people after stroke who receive treadmill training with or without body weight support are not more likely to improve their ability to walk independently compared with people after stroke not receiving treadmill training, but walking speed and walking endurance may improve. after body-weight supported treadmill training, the stroke group made improvements toward recovery of normal bilateral coordination. status post ischemic stroke (> 6 months prior) participated in this nonrandomized low-intensity treadmill exercise pilot study three times/week for 3 months. body-weight supported treadmill training has been shown to be effective in improving walking speed in post-stroke hemiparetic subjects, and those that have shown improvements generally maintain them after the completion of rehabilitation. 
Does lunar position influence the time of delivery? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to examine the influence of the lunar cycle on the frequency of birth, on instrumental delivery, neonatal outcome as well as a possible relationship between lunar position at time of conception and the gender of the child. to study the relationship between lunar position and the day of delivery; to investigate the synodic distribution of spontaneous deliveries, especially in relation to the presence of a full moon. a connection between the distribution of spontaneous full-term deliveries and the lunar month was found. the effect of the phases of the moon seems to be particularly relevant in multiparae and plurigravidae; in these cases, the mean day of delivery corresponds to the first or second day after the full moon. in this paper the effect of lunar phases on the time of delivery is shown. the purpose of this study is to analyse the relationship between the phases of the moon and the frequency of deliveries in a rural historical context without electricity, and among women of low nutritional status. the purpose of this study was to find out whether the timing of surgery during particular lunar phases influences the survival of breast cancer patients. to refute the commonly held belief by the general public that the lunar cycle affects labour, we studied 10 027 deliveries over an 18-month period in a large maternity unit in ireland. animal studies revealed that the lunar cycle may affect hormonal changes early in phylogenesis (insects). our findings suggest that lunar phases may affect patients' requests for appointments at a thyroid outpatient clinic. 
Is oral endotracheal intubation efficacy impaired in the helicopter environment? [SEP] patients transported by helicopter often require advanced airway management. the purpose of this study was to determine whether or not the in-flight environment of air medical transport in a bo-105 helicopter impairs the ability of flight nurses to perform oral endotracheal intubation. oral endotracheal intubation in the in-flight setting of the bo-105 helicopter takes approximately twice as long as intubation in a ground setting. the results support pre-flight intubation of patients who appear likely to require urgent intubation during air medical transport in the bo-105 helicopter. however, in-flight endotracheal intubation may be indicated in the setting of certain scene conditions, in-flight patient deterioration, or endotracheal tube dislodgement. a previous report of high endotracheal intubation efficacy in the bk-117 in-flight recommended that flight programs review endotracheal intubation capabilities in their own aircraft. the respiratory complications in a selected group of patients who were transported from the scene of an accident by a helicopter service whose policy was to perform endotracheal intubation on only deeply obtunded patients and manage others with bag mask ventilation are reported. the success rate for difficult airway intubation by aeromedical personnel in a power-off evacuation helicopter was significantly improved by enhancing glottic visualization using vid vs. dir in a manikin. oral endotracheal intubation (eti) is the preferred method of controlling the airway in critically ill or injured patients. non-intubated video-assisted thoracic surgery (vats) involves a greater risk of consequent emergent conversion to endotracheal intubation. 
Prostatic syndrome and pleural effusion: are they different diseases? [SEP] are the symptoms, in fact, from the prostate or is there another etiology such as the bladder or medical conditions causing or contributing to the problems? prostatic diseases such as benign hyperplasia, prostatic cysts, acute bacterial prostatitis, chronic bacterial prostatitis, prostatic abscessation, and prostatic neoplasia are discussed. the author develops the hypothesis that prostatic inflammation (prostatitis) can influence the clinical presentation and perhaps surgical outcome in patients treated for symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia. the term 'prostatitis' denotes a condition of inflammation of the prostate. prostatitis is usually employed to describe any unexplained symptom or condition that might possibly emanate from a disorder of the prostate gland. the term prostatitis is applied to a series of disorders, ranging from acute bacterial infection to chronic pain syndromes, in which the prostate gland is inflamed. expressed prostatic secretions (eps) contain proteins of prostate origin that may reflect the health status of the prostate and be used as diagnostic markers for prostate diseases including prostatitis, benign prostatic hyperplasia, and prostate cancer. adenocarcinoma of the prostate may result in a malignant pleural effusion. occasionally, the initial diagnosis of prostate cancer is made because of prostate-specific antigen (psa) staining cells in the pleural fluid. we report a case of adenocarcinoma of the prostate that was suspected only because of an elevated psa in the pleural fluid in a patient who lacked malignant cytology, a history of prostate cancer, and radiographic evidence of pulmonary disease. 
Telemedicine and type 1 diabetes: is technology per se sufficient to improve glycaemic control? [SEP] healthcare organizations are increasingly using technology to assist in diabetes management based on telemedicine's proven ability to improve glycemic regulation, decrease cost, and overcome barriers to effective healthcare. to evaluate the effect of telenursing on t1dm patients' compliance with glucose self-monitoring and glycemic control. due to the advancement of information technologies, telehealth intervention as self-management measures potentially offer a possible solution in the primary healthcare arena to cope with the increasing demand for diabetes control. methods this study aims to systematically review the effectiveness of telehealth on diabetes control self-management in primary healthcare settings. conclusions this review showed positive effects of telehealth interventions for diabetes control self-management at the primary healthcare stage. telemedicine is often suggested as a promising approach to support patients with diabetes. we summarized the effectiveness of different methods of telemedicine for the management of diabetes compared with usual care. compared with usual care, the addition of telemedicine, especially systems that allowed medication adjustments with or without text messaging or a web portal, improved hba1c but not other clinically relevant outcomes among patients with diabetes. good metabolic control is important in type 2 diabetes mellitus to improve quality of life, work ability and life expectancy, and the use of telemedicine has proved efficient as an add-on to the usual treatment. however, few studies in type 2 diabetes patients have directly compared telemedicine with conventional outpatient treatment, and we wanted to evaluate whether telemedicine, compared with standard care, provides equivalent clinical outcomes. 
Is controlled ovarian stimulation in intrauterine insemination an acceptable therapy in couples with unexplained non-conception in the perspective of multiple pregnancies? [SEP] controlled ovarian stimulation (cos) with intrauterine insemination (iui) is a common treatment in couples with unexplained non-conception. intrauterine insemination with controlled ovarian hyperstimulation is commonly used as first-line treatment for couples with unexplained subfertility. we aimed to assess the incremental effectiveness of intrauterine insemination with controlled ovarian hyperstimulation compared with expectant management in couples with unexplained subfertility and an intermediate prognosis of a spontaneous ongoing pregnancy. 253 couples with unexplained subfertility and a 30-40% probability of a spontaneous ongoing pregnancy within 12 months were randomly assigned either intrauterine insemination with controlled ovarian hyperstimulation for 6 months or expectant management for 6 months. can controlled ovarian stimulation with low-dose human menopausal gonadotrophin (hmg) improve the clinical pregnancy rate when compared with ovarian stimulation with clomiphene citrate (cc) in an intrauterine insemination (iui) programme for subfertile couples? ovarian stimulation is an effective treatment for patients with ovulatory dysfunction and unexplained infertility. couples with unexplained subfertility are often treated with intrauterine insemination (iui) with ovarian stimulation, which carries the risk of multiple pregnancies. ovarian stimulation combined with intra-uterine insemination (iui) is an effective treatment of non-tubal infertility but most women undergo several cycles of treatment to achieve a pregnancy. in subfertile women with poor ovarian reserve undergoing ivf does a mild ovarian stimulation strategy lead to comparable ongoing pregnancy rates in comparison to a conventional ovarian stimulation strategy? a mild ovarian stimulation strategy in women with poor ovarian reserve undergoing ivf leads to similar ongoing pregnancy rates as a conventional ovarian stimulation strategy. 
Is half-dose contrast-enhanced three-dimensional MR angiography sufficient for the abdominal aorta and pelvis? [SEP] the aims of this study were to evaluate the effectiveness of low-dose, contrast-enhanced (ce), time-resolved, three-dimensional magnetic resonance angiography (mra) in the assessment of the abdominal aorta and its major branches at 3 t and to compare the results with those of high-spatial resolution ce mra. low-dose, time-resolved mra at 3 t yields rapid and important anatomic and functional information in the evaluation of the abdominal vasculature. the purpose of this study was to compare single-dose (0.1 mmol/kg) breath-hold gadolinium-enhanced three-dimensional (3d) mr angiography and double-dose (0.2 mmol/kg) non-breath-hold 3d mr angiography for evaluation of thoracic aortic disease. twenty-five patients referred for mr evaluation of the thoracic aorta underwent non-breath-hold gadolinium-enhanced 3d mr angiography on a 1.5-t scanner with standard gradients (tr/te, 21/6; flip angle, 30 degrees) during slow infusion of a double dose of gadopentetate dimeglumine using a body coil. optimized single-dose breath-hold gadolinium-enhanced 3d mr angiography is superior to double-dose non-breath-hold 3d mr angiography for evaluation of thoracic aortic disease. to evaluate the quality of images of the aorta and visceral arteries made at a high level of spatial resolution with thin slices and an optimized acquisition time by three-dimensional contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography (3d ce-mra). to prospectively evaluate accuracy of gadolinium-enhanced three-dimensional (3d) magnetic resonance (mr) angiography with gadodiamide and gadopentetate dimeglumine (0.1 mmol/kg), with intraarterial dsa as reference standard, for imaging abdominal and iliac arterial stenoses. to evaluate the usefulness of half-dose contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance (mr) angiography for depicting the abdominal aorta and its major branches. half-dose mr angiography using diluted contrast medium injected at a rate of 1 ml/second depicted the abdominal aorta and its branches as clearly as using a full single dose. this study was conducted to determine the efficacy and safety of four different doses of gadobenate dimeglumine for contrast-enhanced three-dimensional mr angiography of the abdominal aorta and renal arteries. 
Digital Tomosynthesis: A Viable Alternative to Noncontrast Computed Tomography for the Follow-Up of Nephrolithiasis? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to compare dt with noncontrast computed tomography (ncct) and to evaluate its potential role for the follow-up of patients with nephrolithiasis in a nonemergent setting. a retrospective review of patients with nephrolithiasis at our institution that underwent ncct and dt from july 2012 to september 2013 was performed. dt appears to be an ideal alternative for following patients with nephrolithiasis due to its acceptable stone detection rates, low radiation exposure, and decreased cost compared to ncct. noncontrast computerized tomography has replaced excretory urography as the first line diagnostic tool for evaluating nephrolithiasis at many centers. we evaluated the ability of noncontrast computerized tomography to detect ureteral duplication to determine how frequently these anomalies are under diagnosed. we propose helical computerized tomography as a more efficient way to gain renal function information. computerized tomography and diuretic enhanced nuclear renal scan were performed in 33 patients with chronic obstruction. computerized tomography may serve as a single radiological diagnostic study for anatomical and functional assessment in patients in whom a poorly functioning kidney is suspected. noncontrast renal computed tomography (ct) has been advocated for the evaluation of the poorly functioning or nonvisualized kidney. in the past decade, computed tomography urography has replaced traditional methods of ureteral imaging due to its high spatial resolution, multiplanar imaging, and rapid acquisition time. 
High cumulative insulin exposure: a risk factor of atherosclerosis in type 1 diabetes? [SEP] this has resulted in the concept that insulin may promote atherosclerosis in spite of the absence of any evidence that insulin is atherogenic either in the human or in experimental models. since atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory process of the arterial wall, insulin may be potentially anti-atherosclerotic in the long term. several observational studies have shown that higher insulin levels are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. if higher endogenous insulin levels are causally related to cardiovascular disease, one might expect an increased risk of cardiovascular disease in patients treated with insulin, as this results in high circulating insulin levels. high plasma insulin has been shown to be associated with the risk of coronary heart disease in nondiabetic subjects in prospective population studies. these results provide the first direct evidence that asymptomatic atherosclerosis is associated with insulin resistance. insulin resistance is an independent risk factor for the development of macro- and microvascular complications of type 1 diabetes and may also contribute to the development of the disease. fasting hyperinsulinemia is associated with an increased risk of atherosclerotic complications, namely heart attack and stroke, which has led to the concept that insulin may promote atherosclerosis despite the absence of any evidence that insulin is atherogenic either in humans or in experimental models. through which mechanisms insulin may increase atherosclerotic plaque vulnerability is currently unclear. the common insulin resistance syndrome, with obesity, dyslipidemia, hyperglycemia, and hypertension, is associated with increased risk of atherosclerosis. 
Are hepatitis G virus and TT virus involved in cryptogenic chronic liver disease? [SEP] to investigate the rate of infection with hepatitis g virus and tt virus in patients with cryptogenic chronic liver disease. hepatitis g virus-rna was detected in 4 out of 23 patients with cryptogenic chronic hepatitis and in 6 out of 40 with hepatitis c virus chronic hepatitis (17.4% vs 15% p=ns). at least one marker of hepatitis g virus infection (hepatitis g virus-rna and/or anti-hepatitis g virus, mostly mutually exclusive) was present in 6 out of 23 patients with cryptogenic hepatitis and 16 out of 40 with hepatitis c virus liver disease (26. t virus-dna was present in serum in 3 subjects, 1 with cryptogenic and 2 with hepatitis c virus-related chronic liver disease. its frequency in subjects with cryptogenic liver disease parallels that observed in hepatitis c virus chronic liver disease, thus ruling out an aetiologic role of hepatitis g virus. to assess the role of hepatitis g virus (hgv) in cryptogenic chronic liver disease (cld), we investigated the prevalence of hgv rna among patients with cryptogenic cld, patients with nonviral cld (primary biliary cirrhosis [pbc] and wilson's disease [wd]) and subjects without clinically evident liver disease (controls). hgv rna was detected in 7.8% of patients with cryptogenic cld (chronic hepatitis, 9.3%; cirrhosis, 5.0%; hcc, 7.4%), in 2.4% of patients with pbc or wd, and in 2.2% of controls. the hepatitis g virus (hgv) and transfusion-transmitted virus (ttv) are recently defined hepatitis viruses that the pathogenic roles in liver diseases are still not clear. we have investigated several groups of thai patients diagnosed with chronic liver disease including chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma, as well as cholangiocarcinoma, for the prevalence of infection with either one of the hepatitis viruses b, c, g and the novel hepatitis virus tt (ttv). hepatitis g virus (hgv), a new rna virus that is parenterally transmitted, has frequently been found in patients with chronic hepatitis c (hcv) infection but its role in chronic liver disease is unknown. 
Do older patients who refuse to participate in a self-management intervention in the Netherlands differ from older patients who agree to participate? [SEP] yet some clinicians perceive and some survey data suggest that older adults prefer not to participate in the decision-making process. our goal was to shed light on the experience of very old adults in health care decision making from their own point of view to deepen our understanding of their potentially modifiable barriers to participation. the experience of very old adults highlights potentially modifiable barriers to greater participation in decision making. little is known about factors influencing older people's decisions about participating in clinical trials. to examine the views of older people about participating in clinical trials. explaining the need for older people, despite poor health, to participate in trials may help the generalisability of clinical trials. this study aimed to identify the relationships of self-management abilities and frailty to perceived poor health among community-dwelling older people in the netherlands while controlling for important individual characteristics such as education, age, marital status, and gender. furthermore, older people in poor health reported significantly lower self-management abilities (3.5 vs. 4.1; p ≤ .001) and higher levels of frailty (6.9 vs. 3.3; p ≤ .001). self-management abilities and frailty are important for healthy aging among community-dwelling older people in the netherlands. we investigated the factors that influence older patient's (≥ 65 years) decisions to accept or refuse to participate in a prospective randomized clinical trial in secondary prevention after acute coronary syndrome. 
Preoperative locoregional staging of gastric cancer: is there a place for magnetic resonance imaging? [SEP] 18f-fdg pet/mri has been applied to the diagnosis and preoperative staging in various tumor types; however, reports using pet/mri in gastric cancer are rare because of motion artifacts. we investigated the value of pet/mri for preoperative staging compared with pet/ct in gastric cancer (gc). the purpose of this study was to determine accuracy rates and clinical usefulness of mri in preoperative staging of rectal cancer. this study was designed to assess whether preoperative magnetic resonance imaging scans were able to predict 1) pathologic tumor and node stage, and 2) those patients with a pathologically clear circumferential resection margin. patients with histologically proven carcinoma of the rectum were staged preoperatively using magnetic resonance imaging. preoperative staging of gastric carcinoma is limited by the fact that available imaging modalities do not enable accurate evaluation of the depth of infiltration of the gastric wall. the aim of this study was to evaluate the efficiency of conventional magnetic resonance imaging (mri) in local staging of gastric carcinoma. mri enables differentiation of gastric wall layers and, therefore, technically allows the evaluation of the local tumor stage of gastric carcinomas. magnetic resonance (mr) imaging may contribute to staging rectal cancer and inform the decision regarding administration of pre-operative radiotherapy. this study aimed to investigate the possible role of pet/mr versus magnetic resonance (mr) in clinically staging rectal cancer. 
Do familiar teammates request and accept more backup? [SEP] the present study investigated factors that explain when and why different groups of teammates are more likely to request and accept backup from one another when needed in an environment characterized by extreme time pressure and severe consequences of error: commercial air traffic control (atc). transactive memory theory states that teammates develop consensus regarding the distribution of their relative expertise as well as confidence in that expertise over time and that this facilitates coordination processes. the present study investigated whether this theory could help to explain between-team differences in requesting and accepting backup when needed. teammates with greater experience working together requested and accepted backup from one another more than those with lesser experience working together. teammate knowledge consensus and perceived team efficacy appear to have mediated this relationship. teammates' shared mental models about one another increase the likelihood that they will request and accept backup. teammate familiarity should be considered when choosing among potential replacement team members. in study 1, team athletes attributed a higher demand to compete and cooperate with the same teammates or training partners to their sport than individual athletes to their sport. our results show that helping does not increase indefinitely with the population size, as concluded previously, and while there are some instances of an increase in help provided as a result of competition, this competition can be detrimental to all individuals and in most cases, one type simply gives up (thus evolving to a "no help" strategy). the degree to which an individual's help is reciprocated by the others in the population has strong implications in the long-term behaviour of equilibrium help levels of types of individuals (and of individuals themselves); these equilibrium help levels diverge from existing conjectures in current literature. 
Transsphenoidal pituitary surgery in Cushing's disease: can we predict outcome? [SEP] transsphenoidal surgery is the usual treatment of choice for adrenocorticotropic hormone-secreting pituitary adenomas associated with cushing's disease. in this paper the authors investigate the complications of transsphenoidal surgery in the treatment of a contemporary series of patients with cushing's disease. transsphenoidal surgery for cushing's disease has a higher complication rate than that for pituitary adenomas in general. patients with cushing disease are usually treated with transsphenoidal surgery, as this approach leads to remission in 70-90% of cases and is associated with low morbidity when performed by experienced pituitary gland surgeons. transsphenoidal pituitary microsurgery is considered as the best treatment of cushing's disease. the aim of this study was to evaluate long-term results of transsphenoidal surgery in cushing's disease, with special interest in factors that could affect the surgical outcome on the one hand and particular attention to surgical endocrine effects on the other. transsphenoidal surgery for cushing's disease from a pituitary adenoma is an effective and safe treatment. we present the outcome of transsphenoidal surgery in patients with presumed cushing's disease and a normal pituitary magnetic resonance imaging scan. transsphenoidal resection of adrenocorticotrophic hormone (acth)-producing pituitary adenomas has the potential of curing most patients with cushing's disease. to determine the efficacy of transsphenoidal surgery in recurrent or persistent cushing's disease, we performed transsphenoidal surgery in 31 patients (22 women and nine men) who had previously undergone a transsphenoidal operation and two female patients who had had previous pituitary irradiation only. 
Can bedside assessment reliably exclude aspiration following acute stroke? [SEP] application of a clinical decision rule for subarachnoid hemorrhage, in combination with cranial computed tomography (ct) performed within six hours of ictus (early cranial ct), may be able to reasonably exclude a diagnosis of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (asah). to determine the accuracy of clinical examination in distinguishing hemorrhagic stroke from ischemic stroke. prospective studies of adult patients with stroke that compared initial clinical findings with accepted diagnostic standards of hemorrhagic stroke (computed tomography or autopsy). in patients with acute stroke, certain findings accurately increase or decrease the probability of intracranial hemorrhage, but no finding or combination of findings is definitively diagnostic in all patients, and diagnostic certainty requires neuroimaging. background and purpose- predicting safe extubation represents a clinical challenge in acute stroke patients. we compare clinical and instrumental swallowing examination tools to assess extubation readiness and propose a simple determine extubation failure in severe stroke score for decision making. methods- data of 133 orally intubated acute stroke patients were prospectively collected in this observational study. restricting regression analysis to parameters collected before extubation, a 4-item determine extubation failure in severe stroke score (duration of ventilation, the examination of oral motor function, infratentorial lesion, and stroke severity) was derived. conclusions- risk of ef is strongly correlated with postextubation dysphagia severity in stroke. the determine extubation failure in severe stroke score is based on easy to collect clinical data and may guide extubation decision making in critically ill stroke patients. 
Are UK radiologists satisfied with the training and support received in suspected child abuse? [SEP] senior pediatric trainees in the uk were surveyed regarding their experience and confidence in diagnosis and management with skin conditions, and their satisfaction with postgraduate training. uk consultant paediatricians and staff associate specialist and specialty (sas) doctors who are members of rcpch. to determine current practice and perceptions of the adequacy of training and support received for the reporting of skeletal surveys in suspected physical child abuse. only 52% of departments had a dedicated paediatric radiologist, thus in a significant proportion of departments (25%) initial reports on skeletal surveys for physical abuse were provided by non-paediatric radiologists. the survey shows significant dissatisfaction amongst consultant radiologists with the current service, confirms a low number of paediatric radiologists taking on this work, and suggests the potential to increase numbers of radiology child abuse experts by 27% if given improved training and support. this paper reports a brief survey of the uk's children's cancer principal treatment centres (ptcs) regarding staff support systems and practices. to collect radiology trainees' views on training for clinic-multidisciplinary team meetings (mdtms), identify aspects requiring improvement and develop a guide to aid training. two pediatric radiologists and two child life specialists worked together to create a training program to help guide radiology technologists on how to approach and interact with children undergoing medical imaging. we assessed the self-reported experience, comfort and competence of primary care pediatricians in evaluating and managing child maltreatment (cm), in rendering opinions regarding the likelihood of cm, and in providing court testimony. pediatricians were asked how frequently they evaluated and reported children for suspected maltreatment, and whether child abuse pediatricians were available to and used by them. 
Artefacts in 24-h pharyngeal and oesophageal pH monitoring: is simplification of pH data analysis feasible? [SEP] to determine the reliability of pharyngeal ph alone for the detection of pharyngeal reflux events. 24-h ph-impedance recordings performed in 45 healthy subjects with a bifurcated probe for detection of pharyngeal and oesophageal reflux events were reviewed. this study demonstrates that pharyngeal ph alone is not reliable for the detection of pharyngeal reflux and that adding distal oesophageal ph analysis is not helpful. ambulatory 24-h dual-channel pharyngeal and oesophageal ph monitoring is the standard test for measuring gastro-oesophageal and gastropharyngeal reflux. artefacts caused by the intake of food may result in falsely positive gastropharyngeal reflux, which necessitates a manual review of 24-h ph data. patients referred for otolaryngological complaints, suspected to have been caused by gastro-oesophageal reflux, underwent 24-h dual-channel ph monitoring. the diagnostic utility of 24-h oesophageal ambulatory ph monitoring in patients with functional dyspepsia has not been well established. to determine the existence of and characterize gastroesophagopharyngeal reflux in patients with symptoms of airway irritation, we monitored pharyngeal ph over a 24-hour period in 222 consecutive patients. the aim was to study the reproducibility of 24-h oesophageal ph monitoring under as standardized conditions as possible in patients with symptoms of gastro-oesophageal reflux disease. in this study a 24-h ph and oesophageal motility recording system was used to study naturally occurring acid reflux episodes in control subjects and in two groups of patients with severe acid reflux disease (erosive oesophagitis and oesophageal stricture). 
Can the condition of the cell microenvironment of mediastinal lymph nodes help predict the risk of metastases in non-small cell lung cancer? [SEP] detection of micrometastatic disease is an interesting area in non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc). estimating the clinical probability of mediastinal metastasis in patients with non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) can facilitate the selection and interpretation of staging tests. lymph node involvement could help to predict the prognosis of pathological t1 (pt1, diameters of ≤3 cm) non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc). this study assessed the clinicopathological factors and associated lymph node involvement in invasive lung adenocarcinoma (iac) and squamous cell lung cancer (scc) and the overall and disease-free survival associated with these factors. in early stage non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc), presence of lymphatic micrometastases and isolated tumor cells, primarily detected by immunohistochemistry, is suggested to be a prognostic factor. we performed a meta-analysis to clarify whether the molecular detection of tumor cells or micrometastases in the lymph node (ln) indicates a high risk of disease recurrence and poor survival in negative pathologic lymph node status non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc). we therefore prospectively assessed the frequency, mode of mediastinal spread, and prognostic significance of lymphatic micrometastases in lymph nodes of 93 patients with completely resected non-small-cell lung cancer staged as pt1 to pt4 pn0 and pn1 by conventional histopathologic techniques. the present study aimed to develop a nomogram to predict lymph node metastases on the basis of clinicopathological features of non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) patients. lymph node metastasis is not only an important factor in estimating the extent and the metastatic potential of an nsclc but also in prognosticating the patient outcome. preoperative prediction of lymph node metastasis might greatly facilitate the choice of appropriate surgical and medical options in patients with nsclc. 
Are wandering and physically nonaggressive agitation equivalent? [SEP] this paper examines the relationship between agitation and medical and psychiatric diagnoses. the authors examined equivalence of wandering and physically nonaggressive agitation (pna) as concepts. overall wandering correlated significantly with pna factor 1 (df =179, r = 0.68, p <0.001) and factor 2, but at a lower value (df = 179, r = 0.26, p <0.01). findings depict wandering and pna as overlapping, but nonequivalent phenomena. evidence supporting construct validity of wandering was more robust than that for pna. results have implications for accuracy in scientific and clinical detection and labeling of wandering and agitation. mind wandering is frequently defined as task-unrelated or perceptually decoupled thought. the aim of this paper is to clarify the concept of agitation in dementia through analysing definitions, critical attributes, components, boundaries, antecedents and consequences of agitation. "agitation" is a term that is used to describe a wide range of dysfunctional behaviours in geriatric populations. what is called agitation can consist of expressions of painful inner tension or as disinhibited goal-directed behavior and thought. 
Is size-reducing ascending aortoplasty with external reinforcement an option in modern aortic surgery? [SEP] the choice of external wrapping of the aorta is a simple, fast, and effective method for moderately sized ascending aortic aneurysms with concomitant operations. in all patients, the ascending aortic aneurysm was repaired by reduction aortoplasty with external wrapping. reduction aortoplasty of the ascending aorta with external wrapping resulted in a significant reduction of the ascending aorta in all patients (p = 0.000). reduction ascending aortoplasty (raa) is an alternative procedure to ascending aortic replacement. reduction ascending aortoplasty shows good early results in patients with aortic valve disease and dilatation of the ascending aorta. the aim of this study is to analyze the results of reduction aortoplasty with and without external prosthetic support. reduction aortoplasty showed good long-term results in patients with bicuspid aortic valve and dilatation of the ascending aorta. reduction ascending aortoplasty is an alternative procedure to the replacement of the ascending aorta in case of ascending aorta aneurysm without aortic root involvement. unsupported reduction aortoplasty is a safe and effective technique with low mortality, low morbidity, and rare late complications for selected chronic aneurysm of the ascending aorta with diameter less than 55 mm. reduction of ascending aortic dilatation by wrapping with a dacron graft in this preliminary study is associated with favourable early reversed aortic remodelling. 
Does depression diagnosis and antidepressant prescribing vary by location? [SEP] a series of analyses systematically examined competing explanations for socioeconomic differences in depression and antidepressant treatment. to compare the prevalence of antidepressant use, as a proxy for the level of depressive disorders, between patients in israeli urban and rural communities. the prevalence of antidepressant purchase during 2014 was evaluated for 581291 patients living in urban and rural communities. results showed higher rates of antidepressant use among patients living in urban (11.8%) compared with rural communities (8.1%; <0.001). antidepressant use varies significantly between different communities in israel. symptomatic response to antidepressants can vary depending on differences between individuals; however, this variability may reflect nonspecific or random factors. among patients with a diagnosis of depression, the pattern of prescribing antidepressant pharmacotherapy is influenced by a patient's age, gender, self-report of depression, and type of insurance coverage. in recent years, clinicians and epidemiologists have examined the differences between depressed patients in primary care and psychiatric settings. although depression is one of the most common problems of medical and psychiatric outpatients, it has not been clear whether the extent of medical comorbidity among depressed patients varies across major types of clinical settings in which depressed patients receive care--especially by type of treating clinician (general medical versus mental health specialty) or type of payment for services (prepaid versus fee-for-service). among depressed patients with hypertension, those visiting the general medical sector were more likely to be taking antihypertensive medication than were those visiting the mental health specialty sector. 
Can routinely collected ambulance data about assaults contribute to reduction in community violence? [SEP] assault data can be collected by reception staff using the cardiff model, then used by the community safety partnership to identify problem licensed premises and crime hotspots to reduce the incidence of violence and attendances at emergency departments. sharing emergency department data on victims of violence is associated with reductions in community violence and is well established throughout the uk. we undertook a critical literature review to determine whether sharing ambulance data was useful to identify violence hotspots and offered unique information for violence prevention. although the interventional evidence base is currently weak, ambulance data provide a unique source of information about the epidemiology of community violence and have the potential to improve current violent crime surveillance methods. to identify determinants of assaults using ed data to inform development of programmes delivered in acute trusts for reducing assault-related injuries in the community. ed data have the potential to inform hospital-based initiatives to address issues such as assaults in the local population. information sharing of emergency department data with community safety partnerships (csp) has been associated with substantial reductions in assault attendances in emergency departments supported by academic institutions. to determine the extent to which community violence that results in injury treated in emergency departments appears in official police records and to identify age/gender groups at particular risk of under-recording by the police. non-confidential data for patients with assault related injury treated in the emergency departments of two hospitals in one south wales city (swansea) during a six month period were compared with data relating to all recorded crimes in the category "violence against the person" in the police area where the hospitals were located. emergency department derived assault data provide unique perspectives of community violence and police detection. 
Volume change of uterine myomas during pregnancy: do myomas really grow? [SEP] uterine myomas often enlarge rapidly during pregnancy. although most patients with uterine myomas are asymptomatic during pregnancy, profound enlargement of a pedunculated myoma has serious consequences. in the present case, gradual enlargement of a pedunculated myoma was observed throughout a woman's pregnancy, worsening after delivery and causing hypovolemic shock, without evidence of external or intra-abdominal hemorrhage. we studied uterine myomas originating from females of reproductive age and from females of perimenopausal age. uterine myomas represent benign tumors of the myometrium, and they develop frequently in women of reproductive age. the frequency of uterine myomas increases with age until women reach the menopause. proliferation in reproductive age women myomas is higher than in the peri-menopausal age. uterine myomas are common pelvic masses during pregnancy. the pain and rapid growth of myomas are among the most common complications during pregnancy. we report a good result of aspiration of a cystic uterine myoma during pregnancy with a review of the literature published for twenty years since 1 january 1988. 
Is laparoscopic adrenalectomy safe and effective for adrenal masses larger than 7 cm? [SEP] our aim was to evaluate the outcome of laparoscopic v open adrenalectomy for large-volume (> or =5 cm) adrenal masses and to compare laparoscopic adrenalectomy for large- and small-volume (<5 cm) masses. laparoscopic adrenalectomy is accepted by many as the standard of care for the majority of adrenal masses less than 8 cm. to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of laparoscopic adrenalectomy with regard to adrenal mass size, as well as to consider its clinical and pathologic patterns. laparoscopic adrenalectomy is also effective and safe for large lesions. the aim of this paper was to assess the safety of laparoscopic adrenalectomy for large adrenal tumours (tumours > or = 60 mm). it has been suggested that laparoscopic adrenalectomy is appropriate only for adrenal tumors < 6 cm in size. we report our experience with laparoscopic adrenalectomy in patients with adrenal tumors of > or =6 cm compared with patients with smaller tumors. in this study we report our experience in laparoscopic adrenalectomy for adrenal masses larger than 6 cm. this experience and the results of literature suggest that laparoscopic approach is safe and feasible for adrenal masses larger than 6 cm with a longer operative time. laparoscopic resection of large (≥ 8 cm) adrenal tumors is feasible and safe. 
Upstream solutions: does the supplemental security income program reduce disability in the elderly? [SEP] is it more effective to reduce poverty among the elderly by increasing the benefits paid by the supplemental security income (ssi) program or by increasing eligibility for the program? social security is the most important and effective income support program ever introduced in the united states, alleviating the burden of poverty for millions of elderly americans. we explored the possible role of social security in reducing mortality among the elderly. in support of this hypothesis, we found that declines in mortality among the elderly exceeded those among younger age groups following the initial implementation of social security in 1940, and also in the periods following marked improvements in social security benefits via legislation and indexing of benefits that occurred between the mid-1960s and the early 1970s. a better understanding of the link between social security and health status among the elderly would add a significant and missing dimension to the public discourse over the future of social security, and the potential role of income support programs in reducing health-related socioeconomic disparities and improving population health. in the post-1996 welfare reform period in the u.s., disability assistance has become a significant source of government aid for low-income residents as other forms of public support have faced considerable reductions and restrictions. in order to qualify for supplemental security income (ssi) - a means-tested assistance program that provides income stipends to qualified residents - working-age individuals with disabilities must have little income and resources, and procure medical documentation that confirms that they are unable to work due to a disability. using county-level data from the american community survey and the social security administration, this paper examines the changing spatial patterns of ssi participation of the working-age population in 2000 and 2010 across the u.s. in addition to the interconnections between disability, welfare, and poverty. the calculations show that, other things being equal, increases in disability prevalence between ages 65 and 75 will not substantially reduce the cost savings attributable to increasing the normal retirement age up to age 75. this paper exploits social security law changes to identify the effect of social security income on the use of formal and informal home care by the elderly. 
Profiling quality of care: Is there a role for peer review? [SEP] peer review for quality of care is often conducted to address issues such as professional staff conflict, hospital or clinic privileging, identified quality concerns or patient complaints, and group practice membership decisions. peer review of the quality of care of the medical staff in a healthcare delivery system, properly executed and utilized, can bring about changes that improve the quality and safety of patient care, enhance clinical performance, and augment physician education. the goals of peer review are to improve the quality of medical care and to provide fair review of individual practitioner actions, judged against the local standard of medical care. peer review can be an effective tool for quality assurance. peer review can be utilized to increase the quality of care for patients by upgrading the performance of all the providers by identifying learning opportunities. peer review, usually involving unstructured judgments by a single peer reviewing medical records, was the backbone of quality management in health care organizations until recent years. peer review is an essential mechanism for evaluating the judgment and performance of clinical providers. peer review within the organized medical staff is a systematic effort to evaluate and analyze medical care services delivered to patients and to assure the quality and appropriateness of these services. the goal of peer review is to maintain and improve the quality of medical care. to determine how well one state's peer review organization (pro) judged the quality of hospital care compared with an independent, credible judgment of quality of care. 
Eyelid-parotid metastasis: do we screen for coexisting masses? [SEP] although uncommon, intra-parotid lymph node (ipln) metastasis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of parotid masses in patients with head and neck cancers. to compare the clinical and imaging features of ipln metastases from head and neck cancers and simultaneous parotid primary tumors. malignant eyelid tumors may mimic a number of benign conditions. mucinous carcinoma is a rare primary eyelid malignancy. this study shows that immunohistochemistry may help exclude metastatic mucinous carcinoma to the eyelid from many sites, except the breast, which the eyelid primary closely resembles. however, benign neoplasms and inflammatory lesions of the parotid gland have been reported to present with facial palsy. though relatively rare, metastatic tumours of the mandible should be included in the differential diagnosis of the tumours in the parotid region. metastatic tumors in parotid nodes are unusual but must be considered. we present 12 patients with isolated metastases to parotid lymph nodes. metastases to the salivary glands from distant neoplasms are unusual, with most reported cases involving the parotid gland. 
Will CT ordering practices change if we educate residents about the potential effects of radiation exposure? [SEP] the aim of this study was to determine if educating residents about the potential effects of radiation exposure from computed tomographic (ct) imaging alters ordering patterns. this study also explored whether referring physicians are interested in radiation education and was an initial effort to address their ct ordering behavior. two to four months after a radiologist's lecture on the potential effects of radiation exposure related to ct scans, urology and orthopedic residents were surveyed regarding the number and types of ct scans they ordered, the use of alternative imaging modalities, and whether they used the lecture information to educate patients. radiation education allowed clinicians to discuss ct benefits and risks with their patients and to choose appropriate ct protocols. we examined (1) outpatient clinician attitudes towards considering radiation exposure when ordering ct scans; and (2) clinician reactions to displaying radiation exposure information for ct scans at clinician electronic order entry. displaying clinically relevant radiation exposure information at order entry may improve clinician knowledge and inform patient-clinician discussions regarding risks and benefits of imaging. heightened awareness about the radiation risks associated with ct imaging has increased patients' wishes to be informed of these risks, and has motivated efforts to reduce radiation dose and eliminate unnecessary imaging. to determine organizational leaders' perceptions of barriers to optimizing radiation dose in ct. an observational study using semistructured interviews conducted with 26 organizational leaders from 19 health care systems in the united states, europe, and japan. specifically, is patient awareness of radiation risks changing over time and do levels of education affect this knowledge? the purpose of this study is to investigate emergency department (ed) providers' knowledge of the lifetime cancer risk attributable to radiation from commonly performed ct scans and its association with the ordering providers' risk-benefit analysis before ordering the examination. 
Does context matter for the relationship between deprivation and all-cause mortality? [SEP] prospective studies have suggested a negative impact of area deprivation on overall mortality, but its effect on cause-specific mortality and the mechanisms that account for this association remain unclear. we investigate the association of area deprivation, using index of multiple deprivation (imd), with overall and cause-specific mortality, contextualising findings within a systematic review. health behaviours mediate the association between area deprivation and cause-specific mortality. individual and contextual socioeconomic conditions showed an independent and significant impact on mortality, both among men and women, with significantly higher risks for coronary heart and respiratory diseases among people, aged less than 65 years, residing in deprived neighbourhoods (9% and 15% excess for coronary heart diseases, 20% and 24% for respiratory diseases, respectively for men and women living in deprived neighbourhoods compared with rich). three mechanisms related to household living standards might affect early-age mortality: the absolute level of deprivation, its level relative to the average of the community, and the inequality in the distribution of deprivation within communities. the results show that after possible confounders are controlled for, community-level absolute deprivation is a significant predictor of neonatal and postneonatal mortality. these findings are specific to a context of widespread deprivation and low inequality within communities; the role of the distribution of deprivation might be more important in countries in which basic needs are met within a bigger proportion of the population. residing in deprived areas may increase risk of mortality beyond that explained by a person's own ses-related factors and lifestyle. the aim of this study was to examine the relation between neighborhood socioeconomic deprivation and all-cause, cancer- and cardiovascular disease (cvd)-specific mortality for men and women after accounting for education and other important person-level risk factors. higher neighborhood deprivation was associated with modest increases in all-cause, cancer- and cvd-mortality after accounting for many established risk factors. 
Does stress increase imitation of drinking behavior? [SEP] it is concluded that acute stress may produce a modest increase in alcohol consumption in healthy, nonproblem social drinkers but that this increase is not directly related to the pharmacological effects of the drug. the chronic stress of social subordination is correlated with increased alcohol drinking. stress increases alcohol consumption and the risk of relapse, but little is known about the psychological mechanisms that underlie these effects. one candidate mechanism is inhibitory control, which may be impaired by acute stress and is believed to exert a causal influence on alcohol consumption. we investigated if acute stress would impair inhibitory control and if impaired inhibitory control would be associated with subsequent ad-libitum alcohol consumption in a naturalistic laboratory setting. acute stress increased alcohol consumption in heavy drinkers, in a semi-naturalistic setting. evidence of stress-potentiated drinking would substantiate this clinical observation and would contribute to the development of a model that would be valuable to alcohol treatment research. this study supports that stress-potentiated drinking is valid and can be modeled in a clinical laboratory setting. stress evokes thoughts about alcohol and enhances alcohol's rewarding value in drinkers who use alcohol to cope with negative affect. the present study extends prior research by examining whether this effect applies to actual alcohol consumption following a stressor and whether individuals with high and low coping motives for drinking differ in stress reactivity. 
School food policy at Dutch primary schools: room for improvement? [SEP] since there is a shift from eating lunch at home to eating lunch at primary schools in the netherlands, providing a school lunch may be an important opportunity to improve the diet quality of dutch children. in the healthy school lunch project children in grades 5-8 (aged 8-12 years) of three primary schools in the netherlands will receive a healthy school lunch for a 6-month period. this study aimed to get a better understanding of adolescents' food and health perceptions and their willingness to be involved in a specific school-based prevention program, i.e., the dutch "healthy school canteen program." as a major part of their caloric intake takes place at school, the present study aims to examine the effect of increasing the availability of healthier foods in school canteens on sales, student attitude and self-reported behaviour. policy that targets the school food environment has been advanced as one way to increase the availability of healthy food at schools and healthy food choice by students. to examine whether state- and district-level nutrition policies addressing junk food in school vending machines and school stores were associated with less junk food in school vending machines and school stores. to evaluate the effect of a primary school-based intervention providing free fruit and vegetables (f&v), separately for children of dutch and of non-western ethnicity. primary schools in two regions (west and east) in the netherlands. in this study, process indicators of taste lessons (a nutrition education programme for dutch elementary schools) and their association with changes in behavioural determinants relevant to healthy eating behaviour are studied. the goal of the current study was to examine if the completeness of programme implementation and the completeness of implementation of specific programme elements of the dutch school-based healthy diet promotion programme krachtvoer are related to short- and longer-term changes in students’ fruit, sweets and breakfast intakes. 
Is the atopy patch test with house dust mites specific for atopic dermatitis? [SEP] we therefore performed atopy patch tests with house dust mite antigens (dermatophagoides pteronyssinus (dp) and/or dermatophagoides farinae (df)) in scabies patients without atopy and healthy controls. skin prick tests with standardized house dust mite extract were performed for all patients and controls. twenty-two of 25 patients with scabies (88%) had skin prick test and/or intradermal test positivity against house dust mites, whereas 17/25 patients (68%) had atopy patch test positivity against house dust mites (dp and/or df). in this study, we have shown that a positive atopy patch test to house dust mite antigens is not specific for patients with atopic dermatitis, but also occurs in scabies patients without a history of atopic dermatitis. the aim of the study was to evaluate apt with house dust mite (hdm) in children with asthma and rhinitis symptoms allergic to hdm and its relevance to skin prick test (spt) diameters and specific ige levels. patch testing with hdm may partly identify mite sensitive children with respiratory allergy. the atopy patch test (apt) has been defined as an important tool in the diagnosis of cutaneous hypersensitivity caused by house dust mites in atopic dermatitis (ad). the aim of this study was to investigate whether dermatitis could be induced in patients with atopic dermatitis by inhalation of house dust mite. despite its controversial diagnostic value, the atopy patch test (apt) has been used as an important tool in the diagnosis of ad caused by house dust mites. the house dust mite long has been studied for its potential role in atopic dermatitis. 
Juvenile osteochondritis dissecans: is it a growth disturbance of the secondary physis of the epiphysis? [SEP] similarly, epiphysial growth relies on endochondral ossification from the circumferential secondary physeal [corrected]. we hypothesized that juvenile ocd results from an insult affecting endochondral ossification from the secondary physis. the lesion is an osteochondroma arising from the epiphysis and increasing in size until skeletal maturity is reached. osteochondritis dissecans is a term used to describe the separation of an articular cartilage subchondral bone segment from the remaining articular surface. juvenile osteochondritis dissecans describes an osteochondritis dissecans lesion found in skeletally immature children with a maximum incidence occurring between the ages of 10 and 20. although the etiology of these lesions is unclear, it is believed that repetitive microtrauma may interrupt the already tenuous epiphyseal blood supply in the growing child and contribute to the development of osteochondritis dissecans lesions. this review article discusses the anatomy, etiology, evaluation, classification, treatment, and expected outcome of osteochondritis dissecans lesions. observations on the early development of multiple osteochondromata in a 3-year-old girl suggest that aberrant growth of a peripheral segment of the growth plate, with extension primarily toward the metaphysis, but towards the epiphysis, impairs development of adjacent areas of epiphyseal cartilage. osteochondrosis dissecans (ocd) is a developmental orthopedic disease caused by a failure of the endochondral ossification in epiphyseal plates and joint cartilage. growth arrest in the epiphyseal plate during childhood often causes both periarticular deformities and limb length discrepancy, leading to compartmental osteoarthrosis and gait disturbance or spinal disorders, respectively. 
Do preoperative statins reduce atrial fibrillation after coronary artery bypass grafting? [SEP] recent studies have demonstrated that preoperative statin therapy reduces the incidence of postoperative atrial fibrillation (af). the objective of this study was to assess the efficacy of statin therapy started in the early postoperative period for the prevention from new-onset af after isolated coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg). background: atrial fibrillation (af) is a common postoperative complication after coronary artery bypass grafting. conclusions: in a propensity-matched cohort of patients undergoing coronary bypass surgery, we could not demonstrate that preoperative statins were protective for the development of post operative atrial fibrillation. the aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of preoperative atorvastatin on postoperative atrial fibrillation following coronary artery bypass grafting with cardiopulmonary bypass (ccabg). preoperative atorvastatin administration may inhibit inflammatory reactions to prevent atrial fibrillation following coronary artery bypass grafting with cardiopulmonary bypass. the objective of this study was to assess the efficacy of preoperative statin therapy in preventing af after coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg). statin therapy significantly reduced the incidence of postoperative atrial fibrillation (poaf) (odds ratio, 0.50; 95% confidence interval, 0.35-0.73) and length of hospital stay (weighted mean difference, -0.72; 95% confidence interval, -0.99 to -0.45), an effect that survived detailed subgroup analysis. statins have important pleiotropic effects and have been shown to reduce vascular inflammation and the incidence of atrial fibrillation (af) after cardiac surgery. it is known that statins are effective in preventing atrial fibrillation (af) in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. 
Is there a uniform basal endometrial gene expression profile during the implantation window in women who became pregnant in a subsequent ICSI cycle? [SEP] does gene expression of putative endometrial implantation markers vary in expression between menstrual cycles? compared to healthy women, is the profile of transcripts altered in the eutopic endometrium of infertile women with endometriosis during the implantation window (iw)? this study shows that the human endometrium has a differential proteomic repertoire during the window of implantation. to understand which genes are really involved in the implantation process, we planned to study the gene basal expression profile during the window of implantation (woi) of patients who became pregnant in a subsequent icsi cycle. the aim of this study was to investigate the endometrial gene expression profile in women with unexplained infertility in comparison with fertile controls at the time of embryo implantation in order to find potential predictive markers of uterine receptivity and to identify the molecular mechanisms of infertility. endometrial expression of 47 selected genes biopsied during the window of implantation in natural cycles was compared between patients who achieved a successful pregnancy spontaneously or after subsequent intracytoplasmic sperm injection (icsi) cycles and patients who did not achieve a pregnancy after at least two failed icsi cycles. to achieve this aim, the objective of the present paper was the comparison of endometrial expression in natural cycles of 47 selected genes between the biopsies of patients who achieved a successful pregnancy, either spontaneously or after subsequent icsi cycles, and those of patients who did not achieve a pregnancy after at least two failed icsi cycles. these results demonstrate that gene expression profiling of the endometrium is different between natural and controlled ovarian stimulation cycles in the receptive phase. this study aimed at identifying genes expressed in human endometrium during the implantation window that could be used as such markers. five genes have been identified for the first time as being up-regulated during the implantation window and are proposed as new biomarkers for exploration of endometrial receptiveness. 
Can decisional algorithms replace global introspection in the individual causality assessment of spontaneously reported ADRs? [SEP] spontaneous reporting of adverse drug reactions (adrs), although commonly used, is of limited efficacy for the establishment of causation, and must be complemented by more rigorous epidemiologic studies. this article presents a decision algorithm that could be used as a tool in the selection of the most appropriate study design to investigate the causal relationship between a given adr and a drug. global introspection is considered an unreliable method for attribution of causality of serious adverse events (saes), yet remains widely used for cancer drug clinical trials. to compare the results of causality assessments of reported adverse drug reactions (adr's) obtained from decisional algorithms with those obtained from an expert panel using the who global introspection method (gi) and to further evaluate the influence of confounding variables on algorithms ability in assessing causality. two hundred sequentially reported adr's were included in this study. many algorithms have been designed for permitting the objective and reproducible assessment of the causality of adrs, but there is a lack of this kind of assessment for the severity of adrs. clinical judgement studies are essential for recognising the causal relation of a medication with adverse drug reactions (adrs). our proposed model identifies the causal relation by answering a subset of naranjo questionnaire naranjo et al. to estimate causation of adverse drug reaction (adr) reports, causality methods were developed from a theoretical perspective. to improve scientific precision in the diagnosis of adrs, we have developed an algorithm that provides detailed operational criteria for ranking the probability of causation when adr is suspected between a drug and a clinical manifestation. 
Can we rely on arterial line sampling in performing activated plasma thromboplastin time after cardiac surgery? [SEP] in patients receiving heparin infusions, variations in specimen collection technique may contribute to inaccurate measurements of activated partial thromboplastin time (aptt). the activated coagulation (clotting) time (act) is widely used to monitor heparin therapy during cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb). in patients heparinized for surgery on the infrarenal aorta, the degree of anticoagulation by heparin of stasis blood (taken from below the aortic clamp) was compared with that obtained in circulating blood taken from a forearm artery. a measurement of activated partial thromboplastin time (aptt) was made on a venous blood sample taken from each patient before 5000 units of heparin was administered intravenously. patients undergoing cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb) are at risk of bleeding. we assessed the accuracy and precision of a new near-patient testing system (hemochron response) by measuring prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time (pt and aptt) in 50 patients undergoing cardiac surgery using cardiopulmonary bypass and comparing the results with laboratory assays. in order to compare activated clotting time (act) sampled from an arterial (heparin-flushed) line with the control, a venous (heparin-free) line, arterial and venous act values were assessed before and after cardiopulmonary bypass in 150 patients while undergoing open-heart surgery. we conclude that arterial-sampled act measurement is suitable and reliable for monitoring heparin reversal by protamine after cardiopulmonary bypass. activated coagulation times (acts) are widely used for monitoring anticoagulation during cardiac surgery. determination of activated partial thromboplastin time (aptt) is used in coagulation management after heart surgery. 
Does timing of initial surfactant treatment make a difference in rates of chronic lung disease or mortality in premature infants? [SEP] to compare two treatment strategies in preterm infants with or at risk of respiratory distress syndrome: early surfactant administration (within one hour of birth) versus late surfactant administration, in a geographically defined population. early surfactant administration is associated with shorter duration of ventilation but does not appear to be significantly protective against cld/mortality among premature infants. many premature infants with respiratory failure are deficient in surfactant, but the relationship to occurrence of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (bpd) is uncertain. several randomized clinical trials have shown that surfactant therapy improves the pulmonary status of infants with respiratory distress syndrome and has the potential to reduce morbidity and mortality in these infants. several reports have shown the beneficial effects of early or prophylactic surfactant therapy for preterm infants, who often develop respiratory distress syndrome. we conducted a retrospective study of infants born at 23-34 weeks' gestation to determine the frequency with which surfactant therapy was used in a rescue strategy at each gestational age, and to ascertain the sensitivity, specificity, and predictive values of gestational age as a predictor of the use of surfactant therapy. we conclude that gestational age can be used to predict a need for surfactant therapy in premature infants. surfactant treatment in the early hours of life significantly decreases the rates of death and air leak, and increases survival without bronchopulmonary dysplasia (bpd) in preterm infants. we aimed to compare the impact of early surfactant (es) administration to late selective (ls) treatment on neonatal outcomes in preterm infants. prophylactic lung surfactant is commonly used to reduce the severity of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome in premature infants. 
Clinician assessment for acute chest syndrome in febrile patients with sickle cell disease: is it accurate enough? [SEP] to determine whether the use of empiric chest radiography (cxr) is of significant value in detecting clinically unsuspected acute chest syndrome (acs) in febrile patients with sickle cell disease (scd). acute illness characterized by fever, cough, chest pain and pulmonary infiltrates on chest film is characteristic of patients witb sickle cell anemia and with sickle-c disease. acute chest syndrome (acs) is a pulmonary illness with fever, chest pain, leukocytosis and new pulmonary opacity in a patient with sickle cell disease. acute chest syndrome (acs) is defined as fever, respiratory symptoms and a new pulmonary infiltrate in an individual with sickle cell disease (scd). pulmonary complications account for significant morbidity and mortality in patients with sickle cell disease. in this review the current knowledge of the mechanism, diagnosis, and treatment of pulmonary complications of sickle cell disease are discussed. acute chest syndrome (acs), a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in sickle cell disease (scd), is an acute illness characterized by fever and/or respiratory symptoms, accompanied by a new pulmonary infiltrate on a chest x-ray. acute chest syndrome (acs) is the leading cause of death among people with sickle cell disease. measurements on sickle cell patients having acs, vaso-occlusive crisis (voc), and regular clinic visits (healthy) were recorded and analyzed. the acute chest syndrome (acs), characterized by fever, chest pain, leukocytosis and a new infiltrate on chest roentgenogram, is a common complication of sickle hemoglobinopathies. 
Outcome Feedback within Emergency Medicine Training Programs: An Opportunity to Apply the Theory of Deliberate Practice? [SEP] the aim of this study was to determine if and to what extent, specific training in the management of life threatening emergencies resulted in an increased in compliance with established care guidelines of doctors working in the emergency departments of public sector hospitals in pakistan. 5-day training of ess-emnch significantly increased the compliance with established care guidelines of doctors during their management of life threatening emergency episodes in the public sector hospitals in pakistan. feedback on patient outcomes is invaluable to the practice of emergency medicine but examples of effective forms of feedback have not been well characterized in the literature. we describe one system of emergency department (ed) outcome feedback called the return visit report (rvr) and present the results of a survey assessing physicians' perceptions of this novel form of feedback. this systematic review investigates whether ebm training leads to sustained improvements in doctors' knowledge and practice behaviors that may also facilitate changes in patient outcomes and experiences. this survey regarding the practice of real-time, non-critical incident debriefings in four major academic em programs within new york city sheds light on three major, pertinent points: 1) real-time, non-critical incident debriefing definitely occurs in academic emergency practice; 2) in general, real-time debriefing is perceived to be of some value with respect to education, systems and performance improvement; 3) although it is practiced by clinicians, most report no formal training in actual debriefing techniques. by comparing resident and faculty perceptions of feedback opportunities within one internal medicine residency training program, we sought to understand whether and how principles underlying meaningful feedback could be supported or constrained across a variety of feedback opportunities. using case-study qualitative methodology, interviews and focus groups were conducted to explore 19 internal medicine residents' and 7 faculty members' perceptions of feedback across a variety of feedback opportunities: coaching, mini-cexs, in-training evaluation reports and routine clinical supervision. meaningful feedback in clinical education may be fostered across a variety of feedback opportunities, however, it is often constrained by assessment. providing feedback to trainees in clinical settings is considered important for development and acquisition of skill. 
Can multiple SNP testing in BRCA2 and BRCA1 female carriers be used to improve risk prediction models in conjunction with clinical assessment? [SEP] while brca1/brca2 genetic testing provides important risk information for some women, panels of more common breast cancer risk genetic variants may have relevance to greater numbers of women with familial risk. in women with brca1/brca2 mutations, 3 snps/13 snps, respectively, generated the prs estimates. snp18 was predictive for non-carriers of brca1/2 mutations (iqr or 1.55, 95% ci 1.29 to 1.87, o/e 96%). the assessment of brca1 and brca2 coding sequences to identify pathogenic mutations associated with inherited breast/ovarian cancer syndrome has provided a method to identify high-risk individuals, allowing them to seek preventative treatments and strategies. we identified a subset of 43 genes whose combined expression pattern is a sensitive predictor of brca1 status. we examined correlates of interest in multigene panel testing and risk communication preferences in an ethnically diverse sample of women who tested negative for brca mutations previously but remain at high risk based on their family history (referred to as "brca-uninformative") and their at-risk female family members. genetic screening of breast cancer patients and their families have identified a number of variants of unknown clinical significance in the breast cancer susceptibility genes, brca1 and brca2. genetic testing for brca1 and brca2 (brca1/2) mutations can provide important information for women who are concerned about their breast and ovarian cancer risks and need to make relevant prevention and medical management decisions. here, we discuss the clinical decision-making implications of this research in the context of risk factors that may influence risk estimates in brca1/2 mutation carriers. women with brca-1 or brca-2 mutations have a significantly increased risk for breast cancer. 
Does a special interest in laparoscopy affect the treatment of acute cholecystitis? [SEP] acute cholecystitis is increasingly managed by laparoscopic cholecystectomy. this study reviews the combined experience of two hospitals where the intention was to perform early laparoscopic cholecystectomy for acute cholecystitis. this series shows that laparoscopic cholecystectomy can be performed safely in patients with acute cholecystitis and suggests that early laparoscopic cholecystectomy is preferable to delaying surgery. early laparoscopic cholecystectomy is an acceptable approach to acute cholecystitis for the experienced laparoscopic surgeon. the purpose of this retrospective study is to evaluate the clinical significance of laparoscopic cholecystectomy that is performed at our institution in patients with acute cholecystitis. the aim of the study was to assess the incidence of cholecystectomy for acute cholecystitis and to determine the proportion of laparoscopically completed procedures compared with all cholecystectomies for acute cholecystitis. the current study compared the results of early versus delayed laparoscopic cholecystectomy for treatment of acute cholecystitis. although elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy is today's gold standard for the treatment of symptomatic cholelithiasis, its safety and effectiveness for acute cholecystitis remain controversial. the authors present a retrospective study comparing laparoscopic cholecystectomy in the acute versus the elective setting. laparoscopic cholecystectomy (lc) has become the treatment of choice for elective cholecystectomy, but controversy persists over use of this approach in the treatment of acute cholecystitis. 
Can progression of valvar aortic stenosis be predicted accurately? [SEP] the ability to predict the rate of hemodynamic progression in an individual patient with valvular aortic stenosis has been elusive. the purpose of the present study was to evaluate whether the rate of change in aortic valve area (ava) measured during the ejection phase of a cardiac cycle predicts the rate of hemodynamic progression in patients with asymptomatic aortic stenosis. in 84 adults with initially asymptomatic aortic stenosis and a baseline ava of > or =0.9 cm(2), annual echocardiographic data were obtained prospectively (mean follow-up 2.8+/-1.3 years). the sensitivity, specificity, and positive predictive value of ava ratio of > or =1.25 for the prediction o rapid progression of valvar aortic stenosis was 64%, 72%, and 80% respectively. progression from mild to severe aortic stenosis is well-recognized but there are few data as to the likely rate of progression. to review current concepts regarding the development, progression, and assessment of aortic stenosis; the appropriate monitoring intervals for transthoracic echocardiography; and the indications for valve procedures. the purpose of the study was to identify clinical predictors of progression of aortic stenosis. the natural history of valvular aortic stenosis includes a latency period followed by an unpredictable progression. mild aortic stenosis in 36% of patients at the time of the index echocardiogram progressed to moderate or severe over an average of 2.9 +/- 2.0 years. the rate of progression of aortic stenosis is variable. 
Does automatic transmission improve driving behavior in older drivers? [SEP] the objective of this study was to investigate whether automatic transmission, compared with manual transmission, may improve the driving behavior of older drivers. however, and contrary to the younger drivers, automatic transmission improved the older participants' driving behavior as demonstrated by safer speed adjustment in urban areas, greater maneuvering skills, safer lane position and driving in accordance with the speed regulations. switching to automatic transmission may be recommended for older drivers as a means to maintain safe driving and thereby the quality of their transport mobility. high-level vehicle automation has been proposed as a valuable means to enhance the mobility of older drivers, as older drivers experience age-related declines in many cognitive functions that are vital for safe driving. as seniors represent a growing proportion of the driving population, research about how automated vehicles can help improve older driver safety and mobility is highly relevant. practical applications: results provide insight into strategies to encourage the early adoption of automated vehicles by older drivers and facilitate a safer transition towards automated vehicles that is lead by a cohort of safety-conscious drivers. findings indicate that age-related changes are not a primary reason for why older adults seek out avts, but they still perceived and experienced avts to counteract age-related changes in driving performance based upon changes they felt occurring within the body. older drivers' self-awareness of driving ability can prompt self-regulatory behaviors and modifications of their everyday driving performance. this study examined the extent to which driving performance of 10 older (70-88 years old) and 30 younger participants (30-50 years old) improves as a result of support by a driver assistance system. various studies have indicated that advanced driver assistance systems (adas) may provide tailored assistance for older drivers and thereby improve their safe mobility. 
Birth characteristics and risk of low intellectual performance in early adulthood: are the associations confounded by socioeconomic factors in adolescence or familial effects? [SEP] we investigated whether lower intelligence and greater socioeconomic disadvantage in childhood increased the risk of frailty and higher allostatic load, and explored the mediating roles of adult socioeconomic position, educational attainment and health behaviours. in sex-adjusted analyses, lower intelligence and lower social class in childhood were associated with an increased risk of frailty: relative risks (95% cis) were 1.57 (1.21 to 2.03) for a sd decrease in intelligence and 1.48 (1.12 to 1.96) for a category decrease in social class. there is evidence for long-lasting effects of birth characteristics on cognitive ability in childhood and adulthood. higher parental socioeconomic status (ses; based on father's occupation) was associated with a higher value on the composite cognitive score (by 0.25 sd, p=0.0146) and higher digit symbol and trail making test a performance. both higher parental ses and head circumference at birth predicted cognitive function in old age independently of each other. in a number of studies, birthweight has been associated with cognition and educational attainment into adult age. research has demonstrated an association between low birth weight (lbw; <2500 g) and adverse intelligence quotient (iq) outcomes in childhood and early adolescence. poorer socioeconomic conditions early in life have been linked with memory, attention and learning deficits in adulthood, as well as with specific areas of educational achievement. in this study, we sought to confirm the relation between early-life socioeconomic position (sep) and adult cognitive function, and to examine potential mediation by contemporaneous sep. data from 463 young adults from the main cohort of the seychelles child development study were analyzed using subtests of the cambridge neurological test automated battery and the woodcock johnson test of scholastic achievement in relation to maternal hollingshead social status index scores at study enrollment (infancy), follow-up at 107 months, and follow-up at 17 years. socioeconomic conditions in childhood predict cognitive functioning in later life. 
Is scintigraphy a guideline method in determining amputation levels in diabetic foot? [SEP] this article presents an overview of the pathogenesis of diabetic foot lesions that lead to lower extremity amputation surgery. diabetic foot infection is the most common etiology of nontraumatic amputation of the lower extremities, and early diagnosis is of great importance in its management. the aim of this prospective study was to evaluate the strength of (99m)tc-igg scintigraphy in diagnosis of osteomyelitis of the diabetic foot and to compare (99m)tc-igg scintigraphy with (99m)tc-methylene diphosphonate (mdp) scintigraphy. fluorescence angiography (novadaq spy system) may provide a tool for objective evaluations of tissue viability in the diabetic foot, which is an important indicator of the ability of the diabetic ulcer to heal adequately. we aimed to investigate the relationship between a history of foot complication (ulceration or amputation) and non-invasive vascular assessments in people with diabetes. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the prognostic value of single-photon emission computed tomography (spect)/computed tomography (ct) imaging of angiosome foot perfusion for predicting amputation outcomes in patients with critical limb ischemia (cli) and diabetes mellitus (dm). diagnosis and treatment of foot disease in patients with diabetes is a common clinical-radiologic challenge, particularly the differentiation of neuropathic arthropathy from osteomyelitis. conventional clinical tests and imaging techniques have limited accuracy for evaluation of the diabetic foot. the physical basis of these techniques, their limitations, and their potential applications for diabetic foot assessment are detailed in this article. assessment of foot perfusion is a vital step in the management of patients with diabetic foot ulceration, in order to understand the risk of amputation and likelihood of wound healing. 
Is determination between complete and incomplete traumatic spinal cord injury clinically relevant? [SEP] to evaluate whether an initial complete impairment of spinal cord injury (sci) contributes to the functional outcome prediction, we analyzed the relationship between the degree of complete impairment according to the american spinal injury association impairment scale (ais), the posterior tibial nerve somatosensory evoked potential (ptsep) and the changes of functional indices. in patients with traumatic spinal cord injury (tsci) a distinction in surgical urgency is made on the basis of the severity of the initial neurological injury. the appearance of the damaged spinal cord after injury correlates with initial neurologic deficit, as determined by the american spinal injury association grade and manual muscle test score, as well as with recovery, as assessed by manual muscle test scores. the purpose of this study was to determine whether the presence of spinal cord hemorrhage and the size and location of spinal cord edema on mr images is predictive of functional recovery in survivors of cervical spinal cord injury (sci). the diagnosis and prognosis of traumatic spinal cord injury has historically relied on clinical examination whereby those presenting with severe injuries were deemed unlikely to recover and those presenting with mild injuries were deemed more likely to recover. with the widespread use of mri to visualize traumatic injury to the spinal cord, a spectrum of previously unseen characteristics ranging from mild t2-weighted signal intensity to complete spinal cord transection is now available to aid in both the diagnosis and prognosis. in this systematic review, the authors outline how clinical examination (using the american spinal injury association standards) and mri characteristics can be used to classify and characterize acute traumatic cervical spinal cord injury. clinical examination is the only tool available to assess the extent of the nerve tissue damage after a spinal cord injury, and it is well known that the reliability of classification based on clinical examination is not satisfactory, especially in cases with incomplete motor injuries. multivariate logistic regression identified mean spinal cord compression as independently influencing the likelihood of complete spinal cord injury (p < 0.01). in cervical traumatic spinal cord injury (tsci), the therapeutic effect of timing of surgery on neurological recovery remains uncertain. 
Improvements in survival of gynaecological cancer in the Anglia region of England: are these an effect of centralisation of care and use of multidisciplinary management? [SEP] centralisation of surgical treatment of cancer has resulted in improved outcomes. we aimed to determine evidence of benefit for specialised management of upper gastrointestinal cancer in high-volume centres in scotland. the aim of this study was to analyse national trends in oesophageal resection in england to determine whether centralization has occurred and its impact on outcomes. centralization and multidisciplinary team expertise partly explain the improvement in mortality rate, but changes in preoperative selection also play a part. centralization of low incidence conditions such as oesophageal perforation to high-volume cancer centres provides a greater level of expertise and ultimately reduces mortality. to analyse the impact of centralisation of radical cystectomy (rc) provision for bladder cancer in england, on postoperative mortality, length of stay (los), complications and re-intervention rates, from implementation of centralisation from 2003 until 2014. the centralisation of oesophago-gastric (o-g) cancer services in england was recommended in 2001, partly because of evidence for a volume-outcome effect for patients having surgery. this study investigated the changes in surgical services for o-g cancer and postoperative mortality since centralisation. centralisation of surgical services for o-g cancer in england has resulted in lower postoperative mortality. standards of hospital cancer services in england, measured in 2001, were aggregated for 30 cancer networks covering populations of between 500 000 and 3 million people, and compared with 1-year and 5-year relative cancer survival for the incident period 1996-2001, using rank correlation. 
Do symptoms matter when considering patients for phase I clinical trials? [SEP] although the primary focus of phase i clinical trials is to assess clinical pharmacology and possible toxicities, any information on the potential effect of treatment would be useful in helping to determine priorities between treatments for further study. it remains unclear whether patients' self-perceptions of symptoms at baseline clinically impact the prognostic relevance, treatment efficacy, or toxicity profiles in metastatic colorectal cancer (mcrc) patients treated with the first-line cetuximab and standard chemotherapy. however, factors that influence patients with inflammatory bowel disease (ibd) and willingness to participate in a clinical trial are unknown. there is controversy surrounding the ethics of performing phase i clinical trials with cancer patients and limited research concerning patients' attitudes when participating in such trials. the aim of this study was to determine how cancer patients perceive phase i clinical trials in reference to trial participation and trial information received. patients found that there were benefits related to participating in phase i trials and felt that the amount and quality of both nursing and medical care was superior in a phase i trial as compared to standard treatment in non-experimental settings. during the drug development process, phase i trials are the first occasion to study the pharmacokinetics of a drug. phase i clinical trials are the first step in drug development to test a new drug or drug combination on humans. phase i trials are conducted in small numbers of patients to determine a drug's maximally tolerated dose (mtd) and toxicity profile. our findings support research into the use of patient reported outcome measures to document symptoms, adverse events, and subjective benefit, both in clinical trials and in clinical practice, in this patient population. 
Is vitamin D insufficiency or deficiency related to the development of osteochondritis dissecans? [SEP] clinical studies have reported an association between low blood levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin d and the progression of osteoarthritis (oa), but the mechanism and effects of vitamin d signaling on articular chondrocytes and cartilage remains unclear. osteochondrosis dissecans (od) is a common disease affecting different joints. these results suggest that vitamin d deficiency is potentially associated with the development of od. although vitamin d deficiency has been associated with osteoporosis, as well as fractures, in elderly men and women, the role of vitamin d deficiency in the pathogenesis of osteoarthritis (oa) remains controversial. in this study, we aimed to investigate the effects of vitamin d deficiency on the functional status and disease prognosis of patients with knee osteoarthritis. our study therefore suggests that vitamin d deficiency exacerbates pain, dysfunction and a poorer quality of life in patients with knee osteoarthritis. vitamin d deficiency, which classically manifests as bone disease (either rickets or osteomalacia), is characterized by impaired bone mineralization. low levels of serum vitamin d have been shown to accelerate progression of osteoarthritis. vitamin d deficiency is a putative, pathogenic cofactor in the increase in osteopenia and osteoporosis seen in patients with crohn's disease. deficiency in vitamin d (vit d) has been widely associated with several musculoskeletal diseases. 
Do episodic migraineurs selectively attend to headache-related visual stimuli? [SEP] people with migraine headache have altered interictal visual sensory-level processing in between headache attacks. here we examined the extent to which these migraine abnormalities may extend into higher visual processing such as implicit evaluative analysis of visual images in between migraine events. our results suggest migraineurs have abnormal implicit evaluative processing of visual stimuli. although migraine is traditionally categorized as a primary headache disorder, the condition is also associated with abnormalities in visual attentional function in between headache events. namely, relative to controls, migraineurs show both a heightened sensitivity to nominally unattended visual events, as well as decreased habituation responses at sensory and post-sensory (cognitive) levels. we found that despite the commonly reported heightened visual sensitivities in our migraine group, they nevertheless manifest a reduced cognitive response during periods of mind wandering relative to on-task attentional states, as measured via amplitude changes in the p3 erp component. visual disturbances in migraineurs, such as visual aura, are typically episodic, that is, associated with the headache attack, and overlaid by head pain and other symptoms that impact the patient. recent research has revealed abnormal visual-spatial attention in migraineurs in between headache attacks. given the decreased suppression of unattended stimuli reported in migraineurs, we hypothesized that migraineurs would have abnormal processing in the ventral portion of the frontoparietal network of attention. given the role of rtpj is to assess the visual environment for behaviorally relevant sensory stimuli outside the focus of attention and signal other attentional areas to reorient attention to behaviorally salient stimuli, our findings fit with previous research showing that migraineurs lack suppression of unattended events and have heightened orienting to sudden onset stimuli in peripheral locations. 
Mitral replacement or repair for functional mitral regurgitation in dilated and ischemic cardiomyopathy: is it really the same? [SEP] mitral valve annuloplasty and mitral valve replacement are common strategies for the management of functional ischemic mitral regurgitation with ischemic cardiomyopathy. the purpose of this study was to compare the mitral valve hemodynamics in patients with functional ischemic mitral regurgitation undergoing mitral valve annuloplasty or mitral valve replacement, using exercise echocardiography. it remains unclear whether surgical or transcatheter mitral valve repair for secondary mitral regurgitation (mr) in patients with non-ischaemic cardiomyopathy reverse the underlying left ventricular (lv) pathophysiology. surgical and transcatheter mitral valve repair for secondary mr in patients with non-ischaemic dilated cardiomyopathy improved lv forward flow and induced lv reverse remodelling but did not change lv systolic function. dilated cardiomyopathy is often complicated by severe mitral regurgitation (mr) caused by dilation of the annulus. ischemic functional mitral regurgitation following ischemic cardiomyopathy is a secondary phenomenon to ventricular dilation, and therapeutic approaches to this complication are not uniform. we compared mitral repair to replacement in patients with chronic ischemic mitral regurgitation (imr), due to left ventricular dysfunction (lv-imr) or papillary muscle infarction (pm-imr). it is uncertain whether mitral valve replacement is really inferior to mitral valve repair for the treatment of chronic ischemic mitral regurgitation. mitral valve replacement is a suitable option for patients with chronic ischemic mitral regurgitation and impaired left ventricular function. mitral regurgitation (mr) in dilated cardiomyopathy (dcm-mr) and mr in ischemic cardiomyopathy (isc-mr) usually occurs as a result of mitral annulus (ma) dilatation and papillary muscle displacement secondary to global left ventricle remodelling. 
Do nontriploid partial hydatidiform moles exist? [SEP] to study whether nontriploid partial hydatidiform moles truly exist. we conducted a reevaluation of pathology and ploidy in 19 putative nontriploid partial hydatidiform moles using standardized histologic diagnostic criteria and repeat flow cytometric testing by the hedley technique. partial mole is one of the two distinctive subtypes of hydatidiform mole. hydatidiform moles are associated with an excess of paternal genome set(s) or abnormal imprinting of multiple imprinted genes. hydatidiform mole is classified into partial and complete subtypes according to histopathological and genetic criteria. the genotyping results correlated with histological evaluation in 88% (37/45) of hydatidiform mole and correlated with chromosome in situ hybridization findings in all the cases, that is, triploid hydatidiform moles had maternal-derived alleles, while diploid hydatidiform moles were purely androgenetic. dna genotyping studies have established that most partial hydatidiform moles (phms) are diandric dispermic triploid conceptions. complete hydatidiform moles may originate from either the fertilization of an empty egg by a haploid sperm followed by duplication (producing a monospermic, homozygous mole) or the fertilization of such an egg by two haploid sperms (producing a dispermic, heterozygous mole). partial hydatidiform moles (phm) have defined villous abnormalities and are usually triploid. hydatidiform moles result from abnormal fertilization and have been divided into partial and complete forms based on morphologic, cytogenetic, and clinical features. 
Is cholecystectomy really an indication for concomitant splenectomy in mild hereditary spherocytosis? [SEP] to determine whether cholecystectomy be performed concomitantly with splenectomy (csc) in these children, we studied a total of 130 children who underwent splenectomy for various hematologic diseases at our hospital. when cholelithiasis is present, these patients undergo cholecystectomy at the same surgical setting as splenectomy. all patients less than 18 years old with hereditary spherocytosis who underwent splenectomy without cholecystectomy at our institution during the past 27 years were included in this study. prophylactic cholecystectomy at the time of splenectomy is not indicated in patients with hereditary spherocytosis who do not have gallstones. in this study, we analyzed our series of splenectomies for hereditary spherocytosis and we discuss about the surgical management, reviewing the literature. hereditary spherocytosis, laparoscopic splenectomy, partial splenectomy. splenectomy is considered standard surgical therapy in hereditary spherocytosis. the aim of the study was to assess treatment outcomes in patients with hereditary spherocytosis who underwent total or partial laparoscopic splenectomy. in conclusion, we present a combined laparoscopic cholecystectomy and splenectomy for hereditary spherocytosis associated with splenomegaly, cholelithiasis, and cholecystitis. we report our experience with seven patients (one male and six female, average age 12 years) who underwent combined laparoscopic splenectomy and cholecystectomy for hereditary spherocytosis. 
Does surgery or radiation therapy impact survival for patients with extrapulmonary small cell cancers? [SEP] prognosis in limited disease small-cell lung cancer (sclc) after concurrent chemoradiotherapy is poor. therefore, this study investigated survival in stage ia-iiib sclc following surgery combined with chemotherapy and/or thoracic radiotherapy. multivariable cox modeling demonstrated that surgery with adjuvant chemotherapy with or without radiation (hazard ratio 0.74, 95% confidence interval: 0.56 to 0.97) was associated with improved survival compared with concurrent chemoradiation. among the issues debated in the therapy of early non-small cell lung cancer are whether postoperative chemotherapy improves survival, whether postoperative radiation therapy has some benefit either in local control or in the prevention of distant recurrence, and whether neoadjuvant treatment benefits patients with stage iiia disease. currently, systemic chemotherapy combined with thoracic radiation is the standard treatment for patients with small-cell lung cancer (sclc). this study evaluated the survival outcomes of surgical treatments and the effect of adjuvant chemotherapy and radiotherapy on lung cancer-specific survival (lcss) in patients with early stage sclc. our study results suggest that lcss conferred by surgery was higher than that conferred by non-surgery and that radiotherapy is associated with better survival in patients with early stage sclc. chemotherapy with radiation has to be considered the standard therapy for limited-stage small cell lung cancer but surgical resection is possible in a small subgroup in which it may improve survival. surgery is not recommended as the standard treatment, but a few small studies have demonstrated a benefit of surgery in highly selected cases of limited-stage small cell lung cancer. the aim of this study is to compare surgery with adjuvant chemoradiotherapy versus non-surgical treatments for patients with early-stage small cell lung cancer (sclc) based on the short-term and long-term efficacy. 
MR Diagnosis of Bone Metastases at 1.5 T and 3 T: Can STIR Imaging Be Omitted? [SEP] to date, no prospective comparative study of the diagnostic value of stir versus t1-weighted (t1w) sequences at both 1.5 t and 3 t has been performed with special focus on the detectability of bone metastases. 212 oncological patients had a whole-body mri at 1.5 t and/or at 3 t. the standard protocol comprised stir and t1w sequences. in 53% (38/72) of all patients, stir detected fewer bone metastases in comparison with t1w at 3 t. at 1.5 t, stir showed inferior results in 37.5 % (18/48) of all patients. qualitative analysis indicated a significantly better lesion conspicuity, lesion delineation and an improved image quality on t1w compared to stir imaging at both field strengths (p < 0.05) with similar results for t1w at 1.5 t and 3 t, but inferior results for stir especially at 3 t. the whole-body mri protocol for the detection of bone metastases could safely be limited to the t1w sequence in adults, especially at 3 t. there is no need for an additional stir sequence. in a routine mr protocol, t1w imaging is sufficient for the detection of bone metastases. stir is inferior to t1w in the detection of metastases, especially at 3 t. purpose to test the potential of dixon t2-weighted fat-only sequences to replace t1-weighted sequences for the detection of bone metastases, with the hypothesis that diagnostic performance with an alternative magnetic resonance (mr) imaging protocol (sagittal spin-echo dixon t2-weighted fat-only and water-only imaging) would not be inferior to that with the standard protocol (sagittal spin-echo t1-weighted and spin-echo dixon t2-weighted water-only imaging). materials and methods a total of 121 consecutive whole-spine mr imaging examinations (63 men; mean age ± standard deviation, 61.4 years ± 11.8) performed for suspected vertebral bone metastases were included in this retrospective, institutional review board-approved study. conclusion dixon t2-weighted fat-only and water-only imaging provide, in one sequence, diagnostic performance similar to that of the standard combination of morphologic sequences for the detection of probable spinal bone metastases, thereby providing an opportunity to reduce imaging time by eliminating the need to perform t1 sequences. debate remains regarding the utility of the traditional stir (short inversion time recovery) sequence in aiding mri diagnosis of spinal cord lesions in patients with multiple sclerosis (ms) and this sequence is not included in the current imaging guidelines. 
Histologic evaluation of the testicular remnant associated with the vanishing testes syndrome: is surgical management necessary? [SEP] there is controversy surrounding the optimal management of the testicular remnant associated with the vanishing testes syndrome. to better understand the pathology associated with this syndrome and the need for surgical management, we reviewed our experience regarding the incidence of viable germ cell elements within the testicular remnant. fifty-six patients underwent removal of the testicular remnant. in our review, we identified that a significant number of testicular remnants associated with the vanishing testes syndrome can harbor viable germ cell elements or seminiferous tubules. to determine if congenital obstruction of the genital tract is associated with significant testicular histopathological conditions compared to acquired forms of obstruction we performed testicular biopsy in 8 vasectomized men and 5 men with vasal agenesis. this study is a retrospective review of all excised testicular remnants in children with impalpable testis. surgical therapy of undescended testes is indicated when the testis is located in any site other than the scrotum, especially after unsuccessful hormonal treatment. bilateral nonpalpable testes in the adult human are associated with testicular malignancy, infertility and other abnormalities. removal of testicular tissue is often performed for the evaluation or treatment of testicular lesions. this study aims to characterize the histologic spectrum of testicular lesions relating them to the various surgical procedures by which they were taken with a view to reviewing the current clinical practice in our environment. 
Does pain intensity predict a poor opioid response in cancer patients? [SEP] cancer pain remains a difficult problem, for which opioids are often necessary. we aim to assess the association between patient characteristics and opioid treatment response in cancer patients, and develop a model to predict probability of response. opioids are important in the management of pain in patients with cancer. we wanted to determine whether opioid analgesia was associated with shorter survival in adult patients with cancer. the response to opioids is not always positive in cancer patients. several clinical variables are correlated with opioid response in cancer patients. in contrast, in cancer pain, opioids are expected to be very effective. although the analgesic efficacy of opioid therapy is well documented, the recent european pain in cancer survey demonstrated that the management of moderate-to-severe pain in patients with cancer is far from optimal. we examined whether cancer patients taking opioids differ in their sensitivity to a clinical pain stimulus using a local anesthetic injection compared to those not taking opioids. the results of this study suggest that opioid medication is an important contributing factor to pain perception accompanying la injection, and cancer patients using high-dose opioids may be highly susceptible to hyperalgesic responses to this clinical stimulus. 
Do prerecorded lecture VODcasts affect lecture attendance of first-yearpre-clinical Graduate Entry to Medicine students? [SEP] in recent years, medical schools have provided students access to video recordings of course lectures, but few studies have investigated the impact of this on ratings of courses and teachers. with the increase in use of lecture video recordings across medical schools, attention must be paid to student attitudes regarding these methods. this study explored whether first-year medical students make deliberate decisions about attending nonrequired lectures. there is increasing concern amongst educators that the provision of recorded lectures may reduce student attendance of live lectures. we therefore sought to determine if the provision of prerecorded lecture video podcasts (vodcasts) to first-year graduate entry to medicine (gem) students, affected attendance at 21 physiology lectures within three separate pre-clinical modules. data on lecture attendance, utilization of vodcasts, and whether vodcasts should replace live lectures were drawn from three surveys conducted in academic years 2014-2015 and 2015-2016 on all first-year gem students in two first-year pre-clinical modules where prerecorded physiology vodcasts were available for viewing or downloading prior to scheduled live lectures. therefore, we conclude that the attendance of pre-clinical gem students at live lectures is not significantly impacted upon by the provision of lecture vodcasts, with most students viewing them as useful revision tools rather than as a replacement for live lectures. this study was designed to assess the impact of lecture recordings on the educational experience of first-year medical students. the availability of lecture recordings aided medical students in their studies and reduced stress and anxiety. to compare medical student evaluations of lectures for those attending in person and those attending through interactive videoconferencing. 
Is there an intrauterine influence on obesity? [SEP] the earliest determinants of obesity may operate during intrauterine life, and gestational weight gain may influence the intrauterine environment in a way that may affect the risk of overweight in the offspring. it has been hypothesized that the intrauterine environment is an independent factor in obesity development. thus, we sought to examine to what extent the association between in utero exposure to maternal overweight/obesity and childhood overweight/obesity is mediated by birth anthropometry. results suggest that a small percentage of the effect of maternal pre-pregnancy bmi overweight/obesity on offspring overweight/obesity operated through offspring anthropometry at birth (weight: 15.5%, length: 5.2%, head circumference: 8.5%, ponderal index: 2.2%, sga: 2.9%, and lga: 4.2%). our study suggests that some measures of birth anthropometry mediate the association between maternal pre-pregnancy overweight/obesity and offspring overweight/obesity in childhood and that the size of this mediated effect is small. intrauterine life may be a critical period for the programming of later obesity, but there is conflicting evidence about whether pregnancy weight gain is an important determinant of offspring adiposity. in this review, we summarize recent progress in this field, including the use of animal models to investigate mechanistic links between maternal obesity and offspring metabolic risk. maternal obesity has been implicated in the origins of childhood obesity through a suboptimal environment in-utero. in this contemporary large prospective cohort study with extensive maternal/childhood phenotyping and a high prevalence of maternal overweight/obesity, we found independent relationships of maternal early pregnancy bmi with childhood bmi and adiposity; similar associations were observed with plgf, which may imply a role for placenta function in the developmental programming of childhood obesity risk. the intra-uterine environment may be a critical period for the development of adiposity. 
Assessing Patient Reported Outcomes Measures via Phone Interviews Versus Patient Self-Survey in the Clinic: Are We Measuring the Same Thing? [SEP] response rates, patient sample characteristics, and patient satisfaction ratings were compared between two surveying methods: (1) surveys completed at the physician office site (on-site surveying), and (2) surveys mailed to patient homes following the encounter (mail-out/mail-back). phone calls, emails, and text to patients after their healthcare visit are the typical way of obtaining the data reflecting patient satisfaction. the purpose of this retrospective quality improvement study is to compare the traditional post-outpatient clinic survey method with an onsite concise two-question survey using a tablet method immediately after the patient visit using net promoter score (nps) questions. patient-reported outcome measures (proms) are used by clinical quality registries to assess patients' perspectives of care outcomes and quality of life. this study evaluates post-operative pros for variation of outcomes between survey methods-in-person, online, or telephone. this study demonstrates higher patient-reported outcome scores and greater improvement by telephone surveys compared to in-person or online. patient surveys are important information sources regarding a doctor's professional performance. we examined the response rates, item completion rates and response profiles of exit survey responses with those obtained from either postal or touch-tone telephone methods. a cross-sectional study was performed to assess the correlation between telephone and self-administration of patient-related outcomes (pros) used in the assessment of ankylosing spondylitis (as) patients. the degree of correlation of outcomes measures between telephone interview and self-administration was assessed with the intraclass correlation coefficient (icc). 
Is cytokeratin immunoreactivity useful in the diagnosis of short-segment Barrett's oesophagus in Korea? [SEP] background: the purpose of the present correlative immunohistochemical study was to assess the utility of cytokeratin (ck7 and ck20) expression in the diagnosis of short-segment barrett esophagus, particularly its efficacy in differentiating barrett mucosa from intestinal metaplasia of the gastric cardia and corpus. cytokeratin 7/20 staining has been reported to be helpful in diagnosing barrett's oesophagus and gastric intestinal metaplasia. to determine the diagnostic usefulness of cytokeratin 7/20 immunostaining for short-segment barrett's oesophagus in korea. barrett's cytokeratin 7/20 pattern was observed in 28 out of 36 cases (77.8%) with short-segment barrett's oesophagus, 11 out of 28 cases (39.3%) with intestinal metaplasia at the cardia, and nine out of 61 cases (14.8%) with gastric intestinal metaplasia. barrett's cytokeratin 7/20 pattern can be a useful marker for the diagnosis of short-segment barrett's oesophagus, although the false positive or false negative rate is approximately 25%. immunostaining for cytokeratin 7 (ck7) and cytokeratin 20 (ck20) has a characteristic pattern in barrett's esophagus (be), but reports regarding its sensitivity and specificity are inconsistent. cytokeratin (ck) 7 and 20 patterns are specific for long-segment barrett's esophagus; however, their utility in short-segment barrett's esophagus has not been assessed. endoscopic biopsy specimens from patients with long-segment barrett's esophagus (n = 49), suspected short-segment barrett's esophagus (n = 43), and gastric intestinal metaplasia (n = 26) were immunostained for ck7 and ck20. background and study aims: better endoscopic diagnosis in case of barrett's esophagus is still needed. a unique pattern of cytokeratin (ck) 7/20 immunostaining (diffuse staining with ck7 and surface and superficial crypt staining with ck20) has been reported to be useful in differentiating barrett esophagus (be) from intestinal metaplasia of the stomach. 
Is routine dissection of the station 9 lymph nodes really necessary for primary lung cancer? [SEP] mediastinal lymph node dissection is an essential component of lung cancer surgery; however, choosing mediastinal lymph nodes stations to be dissected is subjective. we carried out this research to investigate the need for dissection of station 9 lymph nodes during lung cancer surgery. routine dissection of station 9 lymph nodes may not be necessary, especially in patients with a low t stage, upper or middle lobe tumors, or without intrapulmonary lymph node metastasis. systematic nodal dissection has been recommended for patients with resectable non-small cell lung cancer because of its staging accuracy. however, in patients with clinical stage i non-small cell lung cancer whether systematic nodal dissection provides more benefits than mediastinal lymph node sampling or not is controversial. mediastinal lymph node sampling showed the similar effect to systematic nodal dissection in patients with clinical stage i non-small cell lung cancer. the effectiveness of lymph node dissection in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer is evaluated. although systematic nodal dissection is accepted as an important component of the intrathoracic staging of disease in patients undergoing thoracotomy for lung cancer, many surgeons still do not routinely perform it. the role of systematic mediastinal lymph node dissection in the staging and treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) is the subject of ongoing debate. a staging mediastinal node dissection should be included in every resection for lung cancer. 
Cutaneous melanoma in a multiethnic population: is this a different disease? [SEP] mucosal melanomas arise from melanocytes located at various mucosal membranes, which demonstrate a clear demographic and ethnic disparity. melanoma is a rare form of cutaneous malignancy encountered in the dark skin population. worldwide, the total incidence of cutaneous melanoma is higher in men than in women, with some differences related to ethnicity and age and, above all, sex and gender. melanoma of the skin is a common cancer only in europeans, whereas it arises in internal body surfaces (mucosal sites) and on the hands and feet (acral sites) in people throughout the world. here we report analysis of whole-genome sequences from cutaneous, acral and mucosal subtypes of melanoma. skin-of-color patients were more likely to have acral melanocytic lesions than non-hispanic white patients (p < .01). malignant melanoma is a rare disease in asians but potentially the most aggressive form of skin cancer worldwide. the aim of this brief review is to improve understanding and the rate of early detection thereby reducing mortality, especially regarding cutaneous melanoma in asians. to detail the unique demographic, clinical, and genetic features of melanoma in patients with skin of color, including hispanic, african american, and asian patients. relative to caucasians, melanoma has unique demographic, clinical, and genetic features in african americans, hispanics, and asians that include gender and subtype predominance. 
Marital status, living arrangement and mortality: does the association vary by gender? [SEP] marital status has been associated with disability and mortality, but its potential role as a factor influencing frailty has yet to be thoroughly investigated. the aim of our study was to examine the association between marital status and the incidence of frailty in a cohort of older men and women over a 4.4-year follow-up. multivariate logistic regression models demonstrated that male gender carried a higher risk of developing frailty among men who had never married (odds ratio [or] = 3.84, 95% confidence interval [95% ci] = 2.76-5.35; p < 0.0001) and were widowed (or = 1.43, 95% ci = 1.06-1.95, p = 0.02) than among married participants. marital status seems to significantly influence the onset of frailty, with some gender-specific differences. this study evaluates the gender differences in the association between marital status and frailty development, and the possible modifying effect by age cohort in such a relationship. the association between marital status and frailty, with death as an alternative outcome and controlling for confounders, was estimated with multinomial logistic regressions. conclusions: marital status can influence frailty development differently for women and men. several studies have indicated a significant association between marital status and mortality risks. marital status and living arrangements, along with changes in these in mid-life and older ages, have implications for an individual's health and mortality. literature on health and mortality by marital status has consistently identified that unmarried individuals generally report poorer health and have a higher mortality risk than their married counterparts, with men being particularly affected in this respect. 
Does somatostatin confer insulinostatic effects of neuromedin u in the rat pancreas? [SEP] in order to elucidate the role of endogenous somatostatin in the control of insulin and glucagon secretion, glucagon- or insulin-induced somatostatin release from the isolated perfused rat pancreas was studied. these results raise the possibility that endogenous somatostatin and glucagon together regulate insulin secretion, suggesting a close interrelationship between insulin, glucagon, and somatostatin secretion within the islet. therefore, we measured the contents of somatostatin-like immunoreactivity (sli), insulin and glucagon, in pancreatic extracts from rats that had been treated three times a day for 10 days with saline; 1 microgram/kg caerulein; 5, 25, and 100 microgram/kg secretin; 1 microgram/kg caerulein plus 5, 25, and 100 microgram/kg secretin; 25 microgram/kg pancreatic polypeptide; 15 microgram/kg glicentin; or 15 microgram/kg gastric-inhibitory polypeptide. studies on isolated pancreatic islets suggest that neuromedin u (nmu), a brain and gastrointestinal peptide, acts as a decretin hormone, inhibiting glucose-stimulated insulin secretion. moreover, nmu neither changed insulin, glucagon, or somatostatin secretion from isolated perfused rat pancreas, nor affected glp-1-stimulated insulin and somatostatin secretion. to determine whether somatostatin inhibits glucagon secretion directly at the pancreatic level and to study quantitatively the relative effects of somatostatin on glucagon and insulin secretion, the effects of various concentrations of somatostatin on glucagon and insulin release from the in vitro perfused rat pancreas in response to arginine (14.2 mm), isoproterenol (2 mg/ml) and theophylline (10 mm) were studied. at all doses, somatostatin caused greater inhibition of glucagon secretion than of insulin secretion. the present studies thus indicate that somatostatin is a potent inhibitor of both glucagon and insulin secretion and indicate that it acts directly on the pancreatic alpha and beta cells. in order to understand the physiological role of endogenous insulin or glucagon in somatostatin release, isolated rat pancreatic islets were treated with antiinsulin or antiglucagon antiserum in the presence of physiological amounts of glucose. the effect of the neuropeptide galanin on insulin and somatostatin secretion in the rat was studied under various conditions. 
Kell alloimmunization in pregnancy: associated with fetal thrombocytopenia? [SEP] kell haemolytic disease in pregnancies has been suggested to be associated with decreased fetal platelet counts. the aim of this study was to evaluate the incidence and clinical significance of fetal thrombocytopenia in pregnancies complicated by kell alloimmunization. in this retrospective cohort study, fetal platelet counts were performed in 42 pregnancies with severe kell alloimmunization prior to the first intrauterine blood transfusion. in contrast to fetuses with severe anaemia and hydrops due to rhd alloimmunization, fetuses with severe anaemia due to kell alloimmunization are generally not at risk for substantial thrombocytopenia. fetal and neonatal thrombocytopenia can be induced by a maternal alloimmunization against fetal platelet antigens. our purpose was to test the hypothesis that maternal anti-kell alloimmunization produces fetal anemia by erythroid suppression. these findings suggest that erythroid suppression, rather than hemolysis, is the predominant mechanism in producing fetal anemia related to maternal kell alloimmunization. we report the case of a 36-year old pregnant woman with a kell alloimmunization (anti-k1), probably secondary to a previous blood transfusion, and a severe hemolytic disease of the fetus. this alloimmunisation could lead to in utero bleeding. alloimmune thrombocytopenia is a serious fetal disorder resulting from platelet-antigen incompatibility between the mother and the fetus. 
Application of computer-aided diagnosis (CAD) in MR-mammography (MRM): do we really need whole lesion time curve distribution analysis? [SEP] computer-aided diagnosis (cad) has been proposed for breast mri as a tool to standardize evaluation, to automate time-consuming analysis, and to aid the diagnostic decision process by radiologists. computer-aided diagnosis (cad) is a diagnosis made by a physician who takes into account the computer output of quantitative analysis of mammograms. cad schemes in mammography have been developed to detect lesions such as clustered microcalcifications and masses, and also to distinguish between benign and malignant lesions. computer-aided diagnosis (cad) has become a practical clinical approach in diagnostic radiology, although at present only in the area of detection of breast cancer in mammograms. we are developing computer aided diagnosis (cad) techniques to study interval changes between two consecutive mammographic screening rounds. computerized analysis of special view mammograms provides an improved prediction of the benign versus malignant status of mammographic mass lesions. in this paper, we present a fully automated computer-aided diagnosis (cad) program to detect temporal changes in mammographic masses between two consecutive screening rounds. to retrospectively evaluate effects of computer-aided diagnosis (cad) involving an interval change classifier (which uses interval change information extracted from prior and current mammograms and estimates a malignancy rating) on radiologists' accuracy in characterizing masses on two-view serial mammograms as malignant or benign. cad involving interval change analysis of preselected regions of interest can significantly improve radiologists' accuracy in classifying masses on digitized screen-film mammograms as malignant or benign. the aim of this study is to evaluate a computer-aided diagnosis (cad) system for discriminating malignant from benign breast lesions at dce-mri by the combined use of morphological, kinetic, and spatiotemporal lesion features. 
Vaccine protection in the elderly: are Austrian seniors adequately protected by vaccinations? [SEP] in connection with the increasing numbers of senior citizens, vaccinations have become even more important as preventive measures. with respect to the health economic as well as preventive advantages of vaccines, there is possibly a considerable benefit for the eu to support the vaccination program for older patients within the framework of the demographic shift. considering the risks of vaccine-preventable diseases and the current low vaccine coverage rates in older european citizens, the two european geriatric and gerontological societies (european union geriatric medicine society [eugms] and international association of gerontology and geriatrics-european region [iagg-er]) convened a joint vaccine working group to develop a consensus document advocating routine vaccination of aging populations. improved vaccination rates will promote healthy aging by reducing the burden of vaccine-preventable infectious diseases in older populations, a population that is rapidly increasing in europe. the age-associated increased susceptibility to infectious disease would suggest that vaccination should be a route to promote healthy aging and keep our seniors autonomous and independent. potential vaccination rates of older adults were estimated at 68.1% for pneumococcal vaccination, 58.1% for herpes zoster vaccination, 53.9% for pertussis vaccination and 54.3% for influenza vaccination. vaccines are important for older adults, and the morbidity and mortality of vaccine-preventable diseases among older adults are high. besides immunizations against influenza, streptococcus pneumoniae and herpes zoster, which are recommended specifically for elderly people, regular booster vaccinations against tetanus, diphtheria and in some cases pertussis and polio are recommended in many european countries for adults, including elderly people. successful vaccination of elderly persons is often hampered by immunological ageing, leaving part of the elderly population vulnerable for infectious diseases. elderly in several european countries are currently being vaccinated against influenza and pneumococcal disease, and various reasons have been put forward to expand these programs. 
Vitamin D supplementation and regulatory T cells in apparently healthy subjects: vitamin D treatment for autoimmune diseases? [SEP] epidemiological data show significant associations of vitamin d deficiency and autoimmune diseases. vitamin d may prevent autoimmunity by stimulating naturally occurring regulatory t cells. this immunomodulatory effect of vitamin d might underlie the associations of vitamin d deficiency and autoimmune diseases. hence, our finding provides a rationale for further studies to investigate vitamin d effects on autoimmunological processes. vitamin d might play a role in the regulation of the production of auto-antibodies. immunomodulatory effects of vitamin d may act not only through modulation of t-helper cell function, but also through induction of cd4(+)cd25(high) regulatory t-cells. vitamin d deficiency has been reported in some autoimmune disorders. several observations have shown that vitamin d inhibits proinflammatory processes by suppressing the enhanced activity of immune cells that take part in the autoimmune reaction. moreover, recent evidence strongly suggests that vitamin d supplementation may be therapeutically beneficial, particularly for th1-mediated autoimmune disorders. vitamin d is an immunomodulator and may affect autoimmune thyroid diseases. 
Gynecological cancer alarm symptoms: is contact with specialist care associated with lifestyle and socioeconomic status? [SEP] socioeconomic and demographic differences exist concerning knowledge and awareness of cancer alarm symptoms in the general population and socioeconomic differences are found in cancer incidence and survival. to analyse associations between health care seeking and socioeconomic and demographic factors among people reporting cancer alarm symptoms. this might be related to variation in frequency of doctor consultation and in time of diagnosis, since sociodemographic factors appear to influence the individual's attention to cancer symptoms and susceptibility to participate in screening programmes. to determine the proportion of contacts to general practitioner (gp) with recent onset gynaecological cancer alarm symptoms (pelvic pain, postmenopausal bleeding, bleeding during intercourse or pain during intercourse) and to analyse the associations between lifestyle factors, socioeconomic status and gp contact for these symptoms. few women contacted their gp with recent onset gynaecological cancer alarm symptoms. the aim of this study is to assess awareness of cancer symptoms, risk factors and perceived 5-year survival from bowel, breast, ovarian, and lung cancer in a danish population sample and to analyse the association between these factors and socio-economic position indicators. prevalence ratios were used to determine the association between socio-economic position and cancer awareness. as social inequality is associated with cancer knowledge, cancer awareness, and information-seeking, our hypothesis is that social inequality may also exist in the general population with respect to reporting of cancer alarm symptoms. the aim of this study was to investigate possible associations between socioeconomic and demographic determinants and reporting of common cancer alarm symptoms. socioeconomic and demographic determinants are associated with self-reporting of common cancer alarm symptoms. 
Does elective re-siting of intravenous cannulae decrease peripheral thrombophlebitis? [SEP] this paper is a report of a study conducted to investigate the most suitable location of peripheral venous cannulae to reduce the incidence of thrombophlebitis. we evaluated the effect of elective re-siting of intravenous cannulae every 48 hours on the incidence and severity of pvt in patients receiving intravenous fluids/drugs. elective re-siting of intravenous cannulae every 48 hours results in a significant reduction in the incidence and severity of pvt. a prospective, randomised, controlled clinical study was performed to compare the incidence and severity of postoperative peripheral venous thrombophlebitis associated with a single intravenous cannula used for both intra-operative and postoperative purposes, and two cannulae, one used intra-operatively and the other postoperatively. these results indicate that the use of a dedicated cannula for postoperative use decreases the incidence and severity of postoperative, peripheral, cannula-related phlebitis. this paper reports a review of the scientific evidence for elective replacement of peripheral intravenous catheters in adults in the absence of any clinical complications, with the aim being to reduce the incidence and severity of thrombophlebitis. limited scientific evidence suggests that elective replacement of peripheral intravenous catheters reduces the incidence and severity of thrombophlebitis. we aimed to investigate whether regular flushing of peripheral intravenous cannulae used for intermittent injections with heparin-saline, in a unit for acute medicine for the elderly, reduced the incidence of complications necessitating cannula removal. the frequency of peripheral intravenous cannulae without signs of thrombophlebitis increased by 21% (p < 0.01) and the use of cannula size 0.8 mm increased by 22% (p < 0.001). dedicated fine bore cannulas have significantly reduced the incidence of thrombophlebitis. 
Can third trimester ultrasound predict the presentation of the first twin at delivery? [SEP] cephalothoracopagus twins were diagnosed on ultrasonography at 17 weeks' gestation. a retrospective study of all twin pregnancies with the first twin in breech position and gestational age at least 35 weeks at birth at two french university hospital centers from january 1994 through december 2000. first twin presentation at early-third trimester had the same presentation at birth in 87.6% (360/411) of the study population. in conclusion, first twin presentation with vertex during third trimester is not likely to change into non-vertex at birth. we concluded that vertex presentation in twin gestations at early- and mid-third trimester is very predictable. this study estimates the association of a first trimester finding of subchorionic hematoma (sch) with third trimester adverse pregnancy outcomes in women with twin pregnancies. retrospective cohort study of twin pregnancies prior to 14 weeks at a single institution from 2005 to 2019, all of whom had a first trimester ultrasound. in women with twin pregnancies, the finding of a first trimester sch is not associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes >24 weeks. ultrasonographic examination showed a monochorionic diamniotic twin pregnancy. three patients with twin pregnancy documented ultrasonographically in the first trimester, who then lost one sac spontaneously yet continued with a live single fetus, are reported. 
Risk factors for major depression during midlife among a community sample of women with and without prior major depression: are they the same or different? [SEP] this study evaluated whether family history of depression predicts major depression in midlife women above and beyond static risk factors (such as personal history of depression prior to midlife) and risks that may change dynamically across midlife (such as menopausal, psychosocial, and health profiles). random effects logistic regression was used to assess the relationship between family history of depression and midlife depression, controlling for baseline sociodemographic characteristics and time-varying risk factors. family history of depression was associated with midlife depression after adjusting for participant's history of major depression prior to midlife, trait anxiety and baseline age, and time-varying menopausal status, body mass index, very upsetting life events, and chronic difficulties (or = 2.24, 95% ci = 1.17-4.29, p = .02). family history of depression predicts major depression in midlife women independent of the menopausal transition and other time-varying covariates. women's vulnerability for a first lifetime-onset of major depressive disorder (mdd) during midlife is substantial. this study aims to determine whether family history of depression predicts major depression in midlife women independent of psychosocial and health profiles at midlife. family history of depression predicts major depression in midlife women generally, but particularly in those with a lifetime history of depression prior to midlife. prospective studies have shown during the years preceding and following menopause, also known as "menopause transition", that midlife women are at higher risk for developing first-onset major depressive disorder (mdd). midlife women with past major or minor depression are at risk for physical symptoms, body pain, and poor social functioning even in the absence of current depression. in women, anxiety symptoms are common and increase during midlife, but little is known about whether these symptoms predict onsets of major depressive disorder (mdd) episodes. 
Totally implantable venous access device placement by interventional radiologists: are prophylactic antibiotics necessary? [SEP] to investigate current antibiotic prophylactic usage for arteriography, angioplasty, vascular stent placement, transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt placement (tips), tunneled-port placement, inferior vena cava (ivc) filter placement, biliary drainage, genitourinary drainage, abdominal drainage, and enteral tube placement with an aim to better clarify indications and regimens for prophylaxis. prophylaxis appears unnecessary for routine arteriography, angioplasty, ivc filter placement, vascular stent placement, or enterostomy tube placement. the role of the interventional radiologist in the care of patients requiring placement of central venous access devices is rapidly evolving. with experience gained from diagnosing and treating central venous catheter-related complications, interventional radiologists are assuming an increasing role in the placement of these devices. with imaging guidance, catheter and guidewire skills, and a commitment to providing a clinical service that includes management of catheter malfunctions and complications, central venous access by the interventional radiologist has proven a safe and effective alternative to standard surgical techniques. to determine if ending the practice of administering prophylactic antibiotics prior to the placement of totally implantable venous access devices (tivads) is correlated with an increase in 30-day bloodstream infection-related tivads removals. the use of totally implantable venous access devices in radiology may be associated with complications such as occlusion of the system (because of the high density of some contrast), infection (if the port is not handled in aseptic conditions, using proper barrier protections), and mechanical complications due to the high-pressure administration of contrast by automatic injectors (so-called power injector), including extravasation of contrast media into the soft tissues, subintimal venous or myocardial injection, or serious damage to the device itself (breakage of the external connections, dislocation of the non-coring needle, or breakage of the catheter). the role of radiology and the interventional radiologist in the care of patients requiring long term venous access is expanding. as such, preprocedural prophylactic antibiotic therapy is indicated for all patients prior to device insertion. to determine the rate of early infection for totally implantable venous access devices (tivads) placed without antibiotic prophylaxis. 
Starting insulin in type 2 diabetes: continue oral hypoglycemic agents? [SEP] although recent studies recommended that insulin should be administered to patients with slowly progressive type 1 diabetes, even those with non-insulin dependent status, patients prefer oral hypoglycemic agents to insulin injections. as type 2 diabetes mellitus progresses, oral hypoglycaemic agents often fail to maintain blood glucose control and insulin is needed. we investigated whether the addition of once-daily insulin glargine is non-inferior to three-times daily prandial insulin lispro in overall glycaemic control in adults with inadequately controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus taking oral hypoglycaemic agents. while many patients with type 2 diabetes require insulin to achieve glycemic goals, little is known about patients' persistence with insulin or other injectable antidiabetic therapies. whether oral antidiabetic drug (oad) therapy should be retained when initiating insulin is still debated. in addition to the expected benefits associated with limiting insulin dose and regimen complexity, the specific advantages the dpp-4 inhibitor drug class on hypoglycemia and weight gain could justify combining dpp-4 inhibitors with insulin; additionally, a dpp-4 inhibitor may be of special value to decrease glycemic excursions that are not properly addressed by basal insulin therapy and metformin use, even after optimizing titration of the basal insulin. this review supports continuing insulin therapy for hyperglycemic management in the hospital compared with the use of non-insulin treatment regimens. it is unclear whether patients with type 2 diabetes who have poor glycaemic control despite maximal oral hypoglycaemic agents (ohas) should be commenced on insulin as monotherapy, or insulin combined with oral hypoglycaemic agents (insulin-oha combination therapy). although either insulin or oral hypoglycemics may be used in conjunction with diet and exercise in the management of type ii diabetes, drug therapy for type i diabetes involves only insulin. despite its effectiveness there is still reluctance by patients and physicians to add insulin into the treatment regimen for type 2 diabetes when needed. 
Clinical identifiers for early-stage primary/idiopathic adhesive capsulitis: are we seeing the real picture? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to establish consensus among a group of experts regarding the clinical identifiers for the first or early stage of primary (idiopathic) adhesive capsulitis. although limited in differential diagnostic ability, these identifiers may assist the clinician in recognizing early-stage adhesive capsulitis and may inform management, as well as facilitate future research. the aim of this study was to validate any or all of the 8 clinical identifiers of early-stage primary/idiopathic adhesive capsulitis established in an earlier delphi study. demographic and clinical characteristics from a consecutive series of 41 patients diagnosed with early-stage adhesive capsulitis were recorded and examination with pdus was undertaken. to evaluate patients clinically diagnosed with early stage primary/idiopathic adhesive capsulitis to determine the existence of any pattern of movement loss and associated pain that may facilitate early recognition. fifty-two patients clinically diagnosed with early stage adhesive capsulitis by a medical practitioner or physiotherapist. clinical criteria with significant restricted passive motion was used for the diagnosis of adhesive capsulitis. the signs and symptoms of adhesive capsulitis are reviewed. adhesive capsulitis is one of the most common conditions affecting the shoulder; however, early clinical diagnosis can be challenging. the aim of this review is to demonstrate the typical imaging appearances of adhesive capsulitis and to examine some of the evidence regarding each of these imaging modalities. 
Does delaying surgery in immature adolescent idiopathic scoliosis patients with progressive curve, lead to addition of fusion levels? [SEP] extended fusion can be performed in patients with lenke 5c adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (ais) with a large and relatively rigid thoracic curve. evaluate the impact of the distal fusion level on overall spine motion in patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. in the surgical treatment of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis, the impact of incorporating a single additional distal lumbar fusion level on residual spinal motion is unclear. twenty-three patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis were evaluated with standing radiographs and computerized motion analysis preoperatively and 1 year after fusion. scoliosis may progress after posterior spinal fusion in skeletally immature patients with ais. to validate whether fusions that end proximal to the sagittal stable vertebrae are at risk for developing distal junctional kyphosis in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. posterior spinal fusion is routinely used for the treatment of patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. to evaluate the radiological results of fusion with segmental pedicle screw fixation in juvenile idiopathic scoliosis with a minimum 5-year follow-up. the goal of surgical treatment of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (ais) is to prevent disability associated with curve progression. the recognition of thoracic insufficiency syndrome associated with definitive early fusion has led to the development of new surgical techniques developed to preserve spinal and thoracic growth in young patients with progressive scoliosis. 
Bactericidal activity of 3 cutaneous/mucosal antiseptic solutions in the presence of interfering substances: Improvement of the NF EN 13727 European Standard? [SEP] there is no standard protocol for the evaluation of antiseptics used for skin and mucous membranes in the presence of interfering substances. our objective was to suggest trial conditions adapted from the nf en 13727 standard, for the evaluation of antiseptics used in gynecology and dermatology. three antiseptic solutions were tested in vitro: a chlorhexidine-benzalkonium (cb) combination, a hexamidine-chlorhexidine-chlorocresol (hcc) combination, and povidone iodine (p). adapting the nf en 13727 standard allowed assessing the 3 tested solutions: only cb was bactericidal in dirty conditions. this study proved the possibility of validating antiseptic choice in vitro, in current practice conditions, for adjunctive treatment of skin and mucous membranes disorders, primarily of bacterial origin or with a potential of superinfection. three antiseptics--chlorhexidine acetate, silver nitrate and povidone-iodine--were incorporated into biological dressings (human skin and amnio-chorion) and evaluated in vitro against disparate micro-organisms. to compare the effectiveness for prevention of central venous and arterial catheter colonization of 3 skin antisepsis with 1 of 3 antiseptic solutions: 10% aqueous povidone iodine (aqueous pi), 2% aqueous chlorhexidine gluconate (aqueous cg), and 0.5% alcoholic chlorhexidine gluconate (alcoholic cg). the aims of the study are to investigate the bactericidal effect of three antiseptics (chlorhexidine solution, povidone-iodine solution, and walkhoff solution) and to determine the minimum inhibitory concentration and their effect on different microbial species. a comparison has been made of the activity of three antiseptics that are used as bladder irrigants in the treatment of urinary tract infection in catheterised patients. primary: to compare, in vitro, the antimicrobial activity of different antiseptic agents versus quinolone drops, against the common organisms of chronic otitis media.secondary: to examine the possible role of ph on the antimicrobial activity of the antiseptic solutions. 
Empiric treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infection with fluoroquinolones in older women in Israel: another lost treatment option? [SEP] in a pilot, randomized study 93 non-pregnant, otherwise healthy women, were enrolled with mean age of 39.77±10.36, diagnosed with uncomplicated lower urinary tract infection. we conducted a population-based study of older women (mean age 79 years) in ontario, canada, whose estimated glomerular filtration rate was relatively low (median 38 ml/min per 1.73 m(2)) and for whom 1 of 4 antibiotics had been prescribed for urinary tract infection: nitrofurantoin, ciprofloxacin, norfloxacin or trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. current guidelines for the treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infection (uti) in women recommend empiric therapy with antibiotics for which local resistance rates do not exceed 10-20%. we hypothesized that resistance rates of escherichia coli to fluoroquinolones may have surpassed this level in older women in the israeli community setting. to identify age groups of women in which fluoroquinolones may no longer be appropriate for empiric treatment of uti. physicians who opt to treat uti in postmenopausal women empirically should consider prescribing drugs other than fluoroquinolones. less than a decade ago, the standard therapy for acute uncomplicated utis involved treatment with > or =7 days of an antibacterial agent, but recent studies using a variety of newly introduced antibiotics, including the fluoroquinolones, have demonstrated that a 1- to 5-day treatment regimen can be equally effective. this randomized, double-masked, multicenter study was conducted to compare the efficacy and tolerability of a single dose of sparfloxacin with those of a 3-day regimen of sparfloxacin and a 7-day regimen of ciprofloxacin in the treatment of women with community-acquired acute uncomplicated urinary tract infection. to determine the optimal duration of antibiotic treatment for uncomplicated symptomatic lower uti in elderly women. short-course treatment (3 to 6 days) could be sufficient for treating uncomplicated utis in elderly women, although more studies on specific commonly prescribed antibiotics are needed. 
Do risk calculators accurately predict surgical site occurrences? [SEP] the aim of this study was to determine whether exposure to data from a risk calculator influences surgeons' assessments of risk and in turn, their decisions to operate. surgeons exposed to the risk calculator judged levels of operative risk that more closely approximated the risk calculator value (rcv) compared with surgeons in the control group [mesenteric ischemia: 43.7% vs 64.6%, p < 0.001 (rcv = 25%); gastrointestinal bleed: 47.7% vs 53.4%, p < 0.001 (rcv = 38%); small bowel obstruction: 13.6% vs 17.5%, p < 0.001 (rcv = 14%); appendicitis: 13.4% vs 24.4%, p < 0.001 (rcv = 5%)]. patients with higher predicted risk scores in all measures except surgical site infection were found to have a statistically significant association with increased actual in-hospital costs (p < 0.0005).conclusionsprevious work has demonstrated that the acs nsqip surgical risk calculator can accurately predict mortality after neurosurgery but is poorly predictive of other potential adverse events and clinical outcomes. the nsqip calculator may not accurately predict the occurrence of surgical complications (as demonstrated previously), but future iterations of the acs universal risk calculator may be effective in predicting actual in-hospital costs, which could be advantageous in the current value-based healthcare environment. this study aims to determine if the risk calculator accurately predicts complications in acute care surgical patients undergoing laparotomy. this retrospective single institutional study examined the calculator's ability to accurately predict complications and length of hospital stay (los) in patients who had undergone a pancreaticoduodenectomy (pd) at our institution. the objective of this study was to assess the american college of surgeons (acs) risk calculator's ability to accurately predict complications after cervical spine surgery. surgical risk calculators exist in many fields and may assist in the identification of patients at increased risk for complications and readmissions. although the acs risk calculator may be useful in the field of general surgery and in the development of new institutional strategies for risk mitigation, our findings demonstrate that it does not necessarily provide accurate information for patients undergoing cervical spinal surgery. risk models are useful in evaluating and comparing surgical outcomes, but surgeons may not always agree with the risk estimates derived from these models, particularly in high-risk cases. 
Can EMS Providers Provide Appropriate Tidal Volumes in a Simulated Adult-sized Patient with a Pediatric-sized Bag-Valve-Mask? [SEP] using a simulated airway model, we compared ventilation performance by emergency medical services (ems) providers using a traditional bag-valve-mask (easy grip) resuscitator to their performance when using a new device, the smart bag resuscitator, which has a pressure-responsive flow-limiting valve. in this study, we examined the performance of the self-inflating resuscitator and the flow-inflating resuscitator, both equipped with inline manometry, and several mechanical ventilators to deliver prescribed ventilation parameters during simulated pediatric transport. introduction ventilation with a bag valve mask (bvm) is a challenging but critical skill for airway management in the prehospital setting. hypothesis tidal volumes received during single rescuer ventilation with a modified bvm with supplemental external handle will be higher than those delivered using a standard bvm among health care volunteers in a manikin model. the modified bvm with added external handle did not result in greater mean received tidal volume compared to standard bvm during single rescuer ventilation in a manikin model. however, cardiopulmonary support providers do not recognise the exact tidal volume during procedures, and squeezing methods of bvm may not deliver the same tidal volume each time. in this study, a total of 83 volunteers participated and practised conventional bvm and volume-marked bag-valve mask (vbvm) procedures. to determine whether tidal volume, intrapleural pressure, and gastric volume differ when the bag--valve-- mask (bvm) and the manually triggered oxygen powered breathing device (mtbd) are used in the settings of normal and decreased lung compliance. tidal volumes and intrapleural pressures were recorded for every breath and the gastric volume was recorded for each trial using a flowmeter placed below a simulated esophageal sphincter (20 cm h2o peep valve). determine if there is a significant difference in volume delivered to lungs and stomach while using an adult 1,000-ml disposable bag-valve-mask (bvm) device and the oxygen-powered, flow-limited oxylator emx resuscitator. 
Can students' scores on preclerkship clinical performance examinations predict that they will fail a senior clinical performance examination? [SEP] preclinical grade point average (gpa), and united states medical licensing examination (usmle) step 1 are well-known preclerkship methods of identifying students at risk of poor performance. the impact of practical clinical examinations on two consecutive graduating classes (n = 258) was analyzed retrospectively. medical educators grapple with predicting performance of graduates identified as struggling during medical school. students who appear before spcs are at higher risk of below-average performance as rated by a pd evaluation form at the end of pgy-1. this paper argues that, while the varied clinical environments do make assessing students' clinical performance difficult, the reliability and validity of assessment practices should be maintained no matter what the grading system. the purpose is to determine the impact of a specifically targeted clinical performance course required of students who failed a clinical performance examination. a month-long clinical performance course, targeted to treat specific types of clinical performance deficiencies, was designed to remediate students failing standardized patient examinations in 2007 (n=8) and 2008 (n=5). participating students were assessed on pre- and postperformance measures, including multiple-choice tests that measured diagnostic pattern recognition and clinical data interpretation and clinical performance measures using standardized clinical encounters. in both 2007 and 2008, the mean preintervention clinical data interpretation and standardized patient examination scores were below the criterion referenced passing standard set for the clinical competency exam. this study provides insight into the reasons that students fail clinical performance examinations and elucidates one method by which such students may be successfully remediated. 
Recovery Outcome Measures: Is There a Place for Culture, Attitudes, and Faith? [SEP] to clarify the relationship between quality of life (qol) and culture. culture and climate represent shared beliefs and values that may influence quality of care in health care teams, and which could be manipulated for quality improvement. self-report measures of culture (the competing values framework) and climate (the team climate inventory) were used, together with validated measures of quality of care from medical records and self-report. the study recognized six practice-based approaches in palliative and hospice care, when responding to cultural and religious or nonreligious identities of services users. in western nations, the recovery approach has become a widely accepted philosophy and treatment concept in mental health. this study aimed to investigate (i) people's awareness of the principles underpinning the recovery approach in mental health, and (ii) the treatment approaches people consider most important, and whether these align with the recovery approach. people's experience with mental health services, the importance they place on various treatment approaches, and their awareness of principles underpinning the recovery approach were assessed. moreover, most participants considered treatments in line with the recovery approach as important. australian people were to some extent aware of the principles underpinning the recovery approach, particularly with regard to hope, ability to live a meaningful life, and the importance of support from family, friends, and others living with mental illness. we review recent research investigating the impact of religion on various outcomes in east asian cultural and religious contexts (versus western christian) including: religiosity components and measurement, health, personality, cognition and emotion, morality and values, and intergroup attitudes and behavior. 
Can surgeon familiarization with current evidence lead to a change in practice? [SEP] this protocol is for a systematic review that aims to identify the qualitative evidence relating to surgeon views regarding the adoption of novel surgical innovation into clinical practice. although changing surgical practice to align with evidence is an imperative of health systems, evidence-based guidelines have not translated into consistent change. a systematic review of the literature on surgical practice change was performed. three major themes emerged during analysis: (1) individuals often reported modifications in surgical technique after a negative postoperative complication; (2) participants were noted to defend the use of certain techniques or surgical decisions based on the perceived expert opinion of others; and (3) surgeons rarely referred to evidence in surgical literature as a motivation for changing surgical technique. in this qualitative analysis of coaching conversations we found that practicing surgeons often justify their surgical decisions with anecdotal evidence and "lessons learned," rather than deferring to surgical literature. as surgical techniques continue to evolve, surgeons will have to integrate new skills into their practice. following evidence-based evaluation, if a new modality is found ready for adoption in practice, surgeons need education in the safe and effective use of the new modality. following evidence-based evaluation, if a new modality is found ready for adoption in practice, surgeons need education in the safe and effective use of the new modality. in a routine clinical practice, surgeons need to make changes to the health care they provide as new clinical evidence emerges. this manuscript discusses principles of knowledge transfer in surgery including evaluation of recommended changes that can improve quality of health care in routine surgical practice. 
Advanced epithelial ovarian carcinoma in Thai women: should we continue to offer second-look laparotomy? [SEP] the role of second-look laparotomy in the management of patients with endodermal sinus tumor of the ovary is controversial. in women with recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer, secondary treatment options include surgery and chemotherapy. to evaluate the risk of the laparoscopic approach to patients with borderline ovarian tumors compared to the laparotomic management. after primary laparotomy, no patients showed early persistence of tumor, and ovarian relapses were diagnosed in seven women (22%) 33-138 months after laparotomy. since there is no reliable noninvasive way of establishing status of disease in ovarian cancer patients, second-look laparotomy has become an accepted part of the management of these patients. twenty-five women treated with chemotherapy for epithelial ovarian carcinoma underwent "second-look" laparotomy after thorough clinical and radiographic examinations failed to detect residual tumor. to determine the impact of prophylactic oophorectomy on ovarian cancer prevention in thai women by estimating the magnitude of reduction in ovarian cancer incidence in thailand if the procedure was routinely offered. a database of 752 women with epithelial ovarian cancer treated at chiang mai university hospital between january 1990 and december 2001 was reviewed in an attempt to identify those who had hysterectomy performed for indications other than ovarian and corpus cancer with conservation of one or both ovaries prior to diagnosis of ovarian cancer. considering the rate of prior hysterectomy at age 45 or beyond of 0.13% and the annual national ovarian cancer incidence of 1252 cases, an estimated one to two cases of ovarian cancer could be prevented annually if prophylactic bilateral oophorectomy at the time of hysterectomy in a woman age 45 or beyond were routinely offered in thailand. prophylactic oophorectomy at the time of hysterectomy in general thai population as a preventive measure for subsequent ovarian cancer should not be recommended without complete knowledge of patients' socioeconomic background and propensity to comply with hormone replacement therapy regimens. 
Is high-sensitivity C-reactive protein associated with carotid atherosclerosis in healthy Koreans? [SEP] there is a positive association between chronic inflammation and the risk of cardiovascular disease, but whether there is an association between c-reactive protein (crp) and carotid atherosclerosis is controversial. we investigated the relationship between high-sensitivity crp (hscrp) levels and carotid intima-media thickness (imt) in healthy koreans. high-sensitivity c-reactive protein (hs-crp) is a risk indicator for atherosclerosis. little is known about the association between high sensitivity c-reactive protein (hs-crp) especially long-term hs-crp and asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis (acas) in healthy chinese adults. the objective of this study was to examine the relationship between c-reactive protein (crp) and carotid atherosclerosis. carotid atherosclerosis, measured as carotid intima-media thickness or as characteristics of plaques, has been linked to cardiovascular disease (cvd) and to c-reactive protein (crp) levels. we investigated the relationship between carotid atherosclerosis and crp and their joint roles in cvd prediction. the purpose of the study was to investigate the association of high sensitiviy c-reactive protein (hscrp) along with major cardiovascular (cv) risk factors on early carotid atherosclerosis progression in a large, population-based cohort study. we aimed to study the relationship of elevated c reactive protein (crp) levels (1.0-2.9 or ≥3.0 mg/l) with carotid intima-media thickness (imt) in chinese adults with normal low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol (<100 mg/dl). the relation between traditional vascular risk factors and serum high-sensitivity crp (hs-crp) or atherosclerotic lesions in the carotid arteries detected by b-mode ultrasonography was evaluated. 
Validation of the 2009 TNM version in a large multi-institutional cohort of patients treated for renal cell carcinoma: are further improvements needed? [SEP] to assess the validity of the 2009 tnm classification for renal cell carcinoma (rcc) and compare its ability to predict survival relative to the 2002 classification. to investigate risk factors for and outcomes in pathological t3a-upstaging in renal cell carcinoma (rcc), as tumor-node-metastasis staging for t3a rcc was recently revised. to create a comprehensive algorithm that can predict postoperative renal cell carcinoma (rcc) patient outcomes and response to therapy. accurate tumor staging in renal cancer is critical for prognostic projections, follow-up schedules, clinical trials and potential systemic therapies. a retrospective review of patients undergoing lrn for renal cell cancer was performed. here, we wish to provide an integrated perspective concerning the future 'functional' classification of renal cancer by bridging gaps among morphology, biology, multi-omics, and therapeutics. the purpose of the present study was to validate the new grade, age, nodes and tumor (grant) score for renal cell carcinoma (rcc) prognostication within a large population of patients. we recently reported the results from a multi-institutional retrospective outcome study involving 814 patients with renal cell carcinomas (rccs) who had undergone radical surgery and whose diagnoses were confirmed via a central pathological review. this study aimed to clarify the impact of tumor size on survival outcomes in patients with pt3an0m0 rcc after radical nephrectomy using this cohort. the tnm classification has been revised for the 2002 edition of the uicc publication to better stratify patients with intracapsular renal cell carcinoma (rcc) but few studies have been published to date to validate this new classification. 
Are interstitial fluid concentrations of meropenem equivalent to plasma concentrations in critically ill patients receiving continuous renal replacement therapy? [SEP] the aim of this study was to determine meropenem concentrations in patients with sepsis before and after the initiation of continuous venovenous hemodialysis with regional citrate anticoagulation (rca-cvvhd). the concentration of high-dose meropenem (2 g every 8 h) administered in a prolonged infusion was similar before and after the introduction of rca-cvvhd in patients with sepsis who developed acute kidney injury. the objectives of this study were, firstly, to investigate the pharmacokinetics of meropenem in critically ill patients with severe sepsis who are receiving high-volume cvvhf with high-volume exchanges (> or = 4 liters/h); secondly, to determine whether standard dosing regimens (1,000 mg intravenously [i.v.] in patients with acute renal failure, the pharmacokinetics of meropenem depend on the operational characteristics of the renal replacement therapy. eight critically ill patients with acute renal failure were treated by continuous veno-venous hemofiltration with a filtrate flow of 1,600 ml/h and received 500 mg of meropenem every 12 h. plasma and hemofiltrate concentrations of meropenem at steady state were determined by hplc. the method reported here enables accurate measurements of meropenem in critically ill patients under cvvhdf, making dosage individualisation possible in such patients. meropenem is a carbapenem antibacterial frequently prescribed for the treatment of severe infections in critically ill patients, including those receiving continuous renal replacement therapy (crrt). a population pharmacokinetic model of meropenem in intensive care patients undergoing crrt was developed and validated. the aim of this study was to assess pharmacokinetic data of meropenem in patients with acute renal failure and to determine the amount of drug removed by continuous venovenous hemofiltration, an often-used renal replacement therapy in patients with acute renal failure. to compare the plasma and subcutaneous tissue concentration-time profiles of meropenem administered by intermittent bolus dosing or continuous infusion to critically ill patients with sepsis and without renal dysfunction, and to use population pharmacokinetic modelling and monte carlo simulations to assess the cumulative fraction of response (cfr) against gram-negative pathogens likely to be encountered in critical care units. 
Does Sensation Return to the Nasal Tip After Microfat Grafting? [SEP] to characterize the clinical recovery of sensory innervation after facial reconstructive surgery with flaps and grafts and to offer clinical guidelines on the recovery of sensation in reconstructed sites involving flaps and grafts of the face. graft sensation recovery to light touch was present in no patients evaluated less than 2 years after surgery and in 29% of patients evaluated more than 2 years after surgery. predictable factors are associated with sensation recovery in patients with flaps and grafts. recent studies have reported sensory recovery in innervated ("sensate") microvascular free flaps used for oromandibular reconstruction. this study evaluates the degree of spontaneous sensory reinnervation in noninnervated microvascular free flaps used for reconstruction of a variety of head and neck defects. this series conclusively demonstrates that sensory feedback can be restored in a targeted fashion through neural anastomoses and that a physiologic response that helps in airway protection can be produced through the use of sensate flaps with a strategically selected recipient nerve. anecdotal evidence suggests that taping the nose immediately upon splint removal aids with the patient's psychological adjustment to his or her new appearance. sensory recovery after oral cavity and oropharyngeal reconstruction is 1 of the most important goals of free flap reconstruction. the paramedian forehead flap (pff) and the bilobed flap (bf) are commonly used for nasal reconstruction, but whether patients and physicians are satisfied with the esthetics is undetermined? the purposes of this article were to review the literature regarding subjective outcomes, objective functional outcomes, and objective sensation return after sensate and/or insensate free flap reconstruction of the oral cavity and oropharynx. 
Do older men benefit from curative therapy of localized prostate cancer? [SEP] geriatric oncology guidelines state that fit older men with prostate cancer should receive curative treatment. in a population-based study, we investigated associations between age and non-receipt of curative treatment in men with localised prostate cancer, and the effect of clinical variables on this in different age groups. one consistent finding in the studies regarding treating men with prostate cancer is that men with high-risk disease have the most to gain from treatment with curative intent. to evaluate whether elderly patients aged ≥ 75 years with locally advanced prostate cancer (lapc) may benefit from local treatment (lt). current therapies for localized prostate cancer include radical prostatectomy, local radiation therapy, and cryoablation and are associated with a high rate of cure and acceptable morbidity. due to the high incidence and prevalence in older men, prostate cancer is best understood as an age-associated disease. although many older men with symptomatic advanced prostate cancer benefit from hormonal treatments and chemotherapies, treatment complications also may influence outcome. despite treatment guidelines recommending observation for men with low-risk prostate cancer with life expectancy <10 years, a majority of elderly patients choose active treatment, which may result in overtreatment. given the growing burden of prostate cancer among men aged ≥80 years (super-elderly men), accumulation of survival data for evaluation of overtreatment among super-elderly patients is imperative. here, we report results of a population-based cohort study to clarify potential overtreatment of super-elderly men with localized prostate cancer. 
Pituitary apoplexy: do histological features influence the clinical presentation and outcome? [SEP] pituitary apoplexy is defined as a clinical syndrome that may include headache, visual deficits, ophthalmoplegia, or altered mental status. pituitary apoplexy is rare endocrine emergency which can occur due to infarction or haemorrhage of pituitary gland. pituitary apoplexy is a rare disease caused by a sudden hemorrhage into or infarction of the pituitary gland. the aim of this study was to compare the outcomes of surgical and non-surgical treatments for pituitary apoplexy. pituitary tumor apoplexy is a rare neuroendocrine syndrome resulting, in most cases, from hemorrhage or infarctation of a pre-existing pituitary adenoma. we describe two patients with pituitary tumor apoplexy who had clinically non-functioning macroadenomas and hypopituitarism, including hypogonadism. pituitary apoplexy is a neuroendocrine emergency produced by hemorrhage or infarction of pituitary tumors, and its accurate diagnosis has relied mainly on clinical manifestations and computed tomography (ct) scan of sella in the past. a case is reported of pituitary apoplexy which was demonstrated on magnetic resonance imaging (mri). pituitary apoplexy is a clinical syndrome of headache, visual deficits, ophthalmoplegia, and alteration in mental status resulting from the sudden hemorrhage or infarction of a pituitary adenoma. pituitary apoplexy is usually the result of hemorrhagic infarction in pituitary adenoma. 
Do African American women require fewer calories to maintain weight? [SEP] the high prevalence of obesity in african american (aa) women may result, in part, from a lower resting metabolic rate (rmr) than non-aa women. if true, aa women should require fewer calories than non-aa women to maintain weight. our objective was to determine in the setting of a controlled feeding study, if aa women required fewer calories than non-aa women to maintain weight. african american women lose less weight and at a slower rate than caucasian women under the same weight loss conditions. african american women had a greater body weight, bmi, and bmd all sites and lower dietary protein and calcium intakes than caucasian women (all p<0.05). african-american women (aaw) lose less weight and at a slower rate than caucasian women (caw) under the same weight-loss regimens. african-american women tend to be more overweight and to have lower resting energy expenditures (ree) compared with caucasian women. previous studies showed that resting energy expenditure (ree) is lower in obese african american women than in obese white women. weight maintenance is less successful in black women than in white women after weight loss. body composition differs between african american (aa) and white women, and the resting metabolic rate (rmr) is likely to be lower in aa women than in white women. 
Emergency double-balloon enteroscopy combined with real-time viewing of capsule endoscopy: a feasible combined approach in acute overt-obscure gastrointestinal bleeding? [SEP] emergency capsule endoscopy and balloon-assisted enteroscopy have a high diagnostic and therapeutic yield in these situations. this narrative review analyses the usefulness and impact of small bowel endoscopic techniques in the emergency setting for severe overt obscure gastrointestinal bleeding. a novel diagnostic approach is to use video capsule endoscopy to directly visualize the upper gi tract and identify bleeding. obscure gastrointestinal bleeding is the primary and best validated indication to capsule endoscopy, which when used as first-line exploration is the most efficient strategy as regards diagnosis. several studies have shown the value of capsule endoscopy and double balloon endoscopy (dbe) in small-intestinal bleeding. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of capsule endoscopy results on subsequent dbe examination, and the 1-year clinical outcome of this combined approach in patients with obscure gastrointestinal bleeding (ogib). capsule endoscopy and balloon-assisted enteroscopy, have revolutionized our approach to the diagnosis and management of patients with obscure gastrointestinal bleeding, largely replacing intraoperative enteroscopy and conventional barium studies. despite its limitations, capsule endoscopy may well be the most reasonable initial diagnostic strategy to evaluate most patients with obscure gastrointestinal bleeding, leaving balloon-assisted enteroscopy in reserve as a complementary tool. this article reviews the data on enteroscopy, with particular emphasis on the use of capsule endoscopy and balloon-assisted enteroscopy for the diagnosis and management of patients with obscure gastrointestinal bleeding. early reports of urgent colonoscopy in acute lower intestinal bleeding suggest a role for endoscopic therapy for bleeding colonic lesions, but scant data exist on bleeding diverticula. 
Cardiopulmonary bypass temperature does not affect postoperative euthyroid sick syndrome? [SEP] several studies suggest that normothermic ("warm") bypass techniques may improve myocardial outcomes for patients undergoing cardiac operations. normothermic temperatures during cardiopulmonary bypass may, however, decrease the brain's tolerance to the ischemic insults that accompany all cardiac procedures. to assess the effect of bypass temperature management strategy on central nervous system outcomes in patients undergoing coronary revascularization, 138 patients were randomly assigned to two treatment groups: (1) hypothermia (n = 70), patients cooled to a temperature less than 28 degrees c during cardiopulmonary bypass, or (2) normothermia (n = 68), patients actively warmed to a temperature of at least 35 degrees c. patients underwent detailed neurologic examination before the operation, on postoperative days 1 to 3 and 7 to 10, and at approximately 1 month after operation. we conclude that active warming during cardiopulmonary bypass to maintain systemic temperatures > or = 35 degrees c increases the risk of perioperative neurologic deficit in patients undergoing elective coronary revascularization. despite the controversies on the potential detrimental effects of normothermic cardiopulmonary bypass on neurologic outcome, to date no correlation between the severity of intraoperative brain lesions and the cardiopulmonary bypass temperature used at operation has been reported. ninety patients undergoing valvular heart surgery were randomly divided into two groups of 45 patients each to undergo normothermic (35 degrees c-37 degrees c) or hypothermic (28 degrees c) bypass. during cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb), perfusion at tepid temperatures (33-35 °c) is recommended to avoid high temperature cerebral hyperthermia during and after the operation. normothermic cardiopulmonary bypass has been proposed as a more physiologic technique than hypothermic bypass for the maintenance of the body during cardiac surgery. all patients received cold antegrade st. thomas' hospital crystalloid cardioplegic solution, and patients in the normothermic group were actively rewarmed during cardiopulmonary bypass (nasopharyngeal temperature 37 degrees c). cardiopulmonary bypass temperature did not influence early clinical outcome after routine coronary artery bypass operations. 
Body dysmorphic disorder: does it have a psychotic subtype? [SEP] although body dysmorphic disorder (bdd) is classified in dsm-iii-r as a nonpsychotic somatoform disorder, controversy exists as to whether bdd can present with psychotic features. body dysmorphic disorder may have a closely related psychotic subtype that significantly overlaps with, or may even be the same disorder as, the bdd variant of delusional disorder, somatic type. a controversial issue that was debated for dsm-iv is whether body dysmorphic disorder (bdd)--a preoccupation with an imagined defect in appearance--can be psychotic. although body dysmorphic disorder is a psychiatric disorder in its own right, rarely it can be a variant of a variety of psychiatric syndromes like schizophrenia, mood disorders, ocd etc. following is an unusual case report of a female patient who presented with body dysmorphic disorder later diagnosed as having schizophrenia. body dysmorphic disorder, a preoccupation with an imagined or slight defect in appearance, is classified as a somatoform disorder, but has been hypothesized to be related to obsessive-compulsive disorder. body dysmorphic disorder appears to be relatively common among patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder. body dysmorphic disorder (bdd) has both psychotic and nonpsychotic variants, which are classified as separate disorders in dsm-iv (delusional disorder and a somatoform disorder). body dysmorphic disorder falls under the category of obsessive-compulsive and related disorders, yet research has suggested it may also be highly associated with social anxiety disorder. body dysmorphic disorder is a putative obsessive-compulsive spectrum disorder. 
Does receipt of hospice care in nursing homes improve the management of pain at the end of life? [SEP] to estimate the extent to which receipt of hospice in nursing homes (nhs) increases the receipt of pain management for residents with cancer at the end of life. we developed conditional logistic models to estimate the association between hospice use and pain management, stratified by self-reported and staff-assessed pain. we found that pain prevalence was higher in residents using hospice versus those without hospice (e.g., residents who self-reported pain: hospice: 59.9%, 95% cis = 59.3%-60.5%; nonhospice: 50.0%, 95% ci = 49.4%-50.6%). pain prevalence and the association between hospice and pain management were similar in residents with staff-assessed pain. hospice is associated with increased pain management among those with documented pain. hospice care provided to nursing home (nh) residents has been shown to improve the quality of end-of-life (eol) care. to identify characteristics of nursing home (nh) residents with advanced dementia and their healthcare proxies (hcps) associated with hospice referral and to examine the association between hospice use and the treatment of pain and dyspnea and unmet needs during the last 7 days of life. hospice recipients were more likely to received scheduled opioids for pain and symptomatic treatment for dyspnea and had fewer unmet needs at the end of life. the current article reviews the existing evidence relevant to nursing homes to provide practitioners with a greater understanding of the impact of palliative and hospice care on clinical care outcomes (e.g., pain, symptom management), processes of care outcomes (e.g., hospitalizations, cost of care), and family member or health care proxy perceptions of care. overall, the provision of hospice or palliative care in nursing facilities can improve the clinical care residents receive, reduce hospitalizations, and improve family members' perception of care. 
Fulfilling human resources development goal in West Africa: can the training of ophthalmologist diplomates be improved? [SEP] to ascertain the perspectives of trainee ophthalmologist diplomats (tod) on the ophthalmic diploma training (odt) in west africa with a view to improving the programme. specialty training in obstetrics and gynecology that is specifically aimed at meeting the needs of west africa has been initiated successfully. the aim of this study was to assess the achievements of training of undergraduate medical students in cameroon towards meeting this objective. to ascertain the perspectives of trainee ophthalmologists about a community eye health (ceh) module in west africa. most of the trainees believe ceh is important to ophthalmology, rate most of the resource persons as being good, want course duration reduced, decry inadequate sponsorship and wanted msc (ceh) programme introduced in west africa. as recent as 1986, acute shortage of qualified manpower was one of the major difficulties in the prevention of blindness in africa. following the who sub-regional workshop on manpower development for prevention of blindness, the west african health community in collaboration with the national prevention of blindness programmes in anglophone west africa made concerted efforts at developing appropriate manpower at all levels of eye care. this study was designed to develop a comprehensive framework of competency standards for ophthalmic technicians and optometrists, in mozambique. to alleviate the significant burden of vision impairment and blindness in low-resource settings, addressing the shortage in human resources in eye care is one of the fundamental strategies. this paper discusses some of the important steps that should be taken by medical schools, taking into account the present situation in africa. 
Does binge drinking during early pregnancy increase the risk of psychomotor deficits? [SEP] alcohol consumption that places drinkers at risk for adverse health outcomes) during pregnancy is associated with adverse child outcomes. alcohol binge drinking is common in early pregnancy and is a well-established risk factor for subsequent child health. furthermore, it has been speculated that the timing of binge drinking may be a determining factor for neonatal growth. the objective of this study was to assess the potential effect of binge drinking and different drinking patterns (timing and number of binge drinking episodes) in early pregnancy on fetal growth estimated by birthweight and birth length. binge drinking (bd) is a serious risk factor for fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (fasd) and associated with more severe forms of the disorder. high levels of alcohol use during pregnancy can lead to adverse physical and neurodevelopmental outcomes in children. heavy alcohol intake during pregnancy is associated with numerous adverse effects on the fetus, including low birth weight, congenital anomalies, mental retardation, and behavioral and learning disabilities. alcohol consumption during pregnancy can damage the developing fetus, illustrated by central nervous system dysfunction and deficits in motor and cognitive abilities. binge drinking has been associated with an increased risk of fetal alcohol spectrum disorders, likely due to increased episodes of ethanol withdrawal. there is concern that, in the absence of full-blown fetal alcohol syndrome, binge drinking during pregnancy might produce long-term cognitive deficits in offspring. 
Does tranexamic acid reduce desmopressin-induced hyperfibrinolysis? [SEP] desmopressin releases tissue-type plasminogen activator, which augments cardiopulmonary bypass--associated hyperfibrinolysis, causing excessive bleeding. combined use of desmopressin with prior administration of the antifibrinolytic drug tranexamic acid may decrease fibrinolytic activity and might improve postoperative hemostasis. tranexamic acid administration significantly reduces desmopressin and bypass-induced hyperfibrinolysis. combined use of tranexamic acid and desmopressin decreases both postoperative blood loss and transfusion requirement. prior administration of the antifibrinolytic drug tranexamic acid might unmask such an effect, and combination therapy might thereby improve postoperative hemostasis. tranexamic acid alone significantly reduced 12-hour blood loss, by 30% (mean, 318 versus 453 ml; p less than 0.0001), without enhancement by desmopressin. prophylactic administration of the antifibrinolytic drug tranexamic acid decreases bleeding and transfusions after cardiac operations. this article reviews the efficacy and tolerability of tranexamic acid in conditions amenable to antifibrinolytic therapy and briefly overviews the pharmacological properties of the drug. therefore, while high-quality published evidence is limited for some approved indications, tranexamic acid is an effective and well tolerated antifibrinolytic agent. tranexamic acid functions as an antifibrinolytic medication and is widely used to treat or prevent excessive blood loss in menorrhagia and during the perioperative period. 
Does ultrasound-scored synovitis depend on the pharmacokinetics of subcutaneous anti-TNF agents in patients with rheumatoid arthritis? [SEP] this study used ultrasonography (us) to examine the distribution and responsiveness of tenosynovitis to anti-tumour necrosis factor (anti-tnf) treatment in ra patients. this study aimed to evaluate the risk of ultrasound-detected synovitis after antitumor necrosis factor (tnf) tapering in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. one hundred and twenty-two patients who received a tapered dose of anti-tnf were enrolled, of whom 96 (78%) had ultrasound-detected synovitis and 26 had no inflammation. moderate tapering of anti-tnf (tapering 50%) was more common in the patients with ultrasound-detected synovitis than mild tapering (tapering 25%) (68.8% vs 38.5%, p=0.005). to determine and compare the degree of synovial inflammation by ultrasound (us) in patients with ra in clinical remission, treated with dmard or combination therapy with dmard and anti-tnf. this prospective study aimed to compare synovial ultrasound scores to conventional measures (das28, crp levels) in predicting radiographic progression in patients with rheumatoid arthritis under tnf antagonist therapy. the aim of this study was to assess safety and efficacy of ultrasonography (us)-guided intra-articular injections using tumor necrosis factor (tnf) blockers compared to corticosteroids in rheumatoid arthritis (ra) or psoriatic arthritis (psa) patients, experiencing refractory monoarthritis despite the current systemic therapy. we evaluated whether the early responsiveness of ultrasound synovitis can predict the clinical response in rheumatoid arthritis (ra) patients treated with biologic disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (bdmards). to determine whether non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) have a significant effect on ultrasonographic (us) grey scale (gs) and power doppler (pd) assessment of synovitis in rheumatoid arthritis (ra). to investigate whether a strategy combining clinical and ultrasound (us) assessment can select individuals with rheumatoid arthritis (ra) for sustained dose reduction of anti-tumor necrosis factor (anti-tnf) therapies. 
Counter sampling combined with medical provider education: do they alter prescribing behavior? [SEP] to observe if medical providers alter their prescribing patterns of three relatively expensive categories of medications provided as samples by manufacturers (focus medications) when they receive additional education from pharmacists concerning the appropriate use of lower cost alternatives (counter samples) that are made available to dispense. medical providers in the active intervention group had: 1) education from pharmacists concerning the appropriate use of lower-cost alternatives compared with expensive focus medications 2) counter samples and patient sample handouts available to dispense to patients at their own discretion. education and counter sampling did not stop medical providers from significantly increasing the total yearly prescriptions for antihistamines and acid-relief medications that consisted of focus-nonsedating antihistamines (86.7% versus 93.1%, p < 0.05) and ppis (68.9% versus 86.2%, p < 0.05). education by pharmacists, combined with access to counter samples, may or may not have an effect on medical provider prescribing, depending on the category of medication targeted for cost control. in analyzing a university-based program to educate physicians about proper medication use, we sought to measure whether physician background characteristics and the quality or number of educational exposures influenced the rate of relinquishment of inappropriate prescribing. a sample of 435 doctors was randomized to control and experimental groups; interventions consisted of printed educational materials and face-to-face visits by clinical pharmacists. these findings document that face to face education can be effective in improving the prescribing practices of a wide variety of physicians, and that brevity, repetition, and reinforcement of recommended practices are important components in the design of such programs. our study aimed to analyze whether a change in institutional policy that restricted the availability of in-office samples for patients resulted in any measurable change in the prescribing habits of faculty physicians in the department of dermatology and cutaneous surgery at the university of south florida (usf)(tampa, florida). the author reviews some of the literature about interventions designed to influence physicians' prescribing patterns, particularly how the pharmacist and drug industry alter prescribing by primary care physicians. providing clinicians with their actual opioid prescribing data after querying their self-perception reduced future prescribing among providers who underestimated their baseline prescribing. 
Global Longitudinal Pathway: has medical education curriculum influenced medical students' skills and attitudes toward culturally diverse populations? [SEP] research highlights the existence of two different models within medical education: cultural competency and cultural humility. an increasingly diverse population and ongoing health disparities have brought national attention to cultural competence training in medical schools. the purpose of this study is to assess medical students' knowledge in cultural competence to identify training areas for curriculum development. medical educators have responded to the consequent cultural diversity by advocating that future doctors should be culturally competent in caring for patients. we sought medical learners' perceptions and their perceived training needs in relation to cultural and ethnic diversity in health care. in this article, the authors describe the formation and implementation of a novel medical school course on self-awareness and cultural identity designed to reduce unconscious bias in medicine. although education about culture, race and ethnicity has increasingly been viewed as an important addition to the medical undergraduate curriculum, internationally the evidence of its effectiveness is mixed. the field of cross-cultural medical education has blossomed in an environment of increasing diversity and increasing awareness of the effect of race and ethnicity on health outcomes. by emphasizing and expanding the role of the social history in cross-cultural medical education, faculty can better train medical students, residents, and other health care providers to care for socioculturally diverse patient populations. enhancing the cultural competency of students is emerging as a key issue in medical education; however, students may perceive that they are more able to function within cross-cultural situations than their teachers, reducing the effectiveness of cultural competency educational efforts. 
Failed IUD insertions in community practice: an under-recognized problem? [SEP] reluctance to insert iuds in the primary care setting may relate to concern about potential difficulty and complications, particularly in nulliparous women. to determine the practitioner, patient and procedural factors associated with abandoned iud insertion, practitioner-reported difficulty of insertion and adverse events during iud insertions in the family planning setting. this was a prospective study over a 12-month period of consecutive iud insertions in four family planning clinics across new south wales and queensland. patient, practitioner and device-related factors associated with abandoned iud insertion, practitioner-reported ease of insertion and immediate insertion-related adverse events were analysed using logistic regression. the intrauterine device (iud) is a highly effective contraceptive method with few contraindications; however, clinician lack of training in insertion and misconceptions about iud risks are barriers to utilization. an online survey addressing experience with iud insertion, knowledge of patient eligibility and iud risks, and intent to insert iuds in practice was circulated to residents at 15 us family medicine residency programs. one barrier to iud uptake is fear of pain during insertion, particularly among nulliparous women. many interventions to reduce pain during iud insertion have proven unsuccessful. accidental pregnancies with intrauterine devices may in part be attributed to inappropriate patient selection, lack of insertion expertise by physicians, and downward migration of iuds from initial placement position. numerous studies have reported iud-related events in evaluating the rates of pregnancy, expulsion, and removal for bleeding and pain, but the inability to successfully insert an iud has been overlooked. 
Type II supracondylar humerus fractures: can some be treated nonoperatively? [SEP] the range of injury severity that can be seen within the category of type ii supracondylar humerus fractures (schfs) raises the question whether some could be treated nonoperatively. background: treatment of humeral shaft fractures has been a subject of debate for many decades. between 2000 and 2010, 167 patients with 2-, 3- and 4-part humeral head fractures were treated non-operatively in two level i trauma centers in rostock. proximal humerus fractures are common in the setting of osteopenia and osteoporosis and can often be treated nonoperatively. we performed a systematic review of the literature to examine the results of nonoperative treatment of proximal humerus fractures. we conclude that our systematic review of the literature on the nonoperative treatment of proximal humerus fractures demonstrates high rates of radiographic healing, good functional outcomes, and a modest complication rate. between 2014 and 2018, 92 proximal humerus fractures constituting a nonoperative group (n = 47) and an operative group (n = 45) together with healthy control subjects (n = 45) were analyzed in a tertiary care referral center. with insufficient functional results and high complication rates in surgery, nonoperative management is still the preferred choice for proximal humerus fractures, especially in case of multipart fractures. the majority of proximal humeral fractures in the skeletally immature are treated non-operatively. to compare the effectiveness of surgical treatment with open reduction and internal plate fixation to nonsurgical treatment with functional bracing in the treatment of closed humeral shaft fractures. 
The promise of specialty pharmaceuticals: are they worth the price? [SEP] these findings demonstrate a strong value proposition for specialty pharmaceuticals, and suggest even greater potential individual patient benefit with consideration of patient heterogeneity. specialty pharmaceuticals represent the fastest growing segment of drug spending due to new product approvals, high unit costs, and increasing use. specialty pharmaceuticals have evolved beyond their status as niche drugs designed to treat rare conditions and are now poised to become the standard of care in a wide variety of common chronic illnesses. the promise of specialty pharmaceuticals: increased life expectancy, improved quality of life, enhanced workplace productivity, decreased burden of disease, and reduced health care spending comes at a significant cost. current evidence suggests that when used in targeted patient populations, specialty pharmaceuticals may represent a good health care value. spending on specialty drugs--typically high-cost biologic medications to treat complex medical conditions--is growing at a high rate and represents an increasing share of u.s. pharmaceutical spending and overall health spending. specialty pharmaceuticals have become increasingly important in the global pharmaceutical landscape. numerous large pharmaceutical companies are moving towards developing therapies for specialty markets, which are attractive owing to factors including the established commercial track record and lower commercial infrastructure costs. the pharmaceutical industry is shifting its focus from blockbuster small molecules to specialty pharmaceuticals. we examine the economic and policy issues related to specialty pharmaceuticals, taking care to consider the impact on patients. 
Does invasive diagnosis of nosocomial pneumonia during off-hours delay treatment? [SEP] in addition to controversies as to the definition of nosocomial pneumonia (np) because of the lack of a widely accepted diagnostic standard, there has been no agreement concerning the time span from hospital admission to disease onset. nosocomial pneumonia poses a major threat to the recovery of patients receiving mechanical ventilation. in addition, nosocomial pneumonia is often difficult to diagnose. this article examines the extent of the threat and some of the difficulties facing the critical care physician when diagnosing nosocomial pneumonia. this study stresses the need for a systematic approach to find out the etiology and properly manage nonresolving pneumonias. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the use of tracheal aspirate culture in identifying pneumonia pathogens. tracheal aspirate cultures obtained as part of routine care identified a plausible pneumonia pathogen in more than one-half of emergency department adult patients with severe pneumonia requiring intubation. because nosocomial pneumonia is difficult to diagnose and the need to treat it is often urgent, particularly in patients on mechanical ventilation, therapy is often empiric. assessment of the inflammatory response can help the decision-making process when diagnosing community-acquired pneumonia (cap), but there is a lack of information about the influence of time since onset of symptoms. pneumonia is one of the most common conditions for which patients seek emergency care. 
Undescended testes: does age at orchiopexy affect survival of the testis? [SEP] undescended testis, which is a risk factor for testicular cancer, is usually treated surgically, but whether the age at treatment has any effect on the risk is unclear. we studied the relation between the age at treatment for undescended testis and the risk of testicular cancer. we identified men who underwent orchiopexy for undescended testis in sweden between 1964 and 1999. the relative risk of testicular cancer among those who underwent orchiopexy before reaching 13 years of age was 2.23 (95% confidence interval [ci], 1.58 to 3.06), as compared with the swedish general population; for those treated at 13 years of age or older, the relative risk was 5.40 (95% ci, 3.20 to 8.53). the effect of age at orchiopexy on the risk of testicular cancer was similar in comparisons within the cohort. outcomes of orchiopexy include (1) having a viable, palpable testis in the scrotum, (2) fertility, as measured by paternity rates or semen analysis in adulthood and (3) risk of testicular cancer. the aim of this study was to evaluate testicular function in men with previous acquired undescended testis (udt) in whom orchiopexy was performed at diagnosis compared with a similar group of men in whom spontaneous descent was awaited until puberty. secondly, we examined the influence of age at orchiopexy on fertility parameters in adult life. to evaluate the impact of age at treatment of undescended testes on endocrine and spermatogenic testicular function in middle-aged men. reproductive hormone and semen data of 357 men with previously undescended testes were evaluated with respect to age at correction of testicular position and compared to those of 709 controls with eutopic testes at birth and normozoospermia. 
Do lipids, blood pressure, diabetes, and smoking confer equal risk of myocardial infarction in women as in men? [SEP] the risks of cardiovascular disease associated with dyslipidemia differ in women and men, being more strongly associated with triglyceride/high-density lipoprotein in middle-aged women than in men. diabetic women generally have a greater relative risk of cardiovascular diseases than diabetic men in comparison with non-diabetic women and men. for smokers and for subjects with hypertension, hypercholesterolaemia or who where overweight, the hazards ratios for cardiovascular mortality in diabetic patients compared with normoglycaemic people were also higher in women than in men. newly diagnosed diabetic women showed higher relative risks for death from cardiovascular disease than diabetic men. we review the hypothesis that the incidence of coronary heart disease (chd) is higher in men than in women due to differences in plasma lipoprotein risk factors between the sexes. the associations between smoking, serum lipids, blood pressure, and myocardial infarction were examined in a population-based prospective study of 11,843 men and women aged 35 to 52 years at entry. smoking was a stronger risk factor for myocardial infarction in middle-aged women than in men. relative risks associated with serum lipids and blood pressure were similar despite large sex differences in myocardial infarction incidence rates. diabetic women have a greater relative risk of coronary heart disease than diabetic men. women had a higher hazard ratio of coronary heart disease associated with the fasting serum glucose level than men (p for interaction with sex=0.021). 
Does family practice at residency teaching sites reflect community practice? [SEP] family medicine has aspired to train residents and conduct research in settings that closely resemble community practice. the purpose of this study was to compare the patient characteristics of the ambulatory teaching centers of a consortium of seven community-based university-affiliated family practice residency programs in northeast ohio with the national ambulatory medical care survey (namcs) results for family physicians (fps) and general practitioners (gps). this paper describes the state and nature of community medicine training in family practice residency programs. a random sample of 224 family practice residency programs was surveyed about the perceived value of community medicine in their residency, the teaching modalities they use, the extent to which their training provides competency in four defined dimensions of community medicine, and which program characteristics and curricula were predictive of higher perceived competency. community medicine is valued in residency curricula, but there is limited uniformity in curricular content and methods. residency training occurs in varied settings. in academic family practice centers, the distribution of patients between faculty and residents influences the educational milieu. family practice residency programs are encouraged to include community medicine training in their curriculum, but there is little agreement as to what community medicine is or what would constitute appropriate training. the inclusion of training experiences in the identification and solution of health care problems of communities has two basic advantages for family practice residency programs: it fosters a contextual approach in the care of individual patients and it builds knowledge and skills for those who will work with communities in future practices. it is hoped that the report of these results, the rationale presented for including community medicine in the training of family physicians, and the suggested outline of curricular content will further encourage and assist family practice residency programs to incorporate such training in their curricula. 
Midwives' competence: is it affected by working in a rural location? [SEP] globally there are challenges meeting the recruitment and retention needs for rural midwifery. professional quality of life of midwives working in rural areas may be influenced by several personal and work setting factors of care professionals often impacting the quality and outcomes of patient care. conclusion and implication to practice: midwives working in rural areas of resource-poor countries have moderate professional quality of life and tend to experience moderate to high levels of burnout, secondary traumatic stress and compassion satisfaction in their professional work. the purpose of this paper is to describe the relationship between ghanaian student midwife place of origin and rural training on their willingness to choose a future rural practice location. this study indicates an association between midwifery students' place of origin and training and their willingness to practice in a rural area after graduation. rural midwifery practice can be challenging because of low birth numbers, solo practice, lack of on-site cesareans and specialist backup, and interprofessional tensions resulting from the integration of midwives into rural maternity care systems. despite these barriers, rural midwives have made a substantial contribution to rural maternity care in british columbia. despite numerous challenges, midwives provide safe maternity care to rural parturient women and offer choice of birth place. given the difficulty of recruiting and retaining maternity care providers to rural settings in british columbia and across canada, these findings open the door for a more sustained planning process involving midwives in rural communities. to examine rural auxiliary midwives' social connectedness to the communities they serve. 
The effective orifice area/patient aortic annulus area ratio: a better way to compare different bioprostheses? [SEP] the study aim was to compare long-term results of bioprostheses implanted in the aortic position, with and without patient-prosthesis mismatch (defined as effective orifice area (eoa)/body surface area (bsa) < or =0.85 cm2/m2). the calculated in vivo aortic valve areas were slightly, but insignificantly, greater in the modified orifice subgroup than in the standard orifice subgroup (p greater than 0.05). these in vivo data partially corroborate the in vitro findings of increased effective orifice area and internal-to-external diameter ratio for the modified orifice bioprosthesis. in conclusion, sev hemodynamics was superior to bev in patients with small aortic annulus. this study highlights the importance of valve selection in patients with small aortic annulus. the effective orifice area index (eoai) of bioprosthetic aortic valves portends the long-term left ventricular mass regression and longevity of patients with aortic valve disease. this prospective, observational study was undertaken in order to evaluate the relationship between the true annular diameter and the different sizers that can be accommodated in any given annulus, along with the resultant size and type of bioprosthesis implanted. findings of indexed eoa > or = 0.9 cm2/m2, and equivalent degrees of lv mass regression for all valve sizes, reinforces the excellent hemodynamic performance of stentless aortic bioprostheses, and suggests that prosthesis-patient mismatch should be minimized with these valves. three sizes each (21, 23, and 25 mm) of 5 aortic bioprostheses (magna, edwards lifesciences, irvine, ca; trifecta and epic, st. jude, st. paul, mn; and mosaic and hancock ii, medtronic, minneapolis, mn) were tested on a mock annulus in a pulsatile aortic simulator. clinically, these data suggest that during aortic valve replacement, placing a valve whose internal orifice closely matches the aortic annulus will provide the optimal hemodynamic performance. 
Evaluation of pediatric VCUG at an academic children's hospital: is the radiographic scout image necessary? [SEP] there is heterogeneity in how pediatric voiding cystourethrography (vcug) is performed. to demonstrate that the radiographic scout image does not augment vcug interpretation or contribute management-changing information but nonetheless carries a non-negligible effective dose. we evaluated 181 children who underwent vcug in 2012, with an age breakdown of less than 1 year (56 children), 1-5 years (66 children), 6-10 years (43 children) and 11-18 years (16 children), with a mean age of 4.0 years. although the estimated effective dose is low for vcug radiographic scout images, this step did not augment vcug interpretation or contribute management-changing information. this step should be omitted or substituted to further reduce dose in pediatric vcug. the aim of the study is to demonstrate the scout radiograph does not change patient management, alter planning, or contribute to interpretation of the outpatient pediatric upper gastrointestinal fluoroscopic examination (ugi). it is common to evaluate pediatric patients with suspected malfunction of intraventricular shunts (vs) with cranial computed tomography (ct) as well as radiographs. to evaluate the value of scout abdomen radiographs in routine barium or water-soluble enema, upper gastrointestinal (gi) series, and voiding cystourethrogram pediatric fluoroscopic procedures. however, when the vcug demonstrates reflux, radionuclide scan or, less preferably, excretory urography is indicated to assess renal parenchymal damage and function. if the sonogram is normal, vcug can be delayed until the infant responds to medical treatment. 
Are endometrial polyps from pre-menopausal women similar to post-menopausal women? [SEP] do endometrial polyps from pre- and post-menopausal women have similar immunohistochemical expression of oestrogen and progesterone receptors (er, pr) and markers of cellular proliferation/apoptosis (ki67 and bcl-2). fourteen pre-menopausal and 16 post-menopausal women who presented with abnormal bleeding with endometrial polyps. endometrial polyps from pre- and post-menopausal women had significant differences in their expression of hormone receptors and ki67. pre- and post-menopausal polyps exhibit differing hormone receptor and proliferation markers, presumably a result of their hormonal milieu. endometrial polyps are quite common in the general population, they have a significant role in postmenopausal bleeding, and the pathogenesis is unclear. endometrial polyps commonly affect premenopausal and postmenopausal women and carry a small risk of cancer. endometrial polyps are benign in nature and affect both reproductive age and postmenopausal women. the objective was to characterize postmenopausal women with endometrial polyps and to evaluate their significance. postmenopausal endometrial polyps is a common, mostly benign entity. to characterize endometrial polyps, hyperplasia, and carcinoma with endovaginal ultrasound in postmenopausal women. 
Does accompanying metabolic syndrome contribute to heart dimensions in hypertensive patients? [SEP] it is unclear whether the presence of metabolic syndrome (mets) independently affects echocardiographic parameters in hypertension. the aim of the study was to examine the influence of metabolic syndrome (mets) on left ventricular hypertrophy in patients with arterial hypertension. obesity leads to hypertension and metabolic disturbances, as well as left ventricular hypertrophy and altered left ventricular geometry. insulin resistance independently predicts heart failure and coronary disease, and has been related to thick left ventricular walls, mainly in studies of hypertensive samples not fully accounting for the influence of blood pressure. this study investigated whether the metabolic syndrome and insulin resistance are related to left ventricular geometry independently of blood pressure. relations of the national cholesterol education program-defined metabolic syndrome and homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (homa-ir) to echocardiographic left ventricular geometry. left ventricular mass index was increased in persons with the metabolic syndrome in the total sample (49.7 (sd 13.1) vs 39.7 (sd 11.5) g/m(2.7), p<0.001) and in subgroups of normotensive and hypertensive persons, mainly accounted for by an increased relative wall thickness. left ventricular mass and relative wall thickness were increased in persons with the metabolic syndrome and were related to homa-ir in a large population-based sample of men and women of the same age, accounting for covariates including intra-arterial blood pressure levels. hypertension is characterized not only by a metabolic syndrome that includes obesity and insulin resistance, but also by increases in left-ventricular mass (lvm), reduced arterial compliance and altered renal function. the metabolic syndrome (mets), predicting coronary heart disease (chd), is a compound of risk factors including diabetes, obesity and hypertension. 
The Prevalence of Incidentally Detected Idiopathic Misty Mesentery on Multidetector Computed Tomography: Can Obesity Be the Triggering Cause? [SEP] misty mesentery appearance is commonly reported in daily practice, usually as a secondary finding of various pathological entities, but sometimes it is encountered as an isolated finding that cannot be attributed to any other disease entity. we aimed to assess the prevalence of cases with incidentally detected idiopathic misty mesentery on computed tomography (ct) and to summarize the pathologies leading to this appearance. medical records and initial and follow-up ct features of patients with misty mesentery appearance between january 2011 and january 2013 were analysed. the study included cases with no known cause of misty mesentery according to associated ct findings, clinical history, or biochemical manifestations, and excluded patients with diseases known to cause misty mesentery, lymph nodes greater than a short-axis diameter of 5 mm, discrete mesenteric masses, or bowel wall thickening. a total of 80 cases were found to have isolated incidental idiopathic misty mesentery, giving a prevalence of 7%. the results of the present study show that idiopathic incidental misty mesentery appearance has a significant prevalence. also, the high body mass index of these patients and the growing evidence of obesity-induced inflammatory changes in adipose tissue are suggestive of an association between obesity and misty mesentery appearance on ct. "misty mesentery" is a ct appearance of mesenteric fat changes with increased attenuation often existing with swelled mesenteric lymph nodes. 4236 fdg-pet/ct images were reviewed to identify patients with appearances of misty mesentery. fdg-pet/ct is feasible for identifying viable malignancy in misty mesentery. 
Are pediatric concussion patients compliant with discharge instructions? [SEP] providing concussion discharge instructions to patients and families is part of routine standard of care. there was no difference in glasgow coma scale in comparison to patients who were discharged within 24 h. although there are a large number of pediatric patients evaluated in the ed for concussion injuries, very few of these patients require any further care. the objective was to evaluate the use and utility of a novel set of emergency department discharge instructions (dis) for concussion based on a child's ongoing symptoms: symptom-guided dis (symptom dis). despite an increase in concussion diagnoses among pediatric patients, little is known about the management of pediatric patients with concussion in emergency departments (eds). when discussing discharge instructions, 86% of the clinicians recommended follow-up with a primary care physician, 62% of the clinicians recommended follow-up with a sports concussion clinic, and 11% of the clinicians recommend follow-up with a neurologist. the objective of this study was to determine whether discharge instructions given to children who had sustained head injuries included information regarding activity restrictions, activity time constraints, and/or specifics of follow-up care. the objective of this study was to describe discharge instructions given to school-aged patients evaluated in a children's emergency department (ed) following concussion. discharge characteristics included concussion stated in final diagnosis, 31%; concussion-specific instructions, 62%; and activity restrictions, 34%. most children meeting diagnostic criteria for concussion were discharged without concussion-specific diagnoses or activity restrictions. a prospective cohort of children/youth with concussion. 
Is the zeolite hemostatic agent beneficial in reducing blood loss during arterial injury? [SEP] ion exchanging the calcium ions in zeolite type 5a with cations of a reduced hydration enthalpy can reduce heat generation, but its effect on the hemostatic efficacy is not clear. we developed a new compound zeolite hemostat and tested it against controls in a modified swine model of battlefield injury. mortality in the group treated with the application of the compound hemostat composed of ag.zn-zeolite and alginate was 10% versus 100% in the nd group and 71% in the sd group (p < 0.001 vs. nd group, p < 0.05 vs. sd group). addition of an alginate into the modified zeolite hemostat reinforced the strength of clots to 18.52 n +/- 1.33 n. application of the compound zeolite hemostat can effectively control hemorrhage and dramatically reduce mortality from a lethal groin wound. in addition to its antibacterial properties, ag- and zn-substituted zeolite hemostat can decrease the exothermic reaction and greatly attenuate the heat-induced tissue injury. this study reported a new bio-inorganic hybrid of zeolite-fibrin clot composite serving as haemostatic agent in haemophilia a. the zeolite-fibrin clot composite promoted haemocompatibility and helped to achieve short clotting time both in vitro (22 ± 3 s vs. >600 s) and in vivo (4.5 min vs. >60 min) compared to control in coagulation factor viii deficiency bleeding model. we have previously identified a granular zeolite hemostat (zh) as an effective agent for control of severe bleeding, and it is currently being used by the us troops in the battlefield. the use of zeolite hemostat can control hemorrhage and dramatically reduce mortality from a lethal groin wound. modifications of zeolite hemostat can decrease the exothermic reaction and attenuate tissue damage. 
Treatment as prevention in resource-limited settings: is it feasible to maintain HIV viral load suppression over time? [SEP] suppressing hiv viral load through daily antiretroviral therapy (art) substantially reduces the risk of hiv transmission, however, the potential population impact of treatment as prevention (tasp) is mitigated due to challenges with sustained care engagement and art adherence. antiretroviral therapy (art) significantly decreases hiv-associated morbidity, mortality, and hiv transmission through hiv viral load suppression. the outcomes at 12 months were linkage to care, and art initiation and viral suppression among hiv positive persons eligible for art (cd4≤350 cells/μl). community-based delivery of antiretroviral therapy (art) for hiv, including art initiation, clinical and laboratory monitoring, and refills, could reduce barriers to treatment and improve viral suppression, reducing the gap in access to care for individuals who have detectable hiv viral load, including men who are less likely than women to be virally suppressed. in the absence of evidence that eradication of hiv from an infected individual is feasible, the established goal of antiretroviral therapy is to reduce viral load to as low as possible for as long as possible. the success of antiretroviral therapy (art) as treatment for the individual patient and as prevention requires the achievment and maintenance of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) viral suppression. some settings, as part of their prevention and treatment strategies, have already attained rates of hiv testing and use of antiretroviral therapy--with high levels of viral suppression--that many countries would aspire to as targets for a treatment-as-prevention strategy. attempts for reducing long-term drug exposure, toxicities, and cost, while maintaining viral suppression, have led to explore whether maintenance strategies with less than triple therapy could be feasible using the newest more potent antiretrovirals. although the majority of hiv-infected patients who begin potent antiretroviral therapy should expect long-term virologic suppression, the realities in practice are less certain. durability of viral suppression was examined to define the best timing of targeted adherence strategies and intensive viral load monitoring in an urban clinic population with multiple challenges to art adherence. 
Are octogenarians at high risk for carotid endarterectomy? [SEP] octogenarians had a greater incidence of contralateral internal carotid artery occlusion (26% vs 12%, p = .001), atrial fibrillation (21% vs 8%, p = .001), and congestive heart failure (28% vs 15%, p = .007), but a lower incidence of hypercholesterolemia (53% vs 72%, p = .001) and active smoking (8% vs 24%, p = .001). octogenarians undergoing carotid artery stenting are at higher risk than nonoctogenarians for periprocedural complications, including neurologic events and death. controversy surrounds the role of carotid endarterectomy in octogenarians. to evaluate the presumed detrimental effect of advanced age on the mortality-morbidity of carotid endarterectomy, the authors reviewed their common experience with carotid surgery in patients aged 80 years or more. these results suggest that carotid endarterectomy can be safely done in elderly patients, with a similar risk/benefit ratio as for the younger patients. we analyzed 30-day mortality and stroke risk rates of carotid endarterectomy (cea) in patients aged 80 years or older with concurrent carotid occlusive disease. elderly patients have a higher risk of complications in carotid endarterectomy. the aim of the study was to evaluate whether carotid artery stenting (cas) performed in octogenarians also increases the procedure related risk. long-term relative survival after carotid endarterectomy in patients >or=80 years of age was better than that of an age-matched population. patients 80 years and older are generally considered to be at an increased risk for stroke and death from carotid endarterectomy. 
Has the mammography quality standards act affected the mammography quality in North Carolina? [SEP] the united states food and drug administration implemented federal regulations governing mammography under the mammography quality standards act (mqsa) of 1992. during 1995, its first year in implementation, we examined the impact of the mqsa on the quality of mammography in north carolina. in 1995, the first year that the mqsa was in effect, there was a significant improvement in the quality of mammography in north carolina. to assess possible changes in quality control (qc) practices at mammography sites in the united states. data from both of these surveys were analyzed to assess temporal changes in mammography qc practices in the united states between 1987 and 1995. to determine which factors affected the increase in average glandular dose recorded at the annual us food and drug administration mammography quality standards act inspections of mammography equipment in north carolina from 1997 to 2001. average glandular dose for mammography has recently increased in north carolina. purpose to establish performance benchmarks for modern screening digital mammography and assess performance trends over time in u.s. community practice. materials and methods this hipaa-compliant, institutional review board-approved study measured the performance of digital screening mammography interpreted by 359 radiologists across 95 facilities in six breast cancer surveillance consortium (bcsc) registries. breast cancer incidence rates and stage at diagnosis were compared with the number of fda-certified mammography facilities by county in the surveillance, epidemiology, and end results reporting areas. 
Do hospitals provide lower quality care on weekends? [SEP] in-hospital mortality was compared between hospitalizations ending on a weekend versus weekday. it is now well-recognised that patients admitted to hospital on weekends are at higher risk of death than those admitted during weekdays. some contend that there is a deficit of medical staff on weekends resulting in poorer quality care, whereas others find that patients admitted to hospital on weekends are sicker and therefore at higher risk of adverse outcomes. although hospital admissions during weekends have been associated with worse quality of care and worse outcomes in some but not all medical conditions, the impact of weekend versus weekday admission and discharge for heart failure (hf) has not been well studied. the mortality associated with weekend admission to hospital (the 'weekend effect') has for many years been attributed to deficiencies in quality of hospital care, often assumed to be due to suboptimal senior medical staffing at weekends. this protocol describes a case note review to determine whether there are differences in care quality for emergency admissions (eas) to hospital at weekends compared with weekdays, and whether the difference has reduced over time as health policies have changed to promote 7-day services. although acute hospitals offer a twenty-four hour seven day a week service levels of staffing are lower over the weekends and some health care processes may be less readily available over the weekend. studies in many health systems have shown evidence of poorer quality health care for patients admitted on weekends or overnight than for those admitted during the week (the so-called weekend effect). a reduction in the provision of hospital services on the weekend probably explains higher mortality for patients who are either admitted to hospital or undergo procedures on the weekend. patients with some serious medical conditions are more likely to die in the hospital if they are admitted on a weekend than if they are admitted on a weekday. 
Screening History Among Women with Invasive Cervical Cancer in an Academic Medical Center: Will We Miss Cancers Following Updated Guidelines? [SEP] this study aimed to evaluate the screening histories and compare barriers to screening between women with newly diagnosed early-stage cervical cancer versus advanced stage cervical cancer. between august 2010 and august 2011, women with invasive cervical cancer were identified at a single urban academic referral center and surveyed regarding access to health care, screening history, and barriers to screening services. time since last pap smear varied significantly in women with early versus advanced cervical cancer. cervical cancer screening is often conducted in excess of current screening guidelines. an ehr clinical decision support alert does not decrease guideline-nonadherent cervical cancer screening. the screening history of 100 women diagnosed with early/surgically treated cervical cancer between 1998 and 2002 was compared with a similar study conducted in 1982 /1990. an update to the american cancer society (acs) guideline regarding screening for the early detection of cervical neoplasia and cancer, based on recommendations from a formal review and recent workshop, is presented. an update to the american cancer society (acs) guideline regarding screening for the early detection of cervical neoplasia and cancer, based on recommendations from a formal review and recent workshop, is presented. a substantial proportion of women with cervical cancer that have participated in cervical screening have a history of an abnormal cytology result. analysis of the screening history of patients with cervix cancer may contribute to understanding failures in prevention. 
Oral mucocele/ranula: Another human immunodeficiency virus-related salivary gland disease? [SEP] hiv-associated salivary gland disease refers to the pathology in head and neck lesions such as ranula, salivary gland swelling, xerostomia, and benign lymphoepithelial cysts in the parotid gland. oral mucoceles (ranulas) were also associated with hiv in some publications. we present a case of intraoral mucocele, coexisting with bilateral parotid gland lymphoepithelial lesions, on a 2-year-old hiv-positive patient. conversely to benign lymphoepithelial lesions of parotid glands, the regression of oral mucocele on hiv-positive patient, following antiretroviral drugs therapy appears to be a rare phenomenon. we describe the presentation and treatment of an hiv-positive patient with an oral ranula, and review the literature. ranulas are mucoceles or retention cysts formed by the extravasation of mucus from the sublingual gland, presumably due to continued production of saliva in the presence of ductal obstruction. oral ranulas in children are rare and the overall prevalence of mucoceles has been reported as 0.08% in children aged 0-12 years. the exact prevalence of ranulas in an hiv population is not known but the occurrence of a paediatric patient with hiv having at least one oral lesion has been documented as high as 63% and salivary gland disease at 50%. two recently diagnosed cases of ebv-positive mucocutaneous ulcer of the oral mucosa in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) were reviewed with regard to their clinical, histomorphologic, and immunophenotypic features. human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) associated salivary gland disease is defined as the presence of enlargement of one or more major salivary glands and/or diminished salivary function in an hiv infected individual. 
Is there an increase in the incidence of gbs carrier rates among pregnant women in northern Israel? [SEP] we aimed to examine secular trends in gdm prevalence and screening practices over the last decade in israel, and to identify changes in gdm risk factors. we collected data on all 367,247 pregnant women who were screened for gdm between 2000 and 2010 in israel's second largest healthcare organization. the increasing risk of gdm in israel can be explained by both rising prevalence of women with established risk factors, as well as shifting screening practices. to determine the maternal group b streptococcus (gbs) prevalence of carriage and serotype distribution and the neonatal disease incidence to formulate a policy for treatment and prevention regarding gbs diseases in southern israel. to determine whether group b streptococcus (gbs)-colonized pregnant women have an increased prevalence of gbs colonization in subsequent pregnancies. this retrospective cohort study compared the prevalence of gbs colonization in initial and subsequent pregnancies of 158 women with two or more deliveries at a midwest institution since the initiation of universal screening for gbs. the gbs colonization rate in index pregnancies was 20%. the relative risk for gbs-colonized women to be gbs-colonized in subsequent pregnancies was 2.2 (confidence interval = 1.3 to 3.8). previous gbs colonization is a risk factor for gbs colonization in subsequent pregnancies. according to the observed incidence of primary cmv infection in pregnant women, it can be estimated that approximately 280 cases of fetal infection occur in israel every year, potentially resulting in 56 symptomatic newborns. 
Does a dedicated discharge coordinator improve the quality of hospital discharge? [SEP] to evaluate the effectiveness of the role of a discharge coordinator whose sole responsibility was to plan and coordinate the discharge of patients from medical wards. an intervention study in which the quality of discharge planning was assessed before and after the introduction of a discharge coordinator. the quality and out come of discharge planning. the discharge coordinator resulted in an improved discharge planning process, and there was a reduction in problems experienced by patients after discharge, and in perceived need for medical and healthcare services. there was no evidence that the discharge coordinator resulted in a more timely or effective provision of community services after discharge, or that the appropriateness or efficiency of bed use was improved. the introduction of a discharge coordinator improved the quality of discharge planning, but at additional cost. the purpose of this quality improvement initiative is to describe and address the implementation and evaluation of a unit-based discharge coordinator role on a general medicine pediatric unit at a tertiary care children's hospital. a unit-based discharge coordinator can play an important part in enhancing the overall discharge experience for the patient and families by providing an effective and efficient approach to discharge, providing the patients and families with a feeling of preparedness. findings show that the involvement of a discharge planning case manager is related to a significant reduction in unmet treatment needs, but not to reductions in activity limitation, other self-sufficiency needs, or overall needs. this article investigates the developing role of the discharge coordinator and explores how safe, effective and timely discharge from hospital can be achieved. 
Can dobutamine stress echocardiography induce cardiac troponin elevation? [SEP] elevated ctn and echocardiogrpahic documentation of wall motion abnormalities (wmas) that were recorded after extreme physical effort raise the question whether dobutamine stress echo (dse), can also induce elevation of troponin. dobutamine-atropine stress echocardiography is an efficient method in the evaluation of patients with coronary artery disease. non-sustained supraventricular and ventricular tachycardias were detected in 8 and 21 patients before and in 11 and 16 patients after dobutamine stress echocardiography (p = ns). this study demonstrates that dobutamine stress echocardiography does not significantly increase arrhythmia during the following 24 h. further studies are required to evaluate the influence of the test on st-segment modification during the same period. dobutamine stress echocardiography has increasingly been used to assess patients for coronary artery disease. the objective of this study was to assess the accuracy of dobutamine stress echocardiography at various infusion doses and its utility as a predictor of perioperative risk in patients undergoing a noncardiac surgical procedure. one hundred thirteen consecutive patients underwent dobutamine stress echocardiography, subsequent cardiac catheterization and/or a noncardiac surgical procedure. in group i, the sensitivity and specificity of dobutamine stress echocardiography were 74% and 33%, respectively, with a positive predictive value of 78%. in patients undergoing dobutamine stress echocardiography, the occurrence of tid is both sensitive and specific to predict underlying three-vessel coronary artery disease. dobutamine stress echocardiography is frequently used for preoperative assessment of cardiac risk before major vascular surgical procedures. 
Cigarettes and cinema: does parental restriction of R-rated movie viewing reduce adolescent smoking susceptibility? [SEP] to evaluate the extent to which parents restrict the exposure of adolescents to r-rated movies and to determine whether such restrictions are associated with decreased tobacco and alcohol use in adolescents. even after controlling for other factors, including grade, parental disapproval of smoking, maternal supervision, maternal responsiveness, peer and family smoking, and child personality characteristics, children who were completely restricted from viewing r-rated movies were significantly less likely to smoke (relative risk, 0.29; 95% ci, 0.19 to 0.45) or drink (relative risk, 0.30; ci, 0.21 to 0.42) compared with those who had no restrictions on viewing r-rated movies. exposure to smoking in movies is strongly associated with smoking uptake and maintenance among adolescents. the hypothesis that parental restriction of r-rated movie viewing is associated with lower adolescent smoking susceptibility was tested. a zero-order correlation for parental restriction of r-rated movie viewing and smoking susceptibility showed a strong association (r = -.36, p < .001). parental restriction of r-rated movie viewing is associated with both lower adolescent smoking susceptibility and lower smoking rates. parental coviewing of r-rated movies was associated with a lower risk of child smoking but not drinking if parents consistently monitored what their children watched. exposure to movie smoking makes viewers' attitudes and beliefs about smoking and smokers more favorable and has a dose-response relationship with adolescent smoking behavior. parental restrictions on r-rated movies significantly reduces youth exposure to movie smoking and subsequent smoking uptake. much of the protective effect of parent r-rated movie restriction on adolescent smoking was mediated through lower exposure to movie smoking. 
Are laboratories reporting serum quantitative hCG results correctly? [SEP] patients were asked to give two serum samples early in pregnancy to establish the accuracy of a semiquantitative serum hcg test in diluted and undiluted serum samples. quantitative human chorionic gonadotropin (hcg) tests are commonly used to determine a woman's pregnancy status. there is wide variation when reporting quantitative hcg results. data-driven guidelines for reporting quantitative hcg test results could deliver more consistent result interpretation. the use of highly sensitive procedures for detecting human chorionic gonadotropin (hcg) has brought about an increasing occurrence of test results that are difficult to interpret. potential causes of discordant hcg results are discussed, and guidelines for dealing with them are suggested. eighty serum samples containing various concentrations of hcg. correctly reporting results for the various forms of hcg is clinically important. we identified errors in participant reporting of intact hcg results as total beta hcg (9.3%; 22 of 235 laboratories) and total beta hcg as intact hcg (13.1%; 8 of 61 laboratories). many factors contribute to the erroneous reporting of hcg results, including (a) the complexity of hcg molecule and confusion of nomenclature on the various forms of hcg; (b) laboratory personnel's lack of awareness of the distinctions of the forms of hcg and failure to recognize the specificity of assays for their measurement; (c) lack of clarity and uniformity in manufacturers' reagent labeling; and (d) most product inserts' lack of information on the specificity of each method to the various forms of hcg. 
Steroids in aminoglycoside-containing ear drops: do they reduce cochlear toxicity? [SEP] to compare the effectiveness of antibiotic ear drops (suspension of polymyxin b sulfate, neomycin sulfate, and hydrocortisone [pediotic]), prefabricated ear molds, or no precautions in decreasing the incidence of posttympanostomy water-related otorrhea. the use of antibiotic ear drops that contained polymyxin b, neomycin, and hydrocortisone and the use of prefabricated ear molds. this study compares the cochlear and middle ear toxicity of cortisporin otic solution (cos), 0.3% gentamicin ophthalmic solution (gos), benzalkonium chloride (0.026% and 0.05%), and 1.0% ofloxacin, a new quinolone antibiotic. to predict cochlear receptor cell insult from therapeutic aminoglycoside antibiotics, we sought to determine whether the presence of subtoxic concentrations of cortisporin otic suspension in the cochlea can be detected by measuring changes in efferent suppression of compound action potentials recorded from the round window. some widely used ototopical preparations are potentially toxic to the middle and inner ear. frequently used ear drops (cortisporin otic suspension, coly-mycin s otic, and vosol otic solution) were studied for their ototoxicity. the purpose of this study was to determine whether or not pretreatment with corticosteroid, which suppresses both pgs and lts in arachidonic acid metabolism, prevents salicylate ototoxicity. dexamethasone pretreatment, given by either systemic or local round window membrane application, partially prevented salicylate-induced hearing loss. the authors review the relevant chemical and biological characteristics of inactive ingredients in antibiotic ear drop drug products. although many of the older aminoglycoside-containing otic products are still used today, only some fluoroquinolone-containing ear drops, approved in the last decade, have been proven safe and effective according to current rigorous scientific standards, including ototoxicity testing of the formulations. 
Does having a regular primary care clinician improve quality of preventive care for young children? [SEP] this study examines whether having a regular clinician for preventive care is associated with quality of care for young children, as measured by interpersonal quality ratings and content of anticipatory guidance. bivariate and multivariate analyses evaluate associations between having a regular clinician for well child care and interpersonal quality, the content of anticipatory guidance, and timely access to care. in bivariate analysis, parents of children with a regular clinician for preventive care reported slightly higher interpersonal quality (69 vs. 65 on a 0-100 scale, p = 0.01). for young children, having a regular clinician is associated with modest gains in interpersonal quality and no differences in content of anticipatory guidance. the benefit of having a regular clinician may primarily occur in interpersonal quality for subgroups of young children. primary care visits can serve many purposes and potentially influence health behaviors. we investigated the association between the number of times patients accessed their primary care provider team and the likelihood they received selected preventative health interventions. more primary care visits correlated with increasing frequency of vaccinations, but increased primary care visits beyond one did not correlate with increasing frequency of mammography or colonoscopy. one or more primary care visits per year is associated with increased likelihood of specific evidence-based preventative care interventions that improve longitudinal health outcomes and decrease healthcare costs. evidence indicates that preventive healthcare in childhood reduces healthcare costs and enhances health. 
Does performance in selection processes predict performance as a dental student? [SEP] selection to dental school is the point at which there is the potential to assess a wide range of candidate attributes and select those most likely to learn, train and work within the profession. the aim of the study described was to measure the performance of potential dental students in an evidence-based, objective, structured admission interview, and to compare that performance to student achievement in aptitude tests, tests of scientific knowledge, and tests of ability to apply knowledge to dentistry. the interview scores were then correlated against student performance in an mcq science for dentistry examination, an applied dental knowledge test, and the graduate australian medical student aptitude test. academic qualifications are used as either the principal or the only criteria for selection of dental students. the view is often put forward that selection procedures should also identify and take into account those non-academic attributes which are considered to be predictive of the qualities which characterize a successful dentist. the aim of this study was to identify those qualities as assessed by students, dentists and patients and to consider their implications in relation to the selection procedures in queensland. previous research regarding dental students has found modest predictive value in preclinical didactic course grades in predicting clinical performance, but systematic assessment of students' feedback on their perceived preparedness has received little attention as a preclinical assessment methodology. admissions committees in dental schools are charged with the responsibility of selecting candidates who will succeed in school and become successful members of the profession. the aim of this study was to determine the predictive value of pre-admission variables for the first-year performance of six classes at one u.s. dental school. the authors hypothesized that the variables undergraduate grade point average (gpa), undergraduate science gpa (biology, chemistry, and physics), and dental admission test (dat) scores would predict the level of performance achieved in the first year of dental school, measured by year-end gpa. 
Is it time to reconsider lobectomy in low-risk paediatric thyroid cancer? [SEP] although lobectomy is a viable alternative to total thyroidectomy (tt) in low-risk 1 to 4 cm papillary thyroid carcinoma (ptc), lobectomy is associated with higher locoregional recurrence risk and need for completion tt upon discovery of a previously unrecognized histologic high-risk feature (hrf). indeed, recently, international guidelines endorsed thyroid lobectomy as initial surgical approach for low risk, small medium-sized (t1-t2), n0 papillary thyroid carcinoma in absence of extrathyroidal extension. future molecular and genetic evidences are needed to establish high-risk patients with small papillary thyroid carcinoma in which thyroid lobectomy could be not and adequate surgical treatment. small papillary tumours in young patients can be adequately treated by less than total thyroidectomy as can some variants of follicular carcinoma, but outwith these settings total thyroidectomy is recommended. to perform a critical follow-up after lobectomy with isthmusectomy for the treatment of papillary thyroid carcinoma in patients with a single nodule limited to the periphery of the lobe. diagnostic and therapeutic processing of a thyroid nodule in children and adolescents may require lobectomy-isthmusectomy (li) or nodule-resection (nr). the recently published 2015 american thyroid association guidelines recognize lobectomy as a viable alternative for low-risk cancers and advise more conservative use of radioactive iodine. despite the tightened regulations for radioactive iodine, about 20% of patients with apparently "low-risk" well-differentiated thyroid cancer who are eligible for lobectomy may need completion total thyroidectomy because of pathologic findings for which radioactive iodine use is listed as considered or favored by the current guidelines. according to american thyroid association (ata) guideline, thyroid lobectomy is recommended for the management of papillary thyroid microcarcinomas (ptmc) with a diameter lesser than 1 cm. conservative thyroidectomy is an oncologically and functionally safe procedure for surgical treatment of ptmc and can be considered as an alternative to thyroid lobectomy for the surgical management of ptmc. 
Is an advance care planning model feasible in community palliative care? [SEP] we describe the feasibility of the first primary care-based group visit model focused on advance care planning. the objective of community-based palliative care is to improve the quality of life of patients and their families and to share the responsibility of caregiving. to explore preparedness of end-of-life care planning among community-dwelling older persons of culturally and linguistically diverse background. this article describes the process, outcome and impact of the introduction of an advanced care plan into community and inpatient settings. care planning is a critical function of palliative care teams, but the impact of advance care planning and goals of care discussions by palliative care teams has not been well characterized. advance care planning is a voluntary process whereby individual preferences, values and beliefs are used to aid a person in planning for end-of-life care. framing advance care planning as a health behavior and an opportunity for community engagement can help improve community-dwellers' intentions to have discussions and preparations regarding facing serious illness, death and dying.methods: a multi-setting confidential pre/post paper survey assessing advance care planning discussions and preparation intentions was given to community-dwelling citizens residing in the new york metropolitan area. advance care planning (acp) is a crucial element of palliative care. the objective of this review is to summarize current best evidence for advance care planning in older adults with dementia and their families. contemporary end-of-life care cannot be fully achieved without high quality advance care planning practice, which facilitates the expression of patient preferences for treatment if they lose the capacity to decide or communicate their wishes. 
Do preoperative serum C-reactive protein levels predict the definitive pathological stage in patients with clinically localized prostate cancer? [SEP] the serum c-reactive protein (crp) level correlates with the clinical prognosis in patients with kidney, penile and metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (pc). we prospectively evaluated the preoperative crp level as a predictive marker for an advanced tumor stage or high-grade cancer in patients with clinically localized pc. the prognostic role of preoperative serum lipid levels in patients undergoing radical prostatectomy (rp) for clinically localized prostate cancer (pca) is unclear. to examine the association between the complexed-to-total (c:t) prostate-specific antigen (psa) ratio and prostate cancer pathological stage to assess whether the c:t psa ratio may predict the final pathological stage in patients with clinically localized prostate cancer. the objective of the present study was to determine whether the percentage of free/total prostate-specific antigen (f/tpsa) in patients scheduled to undergo radical prostatectomy for clinically localized prostate cancer can preoperatively predict organ-confined versus extraprostatic disease. f/tpsa could not predict the final pathological features in patients with clinically localized prostate cancer before radical prostatectomy. the percentage of cancer in prostate biopsy provides independent prognostic information for predicting pathological stage and the risk of biochemical failure after radical prostatectomy. to analyze the outcome of patients with clinically localized prostate cancer (pca) treated with radical prostatectomy (rp) in whom high-grade (hgpca) and/or locally advanced disease (lapca) was found at rp specimen and to evaluate the prognostic value of well-known factors in this subset of patients. pathologic findings and prostate specific antigen (psa) outcome after radical prostatectomy (rp) for men who were diagnosed with micro pc were determined. we report a prospective study examining the ability of preoperative nested reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (rt-pcr) for prostate-specific antigen (psa) and prostate-specific membrane antigen (psm) to predict pathologic stage and biochemical recurrence in patients with clinically localized prostate cancer treated with radical prostatectomy. 
Sub-classification of low-grade cerebellar astrocytoma: is it clinically meaningful? [SEP] adc histogram analysis may aid non-invasive sub-classification of low-grade glioma histological subtypes. the 2007 world health organization classification of tumours of the central nervous system classifies lower-grade gliomas [lggs (grades ii to iii diffuse gliomas)] morphologically as astrocytomas or oligodendrogliomas, and tumors with unclear ambiguous morphology as oligoastrocytomas. these data suggest that pcna immunostaining can be a useful tool to define the prognosis of low-grade astrocytomas on routine biopsy material. precise classification and grading are essential due to different therapeutic strategies prompted by diagnoses of pilocytic astrocytoma who grade i, diffuse astrocytomas who grade ii or anaplastic astrocytoma who grade iii. distinguishing between low-grade oligodendrogliomas (ods) and astrocytomas (ac) is of interest for defining prognosis and stratifying patients to specific treatment regimens. "low-grade astrocytoma', certain radiographic and clinical features may, in combination with the pathological findings, be useful in tumor subclassification. benign cerebellar astrocytomas of childhood are potentially surgically curable lesions. to answer these questions, we have reviewed the charts of 23 patients with benign cerebellar astrocytomas treated at childrens hospital of los angeles over a 10-year period (1977-1987). cerebral astrocytoma needs to be distinguished from dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (dnt) when a well-demarcated, cortically based and pseudo-cystic tumor with minimal mass effect is demonstrated on magnetic resonance imaging. infiltrating astrocytomas and oligoastrocytomas of low to anaplastic grade (who grades ii and iii), in spite of being associated with a wide range of clinical outcomes, can be difficult to subclassify and grade by the current histopathologic criteria. 
After CLASS--Is a voluntary public insurance program a realistic way to meet the long-term support and service needs of adults with disabilities? [SEP] the u.s. congress is considering the community living assistance services and supports (class) act, a voluntary insurance program that would help pay for long-term services and supports to disabled americans. the community living assistance services and supports (class) act was a voluntary public insurance strategy intended to help people pay for long-term care. experience with the long-term care insurance market and state partnership programs provide insights about how to make class fiscally viable. this study investigated the impact of the aca on health insurance coverage for young adults with disabilities, comparing their experience with that of young adults without disabilities and that of a group of older adults (ages 26-34) with disabilities. both young adults with and without disabilities experienced a 4-percentage-point increase in private health insurance coverage between the two time periods, so the gap in private coverage between the two groups did not change significantly over time. using the american community survey, we examined the health insurance status of adults enrolled in the supplemental security income (ssi) disability program including (1) the national rate of health insurance coverage; (2) state rates of uninsurance and medicaid; and (3) the correlates of uninsurance. although considered critical to facilitate the successful transition from pediatric to adult health care, the continuity of insurance coverage for young adults with disabilities as they make the transition to adulthood has not been well characterized. the purpose of this work was to compare the continuity of insurance coverage reported by a nationally representative sample of young adults 16 to 25 years old with and without disabilities during a consecutive 36-month period. the majority of young adults with disabilities reported gaps in insurance coverage, and many were uninsured for a substantial portion of the study period. as an increasing number of children with special health care needs make the transition to adulthood, improving the continuity of health insurance coverage for this population warrants specific attention. 
Is intraoperative neuromonitoring associated with better functional outcome in patients undergoing open TME? [SEP] we compared postoperative neurological deficits in patients who underwent tle surgery with or without transcranial meps combined with somatosensory evoked potential (ssep) monitoring between january 1995 and june 2018. intraoperative transcranial mep monitoring is a reliable modality for minimizing motor deficits in tle surgery. intraoperative neuromonitoring (ionm) has been a valuable part of surgical procedures for over 25 years. intraoperative neuromonitoring (ionm) is important for detecting neurological dysfunction, allowing for intervention and reversal of neurological deficits before they become permanent. intraoperative neuromonitoring (ionm) is a growing field within neurology. a career in intraoperative neuromonitoring can offer lots of opportunities, a high degree of job satisfaction, and flexibility to those choosing to enter the field. intraoperative neuromonitoring (ionm) is a relatively recent advance in electromyography (emg) applied to otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. this article reviews the recent outcome studies that investigated intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring (ionm) during spine, neurovascular and brain tumor surgery. to evaluate the value of intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring (ionm) using brainstem auditory evoked potential (baep) and somatosensory evoked potential (ssep) monitoring to predict and/or prevent postoperative neurological deficits during endoscopic endonasal surgery (ees). objectiveintraoperative neuromonitoring may be valuable for predicting postoperative neurological complications, and transcranial motor evoked potentials (tcmeps) are the most reliable monitoring modality with high sensitivity. 
Can we predict which head and neck cancer survivors develop fears of recurrence? [SEP] fears of recurrence are one of the major concerns of cancer survivors that endure and can influence the patients' ability to adjust and plan for the future. aim of study was to assess fear of recurrence and psychological morbidity in orofacial cancer patients. the objectives of this study were to investigate longitudinal predictors of fear of recurrence in survivors of head and neck cancer (hnc) using leventhal's common sense model (csm) as a framework. path analyses demonstrated that fears of cancer recurrence after treatment were directly predicted by pre-treatment fears and optimism. patients with head and neck cancer (hnc) are vulnerable to fear of cancer recurrence (fcr) and psychiatric morbidity. we hypothesized that fear of cancer recurrence (fcr) represents a common source of psychosocial distress in this population and sought to characterize subgroups for whom fcr might represent a target for intervention to improve quality of life. many patients with recurrent head-and-neck cancer have poor outcomes. the purpose of this study was to design a brief questionnaire to measure fears about recurrence and health in cancer survivors. research involving fear of recurrence has been increasing, indicating that it is an important concern among cancer survivors. although fear of cancer recurrence is a great concern among survivors and their families, few studies have examined predictors of fear of recurrence. 
The secular growth acceleration: does it appear during fetal life? [SEP] to test if secular growth acceleration occurs during fetal life. it is possible that secular growth acceleration does not exist in prenatal period but also the observed time period could have been short for this phenomenon to manifest. early growth acceleration, refers to a growth pattern that is characterized by growth acceleration soon after birth, reaching a zenith centile in the first 2 to 4 yr of life and followed by normalization of the growth rate until the onset of puberty, which is usually early. moreover, the growth pattern of growth acceleration in the first years of life, i.e. the present study examined whether fetal growth in leg length had its peak velocity at or about 20-26 gestational weeks and declined subsequently and whether estimated fetal weight velocity was maximal at or about 33 weeks and declined subsequently; if the greatest acquisition of leg length occurred in the second trimester and weight in the third trimester; and if birth outcomes reflected these relationships. how do human embryonic growth trajectories evolve in the first trimester, and is first-trimester embryonic growth associated with fetal growth and birthweight (bw)? fetal growth is associated with health and disease risks in later life. associations between embryonic and fetal growth parameters were investigated using pearson's correlation coefficients. this study shows differences between early and late first-trimester embryonic growth coinciding with changes in intrauterine nourishment. fetal growth characteristics strongly influence infant growth rates. 
Does hippocampal atrophy on MRI predict cognitive decline? [SEP] hippocampal atrophy is frequently observed on magnetic resonance images from patients with alzheimer's disease and persons with mild cognitive impairment. with the increased interest in the use of sequential magnetic resonance images as potential surrogate biomarkers of the disease process, it has also been shown that the rate of hippocampal atrophy is higher in persons with alzheimer's disease compared to those with mild cognitive impairment and the healthy elderly. whether a higher rate of hippocampal atrophy also predicts alzheimer's disease or subtle cognitive decline in non-demented elderly is unknown. our results suggest that rate of hippocampal atrophy is an early marker of incipient memory decline and dementia, and could be of additional value when compared with a single hippocampal volume measurement as a surrogate biomarker of dementia. hippocampal atrophy on mri and changes in diffusion tensor imaging (dti) measures of the hippocampus have been reported in patients with alzheimer's disease. hippocampal atrophy on magnetic resonance imaging (mri) is an early characteristic of alzheimer's disease. to investigate hippocampal atrophy on mri in ftld and its three clinical subtypes, in comparison with alzheimer's disease, using volumetry and a visual rating scale. hippocampal atrophy has been identified as marker for the development of alzheimer's dementia (ad). hippocampal atrophy has been related to mild cognitive impairment (mci) and early alzheimer disease (ad), but the diagnostic significance of cross-sectionally determined hippocampal volumes is still ambiguous. therefore, accelerated hippocampal atrophy rates may be an early and important presentation in mci subjects. 
Chemoradiotherapy in the management of locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma esophagus: is surgical resection required? [SEP] we compared the clinical outcomes of neoadjuvant concurrent chemoradiotherapy (ccrt) followed by esophagectomy [the surgery group] and ccrt without surgery [the ccrt group] in patients with squamous cell carcinoma from an asian population. this study aimed to compare efficacy and toxicity between concurrent chemoradiotherapy (ccrt) and sequential chemoradiotherapy (scrt) in unresectable, locally advanced, esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (essc). preoperative chemoradiotherapy improved survival among patients with potentially curable esophageal or esophagogastric-junction cancer. combined chemoradiotherapy with and without surgery are widely accepted alternatives for the curative treatment of patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer. patients with locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma (scc) of the esophagus were randomly allocated to either induction chemotherapy followed by chemoradiotherapy (40 gy) followed by surgery (arm a), or the same induction chemotherapy followed by chemoradiotherapy (at least 65 gy) without surgery (arm b). chemoradiotherapy has been clinically indicated for patients with resectable esophageal squamous cell carcinoma who refuse surgical resection and in locally advanced unresectable esophageal squamous cell carcinoma patients. therefore, chemoradiotherapy is recognized as the standard non-invasive treatment for patients with localized esophageal cancer who opt for non-surgical treatment. chemoradiotherapy is a standard treatment for esophageal carcinoma. definitive concomitant chemoradiotherapy with docetaxel and cisplatin in squamous cell esophageal carcinoma was associated with a satisfactory outcome and manageable toxicity. standard treatment for locally advanced esophageal cancer is neoadjuvant chemoradiation followed by surgery. 
Does quantitative left ventricular regional wall motion change after fibrous tissue resection in endomyocardial fibrosis? [SEP] we compared left ventricular regional wall motion, the global left ventricular ejection fraction, and the new york heart association functional class pre- and postoperatively. although left ventricular global systolic function is preserved, patients exhibit wall motion abnormalities in the apical and inferoapical regions. fibrous tissue resection in new york heart association fc iii and iv endomyocardial fibrosis patients has been shown to decrease morbidity and mortality. left ventricular wall motion in the five regions did not differ between pre- and postoperative measurements. although endomyocardial fibrosis patients have improved clinical symptoms after surgery, the global left ventricular ejection fraction and regional wall motion in these patients do not change. myocardial fibrosis is a key mechanism of left ventricular decompensation in aortic stenosis and can be quantified using cardiovascular magnetic resonance (cmr) measures such as extracellular volume fraction (ecv%). noninvasive assessment of myocardial fibrosis may provide valuable insights into the pathophysiology of left ventricular diastolic function and therapeutic response. we investigated the relationship between cardiac fibrosis and restrictive filling pattern of the left ventricle measured by tc99m left ventriculography in patients with chronic symptomatic heart failure. the aim of this study was to characterize left ventricular (lv) diastolic function in endomyocardial fibrosis (emf) by echocardiography. we sought to assess the association of focal and diffuse myocardial fibrosis with left ventricular reversed remodeling (lvrr). 
Bridge experience with long-term implantable left ventricular assist devices. Are they an alternative to transplantation? [SEP] because of the clinical success of left ventricular assist devices (lvads) used for short-term "bridge to transplant" and the limited availability of donor organs, heart assist devices are being considered for long-term implantation as an alternative to heart transplantation. implantable left ventricular assist devices (lvads) have been used primarily as bridges to cardiac transplantation, although some patients have been maintained long term on these devices and a few have recovered enough to be weaned. left ventricular assist devices (lvads) have become an increasingly beneficial option for patients with heart failure, especially in light of the insufficient availability of donor hearts. the implantable left ventricular assist device (lvad) was designed to provide circulatory support as an alternative to heart transplantation or to continued medical therapy of end-stage heart failure. bridge to transplant implantable lvad experience indicates that hemodynamic improvement should be significant after insertion of the devices and that the risk of thromboembolic events with the heartmate lvad should be extremely low. left ventricular assist devices (lvad) are used to "bridge" patients with end-stage heart failure until transplantation of a donor heart can be performed ("bridge to transplantation"). left ventricular assist devices (lvads) are an available treatment option for carefully selected patients with advanced heart failure. left ventricular assist devices (lvads) are increasingly being used to treat patients in end-stage heart failure (hf) as bridge-to-transplantation, lifetime support or destination therapy. left ventricular mechanical assist device (lvad) support is well established as a bridge to transplantation and as an alternative to transplantation in patients with end-stage heart failure. implantation of left ventricular assist systems (lvass) is becoming more prevalent for patients with end-stage heart disease who are awaiting cardiac transplantation. 
Does occupational nuclear power plant radiation affect conception and pregnancy? [SEP] to determine whether men and women who are occupationally exposed to ionising radiation are at increased risk of primary infertility. a cross sectional analysis of reproductive outcome was reported in an occupational cohort of nuclear industry workers from the atomic energy authority, atomic weapons establishment, and british nuclear fuels in the united kingdom. a problem of concern in radiation protection is the exposure of pregnant women to ionising radiation, because of the high radiosensitivity of the embryo and fetus. a problem of concern in radiation protection is exposure of pregnant women to ionizing radiation because of the high radiosensitivity of the embryo and fetus. we investigated early childhood thyroid radiation exposure from nuclear testing fallout (supplied predominantly by radioactive isotopes of iodine) and self-reported lifetime incidence of male or female infertility or sterility. our findings suggest that childhood radioiodine exposure from nuclear testing may be related to subsequent adult infertility. however, elevated rates of birth defects in contaminated compared to uncontaminated regions suggest that exposure to radiation in utero might impact development and that chronic radiation exposure might represent an underestimated risk to human health. radiological exposure from nuclear power reactor accidents, transportation of nuclear waste accidents, industrial accidents, or terrorist activity may be a remote possibility, but it could happen. information about radiation, health effects of prenatal radiation exposure, assessment, patient care, and treatment of pregnant women and infants are presented. occupational risks, the present nuclear threat, and the potential danger associated with nuclear power have raised concerns regarding the metabolism of plutonium in pregnant women. 
Lloyd-Davies position with Trendelenburg--a disaster waiting to happen? [SEP] lower limb compartment syndrome is a rare complication of surgical patients submitted to operation in the lithotomy/lloyd-davies position. the diagnosis and treatment of this feared complication should be promptly instituted otherwise the patient may have serious neuromuscular impairment, limb loss or even fatal outcome. among the factors involved in the development of this syndrome are prolonged operation time, elevation of the lower limbs, trendelenburg position, metabolic acidosis and perioperative hypotension. the authors emphasize the importance of early recognition of this syndrome as well as immediate or even prophylactic intervention to avoid most common sequelae. from an evolutionary perspective, it makes sense to be particularly prepared for the worst-case scenario. it is important to be aware of a relatively unfamiliar entity known as nonconvulsive status epilepticus in this context. these results suggest that 40 mg of propranolol taken twice daily does not significantly impair cognitive function and may be a viable option for use in a dissub scenario. decompression sickness (dcs) is one of the foreseeable risks and a robust mathematical model of dcs incidence has been used to estimate the magnitude of this risk under a variety of escape scenarios. for disabled submarine depths < 300 ft of sea water (fsw) and internal submarine pressures of <11 fsw (arguably the most likely conditions), the dcs risks are comparable to those routinely undertaken by u.s. navy divers--less than 5%. for progressively deeper depths and especially for higher submarine internal pressures, the risk of dcs becomes much greater, including unknown chances of permanent injury and death. 
Is patient outcome compromised during the initial experience with robot-assisted radical cystectomy? [SEP] to evaluate the effect of previous robot-assisted radical prostatectomy (rarp) case volume on the outcomes of robot-assisted radical cystectomy. little is known regarding the effect of previous robotic surgical experience on the implementation and execution of robot-assisted radical cystectomy. using the international robotic cystectomy consortium database, 496 patients were identified who had undergone robot-assisted radical cystectomy by 21 surgeons at 14 institutions from 2003 to 2009. • robot-assisted radical cystectomy (rarc) remains controversial in terms of oncologic outcomes, especially during the initial experience. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of initial experience of robotic cystectomy programs on oncologic outcomes and overall survival. we reviewed operative management of robot-assisted radical cystectomy specific complications during our 10-year experience with this procedure and assessed the feasibility, safety and outcomes of robot-assisted reoperations. we retrospectively reviewed the records of all patients who underwent surgical interventions for robot-assisted radical cystectomy specific complications between 2005 and 2015. a total of 92 patients (23%) underwent surgical intervention after robot-assisted radical cystectomy. even in experienced hands the long-term complications of robot-assisted radical cystectomy are notable. our initial experience with robot-assisted management of robot-assisted radical cystectomy complications appears safe and feasible, although the decision to proceed is determined primarily by surgeon experience. 
Is the Retromandibular Transparotid Approach a Reliable Option for the Surgical Treatment of Condylar Fractures? [SEP] the retromandibular transparotid approach is most useful for condylar and subcondylar fractures and provides the best access to the joint and ascending ramus. the study aims at evaluating the ease of access and outcomes encountered on using the retromandibular transparotid approach to access the fracture site for the open reduction and internal fixation (orif) of condylar and sub-condylar fractures. this study evaluated the outcomes and complications of the surgical treatment of condylar fractures by the retromandibular transparotid approach. inclusion criteria were having undergone surgical treatment of condylar fractures with a retromandibular transparotid approach and the availability of computed tomograms of the preoperative and postoperative facial skeleton with a minimum follow-up of 1 year. according to the results of the present study, the retromandibular transparotid approach is a viable and safe approach for the surgical treatment of condylar fractures. the mini-retromandibular approach we have described allows the treatment of condylar fractures at any level in a simplified and rapid manner while reducing the risk of complications common to the other techniques. a total of 33 patients with 38 condylar fractures were treated with a 20-mm mini-retromandibular approach. we suggest that the mini-retromandibular approach outlined in the present study should be the technique of choice for condylar fracture management, because it allows for easy, fast reduction and synthesis while minimizing the risk of facial nerve injury and visible scars. overall, it is possible to evaluate retromandibular tmap as safe, and the authors recommended it for treatment of sub-condylar fractures of the mandible. the retromandibular transparotid approach (rma) to condylar fractures of the mandible provides excellent access, but can increase the risk of complications. 
Appendectomy timing: Will delayed surgery increase the complications? [SEP] appendicitis has always been an indication for an urgent operation, as delay is thought to lead to disease progression and therefore worse outcomes. recent studies suggest that appendectomy can be delayed slightly without worse outcomes, however the literature is contradictory. delaying an appendectomy more than 6 hours, but less than 24 hours from diagnosis is safe and does not lead to worse outcomes. delays in surgery for patients with acute appendicitis may increase the risk of perforation and complications. to determine the effect of (i) time of day of surgery and (ii) time between triage presentation and surgery, on surgical complications in patient undergoing appendectomy for appendicitis. delay of operative management of acute appendicitis may adversely affect post-operative outcomes and increase the likelihood of post-operative complications occurring. surgeons may be uncertain about the optimal timing of appendectomy to decrease complications, especially for complicated appendicitis. delayed presentation of acute appendicitis is associated with increased complications. to better quantify the risk of perforation associated with delayed operative timing, this study examines the impact of length of inpatient stay preceding surgery on rates of perforated appendicitis in both adults and children. complicated appendicitis incidence was associated with overall elapsed time from symptom onset to admission or operation; short appendectomy in-hospital delay did not increase the risk of complicated appendicitis but was associated with a slightly increased risk of ssi. 
Treatment of vitamin D deficiency in CKD patients with ergocalciferol: are current K/DOQI treatment guidelines adequate? [SEP] it is not clear whether the kidney disease outcomes quality initiative (k/doqi) recommended doses of ergocalciferol are adequate for correction of vitamin d insufficiency and hyperparathyroidism. in addition to improving vitamin d levels, oral high-dose ergocalciferol was safe and had a beneficial effect in decreasing pth in patients with stage iii-iv of ckd. our aim was to evaluate the efficacy of prescribing ergocalciferol supplementation based on kdoqi guidelines for chronic kidney disease (ckd) stages iii-iv in hd patients. an ergocalciferol-prescribing strategy using the kdoqi guidelines for stage iii-iv kidney disease in hd patients with vitd deficiency or insufficiency is inadequate to achieve repletion or maintenance of normal vitd levels. patients with ckd stage 3 or 4 who had a serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d level less than 30 ng/ml (<75 nmol/l) and increased plasma intact pth level were treated with 50,000 iu of ergocalciferol once weekly for 12 weeks and once monthly thereafter for a total of 6 months. results show that ergocalciferol administration has a favorable effect on pth levels if therapy results in an increase in 25-hydroxyvitamin d levels; this effect is more evident in patients with ckd stage 3. patients treated with ergocalciferol as recommended by k/doqi guidelines. 88 patients with ckd were treated with ergocalciferol. some opinion-based guidelines recommend administration of such nutritional vitamin d agents as ergocalciferol or cholecalciferol as the first therapy in hyperparathyroidism associated with low circulating levels of 25-hydroxy vitamin d (<30 ng/ml) in nondialysis dependent ckd patients. the benefits and harms of vitamin d supplementation (ergocalciferol or cholecalciferol) were assessed in patients with nondialysis-dependent ckd, dialysis-dependent ckd, and renal transplant recipients. 
Comparing femoral version after intramedullary nailing performed by trauma-trained and non-trauma trained surgeons: is there a difference? [SEP] there are several different techniques commonly used to perform intramedullary (im) nailing of the femur to fix femoral fractures. the purpose of this study is to compare surgical outcomes between experienced surgeon and non-experienced surgeons in respect of cm nail for femoral intertrochanteric fractures. the 129 patients underwent cm nail for femoral intertrochanteric fracture more than six months of follow-up from april 2011 to march 2014 in seoul medical center (seoul, korea) were participated in this study. there was no significant difference with statistical data in complications from cm nail for femoral intertrochanteric fractures between experienced surgeon and non-experienced surgeon. several biomechanical studies on subtrochanteric femur fractures have reported that use of an intramedullary nail is superior to extramedullary implant. to (1) evaluate using the inherent anteversion of a second or third generation femoral nail to set the version of the femur during locked intramedullary nailing of comminuted femoral shaft fractures (espinosa technique [et]) and compare it with our traditional method (traditional group [tg]) and (2) assess the variation of anteversion because of the inherent play in the nail itself. the inherent anteversion of a second generation nail can be used to minimize malrotation of the femur after comminuted fractures during locked intramedullary nailing in patients with normal anteversion and is superior to our present fluoroscopic technique. the study evaluated the incidence of and complications associated with the use of an intramedullary nail vs open reduction and internal fixation (orif) with a sliding compression hip screw and plate in treating intertrochanteric fractures. patients who underwent intramedullary nailing during 2006 to 2007 had a lower adjusted risk of conversion to total hip replacement at 1 year (p=.037) compared with those who had orif. the increased use of intramedullary nails for intertrochanteric hip fractures appears to be multifactorial, including the less invasive nature of the surgery and increased experience with the closed surgical technique. 
Does Viral Co-Infection Influence the Severity of Acute Respiratory Infection in Children? [SEP] respiratory viral infection is a common source of morbidity and mortality in children. we hypothesized that presence of more than one respiratory virus is associated with increased morbidity and mortality when compared with children with a single respiratory virus. children with multiple respiratory viruses may be at increased risk of moderate or severe illness and mortality, with previously healthy children potentially being at greatest risk. multiple viruses are often detected in children with respiratory infection but the significance of co-infection in pathogenesis, severity and outcome is unclear. to correlate the presence of viral co-infection with clinical phenotype in children admitted with acute respiratory infections (ari). there is growing evidence suggesting greater severity and worse outcomes in children with mixed as compared to single respiratory virus infections. we studied the rates of hospitalization for acute respiratory-disease among infants and children during periods when the circulation of influenzaviruses predominated over the circulation of respiratory syncytial virus. our findings suggest that rsv-hmpv coinfections might be associated with increased risk for icu admission in children <5y compared with rsv mono-infection but such association does not imply causation. coronaviruses have been demonstrated to contribute substantially to respiratory tract infections among the child population. to compare the prevalence of hcov species among children hospitalized for acute respiratory illness and/or fever (ari/fever) with that among asymptomatic controls and to assess the severity of outcomes among hospitalized children with hcov infection compared with other respiratory viruses. 
Will clinical studies elucidate the connection between the length of storage of transfused red blood cells and clinical outcomes? [SEP] numerous retrospective clinical studies suggest that transfusion of longer stored red blood cells (rbcs) is associated with an independent risk of poorer outcomes for certain groups of patients, including trauma, intensive care, and cardiac surgery patients. during storage, red blood cells intended for transfusion undergo progressive changes affecting survival and function. we evaluated publications of clinical studies comparing storage times in connection with red blood cell transfusion using physiological or clinical outcomes. the storage duration of red blood cells transfused to critically ill patients is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. several trials now have assessed these consequences, and we reviewed the present evidence on the effects of shorter versus longer storage time of transfused rbcs on outcomes in icu patients. compared with rbcs stored less than 1 week, there are no clinical data demonstrating that rbcs stored longer remain as effective at carrying or releasing oxygen, and observational studies have risen to possibility that prolonged rbc storage might result in harm to vulnerable patients requiring blood transfusions. to study the association between the length of rbc storage and mortality in a large population-based cohort of patients who received transfusions, allowing detection of small yet clinically significant effects. to study the effect of red blood cell (rbc) storage duration on long-term mortality in patients undergoing cardiac intervention. population-based investigations suggest that red blood cells (rbcs) are therapeutically effective when collected, processed, and stored for up to 42 days under validated conditions before transfusion. however, some retrospective clinical studies have shown worse patient outcomes when transfused rbcs have been stored for the longest times. 
Cardiogenic shock complicating acute myocardial infarction in elderly patients: does admission to a tertiary center improve survival? [SEP] age is a strong predictor of cardiogenic shock (cs) and death in patients with acute myocardial infarction (ami). older adults ≥75 years of age carry an increased risk of mortality after st-segment elevation myocardial infarction (stemi) complicated by cardiogenic shock. the purpose of this study was to examine the use of percutaneous coronary intervention (pci) in older adults with stemi and shock and its influence on in-hospital mortality. cardiogenic shock (cs) is a severe complication of acute myocardial infarction (ami), associated with a high mortality. cardiogenic shock continues to be an ominous complication of acute myocardial infarction (ami). older age is associated with worse outcomes in patients with cardiogenic shock complicating st-elevation myocardial infarction (stemi). the leading cause of death in patients hospitalized for acute myocardial infarction is cardiogenic shock. early revascularization should be strongly considered for patients with acute myocardial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock. the objective of this study was to determine the characteristics and hospital mortality rate for elderly patients in cardiogenic shock undergoing emergent percutaneous coronary intervention (pci). early revascularization for patients with acute myocardial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock is recommended for patients < 75 years of age. 
Learning needs of postpartum women: does socioeconomic status matter? [SEP] we therefore examined explanatory mechanisms that may underlie the association between the educational level of pregnant women, as an indicator of socio-economic status, and birthweight. postpartum women who experience socioeconomic disadvantage are at higher risk for poor health outcomes than more advantaged postpartum women, and may benefit from access to community based postpartum health services. this study examined socioeconomically disadvantaged (sed) postpartum women's health, and health service needs and utilization patterns in the first four weeks post hospital discharge, and compared them to more socioeconomically advantaged (sea) postpartum women's health, health service needs and utilization patterns. to examine mechanisms that might underlie the association between the educational level of pregnant women as an indicator of socioeconomic status, and preterm birth. although few differences in identified concerns were evident, women of low socioeconomic status were significantly more likely to report unmet learning needs related to 9 of 10 topics compared with women of higher socioeconomic status. the findings highlight the need for accessible and appropriate community-based information resources for women in the postpartum period, especially for those of low socioeconomic status. to analyze the relationships between stressful life conditions, social support, and depressive symptomatology during pregnancy in women of low socioeconomic status and a comparison group of women of higher socioeconomic status. the health of pregnant women and their fetuses are especially sensitive to socioeconomic conditions. this study analyzes the impact of maternal socioeconomic status (ses), evaluated by occupation and maternal education level, in preterm births (ptbs) and in small for gestational age (sga) fetuses, considering the effect of the potential mediating factors on the ses and birth outcomes. we aimed to determine whether various determinants of socioeconomic status (ses) were associated with utilization of postpartum care. 
Pitfalls in urinary stone identification using CT attenuation values: are we getting the same information on different scanner models? [SEP] 47 kidney stones of different composition were scanned using a 64-row-multi-detector ct in a 3d-printed, semi-anthropomorphic phantom. ct-based measurements of kidney stone size appear unaffected by radiation dose and denoising technique, whereas reconstruction algorithms and kernels demonstrate a relevant impact on size measurements. to evaluate differences in stone measurement using computed tomography (ct) and ultrasound (us). stone composition and stone size, relative to ct collimation, independently influenced ct attenuation. prediction accuracy of stone fragility models developed from ct data is robust to expected variations in ct stone protocols used for quantification tasks. we evaluated the accuracy of noncontrast spiral computerized tomography (ct) for determining urinary stone size compared with plain x-ray. the purpose of this study is to develop a computer aided detection (cad) algorithm for identifying a ureteral stone in thin slice ct volumes. ct remains the gold standard for diagnosis of urinary calculi, but has not reliably differentiated varying stone compositions. urinary calculi are now commonly detected with helical computed tomography (ct), and it has been proposed that stone composition can be determined from ct attenuation values. ct is highly sensitive for detecting kidney stones and provides valuable information regarding stone size, composition, location, and overall stone burden. 
Laminoplasty outcomes: is there a difference between patients with degenerative stenosis and those with ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament? [SEP] laminoplasty is a common surgical method used to treat patients with cervical ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (opll). we sought to determine the long-term outcomes of laminoplasty versus anterior decompression and fusion in the treatment of cervical myelopathy caused by ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (opll) and to ascertain what factors should be considered in selecting appropriate surgical procedure. the authors sought to compare the surgical results of laminoplasty in the treatment of cervical stenosis with myelopathy due to either degenerative changes or segmental opll. laminoplasty is the preferred operation for most patients with cervical myelopathy due to multilevel ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (opll). to investigate the progression pattern of ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (opll) after cervical laminoplasty. opll is a progressive disease, and an increased area of ossification affects the surgical results after laminoplasty. to compare short-term follow-up of laminoplasty to laminectomy with fusion for the treatment of cervical spondylotic myelopathy. the goal of this retrospective study was to evaluate the benefit of degenerative posterior longitudinal ligament removal during such operations. here, we evaluated the clinical and radiological parameters involved in predicting the postoperative locl following laminoplasty in patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy (csm) and ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (opll). laminoplasty is a major surgical method used to treat patients with cervical ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (opll). 
Immunohistochemical assessment of steroid hormone receptors in tissues of the anal canal. Implications for anal incontinence? [SEP] a prerequisite for a hormonal influence on anal continence in women is the presence of hormone receptors in the tissues of the anal canal. using immunohistochemical techniques, we demonstrated and localized estrogen and progesterone receptors (er, pr) in tissue sections of the anal canal. estrogen receptors were found in the smooth muscle cells of the internal sphincter of all females (10/10) and in four of the seven males. the presence of er in the stroma and smooth muscles of the anal canal suggests that these tissues are targets for estrogen. histopathological studies have shown the presence of oestrogenic receptors in the anal sphincter, which presumes a role in muscular trophism for circulating oestrogens. immunohistochemical and immunochemical studies on biopsies from the human rectum and anal canal have shown several regulatory peptides present in the muscle layers and the mucosa, suggesting a regulatory action on defecation. this study assessed the comparative distribution and histotopology of nerve fibres immunoreactive for neural markers and a variety of regulatory active neuropeptides in the human anal canal by light microscopic immunohistochemistry. depending on the epithelial zone and region of the anal canal, the neural elements were differentially immunoreactive for the pan-neural marker protein gene product 9.5, the catecholamine marker tyrosine hydroxylase, the neuroendocrine marker chromogranin a, and various neuropeptides. protein gene product 9.5-immunoreactive nerve fibres were ubiquitously abundant in the anal canal. anal incontinence can be attributed to anatomic and physiologic alterations in the external sphincter, internal sphincter and puborectalis muscle. 
Is acute fibrinous and organizing pneumonia the expression of immune dysregulation? [SEP] acute fibrinous and organizing pneumonia is a histopathologic entity of lung injury with the hallmark feature of intra-alveolar fibrin "balls." we report 2 cases of acute fibrinous and organizing pneumonia in patients without a significant medical history, who presented with cough and worsening dyspnea and experienced a fulminant course of disease progression with diffuse lung parenchymal abnormalities on chest computed tomography. acute fibrinous and organizing pneumonitis (afop) is an uncommon variant of acute lung injury, characterized by intra-alveolar fibrin and organizing pneumonia. acute fibrinous and organizing pneumonia (afop) is a rare histopathological pattern of lung injury characterized by prominent fibrin deposition in alveolar spaces. acute fibrinous organizing pneumonia (afop) is a distinct histopathologic pattern of lung injury with the hallmark feature of intra-alveolar fibrin deposits with associated organizing pneumonia, type ii pneumocyte hyperplasia, and a patchy lymphohistiocytic proliferation. acute fibrinous and organizing pneumonitis (afop) is a disease with histopathological pattern characterized by the presence of intra-alveolar fibrin in the form of fibrin "balls" and organizing pneumonia represented by inflammatory myofibroblastic polyps. diagnosis should be considered in the intensive care unit (icu) if patients' symptomatology and radiology correlates with non-responding or progressive pneumonia and when morphology, on biopsies, encompasses criteria of diffuse alveolar damage (dad) and organizing pneumonia (op) balancing in between. three clinical cases of patients presenting severe lung disease requiring mechanical ventilation and prolonged intensive care fitted on the variable spectra of afop histopathology and had poor outcome: a 23 year-old women had afop in the context of antiphospholipid syndrome pulmonary compromise; a 35 year-old man developed a letal intensive care pneumonia with afop pattern registered in post-mortem biopsy; and a 79 year-old man died 21 days after intensive care unit treatment of a sub-pleural organizing pneumonia with intra-alveolar fibrin, seen in post-mortem biopsy. the predominance of acute fibrin alveolar deposition pattern is helpful in raising afop differential diagnosis while organizing pneumonia pattern establishes a wider range of diagnosis that can go till solitary pulmonary nodule, remaining indefinite to suggest diagnosis. acute lung injury/acute respiratory distress syndrome presents with not only local inflammation, but also pulmonary coagulopathy which is characterized by an alveolar procoagulant response, anticoagulant inhibition, fibrinolytic supression and fibrin deposition. 
Hypotension in patients with coronary disease: can profound hypotensive events cause myocardial ischaemic events? [SEP] intracoronary thrombosis of non infarct-related arteries during an episode of acute myocardial infarction can be correlated with a general thrombogenic state and precipitated by prolonged hypotension. patients with critical coronary stenoses or hypertrophied ventricles have impaired coronary vasodilator reserve and are at greatest risk of myocardial ischaemia or infarction if subendocardial perfusion pressure falls below the lower threshold of bloodflow autoregulation. unrecognised nocturnal hypotension may be one reason why treatment has not diminished the risk of myocardial infarction in patients with hypertension. we report a case of acute anterior myocardial infarction in such a patient who developed severe systemic hypotension. a decrease in stroke volume during dobutamine-atropine stress echocardiography heralds ischaemia and possible hypotension. hypotension results from worsening of lv-function (as a result of ischaemia) left ventricular outflow tract obstruction or hypovolemia, while an increase of stroke volume indicates the preservation of myocardial contractile reserve. background: systemic hypotension, at times transient while in other instances more prolonged, is common among patients with myocardial infarction (mi). acute myocardial ischemia in patients may result either from an excessive increase in myocardial oxygen consumption when coronary flow reserve is chronically reduced or from a sudden reduction in coronary flow reserve. hypotension during exercise testing has been considered a marker of extensive coronary artery disease (cad) and poor prognosis. the mechanism of hypotension was examined in 25 cad patients who developed hypotension during treadmill exercise testing (mean decrease in systolic blood pressure [bp] 33 +/- 13 mm hg) (group 1) and was compared with the results of 25 cad patients who had a normal systolic bp response to exercise (mean increase 53 +/- 15 mm hg) (group 2). 
An HIV1/2 point of care test on sputum for screening TB/HIV co-infection in Central India - Will it work? [SEP] to evaluate the performance of two rapid enzyme-linked immunoassays (eias) for the detection of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection in sputum samples of patients with tuberculosis (tb). we prospectively recruited 522 consecutive out-patients presenting to the dots clinic with confirmed tb of any type to undergo hiv testing using reference serum eia and index-blinded parallel sputum hiv testing with two rapid eias designed for oral mucosal transudate. hiv testing of fresh sputum is not sufficiently accurate for anonymous hiv surveillance among tb patients in a setting of low (<10%) hiv prevalence. the current indian policy of offering hiv testing only to tb cases may limit opportunities for early hiv diagnosis and treatment. we assessed the clinical impact and cost-effectiveness of alternative hiv testing referral strategies among tb patients in india. to determine the utility of the oraquick hiv-1/2 assay for the detection of hiv antibodies in sputum, we consecutively enrolled adult in-patients in botswana who had sputum sent for acid-fast bacilli testing and serum sent for hiv elisa testing. this testing method may provide a useful strategy for conducting hiv surveillance in possible co-infected tb patients at peripheral centres. provider-initiated hiv testing and counselling (pitc) is internationally recommended for tuberculosis (tb) patients, but the feasibility, effectiveness, and impact of this policy on the tb programme in india are unknown. hiv testing on sputum using the qraquick hiv1/2(r) assay has high sensitivity and specificity, and holds promise for application in tuberculosis surveys. to evaluate the utility of the tuberculin skin test (tst) in detecting latent and active tuberculosis (tb) among human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infected patients in south india. 
Do inhaled corticosteroids affect perception of dyspnea during bronchoconstriction in asthma? [SEP] the aims of our study were to investigate the perception of dyspnea during methacholine-induced bronchoconstriction in asthmatics with normal lung function and to evaluate the influence of bronchial responsiveness, age and gender to dyspnea perception in these patients. although both inhaled and oral corticosteroids have anti-inflammatory effects causing improvement in clinical symptoms and spirometry in the treatment of asthma, the role of corticosteroids in the management of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) is controversial. the perception of bronchoconstriction varies among patients with asthma and this perception may be related to the covariation of sensory and affective aspects of dyspnoea. to investigate whether the perception of dyspnea during histamine-induced bronchoconstriction might be used to identify patients with asthma who sense dyspnea poorly during exacerbation. the perception of dyspnea in 50 patients (45 female, 5 male) with asthma was evaluated at admission with exacerbation and during a stable period. the perception of dyspnea during asthma exacerbation is not correlated with the perception of dyspnea during histamine-induced bronchoconstriction. we examined whether changes in bronchial responsiveness with corticosteroid therapy of asthma are accompanied by a reduction in cytokine gene expression and eosinophil infiltration in the airways. these results are compatible with the hypothesis that the beneficial effects of corticosteroids in asthma may result from modulation of cytokine production, with consequent inhibition of local bronchial eosinophilia. the perception of dyspnea caused by asthma and histamine-induced bronchoconstriction was studied in 17 subjects (10 female and 7 male). a key therapeutic approach to asthma, which is characterized by chronic airway inflammation, is inhaled corticosteroid (ics). 
Is routine chest radiography after transbronchial biopsy necessary? [SEP] routine chest radiography (cxr) following tbb is therefore requested by most pulmonologists in an attempt to detect complications, particularly pneumothorax. the objective of this study was to determine if routine cxr after bronchoscopy and tbb is necessary. we conclude that routine cxr after bronchoscopy with tbb is necessary only in patients with symptoms suggestive of pneumothorax. computed tomography (ct)-guided lung biopsy is occasionally used for the lesions that were diagnosed as nonmalignant by transbronchial examination despite the fact that other clinical data suggested those as malignant. the purpose of this study is to evaluate the outcomes of ct fluoroscopy-guided cutting needle biopsy of lung lesions after transbronchial examination resulting in negative diagnosis. computed tomography fluoroscopy-guided cutting needle lung biopsy is a useful technique to correct or confirm negative diagnosis by transbronchial examination. to evaluate the utility of the ct bronchus sign in making a choice between transbronchial biopsy (tbb) and transthoracic needle aspiration (ttna) as the first diagnostic procedure in a patient with a solitary pulmonary nodule (spn), we reviewed the results of tbb and ttna in 26 patients who had a bronchogenic carcinoma less than 3 cm, studied with thin-section ct. a chest roentgenogram is commonly obtained after a transbronchial biopsy to exclude a pneumothorax. given this low incidence of unsuspected pneumothorax, we conclude that routine chest roentgenograms have a low diagnostic yield and may not be necessary in all patients after fluoroscopically guided tbb. conventional bronchoscopy with transbronchial lung biopsy has traditionally performed poorly for small, peripheral lesions, and transthoracic needle aspiration with computed tomographic (ct) guidance has been favored as the diagnostic test of choice. 
Is it safe to perform rectal anastomosis in gynaecological debulking surgery without a diverting stoma? [SEP] double dynamic graciloplasty after abdominoperineal resection proves to be an oncologically safe procedure with a reasonable chance of continence and a life without a stoma in the majority of patients. the aim of this study was to assess the safety of colorectal anastomosis, and especially low rectal anastomosis, in the absence of a protective stoma in patients with gynaecological cancer and peritoneal metastasis. the primary outcome was anastomotic leakage in the presence or absence of a diverting stoma. low rectal resection during debulking procedures for gynaecological cancers with peritoneal carcinomatosis can safely be performed by an experienced surgeon without a diverting stoma. intersphincteric resection (isr) with colo-anal anastomosis is a valuable sphincter sparing surgical procedure that avoids the need for permanent stoma in patients with low rectal cancer. it can be considered as a safe alternative to a permanent stoma in selected patients with low rectal cancer. the recently described combined abdomino-perineal approach allows completion of rectal dissection from the perineal route and preservation of the anal sphincters. the combined abdomino-perineal approach is useful to complete rectal resection in a highly selected group of patients with technically difficult low rectal pathologies. after total mesorectal excision for rectal cancer, many surgeons try to avoid an abdominoperineal resection (apr) by performing a transanally double stapled low colo-rectal anastomosis (lra), frequently without a pouch. a diverting ileostomy is often created to protect the newly constructed anastomosis; seldom is a permanent stoma needed. 
Does angiotensin-converting enzyme-1 (ACE-1) gene polymorphism lead to chronic kidney disease among hypertensive patients? [SEP] whether angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) gene polymorphism affects disease progression and response to ace inhibitor therapy in nondiabetic proteinuric nephropathies is not clearly established. genetic polymorphisms of the renin-angiotensin system (ras) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of nephropathy and end-stage renal disease (esrd). the association between angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) gene polymorphism and nephropathy evolution was studied. this study sought to evaluate the possible association of polymorphism of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) gene with blood pressure and left ventricular mass index (lvmi). the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) i/d genotype affects serum ace levels and the onset and progression of renal disease, but little is known about the mechanism. it is suggested that renal ace gene expression is associated with the ace i/d genotype in healthy japanese subjects. increased activation of the renin-angiotensin system (ras) may be important in promoting coronary heart disease (chd) and renal dysfunction, but limited data are available on associations between angiotensin type 1 receptor (agt1r) and angiotensinogen (agt) genotypes in type 2 diabetes. we analyzed single nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) associated with cardiovascular pathophysiology (including agt1r t573c, agt1r a1166c, and agt m235t) and presence of renal dysfunction (egfr<60 ml/min/1.73 m2) or history of chd. the role of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) gene polymorphism and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (enos) gene polymorphism in the clinical course of adpkd is not well understood. polymorphism in the gene for angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace), especially the dd genotype, is associated with risk for cardiovascular disease. 
Does laparoscopic antireflux surgery improve quality of life in patients whose gastro-oesophageal reflux disease is well controlled with medical therapy? [SEP] to determine if patients with gastroesophageal reflux "well controlled medically" had a different quality of life from those with residual symptoms receiving aggressive medical therapy, and to determine whether laparoscopic antireflux surgery significantly altered quality of life in patients with gastroesophageal reflux. laparoscopic antireflux surgery is an effective therapy for patients with gastroesophageal reflux and may be more effective than medical therapy at improving quality of life. both medical therapy and laparoscopic antireflux surgery have been shown to improve quality of life in gastro-oesophageal reflux disease. laparoscopic antireflux surgery significantly improved quality of life in reflux patients whose symptoms were well controlled on medical therapy. laparoscopic antireflux surgery is now well established as a treatment of moderate to severe gastro-oesophageal reflux disease. it is known that laparoscopic antireflux surgery (lars) can achieve an excellent surgical outcome including quality of life improvement in patients with erosive gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd; egd-positive). laparoscopic antireflux surgery (lars) significantly improves symptoms of gastro-esophageal reflux disease (gerd) and quality of life. the majority of patients who have undergone antireflux surgery report an improvement in reflux symptoms and in quality of life. laparoscopic antireflux surgery (lars) corrects significant physiologic and anatomic abnormalities in patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd); however, debate exists whether lars prevents recurrent symptoms and malignant transformation in patients with barrett's esophagus (be). laparoscopic anti-reflux surgery has become the standard treatment for symptomatic gastro-oesophageal reflux disease refractory to medical therapy. 
Is semi-closed endarterectomy of the superficial femoral artery combined with a short venous bypass in case of insufficient venous material an acceptable alternative for limb-threatening ischemia? [SEP] the aim of this study was to analyse the results of infragenual arterial revascularisation using semiclosed endarterectomy of the superficial femoral artery combined with a short venous bypass in patients with critical leg ischemia and insufficient venous material for a straightforward femorocrural reconstruction. in patients with limb-threatening ischemia and lack of venous material for a straightforward venous femorocrural bypass, semi-closed endarterectomy of the superficial femoral artery combined with a short popliteo-crural bypass provides a good alternative. in both superficial and deep femoral artery involvement, where angioplasty of the former is not suitable or feasible, angioplasty of the latter seems to be the method of choice and is a less invasive and efficient treatment particularly for limb threatening ischemia, an appropriate obstruction morphology provided. to avoid the problems associated with these techniques and to improve the results of limb salvage, we have revived and modified the technique of superficial femoral artery eversion endarterectomy and combined it with other reconstructive techniques in an effort to salvage the severely ischemic lower extremity. in many patients with critical limb ischemia (cli), transfemoral endovascular recanalization is the preferred treatment. in selected patients, eversion endarterectomy of the proximal superficial femoral artery can represent a valid inflow for a distal bypass to avoid a "hostile" groin. patency rates and limb salvage rates were retrospectively analysed for 21 consecutive patients who underwent distal bypass for severe lower limb ischemia and in whom the proximal superficial femoral artery was reopened with an eversion endarterectomy. in case of hostile groin, eversion endarterectomy of the proximal superficial femoral artery is a valid solution to provide inflow for a distal bypass. in limb threatening ischaemia the use of a long prosthetic graft to the distal calf vessels may be the only alternative to a primary amputation. other cases of acute and subacute limb ischemia should be managed percutaneously. 
Can biofeedback training of psychophysiological responses enhance athletes' sport performance? [SEP] in recent years, biofeedback has become increasingly popular for its proven success in peak performance training - the psychophysiological preparation of athletes for high-stakes sport competitions, such as the olympic games. the aim of this research was to test whether an 8-week period of exposure to biofeedback training could improve the psychophysiological control over competitive anxiety and enhance athletic performance in participating subjects. the present study was designed to investigate whether the biofeedback-based stress management tool consisting of rhythmic breathing, actively self-generated positive emotions and a portable biofeedback device induce changes in athletes' hrv, eeg patterns, and self-reported anxiety and self-esteem. in addition, as compared to the control, athletes in biofeedback group showed substantial and statistically significant improvement in heart rate variability indices and changes in power spectra of both theta and alpha brain waves, and alpha asymmetry. biofeedback training enables an athlete to alter biomechanical and physiological function by receiving biomechanical and physiological data concurrent with or immediately after a task. biofeedback is an emerging tool to acquire and facilitate physiological and psychological domains of the human body like response time and concentration. thus, the present study aims at determining the reconstitution of psychomotor and performance skills in basketball players through biofeedback training. the results of the study suggest that biofeedback training may help to train stressed athletes to acquire a control over their psychophysiological processes, thus helping an athlete to perform maximally. based on previous validation studies showing the effect of a combined mindfulness-neurofeedback program on neurocognitive efficiency and stress/anxiety levels, we aimed at testing the feasibility and potential of that intensive combined program for improving psychological well-being and attention regulation in sport contexts. findings extend available observations on cognitive and neural effects of combined mindfulness-neurofeedback practice by showing that it is possible to observe training effects even after a limited period of practice among sportspeople. 
Do cytokines have any role in epilepsy? [SEP] although convulsive disorders have been associated with immune abnormalities, little is known about cytokine production in epileptic patients. recently, more and more studies support that inflammation is involved in the pathogenesis of epilepsy. brain inflammatory reactions have been described in various neurological disorders, including epilepsy. although there is clear evidence that cytokines affect neuroglial functions and blood-brain barrier permeability, scarce information is available on the functional consequences of brain inflammation on seizures. experimental studies suggest increased cerebral production of inflammatory cytokines after prolonged seizures. these results show that only single seizures cause activation of cytokine cascade and associated inflammatory signals. previous studies have reported activation of inflammatory cytokines in seizures, but clinical characteristics of epilepsy associated with cytokine activation have not been well established. however, it remains unclear whether cytokine-related pathways, particularly tnfα signaling, have a critical role in the development of epilepsy. inflammation plays a role in the pathogenesis of immune-mediated epilepsy, but also in epilepsy of other etiology such as hippocampal sclerosis. seizures increase prostaglandin and cytokine levels in the brain. 
Cue-induced behavioural activation: a novel model of alcohol craving? [SEP] craving is a major factor in addiction, predicting poorer outcome to treatment to improve our understanding of craving for alcohol, we have compared in the laboratory the effects of inducing craving for alcohol by exposure to the sight and the smell of an alcoholic beverage, imagery of craving scripts, and recall of autobiographical memories of craving. all subjects reported a significant increase in ratings of urges after exposure to alcoholic drinks, following the imagery of craving and after recalling autobiographical memories of craving. several major clinical models of alcoholism in which craving plays a role are summarized and key questions are raised regarding the course of craving in the emergence of alcoholism, how it varies in different stages of the disorder (e.g. although increases in subjective alcohol craving have been observed following moderate doses of alcohol (e.g. this study examined the effects of alcohol intoxication on alcohol demand and craving. behavioral economic measures of alcohol value can complement subjective craving as measures of moment-to-moment fluctuations in drinking motivation following intoxication. the induction of alcohol craving and the cognitive processing of alcohol-related stimuli in alcohol-dependent patients have been reported to compete with inhibitory control and contribute to alcohol relapse. the aim of the present study is to investigate whether the induction of a craving state, using an alcohol cue exposure paradigm, influences response inhibition towards both neutral stimuli and alcohol-related stimuli in alcohol-dependent patients. the induction of alcohol craving in detoxified alcohol-dependent patients increases the motivational salience value of alcohol stimuli, leading them to automatically approach alcohol-related cues and therefore impairing response inhibition towards those stimuli. this study aims to determine the extent to which an alcohol-placebo drink increases craving, subjective intoxication and beer consumption, while conjointly investigating the impact of contextual alcohol cues. 
Can routine offering of influenza vaccination in office-based settings reduce racial and ethnic disparities in adult influenza vaccination? [SEP] racial disparities in influenza vaccination among underserved minority older adults are a public health problem. understanding the factors that impact influenza vaccination behaviors among underserved older african-americans could lead to more effective communication and delivery strategies. these findings highlight the role that culturally acceptable and accessible usual source of care van play as a gatekeeper to facilitate and implement flu vaccination among underserved minority older adults. consistent disparities in influenza vaccine uptake among underserved african-american older adults, coupled with a disproportionate burden of chronic diseases, places them at high risk for undesired outcomes associated with influenza. racial/ethnic disparities in influenza vaccination among adults are longstanding, and research suggests they result from multiple factors. the relationship between attitudes about influenza vaccination and vaccine-seeking behavior by race was also examined. to test whether a nonphysician-initiated standardized offer of influenza vaccination to all elderly primary care patients would result in similar proportions of african-american and white patients accepting vaccine. proportion of patients accepting influenza vaccination by race and predictors of vaccine acceptance. using nonphysician personnel to identify and offer influenza vaccine to eligible patients is easily accomplished in primary care offices and has the potential to eliminate racial disparities in influenza vaccination. provider recommendations and offers for influenza vaccination improve adult influenza vaccination coverage. 
Colorectal cancer in young patients: is it a distinct clinical entity? [SEP] early recognition of colorectal cancer (crc) in young patients without known genetic predisposition is a challenge, and clinicopathologic features at time of presentation are not well described. colorectal cancer (crc) in young patients is not an uncommon disease. colorectal cancer in young patients has a high incidence of predisposing conditions, aggressive histological features and advanced disease. colorectal cancer in the young has been a debated topic in literature with conflicting reports as to its pattern of occurrence and survival as compared to the older age group. sporadic colorectal cancers in the young are more advanced and less resectable when compared to older population. this study was designed to characterize the entity of colorectal cancer (crc) in young patients and to evaluate whether it has any unique epidemiological or clinicopathological features. colorectal cancer in young patients was found to display a cluster of unique characteristics but fewer than previously reported and young age by itself was not found to impact patient outcome. the present study aimed to perform a retrospective analysis of adolescent patients with colorectal cancer, including clinicopathological characteristics and prognosis. the incidence of colorectal cancer is increasing among young patients. young patients with colorectal cancer had clinical and pathological presentation similar to that of older patients. 
Can implant retention be recommended for treatment of infected TKA? [SEP] in these situations we questioned whether the infection after the total hip arthroplasty could be treated effectively and retain the well-fixed implant in a single-stage exchange. a retrospective analysis which included 31 patients with chronic infected tha who underwent major partial single-stage revision, including routinely exchanged femoral head and liner components, aggressive soft tissue debridement, removal of the femoral stem or acetabular cup and retention of the well-fixed component, thorough exposed component brushing, and adequate surgical soaking. treatment of chronic infected tha with retention of the well-fixed implant in a single-stage exchange can be fairly effective in the treatment of infection and achieving acceptable functional outcomes, which indicated that this may be an attractive alternative in highly selected patients. deep postoperative and hematogenous prosthesis infections may be treated with retention of the prosthesis, if the prosthesis is stable. there is an argument to retain an ingrown implant in instances in which removal would result in severe bone damage. among carefully selected patients presenting with an infected total hip arthroplasty (tha) who were treated with joint débridement and at least partial implant retention: (1) what proportion remained apparently free of infection at a minimum of 5 years of followup? these results suggest that partial implant retention and joint débridement may be an alternative for those patients who have complex well-fixed acetabular or femoral components, are not immunocompromised, have not developed sinus formation, and we were able to obtain a positive hip aspirate. infection is a potentially disastrous complication of total knee replacement (tkr). retention of the prosthesis has been associated with high rates of persistent infection. our study shows that in selected situations, arthroscopic debridement may allow retention of the prosthesis and eradication of the infection. 
Long-term significance of postictal psychotic episodes II. Are they predictive of interictal psychotic episodes? [SEP] evidence suggests that subclinical psychotic experiences are more likely to cause transition to psychotic disorder if their expression becomes persistent. the study of longitudinal patterns of subclinical psychotic experiences may help to distinguish subgroups with transient and persistent psychotic symptoms, who may differ in risk of later psychosis. to evaluate further the relevance of designating psychotic episodes as either postictal or interictal, we compared several biologic variables between epilepsy patients with and without psychosis. factors that were comparable between postictal and interictal psychoses were intellectual function, family history of psychosis, epilepsy type, and the presence of complex partial seizures. patients with bimodal psychosis showed characteristics associated with both postictal and interictal psychoses. certain epileptic processes appear to have equal influence on postictal and interictal psychoses. age at the first psychotic episode and an interval between the onset of epilepsy and that of psychosis reflect developmental processes of interictal psychosis. to identify clinical variables that are associated with the timing of the development of interictal psychosis. postictal psychoses, defined as episodic, time-limited psychiatric disturbances of diverse phenomenology, temporally related to a seizure or cluster of seizures, have been well described in patients with focal and generalized epilepsies. to ascertain whether bimodal psychosis (i.e., independent postictal and interictal psychosis) in patients with epilepsy can be characterized by postictal psychosis that develops after interictal psychosis remits. 
Do primary care physicians underprescribe antibiotics for peptic ulcer disease? [SEP] peptic ulcer disease is mainly caused by helicobacter pylori infection and the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. the prevalence of peptic ulcer disease, h. pylori infection and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug use between 2001 and 2003 were significantly lower than that between 1997 and 2000 (17% vs. 13%, or = 0.78, 95% ci: 0.63-0.96, p = 0.020 for peptic ulcer disease; 47% vs. 39%, or =0.72, 95% ci: 0.60-0.86, p < 0.001 for h. pylori infection; and 6% vs. 4%, or = 0.56, 95% ci: 0.39-0.82, p = 0.002 for non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug use). physicians perceive that patients' expectations influence their antibiotic prescribing practice; however, not all patients seek antibiotic treatment despite having similar symptoms. gps are urged to prescribe antibiotics less frequently, despite lack of evidence linking reduced antibiotic prescribing with reductions in resistance at a local level. background inappropriate use of antibiotic treatment for pharyngitis by community pharmacists is prevalent in developing countries. compared to the pharmacists who reported not dispensing antibiotics in the hypothetical case with common cold, those reported dispensing antibiotics were more likely to consider the following conditions-presence of cough, mild sore throat and patients with age >60 years as cues for diagnosis of streptococcal pharyngitis (p < 0.05). the use of fewer scores of the clinical prediction rules for diagnosis was observed in antibiotic dispensers, compared to who did not do so (p < 0.005). despite the findings in controlled trials that antibiotics provide limited benefit in the treatment of acute bronchitis, physicians frequently prescribe antibiotics for acute bronchitis. patients with prescribed antibiotics received significantly fewer symptomatic medications (odds ratio, 0.24; 95% confidence interval 0.16-0.37). prescription rates of antibiotics for arti in this trial were low and patients were treated mainly with non-antibiotic symptomatic medications. 
Blunt trauma in intoxicated patients: is computed tomography of the abdomen always necessary? [SEP] some clinicians believe that patients with head injury, intoxication, and/or distracting injury have an unreliable abdominal examination and should undergo combined head and abdomen ct. physical examination to detect abdominal injuries has been considered unreliable in alcohol-intoxicated trauma patients. the incidence of abdominal injury in intoxicated, hemodynamically stable, blunt trauma patients with a normal abdominal examination and normal mentation is low. we present a case report and literature review of magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of blunt abdominal trauma. alcohol intoxication may confound the clinical assessment of the trauma patient. head computed tomography (h-ct) is the standard imaging technique to rule out intracranial injury in most intoxicated trauma patients. one-third of intoxicated trauma patients have acute findings on h-ct. computed tomography (ct) is valuable in the evaluation of the abdomen and pelvis in victims of blunt trauma and stab wounds to the back if their condition is stable or if results of their physical examination are unreliable (eg, due to altered mental status). to select parameters that can predict which patients should receive abdominal computed tomography (ct) after high-energy blunt trauma. computed tomography (ct) is commonly used to evaluate patients with possible blunt intra-abdominal injury. 
Chronic progressive cervical myelopathy with HTLV-I infection: Variant form of HAM/TSP? [SEP] human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 (htlv-1)-associated myelopathy (ham) is a progressive neurological disease whose diagnosis is defined by clinical manifestations and seropositivity for htlv-1 infection. human t-lymphotropic virus type 1 (htlv-i) is a pathogenic retrovirus associated with a chronic progressive myelopathy, termed htlv-i-associated myelopathy (ham)/tropical spastic paraparesis (tsp), as well as adult t-cell leukemia (atl). human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 (htlv-1) is the causative agent of a chronic progressive myelopathy called tropical spastic paraparesis/htlv-1-associated myelopathy (tsp/ham). human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 (htlv-1)-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp) is a chronic, progressive neurological disease characterized by marked degeneration of the spinal cord and the presence of antibodies against htlv-1. infection with htlv-i is etiologically linked with htlv-i-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp). a detailed serological and molecular analysis of htlv-i/ii infection was performed in a cohort of 19 patients with ham/tsp attending a neurological clinic. human t cell lymphotropic virus type i (htlv-i) is associated with a chronic neurologic disease called htlv-i-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp). human t-lymphotropic virus type i (htlv-i) is known to be the causative agent of the chronic myelopathy, htlv-i--associated myelopathy (ham), and on rare occasions infection is also associated with the development of polyneuropathy. human t lymphotropic virus type i (htlv-i)-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp) is a chronic progressive myelopathy characterized by bilateral pyramidal tract involvement with sphincteric disturbances. human t cell lymphotropic virus type 1 (htlv-1) infection is associated with progressive neurological disorders and tropical spastic paraparesis/htlv-1-associated myelopathy (tsp/ham). 
Gender difference in survival of resected non-small cell lung cancer: histology-related phenomenon? [SEP] a possible association had previously been noted between gender and prognosis in non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc), with a better survival rate for women. several studies have suggested a female advantage in the prognosis of solid tumors. while studies have documented gender differences by histologic type among lung cancer patients, the effect of these differences on the health-related quality of life (hrqol) of post-lobectomy lungcancer patients and related factors remain uncertain. lung cancer seems to have different epidemiological, biomolecular and clinical characteristics in females than in males, with a better prognosis for women. previous studies have demonstrated that female gender could be a prognostic factor in limited-disease (ld) small-cell lung cancer (sclc), but the correlation between patient gender and survival parameters remains unclear. gender has been reported as a predictor for nonsmall cell lung cancer (nsclc) survival. the magnitude of gender effect on nsclc survival across disease stage, tumor histology, and therapies needs to be further characterized. in particular, in lung cancer, the leading cause of cancer death, at least in western countries, a gender disparity appears now to emerge, especially for non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc). gender has recently emerged as a discriminating factor in nonsmall lung carcinoma (nsclc) patient outcome. in non-small-cell lung carcinoma (nsclc) there are gender differences. 
Is lumbar drainage of postoperative cerebrospinal fluid fistula after spine surgery effective? [SEP] cerebrospinal fluid (csf) drainage serves an important role in the management of patients with established or potential csf fistulae. lumbar drainage (ld) is a common method of treating csf leakage. cerebrospinal fluid (csf) leakage secondary to surgery of the spine is usually treated by drainage of csf through a subarachnoid catheter or surgical repair of the dural tear. cerebrospinal fistulas and pseudomeningoceles can occur after lumbar spinal surgery, and are sometimes refractory to direct repair, external drainage, and blood patches. the authors report a technique for cerebrospinal fluid (csf) diversion from the lumbar spine to the peritoneum to assist with the management of these difficult situations. retrospective review to determine the efficacy of management of cerebrospinal fluid (csf) leakage after the anterior thoracic approach. within otolaryngology, lumbar drains are most frequently used for cerebrospinal fluid leaks - either due to cerebrospinal fluid fistulas or in skull base surgery as these allow for potential healing of the defect. to determine the efficacy of lumbar drainage in managing cerebrospinal fluid (csf) leak after lateral skull base surgery. postoperative csf leaks after lateral skull base surgery can be managed with a lumbar subarachnoid drain in a majority of cases but is more successful after the translabyrinthine than the suboccipital approach. lumbar drainage for cerebrospinal fluid (csf) diversion in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (asah) has been reported to be beneficial in small series. 
Is obesity a risk factor for wheezing among adolescents? [SEP] obesity is increasing worldwide among children and adolescents, and has been associated with an increased incidence of asthma. in this cohort study we aimed to investigate whether being overweight in childhood and adolescence is associated with an increased risk of airway hyperresponsiveness (ahr), a hallmark of asthma, in early adulthood. overweight/obesity has been suggested as a risk factor for developing asthma. new information indicates that central obesity in children increases asthma risk. recent scientific evidence points out a causative role of obesity in asthma predisposition. observational studies suggest that obesity is associated with increased risk of asthma. we tested the hypothesis that high body mass index (bmi) observationally and genetically is associated with high risk of wheezing and asthma, and that the association between high bmi and asthma is explained by wheezing. obesity is associated with an increased risk of asthma in children. this study tested the hypothesis that overweight and obese adolescents with a history of low birth weight are at even greater risk of developing asthma. overweight and obesity both increased the odds of asthma in 12-19 year-old norwegians. 
Dose end-tidal carbon dioxide measurement correlate with arterial carbon dioxide in extremely low birth weight infants in the first week of life? [SEP] to study the correlation and agreement between end-tidal carbon dioxide (etco2) and arterial carbon dioxide (paco(2)) in ventilated extremely low birth weight (elbw) infants in the first week of life. there is good correlation and agreement between end-tidal co(2) and arterial co(2) in elbw infants in the etco(2) range 30-50 mmhg. end-tidal co(2) monitoring can be helpful in trending or for screening abnormal paco(2) values in elbw infants in first week of life. to evaluate the effects of acute arterial carbon dioxide partial pressure changes on cerebral oxygenation and electrical activity in infants born preterm. this retrospective observational study included ventilated infants born preterm with acute fluctuations of continuous end-tidal co2 (etco2) as a surrogate marker for arterial carbon dioxide partial pressure, during the first 72 hours of life. combining continuous co2 monitoring with near-infrared spectroscopy may enable the detection of otherwise undetected fluctuations in arterial carbon dioxide partial pressure that may be harmful to the neonatal brain. we aimed to determine the correlation and the agreement between end-tidal carbon dioxide (etco(2)) and partial pressure of arterial carbon dioxide (paco(2) ) in very low birth weight infants (vlbwi); furthermore, we assessed factors that could affect the etco(2)-paco(2) relationship. simultaneous end-tidal and arterial co(2) pairs were obtained from ventilated vlbwi who were monitored by mainstream capnography and had umbilical arterial catheter. the study was designed to assess the use of newer sidestream microstream end tidal carbon dioxide (etco(2) ) device in predicting blood carbon dioxide (pco(2) ) measurements in very low birth weight (vlbw = birth weight <1,500 g) and non-vlbw nicu neonates. to examine the extents to which low tidal volume (vt) and endotracheal tube (ett) leakeage influence the accuracy of etco2 for estimating arterial pco2 (paco2) in very low birth weight (vlbw) infants with mechanical ventilation. 
Is CA72-4 a useful biomarker in differential diagnosis between ovarian endometrioma and epithelial ovarian cancer? [SEP] this study aimed to determine the serum concentrations of ca125 and human epididymis protein 4 (he4) in patients with ovarian cancer, and to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of these biomarkers for differentiating between patients with benign gynecological disease and those with ovarian cancer, when used alone and in combination in a korean population. to evaluate the clinical usefulness of ca72-4 as a serum tumour marker for endometrial carcinoma and to investigate its immunohistochemical localisation in endometrial carcinoma cells. serum concentrations of ca72-4 were determined in 72 patients with endometrial carcinoma. serum ca72-4 was increased above the cut off value in 31.9% of the patients with endometrial carcinoma. we evaluated the clinical usefulness of cancer antigen (ca) 125, human epididymis 4 (he4), and ca72-4 levels and risk of ovarian malignancy algorithm (roma) values for differential diagnosis of malignant and borderline tumors among suspected ovarian tumors, and the effects of endometriosis on these tumor markers. the main aim of this study was to evaluate cancer antigen 125 (ca125)/carcinoembryonic antigen (cea) ratio (ccr), as a reliable marker to differentiate ovarian mucinous carcinoma from other epithelial ovarian carcinomas (eocs), namely serous, clear cell, and endometrioid carcinomas. the role of the tumor markers ca125 and ca72-4 has been evaluated in the diagnosis and management of ovarian cancer. ca72-4 could complement the standard tumor marker ca125 both in diagnosis and follow up of patients with epithelial ovarian cancer. to determine the ca125 tissue expression levels in borderline and invasive epithelial ovarian tumor tissues. receiver-operating characteristics curve (roc) analysis was used to evaluate the ability of ca125, cea and ca125/cea to differentiate between ovarian neoplasms and ovarian metastases, and their predictive performance was assessed. 
Preservation of the PCL when performing cruciate-retaining TKA: Is the tibial tuberosity a reliable predictor of the PCL footprint location? [SEP] does the pcl prevent posterior tibial displacement when it is retained after a single-design, cruciate-sparing tka? the posterior cruciate ligament (pcl) is important for cruciate-retaining (cr) total knee arthroplasty (tka). to evaluate the clinical outcomes of pcl preservation in cr-tka and the methods used to deal with the pcl during surgery. the clinical outcomes of preserving the pcl in cr-tka are encouraging. the hypothesis of our study is that a routine tibial cut during cruciate retaining tka may result in a partial or a total removal of the pcl footprint. based on our results 11 (7%) knees were considered at high risk of an entire pcl removal after implantation of a cruciate retaining tka design. this study presents evidence of similar clinical outcomes when the pcl is retained or released during pcl-retaining tka, provided attention is paid to appropriate soft tissue balancing. posterior cruciate ligament (pcl) retaining total knee arthroplasty (tka) is bone conserving and relies on the retained ligament to provide posterior stability. tibial and femoral insertions of pcl are relatively well preserved after bone cuts are made in a posterior cruciate retaining tkr. therefore, we evaluated the resection amount of pcl attachment and the function of the residual pcl in cruciate-retaining (cr)-type tka. 
The English antibiotic awareness campaigns: did they change the public's knowledge of and attitudes to antibiotic use? [SEP] to determine the effect of the 2008 english public antibiotic campaigns. we compared public attitudes, beliefs and knowledge concerning antibiotic use and self-medication between 11 european countries. in total, 1101 respondents were interviewed on their attitudes towards appropriateness of self-medication with antibiotics and situational use of antibiotics, beliefs about antibiotics for minor ailments, knowledge about the effectiveness of antibiotics on viruses and bacteria and awareness about antibiotic resistance. leading uk and global strategy papers to fight amr recognise its social and behavioural dimensions, but current policy responses to improve the popular use of antimicrobials (eg, antibiotics) are limited to education and awareness-raising campaigns. in response to conceptual, methodological and empirical weaknesses of this approach, we study people's antibiotic-related health behaviour through three research questions.rq1: what are the manifestations and determinants of problematic antibiotic use in patients' healthcare-seeking pathways?rq2: will people's exposure to antibiotic awareness activities entail changed behaviours that diffuse or dissipate within a network of competing healthcare practices?rq3: which proxy indicators facilitate the detection of problematic antibiotic behaviours across and within communities? understanding cultural features in the public's attitudes and behaviours regarding antibiotics and their use is a prerequisite to developing effective educational interventions. raising public awareness of the need to use antibiotics appropriately is a major focus of the uk government's strategy to tackle antimicrobial resistance. widespread public engagement with antibiotic stewardship is essential to stem the rising incidence of antibiotic-resistant infections; however, campaigns that focus on increasing knowledge have not been effective. antibiotic awareness campaigns in england using posters or leaflets have had little or no impact on knowledge, behaviour or prescription rates. to change behaviour and reduce antibiotic use in england, a coordinated and comprehensive interdisciplinary and multifaceted (multimodal) approach using behavioural science and targeted at specific groups (both professional and public) is required. 
Does increased nerve length within the treatment volume improve trigeminal neuralgia radiosurgery? [SEP] to test the hypothesis that increasing the nerve length within the treatment volume for trigeminal neuralgia radiosurgery would improve pain relief. increasing the treatment volume to include a longer nerve length for trigeminal neuralgia radiosurgery does not significantly improve pain relief but may increase complications. higher doses of radiation may correlate with better facial pain outcomes after radiosurgery for trigeminal neuralgia. radiosurgery has emerged as an important treatment of trigeminal neuralgia. from an initial group of 78 patients with trigeminal neuralgia treated with gamma knife radiosurgery using a 90-gy dose, we analyzed a subgroup of 65 patients for whom 6-month follow-up mri showed focal contrast enhancement of the trigeminal nerve. to analyze the effect of dose escalation on treatment outcome in patients undergoing stereotactic radiosurgery (srs) for trigeminal neuralgia (tn). the scientific literature regarding the radiosurgical treatment of trigeminal neuralgia has evolved to identify factors that predict both efficacy and toxicity. the intent of this review is to discuss the role of radiosurgery in the modern management of trigeminal neuralgia and to review radiosurgical outcomes, targeting, and controversies. radiosurgery is one of the surgical treatments of trigeminal neuralgia. in contrast to tumor radiation, radiosurgery to the trigeminal nerve root resulted in reasonable and longer pain reduction, on par with the literature regarding surgical resection, with low risk of additional complications. 
Is the affinity column-mediated immunoassay method suitable as an alternative to the microparticle enzyme immunoassay method as a blood tacrolimus assay? [SEP] this study compared an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa) to a liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (lc/ms/ms) technique for measurement of tacrolimus concentrations in adult kidney and liver transplant recipients, and investigated how assay choice influenced pharmacokinetic parameter estimates and drug dosage decisions. tacrolimus concentrations measured by both elisa and lc/ms/ms from 29 kidney (n = 98 samples) and 27 liver (n = 97 samples) transplant recipients were used to evaluate the performance of these methods in the clinical setting. the aim was to compare blood tacrolimus concentrations in anaemic patients between affinity column-mediated immunoassay (acmia) and microparticle enzyme immunoassay (meia). the aim of this study was to compare the results obtained using the acmia and abbott microparticle enzyme immunoassay (meia), which is the most widely used method for therapeutic tacrolimus monitoring. the difference in the blood concentration of tacrolimus between the assay methods, microparticle enzyme immunoassay (meia) and enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (elisa) was observed in a liver transplant recipient with anemia. the purpose of this study was to determine the most appropriate method for daily practice of tacrolimus determination in whole blood. we compared enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa) with microparticle enzyme immunoassay (meia), using european controls and blood samples from organ graft recipients treated with tacrolimus. a method combining liquid chromatography (lc) with tandem mass spectrometry (ms/ms) was developed to quantify tacrolimus in whole blood. this method was used in a comparison study with a microparticle enzyme immunoassay (meia): meia = 1.03 lc/ms/ms -0.084 (microgram/l), (sy/x = 1.43), r2 = 0.933. the fully automated analysis of tac by the affinity column-mediated immunoassay (acmia), which does not require a precipitation step, may represent an efficient alternative to liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (lc-ms/ms), including in the clinically urgent situation. 
Should tumor depth be included in prognostication of soft tissue sarcoma? [SEP] established prognostic factors influencing survival in soft tissue sarcomas include tumor stage, histopathologic grade, size, depth, and anatomic site. we explored the impact of microscopic margin on local recurrence, metastasis, and overall survival in patients with intermediate- to high-grade soft tissue sarcomas of the extremities. microscopic surgical margin and local recurrence after surgical treatment should be included as risk factors predicting decreased overall survival for intermediate- to high-grade soft tissue sarcomas of the extremities. most staging systems for soft tissue sarcoma are based on histologic malignancy-grade, tumor size and tumor depth. we analyzed the associations between tumor size and depth and the prognostic importance of grade, size and depth in a population-based series of 490 adult patients with soft tissue sarcoma of the extremity or trunk wall with complete, 4.5 years minimum, follow-up. most of the prognostic value of tumor depth in soft tissue sarcomas of the extremity or trunk wall can be explained by the association between tumor size and depth. whole-tumor sections from 239 soft tissue sarcomas of the extremities were reviewed for the following prognostic factors: size, vascular invasion, necrosis, and growth pattern. high-grade, soft-tissue sarcomas in deep locations may have a poorer prognosis regarding local recurrence than low-grade sarcomas or those located superficially. tumor size is a key prognostic variable for soft tissue sarcomas (sts), and a tumor diameter of 5 cm is generally used as a cutoff for risk grouping purposes. several studies have investigated the prognosis of soft tissue sarcomas and the influence of a variety of factors, such as size, histology subtype, malignancy grade, site, margins, on overall survival, recurrence-free survival, incidence of local and distant spreading. 
Is amoxapine an atypical antipsychotic? [SEP] amoxapine is marketed as an antidepressant. to examine if this leads to an atypical antipsychotic effect in the clinical context, the authors examined the antipsychotic and side-effect profile of amoxapine in acutely psychotic patients with schizophrenia. these clinical data lend support to the pre-clinical suggestions that amoxapine may be an atypical antipsychotic. amoxapine is marketed as an antidepressant. amoxapine has also shown efficacy as an atypical antipsychotic in open trials. these data support previous reports about the efficacy of amoxapine as an atypical antipsychotic. since amoxapine is off-patent, it may be a valuable low-cost alternative to new atypical antipsychotics, particularly in low-income countries where the majority of the patients are still treated with typical antipsychotics. there have been reports suggesting that amoxapine itself or its metabolites have neuroleptic as well as antidepressant properties. amoxapine is a tricyclic dibenzoxazepine antidepressant that is chemically similar to the antipsychotic agent loxapine. amoxapine, an antidepressant with a rapid onset of therapeutic efficacy and great utility in psychotic depression, has been reported to produce anticholinergic side effects in man similar to those observed with imipramine and amitriptyline. 
Does topical N-acetylcysteine application after myringotomy cause severe otorrhea? [SEP] myringosclerosis (mys) is a common sequela of acute and chronic otitis media and ventilation tube treatment of serous otitis media. we aimed to study the effect of topical administration of n -acetylcysteine (nac) on mys by assessment of otomicroscopic evaluation, lipid peroxidation and nitric oxide (no) (nitrite/nitrate) levels in experimental myringotomized rat tympanic membrane. in the otomicroscopic evaluation, non-treated and saline treated ears (controls) showed extensive occurrence of myringosclerotic plaques. these results suggest that topical nac application may be useful for the prevention of mys. many complications have been reported after ear surgery to treat chronic inflammation. these complications include facial nerve paralysis, perichondritis, injury of the dura or of the sigmoid sinus, cyst formation or mucocele in the healed mastoid cavity, and the recurrence of cholesteatoma, granulation tissue, or otorrhea. n-acetylcysteine is a low-molecular-weight agent which has shown substantial otoprotective activity. twenty cisplatin-treated patients were subjected, under local anesthesia, to transtympanic n-acetylcysteine (10%) infusions in 1 ear, during the hydration procedure preceding intravenous effusion of cisplatin. transtympanic injections of n-acetylcysteine seem to be a feasible and effective otoprotective strategy for the prevention of cisplatin-induced ototoxicity. common complications following syringing are pain, external auditory canal trauma and otitis externa. 
Is non-HDL-cholesterol a better predictor of long-term outcome in patients after acute myocardial infarction compared to LDL-cholesterol? [SEP] to determine if non-high-density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol is a more useful predictor of coronary heart disease (chd) risk than low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol and if very-low-density lipoprotein (vldl) cholesterol is an independent predictor of chd risk, data from the framingham heart study (2,693 men, 3,101 women) were used for this analysis. in conclusion, these results suggest that non-hdl cholesterol level is a stronger predictor of chd risk than ldl cholesterol; that is, vldl cholesterol may play a critical role in the development of chd. low serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (hdl-c) level is a potent risk factor for developing atherosclerosis, yet it is uncertain if hdl-c level at the time of non-st-segment elevation myocardial infarction (nstemi) has downstream prognostic importance. compared with participants with non-hdl cholesterol level <3.9mmol/l, age- and sex-adjusted hazard ratios for mortality by coronary heart disease in those with non-hdl cholesterol levels of 3.9-4.3mmol/l, 4.4-4.8mmol/l and ≥4.9mmol/l were 1.27 (95% confidence interval [ci] 0.65-2.49), 1.81 (95% ci 0.92-3.55) and 2.40 (95% ci 1.30-4.43), respectively (p trend=0.010). non-high-density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol has been reported to be a more accurate predictor of clinical outcomes than conventional lipid measurements. assessing non-hdl cholesterol may help to identify subjects at high-risk of adverse outcomes. recent studies have indicated the predictive value of non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (non-hdl-c) for mortality in patients without coronary heart disease (chd). the purpose of this study was to investigate whether non-hdl-c could predict long-term mortality in patients with chd. non-high-density lipoprotein (non-hdl) cholesterol [total cholesterol minus high-density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol] is considered a better predictor of coronary heart disease (chd) risk than low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol. several lines of evidence suggest that, besides being a strong independent predictor of the occurrence of primary coronary events, a low plasma high density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol level is also associated with short- and long-term unfavorable prognosis in patients, who have recovered from a myocardial infarction, suggesting a direct detrimental effect of low hdl on post-ischemic myocardial function. 
Is intrapartum vibroacoustic stimulation an effective predictor of fetal acidosis? [SEP] the hypothesis of this prospective study is that intrapartum vibroacoustic stimulation (vas) is an effective predictor of fetal acidosis during labor. it was observed that negative vas responses for predicting fetal acidosis (ph < 7.20) were comparable between term (> or = 37 weeks) and preterm (< 37 weeks, > or = 34 weeks) fetuses. we found that intrapartum vas was an effective predictor of fetal acidosis in cases of fhr variable decelerations, but its predictability for fetal acidosis in cases of fhr late decelerations was limited. neuroanatomic considerations are discussed that suggest which auditory mechanisms are involved in the fetal response to vibroacoustic stimulation. a nonreactive response to fetal acoustic stimulation in early labor is associated with a significantly increased risk for cesarean delivery for fetal distress and neonatal acidosis. vibroacoustic stimulation of the human fetus profoundly alters fetal behavior and heart rate. additional investigations of fetal habituation to a vibroacoustic stimulus may be helpful in the intrapartum risk assessment of uncomplicated term pregnancies. fetal vibroacoustic stimulation in fetuses with suspicious or ominous fetal heart rate traces in labour was followed by acid-base balance determination on fetal scalp blood within 30 min of the test. however, acidotic scalp blood ph values (7.16 and 7.18) were found in two fetuses which had shown reactive responses both to vibroacoustic stimulation and pain stimuli with scalp blood sampling. fetal vibroacoustic stimulation reduced the incidence of non-reactive antenatal cardiotocography test (odds ratio (or) 0.61, 95% confidence interval (ci) 0.49-0.75) and reduced the overall mean cardiotocography testing time (weighted mean difference (wmd) -4.55 minutes, 95% ci -5.96 minutes to -3.14 minutes). 
The association of puberty and young adolescent alcohol use: do parents have a moderating role? [SEP] young people's alcohol consumption is related to their parents' alcohol consumption, but little focus has been placed on whether there is a connection with parental intoxication. alcohol use among adolescents has been found to be associated with parental alcohol abuse, but it's relation to more prevalent forms of hazardous drinking patterns among parents has been less explored. strong and consistent distal effects of parent alcoholism on adolescent's substance use were found, though no additional risk was associated with proximal effects. the importance of differentiating the timing effects of parent alcoholism in identifying underlying mechanisms of risk for adolescent substance use is discussed. therefore, the current study examined the direct effects of parental alcohol use, alcohol-related problems, and parental alcohol-specific attitudes on adolescent excessive drinking and alcohol-related problems later in life. in conclusion, alcohol-specific communication intervenes in the relationship between parental alcohol-related problems and adolescent excessive drinking and alcohol-related problems. the purpose of the current study was to examine the associations between parental alcohol use at two developmental periods (prenatal and adolescence) and the alcohol misuse of their offspring at two developmental periods (adolescence and young adulthood). parents' rule setting about alcohol has been shown to be important to delay the onset and reduce the frequency of adolescents' alcohol drinking, but less is known about the potential role of parents' beliefs about their competence in and ability to influence their adolescents' drinking habits (i.e., parental self-efficacy [pse], bandura (psychological review, 84, 191-215, 1977). alcohol problems in parents have been revealed to affect adolescent alcohol misuse. in conclusion, this study shows that young people with perceived parental alcohol problems have an earlier intoxication debut age, binge drink more frequently, and drink larger quantities per week than young people without perceived parental alcohol problems. 
Must early postoperative oral intake be limited to laparoscopy? [SEP] the benefits of early postoperative oral feeding following colonic anastomosis have previously been demonstrated. we investigated whether early postoperative oral feeding was advantageous for upper gastrointestinal anastomosis in comparison to parenteral feeding with a fasting period. previous analyses of non-prospectively randomized trials have suggested that early oral postoperative feeding might be a benefit unique to laparoscopic surgery. this prospective randomized study was undertaken to assess whether the time prior to oral intake of food after laparoscopy-assisted surgery is shorter than that after standard laparotomy. this study invalidates the claim by laparoscopic surgeons that earlier oral intake of food is tolerated by their patients than by patients who undergo standard procedures. in patients under esophagectomy, early postoperative oral feeding has traditionally been contraindicated to minimize the risk of anastomotic leaks. the patients in the eof group were tube-fed with enteral nutrition and orally fed with 5% glucose in normal saline during the first 4 postoperative days, after that the patients were placed on a liquid diet. all patients who underwent elective laparotomy with either colon or small bowel resection between november 1992 and april 1994 were prospectively randomized to one of the following two groups: group 1: early oral feeding--all patients received a clear liquid diet on the first postoperative day followed by a regular diet as tolerated; group 2: regular feeding--all patients were treated in the "traditional" way, with feeding only after the resolution of their postoperative ileus. early oral feeding after elective colorectal surgery is safe and can be tolerated by the majority of patients. early oral feeding (eof) following colorectal surgery can accelerate patient recovery and shorten hospital stay. 
Does loss of consciousness predict neuropsychological decrements after concussion? [SEP] to analyze the effects of concussion history on baseline neurocognitive performance using a computerized neurocognitive test. with the exception of decreased visual memory based on history of 1 concussion, history of 1 or multiple concussions was not associated with worse baseline cognitive performance. a growing literature has established that neuropsychological tests are useful in detecting the subtle neurocognitive changes that occur following concussions. we used volumetric and deformation-based morphometric analyses to test the hypothesis that repeated concussions may be associated with smaller regional brain volumes, poorer cognitive performance and behavioural symptoms among former professional football players compared to healthy controls. volumetric analyses revealed greater hippocampal atrophy than expected for age in former athletes with multiple concussions than controls and smaller left hippocampal volume was associated with poorer verbal memory performance in the former athletes. recent work suggests subtle deficits in neurocognition may impair neuromuscular control and thus potentially increase risk of lower extremity musculoskeletal injury after concussion. several studies using traditional neuropsychological measures have found a relationship between a previous history of concussion and reduced cognitive abilities. in the present study, we examined the association between a self-reported concussion history and cognition using traditional and computer-based neuropsychological tests. in this study, we calculated neurocognitive deficits combining eeg analysis with three standard post-concussive assessment tools. therefore, the evidence from the study highlights that our proposed eeg analysis and markers are more efficient at deciphering post-concussion residual neurocognitive deficits and thus has a potential clinical utility of proper concussion assessment and management. 
Does body mass index (BMI) influence morbidity and long-term survival in gastric cancer patients after gastrectomy? [SEP] the relationship between preoperative body mass index (bmi) and the survival of postoperative gastric cancer patients is not clear. bmi 1 year after surgery significantly predicted the long-term survival of patients with gastric cancer compared with the preoperative bmi. among patients undergoing resection for gastric cancer, the impact of body mass index (bmi) on outcomes is not well understood. we sought to define the impact of non-normal bmi on short- and long-term outcomes after gastric cancer resection. the aim of this study was to investigate whether body mass index (bmi) is related to the short-term and long-term outcomes in patients who undergo an esophagectomy for the resection of esophageal squamous cell cancer (escc). whether high body mass index (bmi) was associated with increased postoperative complications and unfavorable prognosis of gastric cancer (gc) patients remain controversial. conclusions: this study showed that bmi was positively associated with survival outcome in patients with cancer who underwent radical surgery. this study aimed to investigate the impact of body mass index (bmi) on the short-term and long-term results of a large cohort of gastric cancer (gc) patients undergoing gastrectomy.recently, the "obesity paradox" has been proposed, referring to the paradoxically "better" outcomes of overweight and obese patients compared with nonoverweight patients. we explored the influence of body mass index (bmi) on long-term outcomes in patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (escc) who underwent esophagectomy as a primary treatment. the impact of pre-therapeutic body mass index (bmi) in patients with oesophagogastric cancer on the surgical outcome is controversially discussed. 
Does patella position influence ligament balancing in total knee arthroplasty? [SEP] intraoperative patellar position (eversion, lateralization, or in situ) influences the ligamentous balancing in knee flexion and thereby the correct positioning of the femoral component during total knee arthroplasty. post-operative joint stability and ligament balance are crucial factors in the longevity of the prosthesis after total knee arthroplasty (tka). the influence of patellar position on the balance of the knee is controversial. our findings give a new insight on the role of the patellar position while balancing a total knee arthroplasty. we investigated whether the patellar tilt angle influences the maximum knee flexion after total knee arthroplasty (tka) performed by using a posterior cruciate ligament-substituting (ps) fixed-bearing prosthesis in patients with relatively loose or tight flexion gap. correct ligamentous balancing is an important determinant of the clinical outcome in total knee arthroplasty (tka). soft-tissue balance is an important element for the success of total knee arthroplasty; however, the influence of intraoperative soft-tissue balance on knee kinematics in posterior-stabilized-total knee arthroplasty remains unknown. we investigated whether intraoperative soft-tissue balance could influence knee kinematics and flexion angle after posterior-stabilized-total knee arthroplasty. this study included 30 patients with knee osteoarthritis and varus alignment who underwent posterior-stabilized total knee arthroplasty; intraoperative soft-tissue balance parameters, such as varus ligament balance and joint component gap, were assessed by an offset-type tensor at knee flexion angles of 0°, 10°, 30°, 60°, 90°, 120°, and 135°. patellar component positioning and patellofemoral kinematics are of great importance in total knee arthroplasty (tka). 
Is the advanced age a contraindication to GERD laparoscopic surgery? [SEP] advanced age has traditionally been considered a relative contraindication to bariatric surgery due to increased perioperative risk and less weight loss. laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy is a safe and effective treatment for morbid obesity in people over 60 years, although younger patients show greater weight loss. advanced age is considered to be a relative contraindication to bariatric surgery because of increased perioperative risk and suboptimal excess weight loss. advanced age is considered a relative contraindication to bariatric surgery at some institutions because of concerns about higher morbidity and less than optimal weight loss. advanced age is a common contraindication for cardiac surgery, particularly in high-risk patients with comorbidities, such as pulmonary and renal impairment, associated coronary artery disease, and neurological disorders. laparoscopic antireflux surgery is frequently denied to older patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd) because of a perceived higher operative complication rate, a decreased impact of the intervention on quality of life, and decreased cost effectiveness. this study compares disease severity, surgical outcomes, and impact on quality of life between elderly and young patients with gerd. laparoscopic antireflux surgery in elderly patients improves acid reflux and appears to be safe and effective as measured by postoperative testing in elderly and young patients. advanced age is considered a relative contraindication to primary bariatric surgery at some institutions. patients of advanced age can safely undergo laparoscopic roux-en-y gastric bypass. 
Ultra high risk (UHR) for psychosis criteria: are there different levels of risk for transition to psychosis? [SEP] the ultra high-risk (uhr) criteria were introduced to prospectively identify patients at high risk of psychotic disorder. to assess the rate and baseline predictors of transition to psychotic disorder in uhr patients up to 15 years after study entry. individuals are considered ultra-high-risk (uhr) for psychosis if they meet a set of standardised criteria including presumed genetic vulnerability (trait), or a recent history of attenuated psychotic symptoms (aps) or brief limited intermittent psychotic symptoms (blips). concurrently, it has become clear that the uhr status confers clinical risk beyond transition to psychosis. in the early intervention in psychosis, ultra-high risk (uhr) criteria have been used to identify individuals who are prone to develop psychosis. individuals can be classified as being at clinical high risk (chr) for psychosis if they meet at least one of the ultra-high-risk (uhr) inclusion criteria (brief limited intermittent psychotic symptoms [blips] and/or attenuated psychotic symptoms [aps] and/or genetic risk and deterioration syndrome [grd]) and/or basic symptoms [bs]. "transition to psychosis" has been the outcome of interest in ultra high risk (uhr) and "prodromal" studies. the chance of transition to psychosis in patients at ultra high risk for developing psychosis (uhr) is 10-15%. sharpening uhr inclusion criteria may aid in improving prediction of transition to psychosis. ], our study indicates that severity of specific symptoms at baseline is related to transition to psychosis in uhr subjects. 
Has the 80-hour workweek improved surgical resident education in New England? [SEP] the accreditation council for graduate medical education has recently enacted an 80-hour workweek, which has been in effect in new york state for several years. we surveyed surgical residents from all four state university of new york (suny) surgical programs to determine their perceptions of the impact of the 80-hour workweek on patient care, surgical education, and personal life. this study examines the impact of the 80-hour workweek on the number of surgical cases performed by pgy-2 through pgy-5 orthopedic residents. to evaluate the effect of the 80-hour workweek restrictions on resident education within surgical programs in the new england area. only 25% of programs felt that surgical education was improved after the implementation of the 80-hour workweek, whereas 31% felt education was worse. despite the positive effects the 80-hour workweek has had on resident quality of life and patient care, it does not seem that either significant improvements or detrimental effects have occurred on surgical education within residency programs in new england. the goal of this study was to analyze the impact of the 80-hour work week on the emergency operative experience of surgical residents. the goal of this study was to determine the effect of the 80-hour work week on resident operative experience. in this study, we evaluated the learning styles of general surgery residents to determine how learning styles changed after the implementation to the 80-h workweek. surgical residents were also more likely to be team-based learners after the start of the 80-h workweek (odds ratio = 2.13, p = 0.0016). 
Can continuous physical training counteract aging effect on myoelectric fatigue? [SEP] age-related loss of muscle mass and function exhibits a marked acceleration from late middle age to senescence and exercise training is one method that has been proposed to slow this process. overall, despite an augmentation of select antioxidant enzyme activities, exercise training from late middle age through to senescence had minimal benefits for muscle contractile properties, perhaps in part due to exacerbated oxidation. aging is associated with a progressive decrement in various components of physical work capacity, including aerobic power and capacity, muscular strength and endurance, and the tolerance of thermal stress. nevertheless, athletes who continue to train regularly still show a substantial aging of both physiological function and competitive performance, reflecting a deterioration of cardiac pump function, a decrease of muscle strength, and a progressive impairment of heat tolerance. exercise should be considered a viable modality to combat aging of skeletal muscle. in addition, the modulation of oxidative stress by continuous and fractionated training may play an important regulatory role in the muscular contraction mechanism of aged rats, due to changes in calcium metabolism. this review discusses the effects of aging on skeletal-muscle damage and recovery processes and highlights the limitations of many of these studies with respect to older athletes. a major part of these changes is associated with an age-related decrease in the level of physical activity and may be counteracted by endurance training (et) and resistance training (rt). since both muscle strength and aerobic power decrease with age, we investigated what form of training might be best for improvements in physical performance in the elderly. we assessed whether endurance exercise training in old age is sufficient to affect muscle and motor function. 
Does ischemic preconditioning require reperfusion before index ischemia? [SEP] ischaemic preconditioning can limit ir-injury. ischemic preconditioning (ip) is initiated through one or several short bouts of ischemia and reperfusion which precede a prolonged ischemia. to test whether a reperfusion must precede the prolonged index ischemia, a series without reperfusion (intraischemic preconditioning: iip) and a series with gradual onset of ischemia, i.e. ischemic preconditioning (pre-con) is an adaptive response triggered by a brief ischemia applied before a prolonged coronary occlusion. we tested the hypothesis that repetitive ischemia applied during early reperfusion, i.e., postconditioning (post-con), is cardio-protective by attenuating reperfusion injury. repetitive, brief periods of ischemia and reperfusion ("preconditioning") increase the resistance of myocardial tissue to subsequent prolonged ischemic episodes and limit infarct size. we investigated whether preconditioning also protects against coronary endothelial dysfunction induced by ischemia and reperfusion. several recent works have shown that a brief ischemia applied during the onset of reperfusion (postconditioning) is cardioprotective in different animal models and that the early minutes of reperfusion are critical to its cardioprotection. although this phenomenon (ischemic preconditioning [ipc]) has been described in ischemic reperfusion models, the effect of ipc on heart preservation has not been previously reported. ischemic preconditioning is an intrinsic process in which preconditioning ischemia (ischemia of shorter duration) protects the organs against the subsequent index ischemia (sustained ischemia). 
Are sports medicine journals relevant and applicable to practitioners and athletes? [SEP] to examine the evidence base of sports medicine research and assess how relevant and applicable it is to everyday practice. for the purposes of this study, sports medicine was defined as the routine care of athletes involved in organized sporting activities at any level of competition. sports medicine is a popular topic pervading the media and has a clear core focus of treating athletes and promoting exercise. although this field of enquiry and practice lays claim to the title 'sports medicine' this paper queries the legitimacy of that claim. it seems to follow that sports medicine is not medicine. to examine the evidence base of sports medicine research. a sample of four major journals that present core research in sport and exercise medicine (british journal of sports medicine, medicine and science in sports and exercise, journal of sports medicine and physical fitness, and physical therapy) was examined using assessment criteria taken from the reader method. the overall pattern of publication type seems remarkably stable over medical journals, indicating that the quality of sports medicine research is comparable to that in other specialities. in this review, we identify and describe the top 100 cited articles in clinical sports medicine and recognize the authors and institutions driving the research. we collected articles (excluding basic science, animal, and cadaveric studies) from the 25 highest-impact sports medicine journals and analyzed them by number of citations, journal, publication date, institution, country, topic, and author. 
Does head positioning influence anterior chamber depth in pseudoexfoliation syndrome? [SEP] phacodonesis can occur in pseudoexfoliation syndrome because of impaired zonular support. this study investigates whether the increased mobility of the lens influences anterior chamber depth in patients with pseudoexfoliation while assuming a prone position. central anterior chamber depth was measured in 39 patients with clinically apparent unilateral pseudoexfoliation and elevated intraocular pressure. anterior chamber depth in eyes with pseudoexfoliation decreased from a mean of 3.08 mm in the supine position to a mean of 2.95 mm in the prone position, whereas mean anterior chamber depth in the fellow eyes decreased from 3.01 mm to 2.97 mm. the decrease in anterior chamber depth when facing down in the eyes with pseudoexfoliation was significantly greater than in the fellow eyes. this results in a shallower anterior chamber when the head is placed in a prone position. to assess the pseudophakic anterior chamber depth (pp-acd) or effective lens position (elp) change after cataract surgery in patients with pseudoexfoliation syndrome (pex). to compare anterior chamber depth (acd) changes after phacoemulsification surgery in patients with pseudoexfoliation syndrome (pex) and normal patients using an anterior segment imaging method. to evaluate the correlation between the amount of pseudoexfoliation (pxf) material on the anterior lens capsule, pigment in the iridocorneal angle, presenting intraocular pressure (iop) and severity of glaucoma in patients with pxf glaucoma/syndrome. the relationship between anterior chamber depth and presbyopia, and a possible geographical aspect, are discussed. 
Are polymorphisms in oestrogen receptors genes associated with lipid levels in response to hormone therapy? [SEP] plasma lipid profile is affected by endogenous estrogen levels and hormone replacement therapy (hrt). as plasma lipid concentrations have a significant heritable basis and the effects of both endogenous estrogen and use of hrt are mediated by estrogen receptors, we sought to investigate the relationships between polymorphisms in estrogen receptor-alpha (esr1) and plasma lipid and lipoprotein concentrations. our results suggest that common esr1 polymorphisms have a significant effect on lipoprotein metabolism in women. pharmacogenetics and association studies of estrogen metabolism genes and lipid levels, inflammatory markers, atherosclerosis and myocardial infarction are reviewed. variations in the oestrogen receptor alpha gene (esr1) and in genes involved in lipid metabolism may explain some of the variability in response to ht. it is also known that estrogen has antiatherogenic actions, therefore we considered examining whether there was any association between polymorphisms in estrogen-metabolizing genes and lipid levels in women. we investigated the association between variants in genes related to estrogen biosynthesis (cyp19-ttta(n)) and estrogen catabolism (cyp1a1*2a, cyp1a1*2c, cyp1a2-asn516asn, cyp3a4*1b, and comt-val158met) with serum lipid levels in a cross-sectional study with 472 brazilian women of european descent. pharmacogenomics, the study of genetic loci that modulate drug responsiveness, may help to explain why estrogen replacement therapy (ert) has differential effects on serum lipid and lipoprotein concentrations in postmenopausal women who inherit distinct alleles of the apolipoprotein e gene (apoe). therefore, we investigated the influence of estrogen receptor-alpha (esr1) gene polymorphisms on hdl levels in response to postmenopausal hrt. polymorphisms in the oestrogen receptor 1 (esr1) and oestrogen receptor 2 (esr2) genes are associated with intermediate or endpoint markers of cardiovascular disease and with the efficacy of postmenopausal hormone therapy (ht). 
Sternal plating for primary and secondary sternal closure; can it improve sternal stability? [SEP] sternal closure with rigid titanium plates (primary sternal plating) may reduce sternal wound complications in high-risk patients. we began performing primary sternal plating for the following indications: obesity, manual laborer, osteoporotic sternum, or intraoperative transverse sternal fracture. primary sternal plating appears to provide benefits over wire closure during the early postoperative period, but may not prevent late wound complications in patients with osteoporosis or extreme obesity. this study tests the hypothesis that sternal closure stability can be improved by adding plate fixation in a human cadaver model. transverse sternal plating with 1 or 4 plates significantly improves sternal stability closure in human cadaver model. adding a single sternal plate to primary closure improves the strength of sternal closure with traditional wiring potentially reducing the risk of sternal dehiscence and could be considered in high risk patients. we describe a simple technique of sternal closure using plates secured with screws. the transverse sternal plating system successfully achieved stability in all cases and is valuable in complex sternal reconstructions. sternal plating is an effective alternative to wire closure in sternum with fractures, chronic and acute instability, or poor bone quality. recent evidence suggests that rigid plate fixation for sternal closure may reduce the risk of sternal complications. 
Can dose reduction to one parotid gland prevent xerostomia? [SEP] typically, xerostomia is modeled by the mean dose-response characteristic of parotid glands and prevented by mean dose constraints to either contralateral or both parotid glands. reduction of the mean dose to parotid glands below quantec guidelines resulted in low g2 + xerostomia rates. in the treatment of head-neck cancer, parotid-sparing intensity-modulated radiotherapy (imrt) could reduce the incidence of xerostomia. we estimated the average mean dose delivered to the parotid glands, the incidence of xerostomia≥grade 2, patterns of failure, and survival outcomes. the average mean dose delivered to the superficial lobe of the contralateral parotid gland was 45.3gy and 26.6gy (p<0.001), and the incidence of xerostomia≥grade 2 following treatment was 75% and 26% at 12 months (p=0.012) and 67% and 18% at 24 months (p=0.018) in the 3d-crt and cslps-imrt groups, respectively. recent studies have suggested reducing the dose submandibular glands receive when patients undergo head and neck radiotherapy can play a crucial role in preventing xerostomia. these results may contribute to improve parotid sparing radiotherapy, thus reducing complications such as xerostomia in the future. to assess whether, in addition to sparing the parotid glands (pgs), xerostomia after chemotherapy plus intensity-modulated radiotherapy (chemo-imrt) for head-and-neck cancer is affected by reducing the dose to the other salivary glands. we assessed the hypothesis that parotid-sparing imrt reduces the incidence of severe xerostomia. sparing the parotid glands with imrt significantly reduces the incidence of xerostomia and leads to recovery of saliva secretion and improvements in associated quality of life, and thus strongly supports a role for imrt in squamous-cell carcinoma of the head and neck. 
Is the histidine triad nucleotide-binding protein 1 (HINT1) gene a candidate for schizophrenia? [SEP] previous studies have implicated a role of the histidine triad nucleotide-binding protein 1 (hint1) in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. the histidine triad nucleotide binding protein 1 (hint1) is closely related to many neuropsychiatric disorders. clinical studies supported that mutations in the hint1 gene correlated potentially with schizophrenia. recent findings in the literature suggest a relation between histidine triad nucleotide-binding protein-1 (hint1) and psychiatric disorders such as major depression, anxiety, and schizophrenia, although its physiological roles are not completely comprehended. using western blot, we compared hint1 protein expression in the postmortem dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and thalamus of schizophrenia patients and healthy controls for contributing to elucidate the role of hint1 in schizophrenia pathophysiology. our results combined to previous studies in human samples and preclinical models support the notion that hint1 must be more explored as a potential target for psychiatric disorders. recently, trinucleotide repeat (tnr)-containing genes have been considered as the candidate genes predisposing to schizophrenia. objective: although the etiology of schizophrenia is unknown, it has a significant genetic component. several putative schizophrenia susceptibility genes have recently been reported, but it is not clear whether these genes are associated with schizophrenia in general or with specific disease subtypes. in previous studies, we identified a locus for schizophrenia on 6q23.3 and proposed the abelson helper integration site 1 (ahi1) as the candidate gene. 
Increased neutrophil migratory activity after major trauma: a factor in the etiology of acute respiratory distress syndrome? [SEP] as ards is more frequently seen in trauma patients with chest injury, we investigated the influence of chest injury on the systemic neutrophil response and the development of ards. in this study, we investigated whether a relationship exists between neutrophil elastase in the plasma of multiple-trauma patients on initial hospital presentation and the subsequent development of lung injury and ards. this study examines the ability of neutrophils isolated (over the first 24 hrs) from the peripheral blood of patients admitted after major trauma to migrate in response to interleukin-8. significantly greater numbers of trauma patients' neutrophils migrated to concentrations of interleukin-8 (30 and 100 ng/ml) at each time point when compared with normal volunteers (mann-whitney u test, p <.05). neutrophils isolated from major trauma patients exhibited an enhanced migratory response to high concentrations of interleukin-8 throughout the first 24 hrs of admission, in contrast to the normal physiologic attenuation of migration seen in neutrophils isolated from normal laboratory volunteers. these data indicate that major blunt trauma enhances the migratory capacity of circulating neutrophils. the aim of this project was to gain more insight in the role of thoracic injuries in the pathophysiological processes that link systemic neutrophil activation with inflammatory complications after trauma. penetrating thoracic trauma leads to a distinct primed activation status of circulating neutrophils within hours. neutrophil-mediated lung injury is a cause of significant morbidity and mortality in patients with multiple injuries. neutrophils are recruited to the airways of patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards) where they acquire an activated pro-survival phenotype with an enhanced respiratory burst thought to contribute to ards pathophysiology. 
BCRABL transcript detection by quantitative real-time PCR : are correlated results possible from homebrew assays? [SEP] quantitative real-time pcr has become the predominant molecular technique to monitor bcrabl levels in response to treatment in ph(+) leukemia patients. the detection of bcrabl-positive results spanned a dynamic range from 10(0) to 10(5)/100,000 cells. these results suggest that quantitative real-time pcr assays for bcrabl detection can be comparable between laboratories despite significant differences in methodologies if the same positive control cell line and quality control gene are used. previous studies concerning bcr-abl mrna levels by quantitative real-time rt-pcr (q-pcr) for chronic myelogenous leukemia (cml) have shown a significant concordance between peripheral blood (pb) and bone marrow (bm) assays. we have developed a competitive polymerase chain reaction (pcr) titration assay that estimates the number of bcr-abl transcripts in chronic myeloid leukemia patients to monitor minimal residual disease after bone marrow transplantation (bmt). real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (rt-pcr) (qpcr) of the bcr-abl mrna is a suitable technique to measure the amount of circulating leukemic cells in chronic myelogenous leukemia (cml). we developed a dna real-time quantitative pcr (qpcr) method for quantification of bcr-abl1 sequences, which is also potentially suitable for routine use. bcr-abl1 sequences were quantified relative to bcr sequences in 521 assays on 266 samples from 92 patients. real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (pcr) for bcr-abl mrna in the peripheral blood (rq-pcr) provides an accurate and reliable measure of response to therapy in chronic myeloid leukaemia (cml). monitoring of bcr-abl transcript level is widely used in chronic myeloid leukemia (cml) to follow up response to therapy. 
Does higher body mass index contribute to worse asthma control in an urban population? [SEP] determine whether obesity or increasing level of body mass index (bmi) are associated with worse asthma control in an ethnically diverse urban population. urban minority populations experience increased rates of obesity and increased asthma prevalence and severity. the authors sought to determine whether obesity, as measured by body mass index (bmi), was associated with asthma quality of life or asthma-related emergency department (ed)/urgent care utilization in an urban, community-based sample of adults. in a community-based sample of urban asthmatic adults, obesity was related to worse asthma-specific quality of life and increased ed/urgent care utilization. while the effects of obesity on asthma are unclear, an increased body mass index (bmi) is known to enhance the symptoms and severity of asthma and to impair asthma control. it is widely accepted that obesity may be an independent risk factor for asthma and affect asthma severity and quality of life (qol). several studies have shown that overweight and obesity is associated with more severe asthma and impaired quality of life, compared with normal weight individuals. in conclusion, overweight and obesity is associated with poorer asthma control and, very importantly, overall poorer response to asthma therapy, compared with normal weight individuals. obesity is a risk factor for asthma in the general population, but the effect of obesity on airway hyperresponsiveness (afhr) or airway inflammation in asthma is not clear. obesity is a risk factor for asthma in the general population, but obesity in asthmatic patients is negatively correlated with the intensity of ahr and is not related to asthma severity. 
Does a physician's specialty influence the recording of medication history in patients' case notes? [SEP] to determine the impact of a physician's specialty on the frequency and depth of medication history documented in patient medical records. a cross-sectional assessment of the frequency and depth of medication history information documented by 123 physicians for 900 randomly selected patients stratified across cardiology, chest, dermatology, endocrine, gastroenterology, haematology, neurology, psychiatry and renal specialties was carried out at a 900-bed teaching hospital located in ibadan, nigeria. physicians' specialties significantly influenced the depth of documentation of the medication history information across the nine specialties (p < 0.0001). physicians' specialties also significantly influenced the frequency of documentation of the medication history across the nine specialties (p < 0.0001). physicians appear to document more frequently and in greater depth medication history information that may aid the diagnostic tasks in their specific specialty. researchers and other users of medication history data documented in patients' medical records by physicians may want to take special cognizance of this phenomenon. we have tested the hypothesis that the pattern of distribution of lexical concept of medication intensification in narrative provider notes correlates with clinical practice as reflected in electronic medication records. study objective in this study, the authors compare medication histories obtained in the emergency department (ed) by pharmacists versus physicians and identify characteristics contributing to discrepancies. 59% (95% ci 58.2% to 59.8%) of medication histories recorded by physicians were different from those obtained by the pharmacy staff. medication history taking is important because clinicians rely on the information that is collected; however, medication histories are often inaccurate and incomplete. 
Living in an urban environment and non-communicable disease risk in Thailand: Does timing matter? [SEP] the aim of this study was to determine the association between socioeconomic determinants and ht in thailand. the participants who had monthly income of <10001 baht (2005: aor = 3.19, 95%ci:1.47 - 6.92; 2006: aor 2.53, 95%ci:1.37 - 4.69; 2007: aor = 3.35, 95%ci: 1.97 - 7.00), were living in bangkok compared with the northeast region (2005: aor = 1.72, 95%ci:1.37 - 2.17; 2006: aor =  2.44, 95%ci: 1.89 - 3.13; 2007: aor =  2.63, 95%ci 2.08 - 3.45), lived as an urban resident (2005: aor= 1.32, 95%ci: 1.12 - 1.56; 2006: aor= 1.21, 95%ci: 1.02 - 1.43; 2007: aor= 1.47, 95%ci: 1.18 - 1.62), and finished primary education (2005: aor =1.21, 95%ci: 1.03 - 1.43; 2006: aor= 1.23, 95%ci: 1.04 - 1.46; 2007: aor= 1.18, 95%ci: 1.01 - 1.38) when controlling for other covariates. we examined cardiovascular risks in relation to timing of urbanization in thailand, paying attention to recent internal migrants. to relate cardiovascular outcomes (prevalence and incidence of hypertension and hyperlipidaemia) and life-course urbanization status (ie at age 12, 4 years ago [2005] and at present [2009]), we applied logistic regression. over the past half-century, thailand's health profile has been undergoing an epidemiologic transition in association with various fundamental societal changes, shifting from one with a predominant burden of communicable disease to one in which noncommunicable diseases and accidents now predominate. thailand is undergoing a health-risk transition which increases chronic diseases, particularly hypertension, as a result of a rapid transition from a developing to a developed country. urbanization is considered to be one of the key drivers of noncommunicable diseases (ncds) in thailand and other developing countries. thailand is one country facing many of the health challenges of urbanisation. living in urban areas is an important upstream determinant of health in thailand and urbanisation is a key element of the thai health-risk transition. in light of the current situation, this paper synthesizes what is known about the chronic non-communicable disease situation in thailand and analyzes current policy responses. 
Is renal warm ischemia over 30 minutes during laparoscopic partial nephrectomy possible? [SEP] although the maximal safe duration for warm ischemia during open partial nephrectomy is commonly accepted to be 30 minutes, the maximal safe ischemic time during laparoscopic partial nephrectomy has not been previously determined. current clinical data support a safe warm ischemia time (wit) limit of 30 minutes during laparoscopic partial nephrectomy (lpn) or robot-assisted partial nephrectomy (rpn). following clamping of the renal hilus, warm ischemia is an issue in laparoscopic partial nephrectomy. the newly developed technique expands the armamentarium of the urologist in laparoscopic partial nephrectomy, if the anticipated time of ischemia exceeds 30 min and renal hypothermia is indicated. we describe our initial experience with laparoscopic partial nephrectomy in cold ischemia achieved by renal artery perfusion. from november 2001 to march 2003 laparoscopic partial nephrectomy in cold ischemia was performed in 15 patients with renal cell carcinoma. our initial experience of incorporating cold ischemia via arterial perfusion into laparoscopic partial nephrectomy shows the feasibility and safety of the technique. the kidney is often exposed to warm ischemia during laparoscopic partial nephrectomy. the use of kidney warm ischaemia during laparoscopic partial nephrectomy (lpn) may lead to damage of renal vessels and kidney failure. warm ischemic injury is one of the most important factors affecting renal function in partial nephrectomy (pn). 
Does a febrile reaction to platelets predispose recipients to red blood cell alloimmunization? [SEP] repetitive platelet transfusion might lead to formation of alloantibodies. febrile non-haemolytic transfusion reactions are a common complication of platelet transfusions in people and may be due to accumulated inflammatory cytokines. immunization to platelet alloantigens can occur during pregnancy or after the transfusion of blood components. platelet alloantibodies can cause neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia and posttransfusion purpura. platelet typings confirmed that the patients were at risk for alloimmunization to the respective antigen. this report of three cases of maternal alloimmunization to antigens in the gov system indicates that immunization can occur via placental transfer of antigen and that gov system alloantibodies may be associated with neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia. red blood cell alloimmunisation after transfusion of red blood cell concentrates carries a risk for every recipient. however, red blood cell alloimmunisation can also occur after platelet concentrate transfusion. red blood cell alloimmunization is common in patients receiving multiple blood transfusions. both alloimmunization to class i human leucocyte antigens (hla), which causes febrile transfusion reactions and refractoriness to transfused platelets, and transmission of cytomegalovirus have been shown to be reduced by 3-log10 leucodepletion by filtration. 
Maternal creatine homeostasis is altered during gestation in the spiny mouse: is this a metabolic adaptation to pregnancy? [SEP] we hypothesized that maternal creatine supplementation from mid-pregnancy would protect the diaphragm of the newborn spiny mouse from the effects of intrapartum hypoxia. pregnant mice were fed a control or 5% creatine-supplemented diet from mid-gestation. maternal creatine significantly attenuated hypoxia-induced fiber atrophy, contractile dysfunction, and changes in mrna levels. maternal antenatal creatine supplementation protects the brain, kidney, and diaphragm against the effects of birth asphyxia in the spiny mouse. pregnant spiny mice were fed a control or creatine-supplemented diet from mid-pregnancy, and 1 d before term (39 d), fetuses were delivered by c-section with or without 7.5 min of birth asphyxia. the extreme metabolic demands of pregnancy require coordinated metabolic adaptations between mother and fetus to balance fetal growth and maternal health with nutrient availability. to determine maternal and fetal contributions to metabolic flexibility during gestation, pregnant mice with genetic impairments in mitochondrial carbohydrate and/or lipid metabolism were subjected to nutrient deprivation. the aim of the current study was to characterize many aspects of energy homeostasis before and during pregnancy in the mouse, and to examine the role of voluntary activity on changes in energy expenditure during pregnancy. in a secondary aim, we evaluate measures of energy homeostasis during pregnancy in mice that successfully reared their litter or in mice that went on to abandon their litter, to determine if an impairment in pregnancy-induced adaptation of energy homeostasis might underlie the abandonment of pups soon after birth. pregnancy in rodents is associated with important maternal metabolic changes. 
Pap smears with glandular cell abnormalities: Are they detected by rapid prescreening? [SEP] a substantial number of abnormal papanicolaou (pap) smears are reported as demonstrating "cytologic atypia." papanicolaou (pap) test interpretations of atypical glandular cells are associated with subsequent detection of squamous and, less often, glandular malignancies. this retrospective study describes an institutional experience with pap test dual reporting of squamous and glandular atypia and patient follow-up in these cases. over a 6-year period, dual pap test interpretations with both squamous and glandular atypia were more often associated with squamous than glandular lesions. a papanicolaou (pap) smear can be used to detect pre-cancerous cellular changes, so that they can be treated before they develop into cervical cancer. pap smear is often employed as a screening test for diagnosing cervical pre-cancerous and cancerous lesions. the standard screening test for detecting cervical lesions and cancers is a papanicolaou (pap) smear. while squamous cell abnormalities remain the most common positive pap test result, cytologic findings of glandular cell abnormalities have become more frequent in recent decades. current diagnostic approaches for primary cervical cancer screening, work-up of equivocal or positive screening results or follow- up after treatment of precancerous lesions primarily rely on the morphologic interpretation of squamous epithelial cells (pap cytology), in some setting accompanied by the detection of human papillomavirus dna and have largely contributed to remarkable reduction of disease incidence in countries with implemented screening programs. this study was designed to determine whether screening for high-risk human papillomaviruses testing could improve the detection of cervical dysplasia and cancer in assistance with conventional papanicoloau (pap) smears. 
The HELPP syndrome--evidence of a possible systemic inflammatory response in pre-eclampsia? [SEP] preeclampsia appears to be associated with a higher extent of inflammation than in uncomplicated pregnancies. the maternal syndrome of preeclampsia has recently been attributed to a systemic intravascular inflammatory response and endothelial cell activation and dysfunction. this study was designed to determine whether women with preeclampsia have evidence of intravascular inflammation by examination of the phenotypic and metabolic activity of granulocytes and monocytes. preeclampsia is associated with phenotypic and metabolic changes in granulocytes and monocytes. we have proposed that the maternal syndrome of pre-eclampsia is caused by a systemic inflammatory response involving both leucocytes and endothelium. endothelial dysfunction and trophoblastic hypoperfusion seen in preeclampsia suggested to be part of an increased maternal inflammatory response to pregnancy. the results confirm that inflammatory reactions are closely associated with preeclampsia. although the etiology of preeclampsia is not well understood, it has been suggested that excessive systemic inflammation may lead to oxidative stress, promoting the endothelial dysfunction characteristic of preeclampsia. preeclampsia is a pregnancy-specific disease characterised by maternal hypertension that is preceded by endothelial cell activation and an inappropriate inflammatory response. in this case report, we aimed to present a woman with acute postpartum hellp syndrome complicated by pulmonary edema after caesarean section following severe preeclampsia. 
Spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy with resection of the splenic vessels. Should one rely on the short gastric arteries? [SEP] spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy with conservation of the splenic artery and vein was recently devised as a feasible operation. we report the case of a patient who underwent spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy with conservation of the splenic artery and vein, combined with distal gastrectomy, for gastric cancer and a distal pancreatic lesion. this case report demonstrates that spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy with conservation of the splenic artery and vein combined with distal gastrectomy can be performable synchronously and is a feasible alternative to avoid unnecessary total gastrectomy. during distal pancreatectomy, the splenic artery that supplies arterial blood to the cardiac part of stomach is resected. splenic preservation (sp) during distal pancreatectomy can be accomplished by ligating the main splenic artery and vein relying on blood supply from the short gastric vessels. splenic preservation relying on blood supply from the short gastric vessels is reliable and safe and does not have a higher incidence of postoperative complications when compared to traditional distal pancreatectomy with splenectomy. knowing the collaterals is essential for a spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy with resection of the splenic vessels. to ascertain the sources of the blood supply to the spleen after a spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy with resection of the splenic vessels. ct angiography of the gastric and splenic vessels before and after a spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy (n=10). experimental, intra- and postoperative instrumental investigations did not show the short gastric arteries to be engaged in the blood supply to the spleen after a spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy with resection of the splenic vessels. 
Delayed peripheral facial palsy in the stapes surgery: can it be prevented? [SEP] delayed facial nerve palsy, a condition characterized by spontaneous deterioration of facial nerve function in patients who had otherwise normal or near-normal facial function in the immediate postoperative period, has been reported in 15 to 29% of patients undergoing microsurgical resection of vestibular schwannomas. delayed facial nerve paresis is a well known clinical phenomenon following acoustic neuroma surgery, typically occurring early during the postoperative course. facial nerve palsy is a rare complication of stapedectomy. the authors present a case of a 59-year-old man who developed right delayed peripheral facial nerve palsy occurring after uncomplicated ipsilateral stapedectomy. delayed facial palsy occurs after approximately 15% of acoustic neuroma resections. there was a bimodal distribution of the delayed palsies, with one group having the onset of palsy within hours to 2 days after surgery and the second group having onset of palsy up to 17 days after surgery. delayed facial palsy is a complication of otologic surgery. eight patients (1.71%) developed delayed facial palsy, but no statistically significant difference was observed between the 2 surgical approaches. delayed facial palsy after acoustic neuroma resection may occur in up to 15% of cases. this delayed paralysis has been attributed to edema from surgical manipulation of the facial nerve. 
Hepatic arterial embolization for unresectable hepatocellular carcinomas: do technical factors affect prognosis? [SEP] transcatheter arterial embolization is a major palliative treatment for unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma, but the survival benefit of transcatheter arterial embolization is controversial. to evaluate the role of transcatheter arterial embolization in different stage of unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma and to select patients who can get the best benefit from the treatment. we studied the prognoses of ruptured hepatocellular carcinoma cases where hepatectomy was possible after transcatheter arterial embolization. transcatheter arterial embolization induces marked antitumor response in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, but the survival benefit of transcatheter arterial embolization remains to be determined. this study investigated prognostic factors in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma treated by transcatheter arterial embolization. a total of 128 consecutive patients with non-resectable hepatocellular carcinoma, who had undergone transcatheter arterial embolization between may 1990 and august 1998, were analyzed to investigate prognostic factors. to evaluate the role of embolization in unresectable hepatocellular carcinomas larger than 10 cm. embolization-related mortality is low for huge hepatocellular carcinoma, and the technique provides survival benefit in patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinomas larger than 10 cm in diameter. we retrospectively analyzed 206 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma who received transcatheter arterial embolization and compared them with 193 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma who underwent angiography along. to evaluate retrospectively whether technical factors of hepatic arterial embolization affect the prognosis of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc). 
Are pelvic anatomical structures in danger during arthroscopic acetabular labral repair? [SEP] in the setting of femoroacetabular impingement, the acetabular labrum may be torn or pathologic, and it must be surgically repaired to restore the native suction seal and hip function. the acetabular labrum is critical to hip function. this study found femoral deformities to contribute more to labral damage than acetabular deformities and highlighted the importance of preoperative 3d ct scans. this study provides demographic and morphologic factors to review preoperatively to evaluate if extensive labral damage is present and if suture anchor refixation will be required. indications for combined arthroscopic labral refixation included symptomatic labral injury and mri findings suggestive of labral detachment from the acetabular rim indicating a repairable tear. the acetabular labrum is a dynamic structure important for both hip stability and functional motion. hip pain and instability are often caused by injuries to the acetabular labrum. these findings show that neuromonitoring during hip arthroscopic labral repair and debridement procedures might be useful to prevent temporary and permanent neural tissue injuries. injuries to the acetabular labrum have been seen in association with femoroacetabular impingement, but recent studies have reported labral pathology in patients with normal hip morphology. the results confirm the importance of considering both femoral morphology and athletic-type activities of the hip when determining the mechanism responsible for injury of the acetabular labrum. 
Staging laparoscopy in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma: is it useful? [SEP] laparoscopy is an increasingly important tool in the staging and treatment for potentially resectable liver metastases. the authors describe the technique of staging laparoscopy with laparoscopic contact ultrasonography in the preoperative assessment of patients with liver tumors, and assess its impact on the selection of patients for hepatic resection with curative intent. this study analyzes a cohort of 50 consecutive patients who were diagnosed as having potentially resectable liver tumors, and in whom staging laparoscopy was successfully undertaken. laparoscopic staging remains useful in detecting occult intra- and extra-hepatic tumour in selected patients with potentially operable colorectal liver metastases. laparoscopy is an increasingly important tool in the staging and treatment of hepatic malignancies. this study evaluates the effect of staging laparoscopy (sl) using intraoperative ultrasonography (ious) on the regional treatment of isolated hepatic colorectal metastasis. with the recent introduction of laparoscopic partial hepatectomy and laparoscopic/open radiofrequency ablation for hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc), the role of preoperative laparoscopic staging may be expanded. preoperative laparoscopy and laparoscopic ultrasonography as an adjunct to preoperative imaging techniques provide more accurate staging for patients with potentially resectable hepatic focal lesions. laparoscopic staging for hcc in advanced cirrhosis can clearly characterize tumor burden when preoperative radiological assessment is equivocal. this investigation was undertaken to define the value of laparoscopy in the staging of patients with colorectal carcinoma metastatic to the liver. 
Can echocardiography and ECG discriminate hereditary transthyretin V30M amyloidosis from hypertrophic cardiomyopathy? [SEP] hereditary transthyretin (attr) amyloidosis with increased left ventricular wall thickness could easily be misdiagnosed by echocardiography as hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (hcm). the hypertrophy in amyloidosis is typically diffuse; however, rare reports of echocardiographic resemblances with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (hcm) exist, such as asymmetric septal hypertrophy and left ventricular outflow tract obstruction. cardiac mri can help differentiate amyloidosis from hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in unclear situations. here we present the case of a 76-year-old man with cardiomyopathy who had echocardiographic features of asymmetric hypertrophic cardiomyopathy but was correctly diagnosed with amyloidosis with the help of cardiac mri and ecg. transthyretin (ttr)-related cardiac amyloidosis is a progressive infiltrative cardiomyopathy that mimics hypertensive, hypertrophic heart disease and may go undiagnosed. identifying transthyretin cardiac amyloidosis requires increased awareness of the prevalence, signs and symptoms, and diagnostic tools available for discrimination of this progressive form of cardiomyopathy associated with left ventricular hypertrophy. cardiac involvement determines prognosis and treatment options in transthyretin-familial amyloidosis. this study hypothesized that myocardial extracellular volume allows identification of amyloidotic cardiomyopathy and correlates with the degree of neurological impairment in transthyretin-familial amyloidosis. when diagnosing a restrictive hypertrophied cardiomyopathy, most echocardiographists consider cardiac amyloidosis as a possible cause, especially after the appearance of 'granular' sparkling echoes on a transthoracic echocardiography. background: a proportion of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (hcm) have a diagnosis of cardiac amyloidosis. 
Does pediatric housestaff experience influence tests ordered for infants in the neonatal intensive care unit? [SEP] to assess the relationship between the experience of pediatric housestaff and tests ordered on infants in the neonatal intensive care unit (icu). one academic level iii neonatal intensive care nursery. these infants were cared for by 14 different categorical pediatric housestaff. control variables included the severity-of-illness of the individual infant (using the neonatal therapeutic intervention scoring system), the workload of the houseofficer (number of patients, number of admissions), and supervision (rounding frequency and on-call attending). controlling for the severity-of-illness of the infant, the workload on the call night, and supervision with multiple linear regression, we found that interns ordered significantly (p = .02) greater numbers of arterial blood gases per infant than residents, amounting to some 0.33 blood gases per infant per call night (3.22 vs. 2.89 arterial blood gases per infant per night). interns order significantly more arterial blood gases per infant than junior and senior residents on-call in the neonatal icu. additional study is required to see if the experience of housestaff is associated with a broader array of neonatal outcomes, such as morbidity and mortality. little is known of how the inexperience or the clinical workload of housestaff affects the decisions they make in the neonatal intensive care unit (nicu). the authors hypothesized that less experienced interns would order more tests per infant than more experienced residents, especially under conditions of heavy workload. when workload became heavier (about five nicu patients), the interns increased their ordering of abgs per infant to a significantly greater degree than did the residents (p = .01), with the difference being even greater on weekends when the housestaff were under less supervision (p = .004). 
Is robotically assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy less invasive than retropubic radical prostatectomy? [SEP] laparoscopic prostatectomy, whether or not coupled with robotic assistance, is often considered less invasive than open radical retropubic prostatectomy (rrp). robotic-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy (ralp) offers reportedly comparable oncologic outcomes for localized disease compared with open radical retropubic prostatectomy (orrp). robotic-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy (ralp) has largely replaced open radical prostatectomy in many centers. we present a review of the available literature on robotic-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy. robotic-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy (rlrp) is increasingly becoming an alternative to open and laparoscopic radical prostatectomy in the treatment of localized prostate cancer. robotic-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy is the ideal technique, providing good oncologic and functional outcomes. we analyzed the impact of robotic surgical systems on practice patterns among urologists to explain changes in the value of radical retropubic prostatectomy, laparoscopic radical prostatectomy and robotic-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy in a single institution in taiwan. changes in the ratio of robotic-assisted prostatectomies compared to radical retropubic and laparoscopic radical prostatectomies demonstrated a trend toward robotic-assisted procedures. recently, robotic-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy has replaced open retropubic radical prostatectomy as the surgical procedure of choice. robot-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy (ralp) has emerged as a minimally invasive alternative to open radical prostatectomy (orp) for the treatment of clinically localized prostate cancer. 
Nasal polyposis: is there an inheritance pattern? [SEP] nasal polyposis (np) is defined as a chronic inflammatory disease of sinonasal mucosa leading to diffuse formation of benign polyps. this study strongly indicates that heredity is a factor of importance for development of nasal polyps. we hypothesize that the expression of unique genes is associated with the nasal polyposis phenotype. nasal polyposis (np) is frequently found to run in families. nasal polyposis is highly prevalent in the general population. nasal polyposis is a common clinical problem. the aim of this study was to investigate whether there is a connection between nasal hyperreactivity and nasal polyposis. nasal polyposis (np) is a chronic inflammatory disease of the upper airways with a variable clinical course and unknown pathogenesis that often coexists with other conditions. our results suggest that this genetic background plays a more relevant role in the development of the associated clinical features of nasal polyposis than in simple polyposis. nasal polyposis is a benign hyperplastic growth of nasal mucosa. 
c-Kit-dependent growth of uveal melanoma cells: a potential therapeutic target? [SEP] many studies have highlighted the critical role of c-kit in normal melanocyte development but its role in melanoma development remains unclear. to address the role of these c-kit mutants in the transformation of melanocytes, we characterized the physiological responses of melanocytes expressing the most frequent c-kit mutants found in melanoma (k642e and l576p) and a novel mutant we identified in an acral melanoma. c-kit is expressed in the majority of patients with metastatic uveal melanoma. the lack of a correlation between c-kit expression and clinical outcomes requires further investigation on the mechanism of sunitinib in metastatic uveal melanoma. this study was conducted to investigate the expression and functional impact of the proto-oncogene c-kit in uveal melanoma. based on immunohistochemical (ihc) study of paraffin-embedded specimens from 134 uveal melanomas and western blot analysis on eight fresh-frozen samples the expression of c-kit in uveal melanoma was studied. furthermore, the phosphorylation of c-kit and the impact of the tyrosine kinase inhibitor sti571 was examined in the three uveal melanoma cell lines ocm-1, ocm-3, and 92-1. c-kit was strongly expressed and tyrosine phosphorylated in cultured uveal melanoma cells compared with cutaneous melanoma cells. moreover, in contrast to cutaneous melanoma cell lines c-kit maintained a high phosphorylation level in serum-depleted uveal melanoma cells. the results confirm that c-kit is vastly expressed in uveal melanoma, suggest that the c-kit molecular pathway may be important in uveal melanoma growth, and point to its use as a target for therapy with sti571. 
Pharmacologic regimens for knee osteoarthritis prevention: can they be cost-effective? [SEP] we sought to determine the target populations and drug efficacy, toxicity, cost, and initiation age thresholds under which a pharmacologic regimen for knee osteoarthritis (oa) prevention could be cost-effective. we used the osteoarthritis policy (oapol) model, a validated state-transition simulation model of knee oa, to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of using disease-modifying oa drugs (dmoads) as prophylaxis for the disease. current practice guidelines emphasize the use of physical activity as the first-line treatment of knee osteoarthritis; however, up to 90% of people with osteoarthritis are inactive. the pharmacological treatment of knee osteoarthritis (oa) is a purely symptomatic therapy, which often ensures that the mobility of the patient is successfully retained. this article refers to the recommendations and opinions regarding the pharmacotherapy of knee oa contained in the new guideline of the association of the scientific medical societies in germany (awmf), highlighting several important aspects and describing the considerations underlying the decision-making process. treatment goals for knee osteoarthritis (oa) include preservation of mobility, control of pain, and delaying total knee replacement (tkr). with no disease-modifying osteoarthritis drugs on the immediate horizon, the goal of osteoarthritis therapy remains management of pain and maintenance of function. evidence also supports the use of opioids in osteoarthritis pain management when other interventions are insufficient. non-pharmacological, non-surgical interventions are recommended as the first line of treatment for osteoarthritis (oa) of the hip and knee. providing physiotherapy programmes in addition to usual care is more cost-effective than usual care alone in the management of osteoarthritis at 24 months. 
Is anorectal endosonography valuable in dyschesia? [SEP] the aim of this prospective study was to demonstrate dysfunction of the anal sphincter and/or the musculus (m.) puborectalis in patients with dyschesia using anorectal endosonography. twenty consecutive patients with a medical history of dyschesia and a control group of 20 healthy subjects underwent linear anorectal endosonography (toshiba models iuv 5060 and pvl-625 rt). linear anorectal endosonography demonstrated incomplete or even absent relaxation of the anal sphincter and the m. puborectalis during a defecation movement in the majority of our patients with dyschesia. endosonography may be used for diagnosing various anorectal disorders. the different modalities, the endosonography technique itself and its value in benign anorectal disease were described. endosonography is mostly used in the assessment of faecal incontinence; it has brought new insight into the pathophysiological mechanisms of this disorder and can select patients with traumatic incontinence for sphincter repair. the goals of this study were to evaluate findings at anal endosonography in patients with anal incontinence and to study whether endosonography might replace needle electromyographic mapping in providing information on the external anal sphincter. anal endosonography is an established technique in the evaluation of anorectal disease. anal endosonography has become an important imaging method in the diagnosis of anorectal disorders. endosonography is now an effective tool for the assessment of anorectal pathologies. 
Production of chemokines by perivascular adipose tissue: a role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis? [SEP] key teaching points: • adipose tissue as a source of inflammatory mediators • changes in the vascular wall as a result of outside-to-inside signaling • anatomy, physiology, and clinical implications of epicardial and pericoronary adipose tissue activity • adipokines and their role in obesity-related atherosclerosis • therapeutic perspectives and future directions. adipokines produced by periadventitial fat have been implicated in the pathogenesis of vascular disease, including atherosclerosis. perivascular adipose tissue exhibits characteristics of active local inflammation, which contributes to the development of atherosclerotic disease as a complication of obesity/metabolic syndrome. in the setting of obesity, adipose tissue produces a variety of inflammatory cytokines (or adipokines) that are known to modulate key mechanisms of atherogenesis. the present review outlines our current understanding of the cellular and molecular links between perivascular adipose tissue and atherosclerosis with a focus on potential mechanisms by which epicardial perivascular adipose tissue contributes to obesity-related coronary disease. the pathophysiology of perivascular adipose tissue in obesity and its influence on oxidative stress, inflammation, endothelial dysfunction and vascular reactivity is addressed. locally produced adipokines, especially by periadventitial adipose tissue, may affect vascular physiology and pathology. we investigated the expression of adiponectin, visfatin, leptin and novel adipokines chemerin and vaspin in human periaortic and epicardial adipose tissue, as well as their correlation to aortic and coronary atherosclerosis. our results show: a) a different expression pattern of adiponectin, visfatin, leptin, chemerin and vaspin in periaortic, pericoronary and apical epicardial adipose tissue, b) a correlation of these adipokines with either aortic or coronary atherosclerosis or both in a pattern characteristic for each adipokine and suggest that locally produced adipokines might differently affect the atherosclerotic process in different locations. although it is known that white adipose tissue (wat) produces numerous proinflammatory and proatherogenic cytokines and chemokines, it is unclear whether adipose-derived chemotactic signals affect the chronic inflammation in atherosclerosis. 
Continuity of care experience of residents in an academic vascular department: are trainees learning complete surgical care? [SEP] central to the education of future surgeons is residency which involves training and learning on patients. we examined the quality of surgical outcomes of vascular patients when residents were involved in their surgical case. operative experience is important in developing surgical skills and technical competency. although simulation-based training allows residents to become proficient in surgical skills outside the or, residents still depend on senior surgeons' guidance in transferring skills accumulated from simulators into the operating room. it is an ongoing challenge to maintain surgical efficiency while integrating trainee participation. the impact of resident involvement in the operating room for common procedures in obstetrics and gynaecology can shed light on the resource demands of teaching. one important form of surgical training for residents is their participation in actual operations, for instance as an assistant or supervised surgeon. the current structure of residency training allows for safe participation of residents in the care of surgical patients. as vascular surgery training paradigms evolve, one measure of success is operative experience. we want to evaluate the teaching effectiveness for residents under the supervision of attending surgeons with different levels of seniority. 
Household and food shopping environments: do they play a role in socioeconomic inequalities in fruit and vegetable consumption? [SEP] household and food shopping environmental factors are thought to contribute to these differences. to determine whether household and food shopping environmental factors are associated with fruit and vegetable (fv) intakes, and contribute to socioeconomic inequalities in fv consumption. there were significant socioeconomic inequalities in fruit and vegetable consumption (ors of not consuming fruit and vegetables were 4.26 and 5.47 among the lowest-educated groups for fruit and vegetables, respectively); however, these were not explained by any household or food shopping environmental factors. neighbourhood differences in access to fresh fruit and vegetables may explain social inequalities in diet. food shopping behaviors may help determine how local food environments influence fruit and vegetable (f/v) intake, especially among food insecure households. we found socio-economic inequalities in the quantities of fresh vegetables, in the spending on fresh and processed vegetables but not in the quantities of processed vegetables. local food environments influence fresh produce purchase and consumption, and previous research has found disparities in local food environments by income and ethnicity. retail food environments (foodscapes) are a recognised determinant of eating behaviours and may contribute to inequalities in diet. this study examined variations in fruit and vegetable consumption among adults from neighbourhoods of varying socioeconomic status (ses) across seven countries (australia, canada, netherlands, new zealand, portugal, scotland, us). logistic regression was used to examine associations between neighbourhood-level ses and binary fruit and vegetable consumption separately, adjusting for neighbourhood clustering and age, gender and education. 
Does birth center care during a woman's first pregnancy have any impact on her future reproduction? [SEP] women's experiences of childbirth may affect their future reproduction, and the model of care affects their experiences, suggesting that a causal link may exist between model of care and future reproduction. the study objective was to examine whether the birth center model of care during a woman's first pregnancy affects whether or not she has a second baby, and on the spacing to the next birth. between october 1989 and july 1993, a total of 1860 women at low medical risk in early pregnancy, who participated in a randomized controlled trial of in-hospital birth center care versus standard care, gave birth. a woman's model of care, such as birth center care, during her first pregnancy does not seem to be a sufficiently important factor to affect subsequent reproduction in sweden. it was concluded that in subfertile women trying to achieve a subsequent pregnancy with ivf or icsi, a history of caesarean section was associated with a reduced live birth rate per embryo transfer compared to women with a history of one previous vaginal delivery. does the endometrial preparation protocol for frozen embryo transfer (fet) have an impact on perinatal outcomes? is in vitro fertilization treatment with or without intracytoplasmatic sperm injection (ivf/icsi) associated with changes in first and second trimester embryonic and fetal growth trajectories and birthweight in singleton pregnancies? does the quality of a single transferred embryo have an effect on the pregnancy outcome? is out-of-hospital vaginal birth at a birth center safe for women with a previous cesarean section? do their maternal or neonatal outcomes vary significantly from those of a "non-cesarean" control group? 
Are environmental factors important in primary systemic vasculitis? [SEP] environmental triggers, including those from pathogens, are thought to play an important role in triggering autoimmune diseases, such as vasculitis, in genetically susceptible individuals. a combination of risk factors are involved in susceptibility to a primary or secondary form of vasculitis. most forms of vasculitis are probably genetically based but environmentally triggered. environmental and predisposing genetic factors are known to play a crucial role in the development of systemic autoimmune diseases. although the aetiology of anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (anca)-associated vasculitis remains unclear, it is generally believed that environmental factors such as infections contribute to its development of anca-associated vasculitis. prior epstein-barr virus (ebv) infection is reported to be a trigger of systemic vasculitis. the causal link between the two pathologies could not be proved, but primary ebv infection may play a role in the initiation or exacerbation of anca-associated vasculitis. to investigate the association between primary systemic vasculitis (psv) and environmental risk factors. most genetic risk variants in immune-mediated diseases, including systemic vasculitis, are localized to non-coding genetic regions suggesting they might increase disease risk by influencing regulatory elements within the genome. conclusion: environmental factors can trigger the onset of sle in genetically susceptible cases. 
Is low serum chloride level a risk factor for cardiovascular mortality? [SEP] however, the association of serum chloride level (cl-) with mortality or risk of cardiovascular (cv) events in chronic kidney disease (ckd) remains unclear. low serum chloride is common in patients with chronic heart failure (chf) and is associated with worse outcomes. we investigated the clinical and prognostic associations, including cause of death associations, of low serum chloride in patients referred to a secondary care clinic with suspected heart failure. lower serum chloride (cl) levels are strongly associated with increased long-term mortality after admission for acute heart failure (ahf). serum chloride concentrations have clinical significance in the prognosis of heart failure (hf). this study sought to investigate the prognostic ability of admission serum chloride for long-term mortality in chf patients. admission serum chloride concentrations of patients were independently and inversely associated with long-term mortality (hazard ratio [hr]: 0.890; 95% ci: 0.863 to 0.918; p < 0.001). lower serum chloride levels are independently and incrementally associated with increased mortality risk in patients with chronic heart failure. patients with serum chloride ≤ 100 mm/l at 6 months tracked with increase mortality when adjusted by age, sex, pulmonary vascular resistance, diuretics or prostacyclin analogs usage, and serum creatinine and sodium at 6 months (hazard ratio, 1.83; 95% ci, 1.11-3.00). limited data suggest serum chloride levels associate with mortality in heart failure, chronic kidney disease (ckd), and pulmonary arterial hypertension. 
Is EQ-5D a valid quality of life instrument in patients with acute coronary syndrome? [SEP] the eq-5d is a generic questionnaire generating a health profile and a single index score for health-related quality of life. to analyze the construct validity of the eq-5d in patients with acute coronary syndromes (acs). levels of responses to eq-5d items and the eq vas score were significantly better for patients with very mild/mild perceived disease severity compared to severe/very severe, for patients with lower comorbidity, for patients with lower symptom responses, and for patients with a higher cardiac-related functioning. the euroqol group 5-dimension (eq-5d) questionnaire is frequently used as an outcome measure of general patient-reported health-related quality of life (hrqol). the euroqol 5d (eq-5d) is a standardised instrument for measuring health-related quality of life (hrqol). the eq-5d has been extensively used to assess patient utility in trials of new treatments within the cardiovascular field. the aims of this study were to review evidence of the validity and reliability of the eq-5d, and to summarise utility scores based on the use of the eq-5d in clinical trials and in studies of patients with cardiovascular disease. the published evidence generally supports the validity and reliability of the eq-5d as an outcome measure within the cardiovascular area. the euroqol eq-5d is a generic questionnaire for describing and valuing patients' health-related quality of life. the eq-5d measures quality of life based on self-reported health status in 5 dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. 
Could Adult European Pharmacoresistant Epilepsy Patients Be Treated With Higher Doses of Zonisamide? [SEP] to examine the clinical effect (efficacy and tolerability) of high doses of zonisamide (zns) (>500 mg/d) in adult patients with pharmacoresistant epilepsy. zonisamide in polytherapy in all (100%), administered in tritherapy in 3 (33%) of 9 patients; mean dose: 633 (600-700) mg/d; efficacy (>50% seizure reduction) was observed in 5 (55%) of 9 patients. high doses of zns are effective and safe in pharmacoresistant epileptic patients. zonisamide (zns), a second-generation antiepileptic drug, indicated as add-on treatment of focal epilepsy, has been recently approved as monotherapy for the treatment of partial seizures in adults affected by newly diagnosed epilepsy in europe. zonisamide (zns) is a new aed effective in the treatment of refractory epilepsy and since it is only prescribed in polytherapy regimens, its interactions with other aeds is of particular importance. zonisamide is an antiepileptic drug with multiple mechanisms of action, corresponding to efficacy in diverse epilepsy syndromes. here, an update on pharmacodynamics, pharmacokinetics, clinical efficacy and safety in childhood and adult epilepsies is given based on an analysis of controlled and uncontrolled studies, european, us and east asian, and on clinical experience with zonisamide (zns) published up to 2009. either as adjunctive therapy or monotherapy, zonisamide effectively reduces the frequency of partial seizures, with or without secondary generalisation to tonic-clonic seizures, in adults and children with epilepsy. zonisamide is a broad spectrum antiepileptic drug with multiple mechanisms of action which has been recently approved in the us and europe as an adjunctive therapy for refractory partial seizures in adults. zonisamide (zns) is a new antiepileptic drug (aed) efficient in treating refractory epilepsy. 
Does early migraine treatment shorten time to headache peak and reduce its severity? [SEP] however, early intervention was not associated with reduced headache severity at peak. in multivariate analysis, early treatment, use of triptans, and mild migraine headache in the past 3 months were significantly associated with shorter time from onset to headache peak. early treatment and use of triptans may lead to shorter duration from migraine headache onset to its peak but did not alleviate headache severity at peak. this could result in decreased migraine burden by reducing total migraine headache duration. early treatment also has been proposed to be advantageous because most migraineurs could be less responsive to delayed treatment, owing to the development of central sensitization of the trigeminal pain transmission. although research suggests that early treatment of migraine headache when the pain is mild results in better outcomes for patients, many patients delay taking their acute-migraine medication until their headaches are moderate or severe. while treating migraine early when the headache is mild is believed to link to improved treatment outcomes, it is not clear whether patients can correctly self-identify a headache as a migraine at onset in real-world settings. to determine whether time-based early treatment, independent of pain intensity, is superior to a pain intensity-based treatment, where patients are asked to treat at least moderate intensity headaches, resulting in a reduction of overall migraine headache duration. total headache duration was significantly shorter in the early treatment group compared to the standard treatment group. migraine is a disabling neurological condition and it is well described that early treatment is more effective and less likely to lead to headache recurrence. 
Does the manic/mixed episode distinction in bipolar disorder patients run true over time? [SEP] patients with bipolar disorder frequently have varying degrees of mixed states rather than pure episodic manic and depressive episodes. this study examined dsm-iii-r manic symptoms in a cohort of 183 bipolar i inpatients hospitalized for mixed mania (diagnosed by broad or narrow criteria) or pure manic episodes. the results indicate that clinicians were more likely to diagnose a pure mania from the beginning to end of an episode than to diagnose a mixed mania from its beginning to end. the observed differences in manic symptom profiles between mixed and pure mania may aid in the clinical assessment of dysphoric states among bipolar patients. episodes of bipolar disorder are defined as depressive or manic, but depressive and manic symptoms can combine in the same episode. the authors reviewed the evolution of the concept of mixed states and examined the symptom structure of mixed states studied as predominantly manic, predominantly depressive, and across both manic and depressive episodes, showing essentially parallel structures of mixed states based on manic or depressive episodes. in the current study we report on symptom presentations of 68 prospectively-evaluated subjects diagnosed with bipolar disorder during two discrete manic or mixed episodes. manic and mixed episodes tend to recur true to type. this study was aimed to test the existence of a bipolar-mixed continuum by comparing the characteristics of three groups classified according to patterns of past and current manic or mixed episodes. 134 bipolar i inpatients were divided according to their pattern of excitatory "mixed-like" episodes in three groups: 1) lifetime history of purely manic episodes without mixed features (pma); 2) lifetime history of both manic and mixed episodes (mix) and 3) lifetime history exclusively of mixed, but not manic, episodes (pmix). 
Post-tonsillectomy late haemorrhage: is it a preferably night-time event? [SEP] postoperative hemorrhage is a serious complication of tonsillectomy, with secondary bleeding rates affecting up to 0.8% to 3% of patients. we measured the frequency of post-tonsillectomy hemorrhage onset relative to the time of day. in this cohort, post-tonsillectomy hemorrhage occurred most frequently between midnight and 6 am. based on the findings of this study, we believe that a postoperative follow-up period of 10 days is sufficient to identify all but the most rare cases of post-tonsillectomy hemorrhage. the post-tonsillectomy haemorrhage occurs rarely, but is a life-threatening complication. to analyse the post-tonsillectomy haemorrhage rate, and to determine whether the effect of the surgical technique on the haemorrhage rate exists. post-tonsillectomy haemorrhage occured in 46 (4.23%) patients. post-tonsillectomy haemorrhages occurred in 104 patients (4.71 per cent) who underwent their procedure on a weekday and in 10 patients (7.09 per cent) who had their surgery at the weekend (p = 0.20). the objective of this study was to determine the post-tonsillectomy haemorrhage rate, and relate the surgical technique, diagnosis and patient age. a prospective, nonrandomized cohort study of postoperative hemorrhage after tonsillectomy. 
Acute hepatitis C in Israel: a predominantly iatrogenic disease? [SEP] to define the prevalence of hcv rna in a population of patients on dialysis in israel, to determine the relative risk of acquiring hcv infection while treated by hemodialysis or chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis, and to define the hcv genotypes in this population. chronic hepatitis c is an insidious disease associated with significant morbidity and mortality. hepatitis c virus (hcv) is considered the most common aetiology of chronic liver disease (cld) in egypt. hepatitis c virus is a major public health problem leading to cirrhosis and increased risk for development of hepatocellular carcinoma, both leading indications for liver transplantation. egypt has the highest prevalence of hepatitis c of worldwide. hepatitis c virus (hcv) infection, defined by active carriage of hcv rna, affects nearly 1.0% of the worldwide population. here, we review the current available data on hcv epidemiology, the beneficial effects of therapy, and discuss the recent controversy with respect to the potential link with liver cancer. infection with hepatitis c virus (hcv) is estimated to affect 3% of the world's population and is an important cause of liver disease. chronic hepatitis c is a common cause of liver disease, the complications of which include cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. chronic hepatitis c infection is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide, with hepatitis c related cirrhosis being the most common indication for transplant and a major cause for the increase in hepatocellular carcinoma worldwide. 
Out of the smokescreen II: will an advertisement targeting the tobacco industry affect young people's perception of smoking in movies and their intention to smoke? [SEP] this study experimentally examined how motivation for smoking depicted in movies affects self-reported future smoking risk (a composite measure with items that assess smoking refusal self-efficacy and smoking intentions) among early adolescents. compared with participants exposed to movie scenes depicting characters smoking with no clear motive, adolescents exposed to movie scenes depicting characters smoking for social motives and adolescents exposed to movie scenes depicting characters smoking for relaxation motives had significantly greater chances of having increases in their future smoking risk. to assess tobacco-use imagery in top-grossing youth-rated movies (general audiences [g], parental guidance [pg], and parents strongly cautioned [pg-13]),* 2010-2018 data from the breathe california sacramento region and university of california-san francisco's onscreen tobacco database were analyzed.† the percentage of all top-grossing movies with tobacco incidents remained stable from 2010 (45%) to 2018 (46%), including youth-rated movies (31% both years). seeing smoking depictions in movies has been identified as a determinant of smoking in adolescents. exposure to smoking in movies is strongly associated with smoking uptake and maintenance among adolescents. this laboratory study examined whether exposure to movie smoking that is portrayed as having a clear motive is associated with the desire to smoke differently than smoking that is portrayed as having no clear motive. these results suggest that the way that smoking is portrayed in movies is important in determining its effect on adolescent smoking. smoking scenes in motion pictures may increase male adolescent smoking desire. the objective of this study was to investigate the effect of smoking cues in movies on immediate smoking behavior. this study investigated whether exposure of young adult smokers to images of smoking in films stimulated smoking behavior. 
Do adjuvant aromatase inhibitors increase the cardiovascular risk in postmenopausal women with early breast cancer? [SEP] use of aromatase inhibitors in women with postmenopausal breast cancer accompanies risks of bone loss. aromatase inhibitors (ais) may increase cardiovascular risk relative to tamoxifen in post-menopausal women with breast cancer. in postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive, early-stage breast cancer, treatment with adjuvant aromatase inhibitors is the standard of care, but it increases risk for osteoporosis and fractures. postmenopausal patients with early, hormone receptor-positive, non-metastatic adenocarcinoma of the breast, who had completed their initial adjuvant treatment pathway (surgery, radiotherapy, or chemotherapy, or a combination) and were receiving adjuvant aromatase inhibitors, were enrolled at 58 trial centres in austria and sweden into this prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial. aromatase inhibitors (ais) increase the risk of osteoporosis and related fractures in postmenopausal women who receive adjuvant ais for hormone receptor (hr) -positive early breast cancer (ebc). although cardiovascular disease occurs infrequently in premenopausal women, the incidence increases dramatically after menopause. endocrine agents used to treat postmenopausal women with breast cancer further reduce estrogen levels and have the potential to adversely affect lipid metabolism, although the relevance of this to cardiovascular risk remains uncertain. adjuvant treatment of hormone receptor-positive breast cancer in postmenopausal women with aromatase inhibitors may be associated with increased bone loss. the aromatase inhibitors have been widely incorporated into the adjuvant breast cancer care of postmenopausal women with estrogen and/or progesterone receptor-positive breast cancer. adjuvant therapy for breast cancer with aromatase inhibitors improves survival compared with tamoxifen; however, whether they should be given upfront or sequentially after 2-3 years of tamoxifen in estrogen receptor-positive early breast cancer affecting postmenopausal women is unclear. 
Metastatic carcinoma to the cervical nodes from an unknown head and neck primary site: Is there a need for neck dissection? [SEP] to examine the incidence of occult cervical nodal metastatic disease in patients undergoing salvage laryngectomy with necks clinically staged as n0 at the time of recurrence and to define the role of elective neck dissection in this population with regard to risk of complications and oncologic outcomes. primary outcome measure was incidence of cervical nodal metastases detected by means of pathological examination of elective neck dissection specimens. a patient is diagnosed with an unknown primary of the head and neck when metastatic disease is present in the cervical lymph node or nodes and no primary lesion is detected by thorough physical examination, directed biopsies of suspicious or most likely primary sites, and imaging studies. the role and extent of neck dissection in patients with parotid metastatic cutaneous head and neck melanoma remain unclear. the aims of this study were to determine the incidence and patterns of cervical node involvement in patients with parotid metastatic melanoma, and to determine if a limited lymphadenectomy of the clinically negative neck is appropriate. in patients with clinically apparent parotid melanoma metastases, elective comprehensive neck dissection reduces failure rates in cervical nodes, and provides more accurate staging and prognostic information. to report outcomes for patients with cervical lymph node metastases from an unknown primary site of the head and neck treated with either non-operative therapy or neck dissection followed by adjuvant therapy. neck dissection improved local and regional control but not overall survival in patients with unknown primary squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck over non-operative therapy alone. in head and neck cancer patients, diagnosis of metastatic cervical adenopathy is essential for treatment planning and prognosis assessment. it is not uncommon for head and neck cancer patients to present with neck node metastases. 
Cardiac reoperations in octogenarians: Do they really benefit? [SEP] with the rapid growth of the elderly segment of the population, more octogenarians are referred for complex cardiac interventions, including reoperations. we retrospectively studied 113 consecutive octogenarians (mean age, 83+/-2.6 years) who underwent reoperative cardiac procedures within a 13-year period. cardiac reoperations can be performed successfully in most octogenarians, although with an increased risk, particularly in the combined cabg and valve group. with proper selection of patients, carefully planned surgery, and meticulous postoperative care octogenarians can enjoy prolonged life expectancy and improved quality of life following open heart surgery. this study demonstrates improved quality of life after open heart surgery in octogenarians. recent studies have shown that cardiac surgical procedures performed in octogenarians, in otherwise good physical and mental health, can improve mortality, morbidity, and quality of life. cardiac operations in octogenarians are currently reserved for selected patients with severe symptoms and low extracardiac comorbidity; early and midterm results are satisfactory. we evaluated the outcome of high-risk octogenarians undergoing cardiac operations and investigated the predictors of postoperative complications. the benefit of cardiac surgery in octogenarians is well described. octogenarians exhibit a similar long-term survival and quality of life after primary and redo cardiac surgery. 
Location and number of sutures placed for hiatal hernia repair during laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding: does it matter? [SEP] it has been demonstrated that hiatal hernia repair (hhr) during laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding (lagb) decreases the rate of reoperation. hiatal hernia (hh) is a risk factor for complications after laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding (lagb), with recommendation to repair these at the time of lagb placement. a technique for laparoscopic reduction, crural repair, and total fundoplication for large symptomatic hiatal hernia is described. hiatal hernia repair is an essential step to reduce the incidence of gastroesophageal acid reflux disease in patients undergoing sleeve gastrectomy. our study aimed to assess the safety of concurrent hiatal hernia repair and sleeve gastrectomy based on metabolic and bariatric surgery accreditation and quality improvement program data. preoperative characteristics and 30-day outcomes from the metabolic and bariatric surgery accreditation and quality improvement program participant use files 2015 to 2017 were selected for all patients who underwent sleeve gastrectomy with hiatal hernia repair. sleeve gastrectomy with hiatal hernia repair, compared with sleeve gastrectomy alone, was associated with similar risks of death (.02% versus .02%; relative risk [rr], 1.50; 95% confidence interval [ci], .61-3.67, p = .503), and higher risk of 30-day readmission (4.01% versus 2.96%; rr, 1.35; 95%ci, 1.27-1.45, p < .001), 30-day reoperation (1.10% versus .77%; rr, 1.42; 95% ci, 1.25-1.61, p < .001), 30-day intervention (1.24% versus .95%; rr, 1.31; 95%ci, 1.16-1.47, p < .001), and 30-day morbidity (1.85% versus 1.47%; rr, 1.25; 95%ci, 1.14-1.38, p < .001). sleeve gastrectomy with hiatal hernia repair is relatively safe in the short term with no increase in the risk of mortality. eight patients underwent laparoscopic repair of hiatal hernia performed by two highly skilled laparoscopic surgeons. in epigastric hernias, early complications occurred in 5.3% (1/19) after surgery with a simple suture and in 6.1% (2/33) with mesh repair. 
Is Alveolar Macrophage Phagocytic Dysfunction in Children With Protracted Bacterial Bronchitis a Forerunner to Bronchiectasis? [SEP] protracted bacterial bronchitis (pbb) is considered a potential precursor to bronchiectasis (be) in some children. we previously showed that alveolar macrophages (am) from children with pbb or be have a similar significant defect in phagocytic capacity, with proinflammatory associations. infection and inflammation are important in the pathogenesis of bronchiectasis. bal microbiology of children with newly diagnosed bronchiectasis is dominated by h. influenzae. bronchiectasis in pediatric age is a heterogeneous disease associated with significant morbidity.the most common medical conditions leading to bronchial damage are previous pneumonia and recurrent lower airway infections followed by underlying diseases such as immune-deficiencies, congenital airway defects, recurrent aspirations and mucociliary clearance disorders.the most frequent symptom is chronic wet cough. compared to control group, a significant increased percentage of neutrophils and decreased percentage of macrophages in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of children with mpp was observed (p < 0.05). protracted bacterial bronchitis is a newly described chronic suppurative condition in children, which is less persistent but more common than bronchiectasis (1). protracted bacterial bronchitis (pbb) is a common cause of prolonged cough in young children, and may be a precursor of bronchiectasis. in summary, we have shown that the expression of genes related to macrophage function and resolution of inflammation are similar in pbb and bronchiectasis. lung immune cell dysfunction in pbb and bronchiectasis may contribute to poor bacterial clearance and prolonged resolution of inflammation. 
Do elderly patients benefit from surgery in addition to radiotherapy for treatment of metastatic spinal cord compression? [SEP] one question regarding the treatment of metastatic spinal cord compression (mscc) is whether elderly patients benefit from surgery in addition to radiotherapy? radiation therapy is the standard of care for painful spinal metastases in absence of unstable or impending fractures. management of metastatic disease is a significant challenge in modern spinal surgery. for some patients with spinal metastasis and spinal cord compression, newer surgical techniques are better than laminectomy or radiotherapy alone in relieving pain and restoring function. while radiotherapy remains the standard for spinal metastases due to myeloma, lymphoma, and many types of adenocarcinoma, proper surgical treatment can significantly improve function and outcome in selected patients. the choices available in the management of metastatic spine disease are complex, and the role of surgical therapy is increasing. a minimally invasive thoracoscopic approach was used for the surgical treatment of thoracic and thoracolumbar metastatic spinal cord compression. while surgery has been historically considered the treatment of choice for spinal cord/nerve root compression, mechanical instability and intractable pain, radiation therapy - particularly stereotactic radiosurgery (srs) - has been increasingly used as either a primary or adjuvant treatment modality. to evaluate role of surgery plus radiotherapy (rt) in patients with metastatic epidural spinal cord compression from breast cancer with a follow-up >10 years. this study investigated whether decompression surgery for cervical spondylotic myelopathy (csm) in elderly patients aged 80 years or older would likely be a reasonable treatment. 
Are WHO/UNAIDS/UNICEF-recommended replacement milks for infants of HIV-infected mothers appropriate in the South African context? [SEP] the study aim was to explore suitability of the 2001 feeding recommendations for infants of hiv-infected mothers for a rural region in kwazulu natal, south africa specifically with respect to adequacy of micronutrients and essential fatty acids, cost, and preparation times of replacement milks. no home-prepared replacement milks in south africa meet all estimated micronutrient and essential fatty acid requirements of infants aged <6 months. revisions of who/unaids/unicef hiv and infant feeding course replacement milk options are needed. mothers in hiv-endemic countries are advised to exclusively breastfeed their babies until six months because of lack of resources and better chances for child survival, while in developed countries, replacement feeding is advised. what are the experiences of hiv-positive women who migrate from hiv-endemic countries to developed countries, when making infant feeding choices? in south africa where replacement feeding may not be affordable, feasible or sustainable, hiv-infected women are recommended to exclusively breastfeed their infants during the first six months of life. the nutrient composition of breast milk of 100 hiv-infected and 50 non-infected volunteered (control group) lodging/day visiting mothers at paediatric/neonatal wards of national, pelonomi and universitas hospitals, bloemfontein, were measured. currently, the united states (u.s.) recommends that infants born to women living with hiv (wlhiv) be fed formula, whereas many low-resource settings follow the world health organization's recommendation to exclusively breastfeed with ongoing antiretroviral therapy. the world health organization recommends hiv infected mothers exclusively breastfeed their infants, unless replacement feeding is acceptable, feasible, affordable, sustainable and safe (afass). the world health organization has recommended either exclusive replacement feeding or exclusive breastfeeding options for hiv-exposed infants for the first 6 months of life. 
Is minilaparoscopic inguinal hernia repair feasible? [SEP] mesh repair is generally preferred for surgical correction of inguinal hernia, although the merits of endoscopic techniques over open surgery are still debated. inspired by advantages of laparoscopic incisional hernia repair and inguinal hernia repair, we developed a novel laparoscopic surgery procedure for suprapubic incisional hernia repair: the enhanced transabdominal preperitoneal (etap) technique. laparoscopic repair of inguinal hernia is mini-invasive and has confirmed effects. laparoscopic repair of inguinal hernia is mini-invasive and has confirmed effects. femoral hernia could be repaired through the laparoscopic procedures for inguinal hernia. currently, with the advantages of minimally invasive surgery, new questions arise: what will be the best approach for correction of inguinal hernia? to compile results of the published studies that used the robot-assisted technique in the repair of inguinal hernia, analyzing its limitations, complications and comparing it with those of the pre-existing techniques. this technique has been shown to be effective for the correction of inguinal hernia, but the benefits of using robotic surgery are unclear. the advantage of using minimally invasive techniques over open techniques in the repair of inguinal hernias remains unclear. we conducted a prospective trial for laparoscopic tapp inguinal hernia repair in which we fixed the mesh to the anterior abdominal wall using two prolene threads that passed to the exterior and were tied in place. 
Surgical treatment of prosthetic valve endocarditis in patients with double prostheses: is single-valve replacement safe? [SEP] prosthetic valve endocarditis is a rare but severe complication after double mitral and aortic valve replacement. we report a case of prosthetic valve endocarditis after double mitral and aortic valve replacement with the manouguian procedure. prosthetic valve endocarditis, which is an uncommon but potentially fatal complication of valve replacement, may result in annular abscess formation (mechanical valves) or primarily leaflet infection (xenografts and homografts). infective endocarditis of the aortic prosthesis is a serious complication of valve surgery. prosthetic aortic valve replacement for aortic valve endocarditis remains a primary practice of most cardiac surgeons. the objective of the present study was to compare current results of prosthetic valve replacement following acute infective native valve endocarditis (nve) with that of prosthetic valve endocarditis (pve). prosthetic valve replacement is often necessary for acute infective endocarditis. although valve repair and homografts have been associated with excellent outcome, homograft availability and the importance of valvular destruction often dictate prosthetic valve replacement in patients with acute bacterial endocarditis. aortic valve replacement whether surgical or transcutaneous remains an option for the treatment of severe aortic valve disease; however, current prosthetic devices are associated with complications including, but no limited to, valve thrombosis and thromboembolic events, bleeding events associated with anticoagulation use, prosthetic valve endocarditis and structural valve deterioration. prosthetic valve endocarditis, however, is more commonly associated with obstruction. 
Epidural analgesia for surgical treatment of peritoneal carcinomatosis: a risky technique? [SEP] the perioperative coagulopathy, hemodynamic instability, and infectious complications that may occur during cytoreductive surgery (crs) with hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (hipec) has raised concerns about the safety of epidural analgesia in patients undergoing such procedures. we conducted a retrospective review of the perioperative anesthetic management of 215 adult patients who had undergone crs with hipec with epidural analgesia. traumatic manipulation of cancer specimens during laparoscopic colectomy may increase exfoliation of malignant cells into the peritoneal cavity, causing an early occurrence of peritoneal carcinomatosis or port-sites recurrence. because of this concern, the routine use of intraperitoneal chemotherapy after laparoscopic colectomy for cancer was suggested recently. cytoreductive surgery (crs) and hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (hipec) benefit patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis. while epidural analgesia offers efficacious pain control, crs and hipec therapy is associated with perioperative coagulopathy that may impact its use. thoracic epidural analgesia is a common method of pain relief for major thoracic and abdominal surgery. contrasted with open laparotomy, the risk-benefit ratio of epidural anesthesia in laparoscopic surgery frequently disfavors its use. epidural analgesia is often used to control postoperative pain or to manage chronic pain in oncologic patients. experimental data suggest that the risk of tumor dissemination in the non traumatized peritoneum may be higher after pneumoperitoneum than after laparotomy, and they also show the importance of the surgeon's experience and technique. 
Risk stratification in emergency surgical patients: is the APACHE II score a reliable marker of physiological impairment? [SEP] we aimed to assess the predictive value of the apache ii score in emergency abdominal surgical patients. the apache ii score predicted mortality moderately and admission to intensive care unit poorly in emergency abdominal surgical patients. the acute physiology and chronic health evaluation (apache) severity of disease classification system, which is one of the most widely used scoring systems to predict mortality, is used for intensive care units (icu) patients. this study aimed to evaluate the predictive ability of apache ii for mortality in patients after undergoing cardiac surgery. prospective assessment of the acute physiology and chronic health evaluation-ii (apache-ii) scoring system of stratification of disease severity has been shown to provide objective discrimination between low-risk and high-risk groups of patients with intra-abdominal sepsis. the purpose of this study was to measure the predictive power of acute physiology and chronic health evaluation (apache ii) with respect to mortality in a group of seriously injured patients and to compare this predictive power with that of the trauma score (ts) and the injury severity score (iss). we prospectively evaluated patients consecutively admitted to the medical intensive care unit to compare the predictive accuracy of apache ii with clinical assessment by critical care personnel. the patient's apache ii score was calculated and a prediction of the patient's hospital mortality risk was then computed on the basis of this score. we evaluated whether apache ii score and sofa score predict the outcome for trauma patients in the intensive care unit (icu). this study examined the performance of acute physiology and chronic health evaluation (apache) ii, simplified acute physiology score (saps) ii, mortality in emergency department sepsis (meds), and mortality probability models (mpm) ii0 in predicting in-hospital mortality of patients in the emergency department meeting criteria for early goal-directed therapy and the severe sepsis resuscitation bundle. 
Are physicians meeting the needs of family caregivers of the frail elderly? [SEP] to explore family physicians' attitudes to interfacing with family caregivers of the elderly, to identify factors within the family doctor-elderly patient-caregiver encounters in the office setting that might be problematic for physicians, to ascertain factors that might contribute to doctors' behaviors and concerns, and to propose possible solutions for optimizing the outcomes of these visits. most family doctors felt that it was their responsibility to respond to caregiver concerns (90.6%) and that they were generally meeting their needs (94.2%). despite the stress involved, physicians are interested in assisting caregivers in the management of the elderly. the growing number of older persons will increase the need not only for healthcare resources, but also for physicians to act on behalf of incapacitated family members as surrogate decision-makers. the population increase in the over 65 age group creates a challenge and responsibility for family physicians in the continuing and comprehensive care of the aged. family physicians have to assess the medical, psychological and social needs of the elderly and provide them with the best care available by utilizing local facilities, community resources, health care personnel, and whenever possible, the cooperation of the patient's family. caregivers provide a significant proportion of the home care needed by the rapidly growing number of frail elderly living in the community. to explore expressed needs, both formal and informal, of family caregivers of frail elderly. physicians may be uninterested in helping caregivers; even if they were receptive to counseling caregivers, they could be poorly remunerated for the types of counseling sessions that are usual for caregivers; and being a professional caregiver to family caregivers is demanding in itself. family physicians provide most of the care for the frail elderly population, but many challenges and barriers can lead to difficulties with fragmented, ineffective, and inefficient services. 
Can nonproliferative breast disease and proliferative breast disease without atypia be distinguished by fine-needle aspiration cytology? [SEP] fine needle aspiration cytology (fnac) is quite successful in identifying specific benign and malignant breast lesions, but its role in the categorization of proliferative breast lesions has not been well defined. cytologic criteria reported to be helpful in the distinction of proliferative breast disease without atypia (pbd) from nonproliferative breast disease (npbd) have not been rigorously tested. fifty-one air-dried, diff-quik-stained fine-needle aspirates (fna) of palpable breast lesions with biopsy-proven diagnoses of npbd (34 cases) or pbd (17 cases) were reviewed. to determine the usefulness of fine needle aspiration cytology in diagnosing breast ductal proliferations that fall short of invasive cancer (hyperplasia, atypia and in situ carcinoma). this study was a comparison of the cytomorphology and histomorphology of 30 palpable breast lesions in which an initial fine needle aspiration diagnosis of ductal hyperplasia or atypia was based on available criteria. in a prospective study using mammographically guided fine needle aspirates in 100 nonpalpable breast lesions, the author's group assessed the reliability of a cytological grading system to define the cytological features of proliferative and nonproliferative breast disease and to differentiate between benign, premalignant and malignant breast lesions. benign and malignant lesions of the breast may have similar appearances on fine-needle aspiration cytology. breast fine-needle aspiration biopsy was highly cellular and composed of bland-appearing spindle/columnar cells that could represent either epithelial or stromal cells; the case was reported as positive and the patient had subsequent excisional biopsy taken. fine-needle aspiration (fna) cytology is successful in identification of benign and malignant breast lesions, but its role in proliferative breast lesions which increase cancer risk is poorly defined. we have analyzed the cytomorphologic features of proliferative breast lesions in conjunction with cytologic scoring system proposed by masood et al and with histopathology. 
Are Reviewers' Scores Influenced by Citations to Their Own Work? [SEP] when serving as journal reviewers, they may be more favorably disposed to manuscripts that cite their work. we investigate whether manuscripts that contain a citation to the reviewer's work receive higher evaluations than those that do not and whether peer reviewers encourage authors to cite that reviewer's work. to determine whether citation affected reviewer scores, we obtained each reviewer's score of the manuscript's overall desirability (1=worst to 5=best) and used descriptive statistics and regression modeling to compare scores of cited and noncited reviewers. in a leading specialty journal, cited reviewers gave higher scores than noncited reviewers. for each journal, author-suggested reviewers provided reports of comparable quality to non-author-suggested reviewers, but were significantly more likely to recommend acceptance, irrespective of the peer review model (p<0.0001 for bmc infectious diseases, bmc microbiology and the journal of inflammation). peer reviewers sometimes request that authors cite their work, either appropriately or via coercive self-citation to highlight the reviewers' work. the objective of this study was to determine in peer reviews submitted to one biomedical journal (1) the extent of peer reviewer self-citation; (2) the proportion of reviews recommending revision or acceptance versus rejection that included reviewer self-citations; and (3) the proportion of reviewer self-citations versus citations to others that included a rationale. of 428 total citations, there were 122 peer reviewer self-citations (29%) and 306 citations to others' work (71%). self-citations were more common in reviews recommending revision or acceptance (105 of 316 citations; 33%) versus rejection (17/112; 15%; p<0.001). self-citation in peer reviews is common and may reflect a combination of appropriate citation to research that should be cited in published articles and inappropriate citation intended to highlight the work of the peer reviewer. 
Does the central venous pressure predict fluid responsiveness? [SEP] although the central venous pressure (cvp) is often used as a guide to volume status in major surgery and intensive care, fluid therapy should be guided by the response of the stroke volume (sv) to a fluid bolus. the present study evaluates whether the central venous pressure (cvp) can serve as an adjunct to decisions of whether or not fluid should be infused. positive end-expiratory pressure (peep)-induced increase in central venous pressure (cvp) has been suggested to be a robust indicator of fluid responsiveness, with heart rhythm having minimal influence. dynamic change in central venous pressure (cvp) was associated with fluid responsiveness. central venous pressure (cvp) is used almost universally to guide fluid therapy in hospitalized patients. a systematic review of the literature to determine the following: (1) the relationship between cvp and blood volume, (2) the ability of cvp to predict fluid responsiveness, and (3) the ability of the change in cvp (deltacvp) to predict fluid responsiveness. we investigated whether physical examination, central venous pressure (cvp), central venous oxygen saturation (scvo2), passive leg raising (plr) test, and transpulmonary thermodilution (tptd)-derived parameters can predict volume responsiveness in patients admitted to the icu. predicting whether a fluid challenge will elicit 'fluid responsiveness' in stroke volume (sv) and arterial pressure is crucial for managing hypovolaemia and hypotension. pulse pressure variation (ppv), sv variation (svv) and the plethysmographic variability index (pvi) have been shown to predict sv fluid responsiveness, and the ppv/svv ratio has been shown to predict arterial pressure fluid responsiveness under various conditions. since cardiac function may affect the relative value of cardiac filling pressures, such as the recommended central venous pressure (cvp), versus filling volumes in guiding fluid loading, we studied these parameters as determinants of fluid responsiveness, according to cardiac function. 
Memory-provoked rCBF-SPECT as a diagnostic tool in Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] the present study explores the episodic memory impairment profiles by the free and cued selective recall reminding test (fcsrt) in patients with initial memory complaint and a cerebrospinal fluid (csf) biomarker signature of ad. single photon emission computer tomography (spect) applied early in the course of alzheimer's disease (ad) may identify regions with impaired brain function. moreover, it may be relevant to characterize spect perfusion patterns in patients with mild cognitive impairment (mci), in particular the subgroup of mci patients with isolated amnesia, as these patients have been demonstrated to convert to ad in more than half of the cases within 3 years. we examined whether a positive ([18f]florbetapir) beta amyloid positron emission tomography scan, supporting underlying alzheimer's disease pathophysiology, was associated with specific memory deficits in 48 patients with amci (33 beta amyloid positive, 15 beta amyloid negative). the relative performance of semi-quantitative amyloid positron emission tomography (pet) and cerebrospinal fluid (csf) markers in diagnosing alzheimer's disease (ad) and predicting the cognitive evolution of patients with mild cognitive impairment (mci) is still debated. semi-quantitative amyloid pet appears more powerful than csf markers for ad grading and mci prognosis in terms of cognitive decline and ad conversion. we determined the predictive value of 99mtc-hmpao spect for the presence of alzheimer's disease based on a prospective study of 132 consecutive patients coming to our nuclear medicine clinical unit for evaluation of their memory loss or cognitive abnormalities. the aim of this study is to identify mild cognitive impairment (mci) due to alzheimer's disease (ad) using amyloid imaging of beta amyloid (aβ) deposition and fdg imaging of reflecting neuronal dysfunction as pet biomarkers. sixty-eight mci patients underwent cognitive testing, [11c]-pib pet and [18f]-fdg pet at baseline and follow-up. in individual mci subjects who had a prominent impairment in episodic memory and aged older than 75 years, an aβ biomarker identified mci due to ad with a greater ss of 100%, sp of 66.6% and ppv of 80%, compared to fdg biomarker alone or both pet biomarkers combined. 
Can we ease the financial burden of colonoscopy? [SEP] colonoscopy costs are high and rising and it may be that in the future practitioners will be unable to afford to colonoscope all of the patients presently being examined. only 7.5% of colorectal cancers would be missed by flexible sigmoidoscopy (65 cm) and 75% of the costs of total colonoscopy would be avoided if only patients presenting with bleeding and ibd were offered total colonoscopy and patients with radiological abnormalities were treated according to the abnormality. this compromise, based on the data presented, may represent a rational way to reduce colonoscopy costs. in an era of cost containment and measurement of value, screening for colon cancer represents a clear target for better accountability. we aim to examine the effects of income-related disparities in colonoscopy use in the years prior to and immediately after the implementation of the aca. our findings indicate that the aca's removal of financial barriers may have contributed toward the reduction in disparities of colonoscopy use. the demand for colonoscopic examinations is escalating, and cost containment has become an important issue. in many countries, colonoscopies for colorectal cancer screening are performed without sedation due to the cost. analyzing colon biopsies is becoming time consuming and a financial burden as colonoscopy is now the main screening and diagnostic procedure of the main gastrointestinal diseases. recently, with the advent of ct colonografy, new alternatives seem to appear on the horizon, which seem to finally overcome some of colonoscopy's drawbacks like procedure related pain and discomfort during the examination. 
Is low birth weight a risk indicator for congenital cytomegalovirus infection? [SEP] the aim of the study was to determine if low birth weight is an indicator of cmv congenital infection evidenced by detecting cmv-dna in umbilical cord blood at the time of delivery. in addition, low birth weight and small head circumference at birth failed to predict congenital cmv infection. symptomatic congenital cmv infection has previously been shown to cause low birth weight and prematurity. we found that congenital infection following the transmission of maternal primary and "unknown" cmv infection resulted in a significant mean birth weight deficit of 163 g (p less than 0.04) for the low income term infants (blacks and whites), but not in the mid- to upper income white infants. to evaluate the incidence of infants with birth weight less than the 10(th) centile for small for gestational age (sga) in primary maternal cytomegalovirus (cmv) infection and to determine whether sga predicts poor neurodevelopmental outcome. congenital cytomegalovirus (cmv) infection has been proposed as a risk factor for preterm birth, but the rate of cmv in infants born preterm is unclear. to assess whether preterm infants with postnatal cytomegalovirus infection develop neurologic sequelae in early childhood. infants <32 weeks' gestation were prospectively screened for cytomegalovirus (cmv) at term-equivalent age. the natural history of congenital cytomegalovirus (cmv) infection is scarcely known in populations with high maternal cmv seroprevalence. we aimed to determine the incidence and association with outcomes of congenital cmv in very low birth weight (vlbw) preterm infants. 
Is external palliative radiotherapy for gallbladder carcinoma effective? [SEP] the aim of this report is to assess the value of radiotherapy in carcinoma of the gallbladder. we reviewed publications concerning the role of radiation therapy in gallbladder carcinoma from 1974 to 2000. radiotherapy appears to be a safe procedure that slightly improves the survival time of patients treated for gallbladder carcinoma. the aim of this report is to assess the value of radiotherapy in carcinoma of the gallbladder. collected data showed a slight improvement of survival after adjuvant or palliative radiotherapy, especially in the advanced stage of gallbladder carcinomas. we undertook this study to determine if radiotherapy is appropriate for patients with unresectable or lymph node metastatic intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. the survival rates at 1 and 2 years for patients with unresectable intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma treated with external-beam radiotherapy (n = 22) compared with those who did not receive external-beam radiotherapy (n = 23) were 36.1% versus 19.0% and 5.2% versus 4.7%, respectively (log-rank p = 0.021). these results show that external-beam radiotherapy influenced the survival in the patients with unresectable intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma or lymph node metastases. external-beam radiotherapy seems to improve the prognosis of patients with unresectable intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma and deserves further study. the aim of this study was to retrospectively evaluate the effectiveness and tolerability of intraluminal high dose rate brachytherapy in the treatment of bile duct and gallbladder carcinomas. 
Is discordance in TEOAE and AABR outcomes predictable in newborns? [SEP] to examine the rates of discordance in neonatal risk factors and neurodevelopmental outcomes within very low birth weight twin pairs and the factors associated with discordant outcomes. rates of neonatal risk factors and neurodevelopmental outcomes, and discordance in outcomes were examined for 88 very low birth weight twin pairs born between 1990 and 2005 and followed through 20 months' corrected age. discordance rates ranged from 17 to 42% for neonatal risk factors and from 18 to 31% for neurodevelopmental outcomes. birth weight discordance is an independent predictor of adverse neonatal outcome in liveborn, non-malformed preterm twins. to determine the perinatal predictors of discordant screening outcomes based on a two-stage screening protocol with transient-evoked otoacoustic emissions (teoae) and automated auditory brainstem response (aabr). a cross-sectional study of infants tested with teoae and aabr under a hospital-based universal newborn hearing screening program in lagos, nigeria. maternal and infant factors associated with discordant teoae and aabr outcomes were determined with multivariable logistic regression analyses adjusting for potential confounding factors. of the 4718 infants enrolled under the program 1745 (36.9%) completed both teoae and aabr. antenatal care status, mode of delivery and nursery type were useful predictors of discordant outcomes among all infants undergoing screening (c-statistic=0.73). given the available screening technologies, discordant teoae and aabr may be inevitable for some categories of hearing loss among apparently healthy newborns whose mothers received prenatal care. 
Chemical shift MRI: is there any contribution to morphologic evaluation of solid breast masses? [SEP] breast mr imaging has emerged as a highly sensitive modality for the imaging of breast tumors. the purpose of this study was to analyze the features of non-mass-like breast lesions detected by mri, and to establish a standardized method of interpretation to allow categorization of these lesions. our study investigated if mr spectroscopy of the breast would be useful for characterizing benign and malignant lesions. mri in combination with mrs may improve the specificity of breast mr and thereby, influence patient treatment options. mri is an important tool for investigating breast cancer. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the feasibility and utility of mt in discriminating benign from malignant breast lesions. preliminary results suggest that mt can be used to evaluate breast lesions. although magnetic resonance imaging (mri) has been shown to be a sensitive imaging tool for invasive breast cancers, its utility in ductal carcinoma-in-situ (dcis) of the breast remains controversial. this paper will discuss the uses, benefits, and limitations of contrast-enhanced breast mri in the staging and screening of breast cancer. to assess which specific morphologic features, enhancement patterns, or pharmacokinetic parameters on breast magnetic resonance imaging (mri) could predict a false-negative outcome of proton mr spectroscopy ((1)h mrs) exam in patients with invasive breast cancer. 
Do some U.S. states have higher/lower injury mortality rates than others? [SEP] state-level injury rates or fatality rates are sometimes used in studies of the impact of various safety programs or other state policies. how much does the metric used affect the view of relative occupational risks among u.s. states? mortality in the united states varies widely by state (1). this report compares average age-adjusted death rates by sex, race and ethnicity, and five leading causes of death between a group of five states with the highest age-adjusted death rates (alabama, kentucky, mississippi, oklahoma, and west virginia) and a group of five states with the lowest age-adjusted death rates (california, connecticut, hawaii, minnesota, and new york) in 2017 (2). this finding was reflected by these states having the highest neonatal mortality rates and disparities, but the lowest fetal mortality rates and disparities. the large state-to-state variation in firearm homicide and suicide rates, as well as the racial inequalities in these numbers, highlights states where policies may be most beneficial in reducing homicide and suicide deaths and the racial disparities in their rates. the prevalence of leading risk factors for morbidity and mortality in the us significantly varies across regions, states, and neighborhoods, but the extent these differences are associated with a person's place of residence vs the characteristics of the people who live in different places remains unclear. is the high stroke mortality in the southeastern parts of the united states driven by differences in stroke incidence or case-fatality? quartiles of us counties were defined by stroke mortality, and this gradient was related with stroke incidence and stroke case fatality in the reasons for geographic and racial differences in stroke (regards) study, where 1,317 incident stroke events (of which 242 were fatal) occurred among 29,650 participants. in the united states, suicide rates consistently vary among geographic regions; the western states have significantly higher suicide rates than the eastern states. 
Do European people with type 1 diabetes consume a high atherogenic diet? [SEP] individuals with type 1 diabetes have a high risk of developing cardiovascular diseases, and it has been reported that they consume a high atherogenic diet. we examined how nutrient intake and adherence to current european nutritional recommendations evolved in a large cohort of european individuals with type 1 diabetes over a period of 7 years. european individuals with type 1 diabetes consume a high atherogenic diet as few patients met recommendations for dietary fibre and saturated fat. the eurodiab iddm complications study, a cross-sectional, clinic-based study examined the fat and cholesterol intakes of european individuals with type 1 diabetes for possible relations to serum lipid levels (total cholesterol, hdl- and ldl-cholesterol, fasting triglycerides) and to the prevalence of cardiovascular disease (past history or electrocardiogram abnormalities). fat intake (total fat, saturated fat, cholesterol) from 2,868 subjects with type 1 diabetes (mean age 32.9 +/- 10.2 years (range: 14-61 years), mean diabetes duration 14.7 +/- 9.4 years (range: 1-56 years)) was assessed by a standardized 3-day dietary record at the nutrition co-ordinating centre (düsseldorf). since higher fat intakes are commonly accompanied by lower carbohydrate and fibre intakes we conclude that restricted intakes of cholesterol, saturated fat and total fat combined with higher fibre intakes beneficially affect both the levels of total and ldl-cholesterol and the risk for cardiovascular disease in european individuals with type 1 diabetes. the aim of this study was to investigate a possible relationship between the dietary intake of this group and the incidence of type 1 diabetes. dietary intake data of 10- to 16-year-old adolescents (n = 4,701) from 11 european countries and the incidence rates of type 1 diabetes were used to examine the relation between food and the disease. the incidence of type 1 diabetes correlated with the consumption of total fat (r = 0.674; p = 0.023), saturated fatty acids (r = 0.714; p = 0.047) and the intake of fruits and vegetables (r = 0.786; p = 0.036). the results indicate for the first time that an adolescent's diet high in fat and fruits and vegetables is associated with an increased risk of type 1 diabetes. 
Adults with mild intellectual disabilities: can their reading comprehension ability be improved? [SEP] this study's aim was to begin the process of measuring the reading comprehension of adults with mild and borderline learning disabilities, in order to generate information to help clinicians and other professionals to make written material for adults with learning disabilities more comprehensible. the test for the reception of grammar (trog), with items presented visually rather than orally, and the reading comprehension sub-test of the wechsler objective reading dimensions (word) battery were given to 24 service-users of a metropolitan community learning disability team who had an estimated iq in the range 50-79. treatment of attention, working memory and executive control may improve reading comprehension in individuals with aphasia, particularly those with mild reading problems. according to the 'simple view of reading', reading comprehension requires some abilities such as reading skill and listening comprehension. adults with a mild intellectual disability (id) often show poor decoding and reading comprehension skills. the goal of this study was to investigate the effects of teaching text comprehension strategies to these adults. in spite of many difficulties, some adults with dyslexia reach levels of reading comprehension similar to those of unimpaired readers and successfully study at university. results showed that with the printed book, dyslexic adults performed similarly to skilled readers in both literal and inferential reading comprehension tasks. previous research has suggested that individuals with intellectual disability (id) underperform in several areas of reading compared to mental age-matched peers. the reading comprehension abilities of a group of dyslexic university students were compared with those of non-dyslexic university students. 
Do antibiotics decrease post-tonsillectomy morbidity? [SEP] antibiotics remove the local flora and reduce inflammation and thus may reduce postoperative pain after tonsillectomy. the aim of this study was to identify clinical evidence of infection in patients with secondary post-tonsillectomy haemorrhage that might justify the use of antibiotics in these patients. based upon direct measurement of antibiotic levels in plasma and tissue, this study suggests that a revision of the oral prophylaxis in children is required in order to reduce microbial charge in the operative field and accordingly improve the recovery after tonsillectomy. little is known about the role of tonsillectomy on long term postoperative antibiotic use. this study is a follow-up on this previous case series and its purpose is to determine whether tonsillectomy in this group of children led to a reduction in the number of antibiotics prescribed in the year following surgery. these findings support the benefit of tonsillectomy in reducing antibiotic consumption in the year following surgery. several studies have indicated that antibiotics given for 5-7 days post-tonsillectomy are beneficial. systemic antibiotics given during the first week after tonsillectomy appear to be effective in reducing postoperative morbidity. we assessed the effectiveness of perioperative topical antibiotic rinses in reducing posttonsillectomy morbidity. a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled pilot study of 36 patients undergoing tonsillectomy was used to evaluate the effects of a standard 7-day systemic regimen of perioperative intravenous ampicillin/oral amoxicillin and 2 single-day topical antibiotic regimens: (1) clindamycin (cleocin) and (2) amoxicillin/clavulanate (augmentin) and ticarcillin/clavulanate (timentin). 
Body diffusion-weighted MR imaging of uterine endometrial cancer: is it helpful in the detection of cancer in nonenhanced MR imaging? [SEP] diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (dw-mri) offers unenhanced method to detect breast cancer without cost and safety concerns associated with dynamic contrast-enhanced (dce) mri. diffusion-weighted imaging (dwi) and the apparent diffusion coefficient (adc) are widely used for detecting uterine endometrial cancer. to explore 1.5 t diffusion tensor imaging (dti) in assessing superficial myometrial infiltration by endometrial carcinoma. we analyzed the sensitivity of apparent diffusion coefficient (adc) versus fractional anisotropy (fa) in diagnosing superficial myometrial infiltration compared to dce-mri and t2-weighted imaging (t2wi) in 35 patients with endometrial cancer. to investigate the feasibility of diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (dwi) with apparent diffusion coefficient (adc) values in differentiating endometrial cancer from benign endometrial lesions in postmenopausal patients with vaginal bleeding and endometrial thickening and to predict the depth of myometrial invasion in endometrial cancer. to determine the feasibility of diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance (mr) imaging (dwi) of uterine cervical cancer and to investigate whether the apparent diffusion coefficient (adc) values of cervical cancer differ from those of normal cervix and whether they could indicate the histologic type and the pathologic grade of tumor. apparent diffusion coefficient value was statistically different (p = 0.000) between normal and cancerous tissue in the uterine cervix; the former one was (mean [sd], 1.50 [0.16]) x 10(-3) mm2/s, and the latter one was (0.88 [0.15]) x 10(-3) mm2/s. diffusion-weighted mr imaging has a potential ability to differentiate between normal and cancerous tissue in the uterine cervix, and it can indicate the histologic type of uterine cervical cancer as well. magnetic resonance (mr) imaging has been established as the best imaging modality for the detection, localization, and staging of uterine cancers. recently, the usefulness of diffusion-weighted imaging (dwi) in the diagnosis of cancers has been reported in several studies. 
Do inhaled steroids differ from cromones in terms of hospital admission rates for asthma in children? [SEP] the acute anti-inflammatory effects of inhaled steroids at high doses and their use at home and as emergency treatment of acute asthma attacks in children have been evaluated in many clinical studies. the role of inhaled corticosteroids in the treatment of acute asthma exacerbations in children is controversial. inhaled corticosteroids are not as effective as oral corticosteroids in school-aged children with severe acute asthma. the purpose of this work was to determine whether there is a significant difference in the percentage of predicted forced expiratory volume in 1 second in children with mild to moderate acute asthma treated with either inhaled fluticasone or oral prednisolone. airway obstruction in children with mild to moderate acute asthma in the emergency department improves faster on oral than inhaled corticosteroids. this meta-analysis aimed to compare the treatment of an acute asthma attack in children in the emergency department (ed) with inhaled corticosteroids (ics) versus placebo or oral systemic corticosteroids (sc) as assessed by the hospital admission rates. ics treatment of children with acute asthma exacerbations showed a similar rate of hospitalization as those treated by sc. we compared the pharmaceutical effects of two inhaled corticosteroids used in pediatric patients with mild-to-moderate asthma, budesonide and fluticasone propionate. to investigate whether there are differences in asthma characteristics between two populations of children with moderate asthma requiring inhaled corticosteroids (ics) who are treated in general practice or in hospital practice. 45 children from general practice and 62 from hospital practice, diagnosed with asthma and treated with ics, were analysed in terms of lung function parameters, asthma control (acq), and use of medication. 
Substance use and HIV-related sexual behaviors among US high school students: are they related? [SEP] the current research assessed the extent to which substance use behaviors (i.e., heavy episodic drinking, marijuana use, and use of illicit drugs other than marijuana) were associated with behaviors that confer risk for hiv infection (i.e., sex with multiple partners, inconsistent condom use, and injection drug use) in a nationally representative sample of young adults. findings highlight the covariation of substance use with hiv-related risk factors among recent cohorts of young adults in the u. s. and the particularly strong link between heavy episodic drinking and number of sexual partners among individuals aged 21 to 24. to identify the human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-related risk behaviors associated with hiv testing among us high school students who reported ever having sexual intercourse. changes in hiv- and std-related risk behaviors among high school students in the united states during 1991-2005 were reported previously. in the united states, there is growing concern that adolescents are at increasing risk for hiv-1 infection due to recreational substance use and sexual activity. high rates of substance use and hiv-risking behaviors were found. significant correlations between levels of substance use and both behavioral and attitudinal barriers to hiv/aids prevention programming were observed. this study was undertaken to examine whether use of alcohol, cigarettes, marijuana, cocaine, and other illicit drugs is related to the likelihood of sexual behaviors that increase risk for human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection among youth. hiv prevention programs for youth should recognize that substance use may be an important indicator of risk for hiv infection and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome through its association with unsafe sexual behaviors. substance use is associated with sexual risk behaviors among youth, but little is known about whether nonmedical prescription drug use, an increasingly common behavior, is associated with sexual risk behaviors. 
Does sex influence the response to intravenous thrombolysis in ischemic stroke? [SEP] recent studies have reported sex differences in recanalization and outcome after intravenous thrombolysis (ivt) in acute ischemic stroke. we analyzed sex differences in outcome in consecutive patients with middle cerebral artery (mca) m1 or m2 and internal carotid artery (ica) occlusion treated with intra-arterial thrombolysis (iat). previous reports suggest that women achieve better outcome than men after intravenous thrombolysis for ischemic stroke. this study aims to investigate the relationship between sex differences and the prognosis of intravenous thrombolysis in chinese patients with acute ischaemic stroke. prior work has suggested sex-based differences in coagulation and fibrinolysis markers in subjects with acute stroke. we explored whether sex might modify the effect of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtpa) on outcomes in patients with acute ischemic stroke. in this study we assess the effect of sex on radiological and functional outcomes in evt-treated acute stroke patients and determine if differences in baseline perfusion status between men and women might account for differences in outcomes. we investigated the impact of the interaction sex-by-hemisphere on outcome in stroke patients after intravenous thrombolysis (ivt). sex influences outcome after intravenous thrombolysis. further study of how sex affects stroke outcome is needed. 
Thrombosis prophylaxis in hospitalised medical patients: does prophylaxis in all patients make sense? [SEP] our primary aim was to investigate the incidence of venous thrombosis in a general internal ward, to assess whether more rigorous prophylaxis would be feasible. the incidence of venous thrombosis during hospitalisation in a department of general internal medicine is low and does not justify prophylaxis in all internal patients. guidelines suggest broad use of pharmacologic prophylaxis to prevent venous thromboembolism (vte) in hospitalized medical patients, however little 'real-world' data exists to support this. evidence-based guidelines recommend that acutely ill hospitalized medical patients who are at risk of venous thromboembolism (vte) should receive prophylaxis. our aim was to characterize the clinical practices for vte prophylaxis in acutely ill hospitalized medical patients enrolled in the international medical prevention registry on venous thromboembolism (improve). many hospitalised medical patients are at increased risk of venous thromboembolism (vte). as hospitalized medical patients may be at risk of venous thromboembolism (vte), evidence-based guidelines are available to help physicians assess patients' risk for vte, and to recommend prophylaxis options. the aim of this study was to assess the use of pharmacological prophylaxis of venous thromboembolism (vte) in real-life patients with pulmonary diseases. prophylaxis for venous thromboembolism (vte) in hospitalized acutely ill medical patients is a well-established practice. in addition, use of antithrombotic prophylaxis was found to decrease the likelihood of these thromboembolic events (p = 0.050; odds ratio = 0.2 for aspirin or subcutaneous heparin, and odds ratio = 0.4 for warfarin or low-molecular-weight heparin). 
Do teleoncology models of care enable safe delivery of chemotherapy in rural towns? [SEP] teleoncology models are used increasingly throughout the world as a means to provide access to quality cancer care for people in rural, remote and other disadvantaged settings. in this commentary we argue that the benefits of teleoncology extend beyond those of the patients and their families to the rural health system and beyond. teleoncology has been adopted by many centers to provide cancer care closer to home for rural, remote, indigenous and other disadvantaged people of our communities. a variety of medical models of teleoncology exist to provide various medical oncology services. future teleoncology models would need to include web-based models, mobile technologies and remote chemotherapy supervision models so that patients from most rural towns could have at least some of their cancer care closer to home. the aim of this study was to describe satisfaction of patients and rural health workers with this model of teleoncology. the fifth in a series of papers on practical aspects of telehealth, this paper discusses telehealth models that can facilitate the provision of specialist services to rural and remote patients closer to home. this paper explores the ability to deliver specialist cancer care through the use of telehealth models. review of telehealth models for cancer care. cancer patients in rural, remote and indigenous communities who receive their care through telehealth. 
Does Paget's disease exist in India? [SEP] paget's disease of bone has been described as a few case reports from india. the aim of the present study is to document the existence of paget's disease (pd) in india. fifteen (71.4%) patients had polyostotic and six (28.6%) had monoostotic paget's disease. this illustrates that paget's disease does exist in india and a high index of suspicion is required to clinch the diagnosis. paget's disease is a localized disorder of the skeleton characterized by increased osteoclastic activity. while the prevalence in the western population is 1-2%, the prevalence in india is not known. we studied the clinical profile, biochemical parameters, bone scans, therapeutic details and follow up data of patients with paget's disease, attending the endocrinology outpatient clinic in our institution. in our series, paget's disease had a male predominance. pemphigus is a common autoimmune blistering disorder in india. thus we are unaware of its prevalence in india. 
Is There an Additional Value of Using Somatostatin Receptor Subtype 2a Immunohistochemistry Compared to Somatostatin Receptor Scintigraphy Uptake in Predicting Gastroenteropancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumor Response? [SEP] it is unknown whether tumoral somatostatin receptor subtype 2a (sst2a) immunohistochemistry (ihc) has additional value compared to somatostatin receptor scintigraphy (srs) uptake using octreoscan® in predicting response to peptide receptor radiotherapy using 177lu-octreotate (prrt) in patients with gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (gep-nets). in the absence of preoperative somatostatin receptor ( sst) scans, knowledge of immunohistochemical sst2 tumor expression may help predicting the success of somatostatin analogue-based follow-up studies and treatment of neuroendocrine tumors (net). the overexpression of somatostatin receptor 2 (sst2) in neuroendocrine tumors is the molecular basis for diagnostic and therapeutic application of the stable somatostatin analog octreotide. this study assessed the presence of somatostatin receptor subtype 2a (sstr2a) in gastric cancer, correlating its expression with histological type, grade, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (her2) expression, and disease outcome. somatostatin receptor subtype 2 (sst(2)) is widely expressed in neuroendocrine tumors and can be visualized immunohistochemically at the cell membrane for diagnostic purposes. this study aimed to examine the association between somatostatin receptor-2 positivity and known prognostic factors for gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumor to identify the value of somatostatin receptor-2 positivity itself as a predictive factor for prognosis. no significant relation was found between somatostatin receptor-2 positivity and any of the known prognostic factors for gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumor: versus stage, p=0.67; vs. lymph node metastasis, p=0.51; vs. vascular invasion, p=0.11; vs. extension to surrounding soft tissue, p=0.54; vs. necrosis, p=0.23; vs. lymphatic invasion, p=0.25; and vs. perineural invasion, p=0.42. somatostatin receptor-2 positivity, either focal or diffuse, does not seem to predict prognosis in gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. somatostatin receptor 2a expression is a feature of well-differentiated neuroendocrine neoplasms and is important for their diagnosis and therapy. somatostatin receptor 2a was positive in 6/37 of poorly differentiated and in 8/10 of well-differentiated neuroendocrine neoplasms. 
Can vaginal pH be measured from the wet mount slide? [SEP] to assess the accuracy of vaginal ph measurement on wet mount microscopy slides compared with direct measurements on fresh vaginal fluid. a ph strip (ph range 4-7, merck) was brought in contact with the vaginal fluid on the sampling device and on the glass slide after adding one droplet of saline and performing microscopy by two different people unaware of the microscopy results of the clinical exam. vaginal ph should be measured by bringing the ph strip in direct contact with fresh vaginal fluid without first adding saline. measurement of intravaginal ph provides a reasonable assessment of vaginal health but is fraught with the potential for several sampling errors. our findings support self-sampling for vaginal ph before using over-the-counter products for presumed vaginitis. vaginal ph measurement is a screening method of vaginal infection in pregnancy. in freshly taken vaginal fluid measurements were carried out with special ph indicator strips and ph micro glass electrode. accessing vaginal ph is fundamental during gynaecological visit for the detection of abnormal vaginal flora (avf), but use of ph strips may be time-consuming and difficult to interpret. although ph assessment of vaginal secretions is beneficial for diagnosing vaginitis, it is not commonly done. the vs-sense test offers an alternative approach to measuring vaginal ph with nitrazine paper. 
Does Molecular Genotype Provide Useful Information in the Management of Radioiodine Refractory Thyroid Cancers? [SEP] we correlated mutation profile in radioiodine-refractory (rair) metastatic thyroid cancers (tcs) with patient outcome and response to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tkis), and discussed the results with other published data. this can now be helped with prognostic genetic markers in thyroid cancer, exemplified by braf v600e and tert promoter mutations, which have been well characterized and widely appreciated. the genetic duet of braf v600e/ras and tert promoter mutations is a most robust prognostic genetic pattern for poor prognosis of differentiated thyroid cancer. the best prognostic value of genetic markers in thyroid cancer is achieved through a clinical risk level-based and genotype-individualized manner. radioiodine refractoriness in differentiated thyroid cancer remains an unsolved therapeutic problem. thirteen patients with radioiodine-refractory (rai-r) papillary thyroid cancer (ptc) were treated with 13-cis-ra followed by iodine-131 treatment at the department of endocrinology, heidelberg university hospital, heidelberg, germany. clinical outcome parameters were tumor size, thyroglobulin, and radioiodine uptake in correlation to mutational status. this review will focus on the management and treatment of metastatic thyroid cancer that is radioactive iodine refractory and review the new drugs and their mechanism of actions as well as their adverse events. thyroid cancer patients with radioiodine-refractory (rai-r) disease, resulting from insufficient rai delivery and/or rai resistance, have increased mortality and limited treatment options. our aims were to evaluate the diagnostic utility of assessing the presence of braf and ras mutations and ret/ptc1 and ret/ptc3 rearrangements in all cytological categories in an italian group of thyroid nodule patients assessed prospectively, and to understand whether and which mutation testing might be helpful in cytologically indeterminate nodules. 
Screening for gestational diabetes mellitus: are the criteria proposed by the international association of the Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Groups cost-effective? [SEP] the international association of diabetes and pregnancy study groups released new recommendations on screening methods and diagnostic criteria for gestational diabetes. the main objectives of the present study were to analyze characteristics of mothers who underwent the new screening test, and to assess the prevalence of gestational diabetes and related pregnancy complications such as the 5-minute apgar score <7, in a urban maternity clinic in djibouti. from may 2010 to october 2011 all consecutive pregnant women were screened for gestational diabetes according to the iadpsg's panel criteria, while all the risk factors for each patient were registered. an ideal screening test for gestational diabetes should be capable of identifying not only women with the disease but also the women with a high risk of developing gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm). international guidelines recommend screening for overt diabetes in early pregnancy. pregnant women commonly receive screening for gestational diabetes mellitus by use of a 50 g glucose challenge test, followed by a diagnostic oral glucose tolerance test for those whose glucose challenge test result is abnormal. recently proposed international guidelines for screening for gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm) recommend additional screening in early pregnancy for sub-populations at a high risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm), such as indigenous women. screening for gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm) is important to improve pregnancy outcomes and to prevent type 2 diabetes after pregnancy. this new consensus recommends universal screening for overt diabetes when planning pregnancy or at the latest at first prenatal contact, preferably by measuring the fasting plasma glucose by using the same diagnostic criteria as in the non-pregnant state. this study investigates the cost effectiveness of gestational diabetes mellitus screening using the new international association of diabetes in pregnancy study group (iadpsg) guidelines. 
Are higher rates of depression in women accounted for by differential symptom reporting? [SEP] most population studies report higher rates of depression among women than men, and some researchers have observed gender differences in depression symptoms overall, or in sub-groupings (e.g. observations of gender-based differences in prevalence, presentation, and treatment response in depression raise questions about the underlying causes of such differences. we examined gender differences across three depressive sub-type conditions using four differing measures to determine whether any gender differences emerge more from severity or symptom prevalence, reflect nuances of the particular measure, or whether depressive sub-type is influential. women have a higher prevalence of major depressive disorder (mdd) and report more severe depressive symptoms than men. several studies have suggested that gender differences in depression may occur because women report higher levels of somatic symptoms than men. we examine recent evidence investigating whether sex differences in exposure or response to stressful life events play an explanatory role in the sex differences found in onset of depression. we conclude that differences between women and men in response to stressful life events and cognitive style are relevant to understanding sex differences in the onset of depression. gender differences in depressive symptoms have been extensively documented, with women reporting a higher number of depressive symptoms than men. the goal of the current paper is to analyze how much of the observed gender gap in depression may be attributed to (1) compositional versus (2) reporting differences or (3) differences in reactivity to adversities. our results show that the observed gender gap in depression (1) only partially derives from compositional differences; (2) is not an artifact of a gender-specific reporting style; and remarkably (3) men appear more sensitive to adversities. 
Follow-up of patients with new cardiovascular implantable electronic devices: are experts' recommendations implemented in routine clinical practice? [SEP] a 2008 expert consensus statement recommended an in-person follow-up visit between 2 and 12 weeks after the placement of a new cardiovascular implantable electronic device (cied). remote monitoring is increasingly becoming the new standard of care for implantable cardioverter defibrillator (icd) follow-up. the primary endpoint was a composite of cardiovascular hospitalization, emergency room visit for a cardiac cause, and unscheduled visit to the electrophysiology clinic for a device-related issue at 1 year. due to the increasing number of patients with an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (icd), new options for icd patient follow-up management are required. the increasing number of patients with implantable cardiac devices raises the need for more efficient outpatient follow-up care. the aim of this article is to present the role of remote patient monitoring in implantable cardioverter-defibrillator follow-up, its potential benefits and its barriers to widespread diffusion. follow-up of patients with cardiac implantable electronic devices is challenging due to the increasing number and technical complexity of devices coupled to increasing clinical complexity of patients. the number of patients implanted with cardiovascular electronic devices (cied) like implantable defibrillators (icd), cardiac resynchronisation (crt) devices, and pacemakers continues to grow. cardiac implantable electronic devices (pacemakers and defibrillators) are increasingly common in modern cardiology practice, and health professionals from a variety of specialties will encounter patients with such devices on a frequent basis. remote monitoring (rm) is increasingly used to follow up patients with implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (icds). 
Does limb-salvage surgery offer patients better quality of life and functional capacity than amputation? [SEP] for the sedentary patient, a poorly functional salvaged limb can provide him/her with a higher quality of life than he/she would have with an amputation. this discussion focuses on limb salvage versus limb amputation. the authors address decision-making and outcomes that relate to the following questions: "which patients would benefit from limb salvage as opposed to an amputation?" however, the subjective and objective benefits of limb-salvage surgery compared with amputation are not fully clear. we therefore compared functional status and quality of life for patients treated with above-knee amputation versus limb-salvage surgery. compared with patients having above-knee amputation, patients undergoing limb-salvage surgery had superior physiological cost index scores and reintegration to normal living index. these data suggest that limb-salvage surgery offers better gait efficiency and return to normal living compared with above-knee amputation, but does not improve the patient's perception of quality of life. limb preservation surgery compares favorably with amputation in oncologic and functional outcomes. however, it is unclear whether limb salvage offers any improvement in function without compromising survival. patients treated with either limb salvage or amputation experience similar survival, local recurrence, and complications, but better function is achievable for patients treated with limb salvage versus amputation. 
Serum angiotensin-converting enzyme and frequency of severe hypoglycaemia in Type 1 diabetes: does a relationship exist? [SEP] high basal renin-angiotensin system (ras) activity is associated with increased risk of severe hypoglycaemia in type 1 diabetes. the deletion-allele of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) gene and elevated ace activity are associated with increased risk of severe hypoglycemia in type 1 diabetes. three risk factors for severe hypoglycemia were identified: plasma angiotensinogen concentration in the upper quartile (relative rate [rr] vs. lower quartile 3.1, 95% confidence interval [ci,] 1.4-6.8), serum ace activity in the upper quartile (rr vs. lower quartile 2.9, 95% ci, 1.3-6.2), and homo- or hemizygosity for the a-allele of the x chromosome-located at2r 1675g/a polymorphism (rr vs. noncarriers 2.5, 95% ci, 1.4-5.0). a backward multiple regression analysis identified a high number of renin-angiotensin system-related risk factors and reduced ability to perceive hypoglycemic warning symptoms (impaired hypoglycemia awareness) as predictors of severe hypoglycemia. high renin-angiotensin system activity and the a-allele of the at2r 1675g/a polymorphism associate with high risk of severe hypoglycemia in type 1 diabetes. high renin-angiotensin system (ras) activity has been associated with a high risk of severe hypoglycaemia in patients with type 1 diabetes and with cognitive deterioration during experimental hypoglycaemia in healthy subjects. in type 1 diabetes increased risk of severe hypoglycaemia is associated with high angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) activity. the aim of our study was to investigate whether streptozotocin-induced diabetes was associated with a change in angiotensin ii receptors at (1) and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) mrna expression in the pancreas in vivo. we have previously shown a strong relationship between high angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) activity, presence of the deletion (d) allele of the acegene and recall of severe hypoglycaemic events in patients with type 1 diabetes. high ace activity and the presence of the d allele of the ace gene predict a high rate of severe hypoglycaemia in type 1 diabetes. 
Cervical spine fractures in geriatric blunt trauma patients with low-energy mechanism: are clinical predictors adequate? [SEP] studies have identified clinical predictors to guide radiologic evaluation of the cervical spine in geriatric patients. we hypothesized that clinical predictors are not adequate in the identification of cervical spine fractures in geriatric blunt trauma patients with low-energy mechanism. a retrospective case-control study was performed on geriatric blunt trauma patients sustaining low-energy trauma from january 2000 to january 2006. clinical predictors appear inadequate for the evaluation of the cervical spine in geriatric trauma patients with low-energy mechanism. however, it is not uncommon that geriatric trauma patients sustain cervical spine (c-spine) fractures with other associated injuries due to glf or less. the aim of this study is to determine the injury patterns and the roles of clinical risk factors in these geriatric trauma patients. basic clinical characteristics, the distribution of c-spine fracture(s), and mechanism of injury in geriatric patients (65 years or older) were compared with those less than 65 years old. geriatric patients tend to sustain more upper c-spine fractures than non-geriatric patients regardless of the mechanisms. to identify factors that predict poor patient-reported outcomes in patients with traumatic vertebral body fracture(s) of the thoracic and/or lumbar spine without neurological deficit. geriatric trauma patients with low-level falls often have multiple comorbidities and limited physiologic reserve. 
Do microbiological factors account for poor pregnancy outcome among unmarried pregnant women in Poland? [SEP] being unmarried is a well-known risk factor for poor pregnancy outcome such as preterm delivery and intrauterine growth restriction. the aim of this prospective study was to assess the prevalence and risk of bacterial vaginosis (bv) and selected bacteria isolated from the lower genital tract and to determine the socioeconomic and microbiological characteristics that might be responsible for poor pregnancy outcome observed among unmarried pregnant women. an analysis of the microbiological culture from the lower genital tract revealed that unmarried pregnant women had a higher risk for several types of pathological microflora, as compared to married women. the observed socioeconomic, demographic and microbiological differences between unmarried and married women could be responsible for the poor pregnancy outcome among unmarried pregnant women in poland. the present study provides valuable information regarding the characteristics of the vaginal microbiota of korean women related to high-risk pregnancy. investigation of the vaginal microbiotic structure in pregnant korean women is necessary to enable better prediction of adverse pregnancy outcomes. a major new field of human microbiome studies has begun to shed light on the impact of microbes (of both the commensal and pathogen varieties) on pregnancy outcomes. recent advances in next-generation sequencing and metagenomic analysis have revealed that maternal microbiomes at a variety of niches including the oral, vaginal, gut, cervical, and even the placenta itself govern pregnancy outcomes. in this review, we describe how alterations in the microbial biomasses impact preterm birth and we discuss the major research questions concerning the cause and/or interdependent relationships between microbiome, infection, and preterm delivery. imbalances in this microbiota have been associated with negative reproductive outcomes, such as spontaneous preterm birth (sptb), but the mechanisms underlying the association between a disturbed microbiota and sptb remain poorly understood. 
Should all patients be optimized to the same preoperative hemoglobin level to avoid transfusion in primary knee arthroplasty? [SEP] optimization of the preoperative hemoglobin (hb) level is an effective way to reduce allogeneic transfusion in total knee arthroplasty (tka) though the procedure is expensive, requires close monitoring and is often inconvenient for patients with reduced mobility. preoperative anemia in patients undergoing elective hip and knee arthroplasty is associated with increased postoperative morbidity and mortality, red blood cell (rbc) transfusion, and length of stay (los). the aim of this study was to assess the effect of optimizing hemoglobin (hb) levels before elective primary hip and knee arthroplasty. algorithm-led preoperative anemia screening and management in elective arthroplasty was associated with reduced rbc transfusion, readmission, critical care admission, los, and costs. a perioperative blood management program is one of a number of important elements for successful patient care in total knee arthroplasty (tka) and surgeons should be proactive in its application. the pre-operative level of haemoglobin is the strongest predictor of the peri-operative requirement for blood transfusion after total knee arthroplasty (tka). this study aimed to identify threshold pre-operative levels of haemoglobin that would predict the requirement for blood transfusion in patients who undergo tka. the authors sought to determine the risk factors associated with postoperative transfusions and to establish a "cutoff" preoperative hemoglobin threshold value specific to total knee arthroplasty (tka) that would identify patients who would benefit from blood conservation programs. a preoperative hemoglobin value of 12.5 g/dl was identified as the optimal cutoff for predicting postoperative transfusion requirements across all patients, with a sensitivity of 84.8% and a specificity of 76.4%. the morbidity associated with blood loss and the burden of blood transfusions in adult arthroplasty necessitates preoperative optimization as routine practice. 
Is there any relation between cervical cord plaques and discopathy in patients with multiple sclerosis? [SEP] cervical cord t(1) was compared in 15 ms patients [8 relapsing-remitting (rr), 7 secondary progressive (sp)] and 6 healthy controls, and related to normalised upper cervical cord area (ucca), cerebral white matter t(1), t(2) lesion load and disability measures including the expanded disability status scale (edss), ambulation index (ai) and timed 25-foot walk. the purpose of this study is to determine the relationship between the site of the cervical discopathy and cervical spinal cord plaque in ms patients. cervical mri scans were evaluated for detection of any evidence of cervical discopathy and cervical ms plaques. any correlation between the site of the ms lesions and discopathy was recorded. from 536 patients who were involved in the study, 214 patients had both cervical discopathy and cervical cord plaques. the number of patients with cervical cord plaque and discopathy at same site was significantly higher than those with plaque and discopathy at different sites (p<0.05). the study data suggests a possible correlation between cervical discopathy and cervical ms plaque. although it is known that cervical spinal cord atrophy correlates with disability in ms, it is unknown whether it is the most important determinant when compared to other regions of the central nervous system (cns). in this preliminary study of mildly disabled, treated ms patients, cervical spinal cord atrophy most strongly correlates with physical disability in ms when accounting for a wide range of other cns measures of lesions and atrophy, including thoracic or whole spinal cord volume, and cerebral gray, white or whole brain volume. this study shows that the amount and severity of ms pathology in the cervical cord are greater in the progressive forms of the disease. 
Is the processing of affective prosody influenced by spatial attention? [SEP] the present study asked whether the processing of affective prosody is modulated by spatial attention. while emotional prosody effects interacted with effects of spatial attention at early processing levels (< 200 ms), these effects were additive at later processing stages (> 200 ms). emotional prosody, therefore, seems to be partially processed outside the focus of spatial attention. whereas at early sensory processing stages spatial attention modulates the degree of emotional voice processing as a function of emotional valence, emotional prosody is processed outside of the focus of spatial attention at later processing stages. the question whether spatial selective attention is necessary in order to process vocal affective prosody has been controversially discussed in sighted individuals: whereas some studies argue that attention is required in order to process emotions, other studies conclude that vocal prosody can be processed even outside the focus of spatial selective attention. here, we asked whether spatial selective attention is necessary for the processing of affective prosodies after visual deprivation from birth. 'affective prosody' defines the supra-segmental features of speech that, when manipulated, can change the type and intensity of emotion conveyed by the speaker. the present study crosses the factors of spatial selective attention and affective content, and examines the relationship between instructed (spatial) and automatic attention to affective stimuli. an increase of ssvep amplitude was observed as an additive function of spatial attention and emotional content. the results support a model wherein visuospatial attention used during language comprehension is directed by the left hemisphere given neutral emotional prosody, and by the right hemisphere given primarily negative emotional prosodic cues. 
Is there a role for leukocyte and CRP measurements in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis in the elderly? [SEP] leukocyte count, neutrophil percentage, and c-reactive protein (crp) have been shown to give valuable information in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis. this retrospective study aimed to clarify the role of these tests in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis in patients aged 60 years or over. the sensitivities of leukocyte count, neutrophil percentage, and crp in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis were 71.4 per cent, 88.3 per cent, and 90 per cent, respectively, while the specificities were 37.5 per cent, 25 per cent, and 37.5 per cent, respectively. in this study serial total leucocyte counts and serial c-reactive protein (crp) concentrations in acute appendicitis were measured. we studied the role of preoperative leukocyte count and c-reactive protein (crp) measurements in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis in fertile-aged women with a clinical suspicion of acute appendicitis. in particular, what is the clinical value of unelevated leukocyte count and crp in excluding acute appendicitis in these patients? taken together, 24 patients were operated on for a clinical suspicion of acute appendicitis, although preoperative leukocyte count and crp values were unelevated. the clinical usefulness of the preoperative determination of c-reactive protein (crp) in patients with suspected acute appendicitis was studied in 156 consecutive patients undergoing acute appendicectomy. laboratory measurements such as leucocyte count, neutrophil percentage and c-reactive protein (crp) concentration are commonly used as diagnostic aids in patients with suspected acute appendicitis. the aim of the study is to analyze the role of c-reactive protein (crp), white blood count (wbc) and neutrophil percentage (np) in improving the accuracy of diagnosis of acute appendicitis and to compare it with the intraoperative assessment and histopathology findings. 
Are bipolar disorders underdiagnosed in patients with depressive episodes? [SEP] one of the underlying reasons is the poor recognition of bipolar disorder among patients presenting depressive episodes. major depressive episodes are common in bipolar disorder, which consequently may be misdiagnosed as major depressive disorder. bipolar disorder is often underdiagnosed and undertreated. several research reports and commentaries have suggested that bipolar disorder is underrecognized and that many patients with nonbipolar major depressive disorder have, in fact, bipolar disorder. the bipolar disorder is often misdiagnosed in particular among outpatients with recurrent depression. also, we demonstrate that the under-diagnosis bipolar disorder was associated with the earliest onset age of a depressive episode and it was more prevalent in depressed patients with suicidal ideation and suicide attempts. psychotic bipolar depressive episodes remain remarkably understudied despite being common and having a significant impact on bipolar disorder. bipolar disorder is frequently misdiagnosed as major depressive disorder, delaying appropriate treatment and worsening outcome for many bipolar individuals. underdiagnosis and misdiagnosis of bipolar-ii disorder (bp-ii) as a major depressive disorder (mdd) are frequently reported. bipolar disorder is often misdiagnosed as major depressive disorder, which leads to inadequate treatment. 
Prognosis of low-tone sudden deafness - does it inevitably progress to Meniere's disease? [SEP] although acute low-tone hearing loss has been associated with cochlear hydrops or early stage meniere's disease, its prognosis in the short-term has been reported to be better than sudden hearing loss. hearing loss in the early stages of meniere's disease is characterized by a fluctuation in the audiometric pattern limited to the low frequencies, and then, during the disease's evolution, the hearing loss involves the medium and high frequencies. meniere's disease (md) represents a clinical syndrome characterized by episodes of spontaneous vertigo, associated with fluctuating, low to medium frequencies sensorineural hearing loss (snhl), tinnitus, and aural fullness affecting one or both ears. among the types of idiopathic sudden sensorineural hearing loss, low-tone type without vertigo has attracted attention for its recurrence and progression to ménière's disease. the purpose of this article is to characterize the recurrent type of sudden low-tone sensorineural hearing loss without vertigo using neuro-otologic examination. long-term follow-up of 82 patients diagnosed at the university hospital with idiopathic sudden low-tone sensorineural hearing loss without vertigo. our results indicate that idiopathic sudden low-tone sensorineural hearing loss without vertigo has a high recurrence rate when vestibular alteration and endolymphatic hydrops are detected on initial examination. in clinical practice, sudden low-tone loss other than acute low-tone sensorineural hearing loss (alhl) shows a potential for recurrence. sixty-three patients diagnosed at the university hospital with idiopathic sudden low-tone loss of sensorineural hearing loss and without subjective vertigo were followed up in the long term with a mean of over 4 years. hearing loss in menière's disease has been described to affect above all low frequencies (upward curve) with a tendency to become irreversible and non-fluctuating at the higher frequencies (peaked curve) over time. 
Can pictorial warning labels on cigarette packages address smoking-related health disparities? [SEP] pictorial health warning labels on cigarette packaging have been proposed for the u.s., but their potential influences among populations that suffer tobacco-related health disparities are unknown. the who advises the use of pictorial health warnings on cigarette packages. the results have a potential public health perspective as pictorial health warnings might be an effective strategy to reduce attentional bias towards cigarette packages of light smokers, while counterproductive effects in heavy smokers warrant further investigation. warning labels have traditionally depicted graphic health consequences of smoking but emerging evidence suggests the distal consequences shown may prove less effective in prompting cessation among young adults. not only would plain cigarette packaging enhance the salience and impact of graphic warning labels, but it would potentially bolster the overall message that cigarette smoking is harmful. in the context of a comprehensive tobacco control programme, graphic warning labels on plain cigarette packaging present an explicit message about the risks (to health and image) associated with cigarette smoking. this paper is concerned with the effects of cigarette pack warning labels on quitting intentions. we examined whether different responses among smokers toward cigarette pack warning labels could predict quit intentions and self-efficacy in quitting. use of communication theories in the development of pictorial health warning labels (graphic warning labels) for cigarette packaging might enhance labels' impact on motivation to quit, but research has been limited, particularly among low socioeconomic status (ses) populations in the u.s. population-level communication interventions, such as graphic warning labels (gwls) on cigarette packs, have the potential to reduce or exacerbate tobacco-related health disparities depending on their effectiveness among disadvantaged sub-populations. 
Does patient-prosthesis mismatch after aortic valve replacement affect survival and quality of life in elderly patients? [SEP] controversy still exists about the influence of prosthesis-patient mismatch on outcomes after aortic valve replacement in the elderly. our aim was to evaluate the effect of prosthesis-patient mismatch on survival and the extent of left ventricular (lv) mass regression after aortic valve replacement for aortic stenosis in japanese patients aged >or=65 years. the effect of prosthesis-patient mismatch on long-term survival after aortic valve replacement has received considerable attention but there remains controversy. this study was performed to determine the predictors of mortality after aortic valve replacement and influence of prosthesis-patient mismatch on survival. the influence of prosthesis-patient mismatch on long-term results after aortic valve replacement remains controversial. the aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of prosthesis-patient mismatch on survival and the extent of left ventricular mass regression after aortic valve replacement for aortic stenosis. the effect of prosthesis-patient mismatch on clinical outcome and left ventricular mass regression after aortic valve replacement remains controversial. data on whether the clinical effect of prosthesis-patient mismatch depends on left ventricular function at the time of aortic valve replacement are lacking. this study examined the long-term clinical and echocardiographic effects of prosthesis-patient mismatch in patients with and without left ventricular systolic dysfunction at the time of aortic valve replacement. prosthesis-patient mismatch at an indexed effective orifice area of 0.85 cm2/m2 or less after aortic valve replacement primarily affects patients with impaired preoperative left ventricular function and results in decreased survival, lower freedom from heart failure, and incomplete left ventricular mass regression. 
Is fear of anaphylactic shock discouraging surgeons from more widely adopting percutaneous and laparoscopic techniques in the treatment of liver hydatid cyst? [SEP] despite that minimal access surgery is a feasible, effective and viable option for radical surgical treatment of cystic hydatidosis, the laparoscopic approach is not widely accepted because of the risk of recurrence and the risk of severe complications, such as anaphylaxis and/or contamination of the peritoneal cavity related with the spillage. by using pgaa, we are able to perform the laparoscopic approach while keeping the necessary pneumoperitoneum pressure to evacuate the cyst contents of liver hydatidosis securely and effectively, with wider indications even in difficult locations, after testing its safety and efficacy in some ex-vivo animal livers with hydatid cysts. conversely, the laparoscopic approach for the management of hydatid simple liver cysts is not widely accepted because of the risk for severe complications. therefore, laparoscopic fenestration, planned for a liver cyst could be performed unintentionally for an undiagnosed hydatid liver cyst. in two patients with presumedly simple liver cyst, hydatid liver cyst was diagnosed instead at laparoscopy by aspiration of cystic fluid. the risk of misdiagnosing a hydatid liver cyst for a simple liver cyst, especially in the presence of a solitary cyst, should be considered before laparoscopic fenestration is performed. groups having experience in this kind of surgery stressed the contraindication to manage hydatid cysts of the liver laparoscopically. this presentation aims to demonstrate the feasibility and safety of laparoscopic treatment of special types of hepatic hydatid cysts. hydatid cysts of the liver are dangerous to handle by laparoscopy. a device of 2 coaxial suckers is presented to procure laparoscopic management of hydatid cysts enough safety against "spillage of contents" as in open surgery. 
Reporting and interpreting red blood cell morphology: is there discordance between clinical pathologists and clinicians? [SEP] clinical pathologists (cps) report rbc morphologic (rbc-m) changes to assist clinicians in prioritizing differential diagnoses. important differences about the clinical relevance of certain rbc-m terms exist between clinicians and cps. in spite of the continual standardization of test result formats, the improvements of laboratory technologies, publications of reference guidelines, and the advancements in hematology analyzers, the methods of reporting or grading abnormal red blood cell morphology still vary among laboratories everywhere. this article describes the methods or systems of reporting abnormal red cell morphology and the conditions associated with the abnormalities. our results show that the pathologists generally produce descriptions of the cases which do not follow rigorously the interpretation rules corresponding to the point of view they assert to adopt. red blood cell (rbc) parameters such as morphology, volume, refractive index, and hemoglobin content are of great importance for diagnostic purposes. however, the method is not widely accepted in clinical practice because of controversy regarding the minimum percentage of dysmorphic red cells required to diagnose glomerular aetiology, as well as the need for specialized microscopes. nevertheless, the distinctive cytological characteristics of the blood cells are subjective and influenced by the reviewer's interpretation and, because of that, translating subjective morphological examination into objective parameters is a challenge. this study reviews current and new quantitative features, which can contribute to optimize morphology through blood cell digital image processing techniques. the reliability of past histological criteria for the diagnosis of plasmacytoid leukemia was investigated by studying observer variation in the diagnosis of the disease. 
Does β-catenin have a role in pathogenesis of sebaceous cell carcinoma of the eyelid? [SEP] since the e-cadherin-catenin complex is of importance in the cancerogenesis of epithelial tumors, we examined the expression of e-cadherin and β-catenin in sebaceous adenocarcinomas of the eyelid and correlated the results with clinicopathological parameters. sebaceous eyelid adenocarcinomas showed a decrease in the membranous expression of e-cadherin and of β-catenin. the findings suggest that the immunohistochemical detection of a low e-cadherin and low β-catenin expression may help in the examination and staging of sebaceous eyelid adenocarcinomas. in this study, we investigate the expression of β-catenin, ra-binding proteins and ra receptors in sebaceous cell carcinoma of the eyelid and try to estimate their influence on its pathoetiology. of these 16 cases, the expression of β-catenin was significantly increased in sebaceous cell carcinoma cases. abnormal expression of β-catenin contributes to tumor development, progression, and metastasis in various cancers. expression of β-catenin in sebaceous cell carcinoma (sbcc) of the eyelid and its correlation with histopathological features. cytoplasmic overexpression of β-catenin was observed in the majority of the cases of sbcc of eyelid, and this correlated significantly with tumour size. the authors therefore hypothesise that β-catenin overexpression in sbcc of eyelid may be a result of wnt/β-catenin pathway dysregulation. beta-catenin has been previously associated with oncogenic activity in human cancers. 
Is ultrasound equal to X-ray in pediatric fracture diagnosis? [SEP] previous studies have shown that fractures can also be visualized by ultrasound (us). the aim of our study was to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of us in comparison to x-rays in diagnosing pediatric elbow fractures. dual x-ray absorptiometry (dxa) is commonly used but quantitative ultrasound is less expensive, free of ionizing radiation, and predicts fractures as well as dxa does, in adults. to assess the value of ultrasound as an adjunct to radiography in minor musculoskeletal pediatric trauma. fifty children with 53 suspected fractures were referred for upper and/or lower limbs x-rays, followed by ultrasound. in 20 patients with normal x-rays, ultrasound showed fracture in 6 patients, hematoma in 7 patients and was normal in 7 patients. ultrasound (us) may be a useful tool for rapidly diagnosing fractures. dual x-ray absorptiometry (dxa) is used most commonly for clinical assessments in children, but calcaneus ultrasound (cus) is less costly, is free of ionizing radiation, and predicts fracture as well as dxa in adults. ultrasound is effective in the detecting radiographically silent fractures of the pediatric ankle and wrist. ultrasound may be used as an adjunct to radiography in clinically suspicious but radiographically negative ankle and wrist injuries. 
Measuring hospital mortality rates: are 30-day data enough? [SEP] we assessed whether hospital rankings based on historical 30-day mortality predicted subsequent hip fracture outcomes. worse historical hospital performance was associated with a greater adjusted odds of 30 day mortality (odds ratio (or), fourth vs. first quartile: 1.24, 95% confidence interval (ci): 1.18, 1.29, p<0.001) and 180 day mortality (or, fourth vs. first quartile: 1.15, 95% ci 1.11, 1.18, p<0.001). although 30-day mortality has better face validity as a hospital performance measure than in-hospital mortality, site assessments were similar despite the definition used. we aimed to quantify the variation in 30-day mortality across hospitals and to determine the hospital general contextual effect for understanding patient differences in 30-day mortality risk. we estimated unadjusted and patient-mix adjusted risk of 30-day mortality in 32 hospitals. to assess the meaning of hospital-associated death rates, we studied whether mortality within 30 days of hospital admission (30-day mortality) is more informative than inpatient mortality and whether detailed assessment of additional discharge diagnoses helps in understanding death rates. to assess if an incongruous increase in mortality occurs after postoperative day 30. in the current climate of public reporting and pay-for-performance, 30-day mortality after inpatient surgery has become a key metric to assess performance. we ran linear regression models to examine discontinuity points around the 30-day mark, and conducted subgroup analyses for hospitals participating in the national surgical quality improvement program, which focuses on 30-day mortality reporting. a common quality indicator for monitoring and comparing hospitals is based on death within 30 days of admission. 
Hearing loss: an unknown complication of pre-eclampsia? [SEP] eclampsia, clinically defined as unexplained seizure in a woman with preeclampsia, is a life threatening complication unique to the pregnant state. sudden hearing loss directly associated with pregnancy or birth is a little known and rare occurrence. the temporary, unilateral, low-frequency sensorineural hearing loss in this case was reported after the birth of the patient's first child, and again during the third trimester of her second pregnancy. this paper discusses the different explanations as to why hearing losses occur due to physical changes within the body during pregnancy and birth. our case demonstrates that pregnancy can lead to hearing loss in two sequential pregnancies. blood hypertension and alterations in laboratory studies were detected; a diagnosis of late postpartum eclampsia was made. we aimed to identify maternal and placental risk factors associated with a "refer" result on the newborn hearing screening (nhs) test and subsequently confirmed snhl in very preterm neonates. it has been suggested that pregnancy-induced hypertension (pih--pre-eclampsia or toxaemia of pregnancy) may cause sensorineural hearing loss (snhl) in the offspring. preeclampsia, characterized by widespread endothelial damage and dysfunction, systemic toxicity, coagulation defects, and an increased systemic inflammatory response, poses some risk factors for hearing loss. this study showed that pregnancy toxemia might have effects on hearing abilities. 
Is portable ultrasonography accurate in the evaluation of Schanz pin placement during extremity fracture fixation in austere environments? [SEP] ultrasound accurately diagnosed extremity injury in 94% of patients with no false-positive examinations; accuracy was greater in midshaft locations and least in the metacarpal/metatarsals. the aim of this study was to determine the accuracy of ultrasound compared with plain radiography in diagnosis of upper and lower extremity long bone fractures in traumatic patients. sensitivity, specificity, ppv and npv of ultrasound compared with plain radiography in the diagnosis of upper extremity long bone fractures were 98.6%, 83%, 65.4% and 87.1%, respectively, and the highest accuracy was observed in men, lower ages and femoral fractures. the results of this study showed that ultrasound compared with plain radiography has a high accuracy in the diagnosis of upper and lower extremity long bone fractures. the use of noninvasive, acoustic methods like ultrasonometry is becoming increasingly interesting in the quantitative assessment of fracture healing. the study was designed to assess the clinical application of measurement of ultrasonic wave propagation through the fracture callus. we conclude that the technique for measuring long bone ultrasound velocity with ultrasonographic centering on the fracture gap allows repetitive positioning of ultrasonic transducers for measurement. ultrasound has been used to evaluate fracture union and nonunion, infection, ligamentous injury, nerve compression, and mechanical impingement caused by hardware. ultrasound is emerging as a promising tool for the diagnosis of skeletal fractures, particularly in environments where conventional radiography may be absent or limited. ultrasound scanning was used as an additional parameter in evaluation of healing of long bone fractures in patients treated by external fixation devices. 
Medical student education in emergency medicine: do students meet the national standards for clinical encounters of selected core conditions? [SEP] medical school can be very challenging, especially when students are considering applying to competitive specialties, like emergency medicine. once medical students know that emergency medicine is the field they want to specialize in, a multitude of other questions arise, including how many em rotations should they do? to determine whether a course in emergency medical services (ems) impacts on the perceived ability of medical students to render care in emergencies such as choking and cardiac arrest, and affects their choice of emergency medicine as a career. as emergency medicine (em) has become a more prominent feature in the clinical years of medical school training, national em clerkship curricula have been published to address the need to standardize students' experiences in the field. medical students have varied experiences on the emergency medicine (em) subinternship. every physician and graduate medical student should possess basic knowledge of emergency care and the skills to manage common emergencies. every physician and graduate medical student should possess basic knowledge of emergency care and the skills to manage common emergencies. emergency medicine (em) educators are in a unique position to provide students with basic life support skills, guidance in assessing the undifferentiated patient, and exposure to the specialty of em during all years of medical school. emergency departments (eds) offer a variety of learning opportunities for undergraduate medical students. residents training in emergency medicine have a need for a defined curriculum in emergency medical services. 
A model of healing of Los Angeles grades C and D reflux oesophagitis: is there an optimal time of acid suppression for maximal healing? [SEP] in patients with los angeles (la) grade c or d oesophagitis, a positive relationship has been established between the duration of intragastric acid suppression and healing. to determine whether there is an apparent optimal time of intragastric acid suppression for maximal healing of reflux oesophagitis. maximal reflux oesophagitis healing rates were achieved when intragastric ph >4 was achieved for approximately 50-70% (12-17 h) of the 24-h period. after 4 weeks' acid-suppressive therapy for la grade c or d oesophagitis, successful healing appears to reach a threshold above which improvements are unlikely to be achieved despite an increase in number of hours with intragastric ph >4. to assess the relationship between the percentage of time intragastric ph >4.0 and healing of erosive oesophagitis. mean percentages of time with intragastric ph >4.0 on day 5 in patients with healed and unhealed erosive oesophagitis were 61% and 42%, respectively (p = 0.0002), indicating that erosive oesophagitis healing rates were positively related to the percentage of time intragastric ph was >4.0. a positive relationship between intragastric acid control and erosive oesophagitis healing was demonstrated. reducing oesophageal acid exposure by suppressing acid secretion with omeprazole is highly effective in healing reflux oesophagitis. the aim of this study, was to investigate the relation between oesophageal acid exposure and healing in patients with severe reflux oesophagitis treated with omeprazole. this is due to a reduced responsiveness to acid suppression, and is likely to be an important factor underlying the failure of the oesophagitis to heal. 
Gadofosveset-enhanced MR angiography of carotid arteries: does steady-state imaging improve accuracy of first-pass imaging? [SEP] to prospectively evaluate the potential of gadobenate dimeglumine for high-resolution steady-state (ss) contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography (ce-mra) of the carotid arteries as an adjunct to conventional first-pass (fp) mra, with computed tomography angiography (cta) and digital subtraction angiography (dsa) as reference. ss imaging of the carotid arteries is feasible with gadobenate dimeglumine. to optimize the image acquisition parameters for improved steady-state (ss) contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography (ce-mra) of the carotid arteries with gadobenate dimeglumine. purpose to assess the clinical utility of gadofesveset-enhanced imaging and compare an optimized steady-state (ss) sequence against conventional first-pass dynamic multi-phase (dmp) imaging. conclusion gadofesveset-enhanced thoracic angiography is clinically feasible. to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of gadofosveset-enhanced magnetic resonance (mr) angiography in the assessment of carotid artery stenosis, with digital subtraction angiography (dsa) as the reference standard, and to determine the value of reading first-pass, steady-state, and "combined" (first-pass plus steady-state) mr angiograms. gadofosveset-enhanced mr angiography is a promising technique for imaging carotid artery stenosis. to compare gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography (mra) of the carotid bifurcation with 2d time-of-flight (tof) mr angiography with regard to image quality and duration of examination. gadolinium contrast was administered intravenously during 3d mr imaging at 1.5 tesla in 46 patients presenting with suspected carotid occlusive disease. gadolinium-enhanced mr angiography is a promising technique for the evaluation of patients with carotid occlusive disease because it rapidly images the carotid arteries from the aortic arch to the skull base and eliminates some of the artifacts that degrade 2d tof mr angiography. 
Sternal skin conductance: a reasonable surrogate for hot flash measurement? [SEP] sternal skin conductance is considered the gold standard in hot flush and night sweat measurement, but results sometimes differ from women's own self-reports. based on these data we conclude that (1) double sensor recordings are significantly superior to skin temperature measurements for non-invasively assessing the circadian rhythm of rectal temperature, and (2) temperature rhythms from the sternum are less reliable than from the forehead. a large increase in skin conductance activity recorded from the sternum was found during menopausal hot flashes and corresponded well with patient self-reports. the magnitude and time course of this skin conductance change was similar during spontaneous hot flashes recorded in the laboratory, during heat-induced hot flashes, and during those recorded by ambulatory monitoring techniques. this pattern of sternal skin conductance change did not occur in premenopausal women during body heating or ambulatory monitoring. one marker, proposed by freedman, is an increase of sternal skin conductance, the second marker, proposed by swartzman, is a physiological profile which consists of skin conductance changes in combination with circulation changes. in our laboratory 20 menopausal women, 15 with frequent hot flushes and 5 without hot flushes, and 5 women with regular menstrual cycles were continuously monitored for 2.5 h on subjective hot flush experience, sternal and palmar skin conductance, dorsal and palmar finger temperature and pulse blood volume. increase in sternal skin conductance proved to be very specific in contrast to swartzman's physiological profile, although it was less sensitive. receiver operating characteristics revealed that an increase combined with a preceding decrease in sternal skin conductance as most specific for, and most sensitive to, subjectively reported hot flushes. the hypothesis that a transcutaneous monitor electrode can heat skin beyond the electrode edge was tested. 
Elephant trunk in a small-calibre true lumen for chronic aortic dissection: cause of haemolytic anaemia? [SEP] the elephant trunk technique for aortic dissection is useful for reducing false lumen pressure; however, a folded vascular prosthesis inside the aorta can cause haemolysis. the purpose of this study was to investigate whether an elephant trunk in a small-calibre lumen can cause haemolysis. two cases of haemolytic anaemia after aortic surgery using the elephant trunk technique were identified from 2011 to 2013. graft replacement of the descending aorta with an elephant trunk inserted into the true lumen was performed. the patient postoperatively developed haemolytic anaemia because of the folded elephant trunk, which improved after additional stent grafting into the elephant trunk. a folded elephant trunk in a small-calibre lumen can cause haemolysis. therefore, inserting an elephant trunk in a small-calibre true lumen during surgery for chronic aortic dissection should be avoided. occasionally, entrapment or obstruction in the smaller lumen occurs with the use of the elephant trunk technique in aortic dissection. we describe a case of total arch replacement with frozen elephant trunk for chronic type b aortic dissecting aneurysm, which resulted in inadvertent landing of the frozen elephant trunk into the false lumen. entrapment of the elephant trunk graft within the false lumen is a rare complication of surgical repair of an aortic dissection. 
Does partial expander deflation exacerbate the adverse effects of radiotherapy in two-stage breast reconstruction? [SEP] objective: postmastectomy radiation therapy is a well-established risk factor for complications after breast reconstruction. this study demonstrated that radiotherapy during tissue expansion may compromise the outcome of implant-based breast reconstruction. the aim of this retrospective cohort study is to evaluate the impact of pre-reconstructive radiotherapy (prt) in patients undergoing breast reconstruction using an expander/implant. in patients undergoing delayed breast reconstruction using an expander/implant, radiotherapy is a significant risk factor for loss of reconstruction. increased rates of complications can occur when postmastectomy radiation therapy is required after immediate expander-implant breast reconstruction. these findings demonstrate that amifostine prophylaxis provides protection against radiation-induced skin and soft-tissue injury in a murine model of expander-based breast reconstruction. in an attempt to evaluate the impact of radiation therapy and cytotoxic chemotherapy on the outcome of immediate breast reconstruction by tissue expansion after mastectomy a prospective study on 32 patients was performed. postmastectomy radiotherapy may adversely affect breast reconstructive outcomes. patients who received radiation with an expander in place had overall more complications (32.8% vs 11.4%; p < 0.001), skin necrosis (10.3% vs 4.0%; p = 0.043), wound breakdown (9.5% vs 2.7%; p = 0.029), and infections (16.4% vs 4.03%; p = 0.001) leading to a higher rate of explantation (16.4% vs 4.0%; p < 0.001). our study showed radiotherapy after direct-to-implant breast reconstruction had a lower rate of complications and reconstructive failure compared to tissue expander-implant reconstruction. 
Should temperature be monitorized during kidney allograft preservation? [SEP] the aim of the study was to monitor the temperature during cit in the kidney and surrounding area and subsequently to assess graft reperfusion using thermography. temperature values of the area surrounding the kidney were registered during 8 organ procurements. we observed that the area surrounding the kidney displayed the optimal temperature range only during the first 5 minutes of cit; later the temperature oscillated between 1 degrees c and 3.5 degrees c. the study proved that the temperature of the preservation fluid is frequently below prescribed. the objective of the present study was to describe kidney temperature variations during transplantation and to identify the factors responsible for kidney warming. kidney temperature stays below the damaging ischemic temperature of 18 degrees c. because of its major impact on kidney warming, it is desirable that vascular anastomosis time be reduced, and, consequently, ex vivo kidney preparation needs to be meticulous. hypothermic preservation is a prerequisite for kidney exchange in transplantation. adequate preservation of renal allografts for transplantation is important for maintaining and improving transplant outcomes. the aim of the prospective study was to assess the exact kidney temperature and the effect of surface cooling of the kidney during the time of vascular anastomosis. the striking finding of this study was that the mean tend delayed kidney function-negative in [atn(-)] recipients was significantly lower than in the atn(+) group; respectively, 14.86 +/- 3.6 degrees c and 19.71 +/- 5.07 degrees c. therefore, we have divided all recipients according to tend (< 15 degrees c and > 15 degrees c) in an attempt to assess the direct influence of kidney temperature on early graft function. this study documents the value of effective cooling of the kidney during the time of vascular anastomosis. 
Can p53 alterations be used to predict tumour response to pre-operative chemo-radiotherapy in locally advanced rectal cancer? [SEP] to examine whether p53 tumour suppressor gene alterations can be used to predict tumour response to pre-operative chemo-radiation in locally advanced rectal cancer in terms of reduction in tumour size and local failure. p53 alterations were studied in pre-treatment biopsy specimens of rectal carcinomas from 48 patients by immunohistochemistry (ihc) and polymerase chain reaction/single strand conformation polymorphism (pcr-sscp) gene mutation analysis. p53 alteration detected by ihc or sscp analysis is not a clinically useful predictor of local response to pre-operative adjuvant therapy in advanced rectal carcinoma. retrospective analysis of 229 pretreatment biopsies from patients with stage ii/iii rectal cancer was performed. the aim of the present study was to assess the gene expression patterns of patients with advanced rectal cancer to predict their responses to preoperative crt. locally advanced rectal cancer is currently treated with pre-operative radiochemotherapy (prct), but the response is not uniform. the objective of our study is to provide predictive markers of locally advanced rectal tumour sensitivity to preoperative chemoradiotherapy in order to identify tumours that present a high risk of recurrence after standard total mesorectal excision surgery and preoperative chemoradiotherapy, according to histological response and microsatellite allelic imbalance (ai). twenty-nine locally advanced tumours were included in the study and the genomic alterations and the tumour regression grade of paired rectal biopsies (before chemoradiotherapy) and carcinomas (after surgery) were assessed. in this study, from pre-irradiation tumor biopsies, a novel and promising candidate factor survivin, and p53 and ki-67 were assessed as predictors of response to preoperative chemoradiotherapy. expression of each marker was evaluated by immunohistochemistry on pretreatment biopsies from 37 patients having rectal cancer treated with preoperative chemoradiotherapy and curative surgery. 
Is irritable bowel syndrome a diagnosis of exclusion? [SEP] irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) is a chronic functional disorder of the gastrointestinal tract. the diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) remains a diagnosis of exclusion, whereby an extensive investigation is performed to exclude other organic diseases that may explain the symptoms of patients. irritable bowel syndrome is one of the most commonly encountered gastrointestinal disorders, for which there are no established diagnostic criteria. recently, important attempts for the positive diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome by questionnaire surveys of physical symptoms have been made. furthermore, classifying patients into irritable bowel syndrome and inflammatory bowel diseases can be difficult without invasive testing and holds important treatment implications. modern methods of diagnosing diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (d-ibs) require a "diagnosis of exclusion" approach. the irritable bowel syndrome is one of the commonest conditions seen in gastroenterology clinics. the diagnostic sensitivity of symptom criteria on irritable bowel syndrome without colonoscopy is not more than 69.7% in patients with suspected irritable bowel syndrome lacking warning signs. irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) is a common functional gastrointestinal disorder with a wide variety of presentations that may include abdominal pain, bloating, diarrhea, constipation, or alternating bowel habits. irritable bowel syndrome is a common gastrointestinal disorder characterized by abdominal pain, bloating, and disturbed defecation in the absence of other medical conditions with similar presentations. 
Is pelvic pain associated with defecatory symptoms in women with pelvic organ prolapse? [SEP] in clinical practice, women seen with pelvic organ prolapse (pop) often present with a variety of pelvic floor symptoms: urinary incontinence, irritative or overactive bladder symptoms, fecal urgency or incontinence, obstructive voiding, sexual disorders, pelvic and perineal pain, and vaginal bulging. bowel symptoms, pelvic organ prolapse, and sexual dysfunction are common, but their frequency among women with lower urinary tract symptoms (luts) has not been well described. defecation symptoms are common among women with pelvic organ prolapse. we aimed to examine the association between posterior vaginal wall prolapse and defecation symptoms by assessing the following: (1) does prevalence of defecation symptoms increase along with posterior wall prolapse severity, (2) is postoperative symptom improvement greater in women who underwent posterior compartment procedures in comparison with those who did not, and (3) is symptom improvement related to the symptom's correlation with the degree of prolapse? the symptoms of constipation and obstructed defecation are common in women with pelvic floor disorders. to determine whether the presence of obstructive defecatory symptoms is associated with the site and severity of pelvic organ prolapse. a cross-sectional study was performed of women with pelvic organ prolapse of grade 2 or greater who had completed a validated questionnaire that surveyed pelvic floor symptoms. associations between patient characteristics, site and severity of prolapse, and obstructive bowel symptoms were investigated. among 260 women with pelvic organ prolapse, women with posterior vaginal wall prolapse were more likely to report obstructive symptoms, such as incomplete emptying (41% vs 21%, p=0.003), straining at defecation (39% vs 19%, p=0.002), and splinting with defecation (36% vs 14%, p<0.001) compared with women without posterior vaginal wall prolapse. obstructive bowel symptoms are significantly associated with the presence of posterior vaginal wall prolapse, but not with the severity of prolapse. 
Does ibuprofen increase perioperative blood loss during hip arthroplasty? [SEP] our aim was to investigate the effect of ibuprofen on postoperative opioid consumption following total hip replacement surgery. following total hip replacement surgery, the administration of ibuprofen iv significantly reduced morphine consumption. to investigate the effect of ibuprofen compared with acetaminophen on posttonsillectomy bleeding (ptb) requiring surgical intervention in children. further studies are needed to understand if bleeding risk is affected when ibuprofen is used for a shorter duration or in combination with acetaminophen for postoperative analgesia. perioperative blood transfusions are common in total hip arthroplasty because of preoperative anemia and perioperative blood loss. blood loss occurs significantly more frequently during total hip and knee arthroplasty than among any other type of orthopedic operation, which can sometimes lead to requiring a blood transfusion. blood loss during total hip arthroplasty can be substantial and may lead to adverse patient outcomes and increased health-care costs. in a prospective randomized trial, the perioperative blood loss in alloplastic hip replacement under the influence of proteinase inhibitor (aprotinin, trasylol®) using wound drainage as well as compression treatment alone were compared. patients undergoing revision total hip arthroplasty frequently require perioperative blood transfusion, increasing the risk for blood-borne disease and anaphylactic and hemolytic reactions. the purpose of this retrospective study was to evaluate the effect of intraoperative blood collection and reinfusion on net blood loss in patients undergoing revision hip arthroplasty. 
Laparoscopic-assisted ileocolic resections in patients with Crohn's disease: are abscesses, phlegmons, or recurrent disease contraindications? [SEP] because of the inflammatory nature of crohn's disease, ileocolic resections are often difficult to perform, especially if an abscess, phlegmon, or recurrent disease at a previous ileocolic anastomosis is present. fourteen patients had an abscess or phlegmon treated with bowel rest before operation (group i), 10 patients had recurrent crohn's disease at the previous ileocolic anastomosis (group ii), and 22 patients had no previous operation and no phlegmon or abscess associated with their disease (group iii). the laparoscopic-assisted approach to crohn's disease is feasible and safe with good outcomes. co-morbid preoperative findings such as abscess, phlegmon, or recurrent disease at the previous ileocolic anastomosis are not contraindications to a successful laparoscopic-assisted ileocolic resection in select patients. the effectiveness of laparoscopic versus open resection in patients with previous intestinal resection for crohn's through midline laparotomy is controversial. surgery for recurrent crohn's disease in patients with previous primary resection through laparotomy can be frequently and safely completed laparoscopically. elective laparoscopically assisted sigmoid colectomy for diverticular disease and ileocolic resection for terminal ileal crohn's disease are safe and beneficial procedures in many patients. the aim of the study was to compare outcomes of laparoscopically assisted and open ileo-colonic resection in patients with active crohn's disease. laparoscopy is a demanding procedure from the technical point of view, but provides valuable benefits to patients with crohn's disease, including those with a complicated disease. randomized prospective clinical studies are needed to determine that laparoscopic surgery for crohn's disease is at least equivalent or better than conventional open surgery. 
Has the use of complementary and alternative medicine therapies by U.S. adults with chronic disease-related functional limitations changed from 2002 to 2007? [SEP] this study examined changes in the use of complementary and alternative medicine (cam) therapies by u.s. adults aged 18 years or older with chronic disease-related functional limitations between 2002 and 2007. use of complementary and alternative medicine (cam) for chronic conditions has increased in recent years. this study compared the use of complementary and alternative medicine (cam) to treat health conditions with cam use for general wellness or disease prevention among usa adults with and without functional limitations. adults with functional limitations were more likely to use 3 of 4 cam groupings: biologically based therapies (bbt) (47.9% versus 29.5%, p<0.001), manipulative and body-based therapies (73.7% versus 54.1%, p<0.001), and mind-body therapies (mbt) (39.3% versus 17.4%, p<0.001). to assess the prevalence of complementary and alternative medicine (cam) use by u.s. adults reporting neuropsychiatric symptoms and whether this prevalence changes based on the number of symptoms reported. people with chronic conditions often use complementary and alternative medicine (cam) for self-care and disease management, despite a limited evidence base. to compare the characteristics, health behaviors, and health services utilization of u.s. adults who use complementary and alternative medicine (cam) to treat illness to those who use cam for health promotion. complementary and alternative medicine (cam) use by us adults increased substantially between 1990 and 1997, yet little is known about more recent trends. the objective of this study was to evaluate the prevalence of complementary medication use and to identify the factors associated with its use among older adults with cancer. complementary and alternative medicine (cam) is frequently used in the general population, yet scant data are available regarding the prevalence of these medications in patients with end-stage renal disease (esrd). 
Is extended aortic replacement in acute type A dissection justifiable? [SEP] a retrospective study of three patients who presented with chronic type a aortic dissection. it is controversial if extension of aortic dissection into arch branches should be an indication for replacement of the arch and its branches in acute type a aortic dissection. controversy exists regarding the optimal extent of repair for type a aortic dissection. we examined intermediate outcomes with this approach to acute type a aortic dissection repair. extended arch repair for acute type a aortic dissection remains controversial. between 2003 and 2014, 267 acute type a aortic dissection patients (mean age; 65.2 ± 12.9 years, 134 men and 133 women) underwent emergent surgical repair. stanford type a aortic dissection is a potentially catastrophic event that requires surgical repair, on an emergency basis. the outcomes of emergency surgery for type a acute aortic dissection have improved. the present study reviewed our outcomes of ascending aortic replacement and total arch replacement in patients with type a acute aortic dissection. elective ascending aortic replacement is recommended to prevent acute type a aortic dissection when any segment of the proximal aorta is greater than 5.5 cm. 
Is intensive monitoring during the first transfusion in pediatric patients necessary? [SEP] red blood cell transfusion is an important supportive measure after pediatric cardiac operations. this study characterized anemia development and red blood cell transfusions in the pediatric intensive care unit (picu) after cardiac operations. pediatric cardiac surgical patients are at high risk of receiving red blood cell transfusions. to provide a concise review of transfusion-related issues and practices in the pediatric patient population, with a focus on those issues of particular importance to the care of critically ill children. objective to evaluate the threshold for platelet transfusion in children admitted to a pediatric intensive care unit (picu). some pediatric patients, typically those that are very young or felt to be especially sick are temporarily admitted to the intensive care unit (icu) for observation during their first transfusion. the aim of this project was to determine if heightened observation such as temporary icu admissions for the first transfusion are warranted. not the first) transfusion in six patients. the practice of intensive observation for the first transfusion in pediatric patients is probably unnecessary. critically ill children in pediatric intensive care units are commonly indicated for blood transfusion due to many reasons. 
Effects of exercise training on heart rate and QT interval in healthy young individuals: are there gender differences? [SEP] we therefore sought to study alterations in myocardial function and investigate sex-influences in young athletes after maximal cardiopulmonary testing. the present study demonstrates that vigorous exercise of short duration results in a significant decrease of longitudinal myocardial motion in both sexes. cross-sectional studies in athletes suggest that endurance training augments cardiovascular structure and function with apparently different phenotypes in athletic males and females. we demonstrate for the first time clear sex differences in response to 1 yr of matched endurance training, such that the development of ventricular hypertrophy and increase in v̇o2max in females is markedly blunted compared with males. the effect of gender and training on repeatability of cardiopulmonary exercise performance has not been well defined. previous studies show sex-related differences in left ventricular (lv) response to exercise. this study aimed to investigate potential gender differences occurring during progressive exercise in healthy males and females of average fitness. this study shows gender differences exist in the ventilatory and sensory response to progressive exercise in untrained subjects. differences between males and females in the effects of regular physical training on the heart were investigated by echocardiography in 579 male (nonathletes: 122, athletes: 457) and in 336 (nonathletes: 84, athletes: 252) female subjects of variable age. functional training (ft) promotes benefits in various physical abilities; however, its effect on autonomic modulation, cardiorespiratory parameters and quality of life in the healthy adult population is unknown, and thus, the aim of this study was to evaluate the influence of  ft on these variables in healthy young women. 
Is coeliac disease screening in risk groups justified? [SEP] screening strategies to detect celiac disease (cd) in at-risk subjects are of paramount importance to prevent the possible long-term complications of this condition. the cost-effectiveness for screening for celiac disease (cd) in patients with irritable bowel syndrome (ibs), specifically in the diarrhea (ibs-d) subtype, is beneficial if the prevalence is >1%. our findings question how acceptable screening for coeliac disease would be in people with minimal or no symptoms. large-scale screening for coeliac disease has suggested that the disease is more prevalent than anticipated. serum from 1070 adults working at helsinki university central hospital were screened for untreated coeliac disease with iga antiendomysium antibodies. screening for coeliac disease is recommended on minor suspicion. celiac disease (cd) is common and, when undiagnosed, may result in increased mortality, suggesting that mass screening could be justified. we evaluated whether older subjects benefit from active detection and subsequent gluten free dietary treatment of celiac disease. mass screening might be an option to reduce the public health burden of untreated celiac disease. this needs to be taken into account in any future suggestion of celiac disease mass screening and in the management of these patients. 
Analysis of the epidemiological pattern of Shigellosis in Barcelona between 1988 and 2012: Is it an emerging sexually transmitted infection? [SEP] this study aimed to establish the incidence of shigellosis in an urban zone of buenos aires, argentina, by examining the type of shigella and living conditions associated with this infection. between january 2009 and december 2010 we analyzed shigellosis in children admitted to the public health service with bloody diarrhoea from la plata, the capital of buenos aires, argentina. we conducted a surveillance program on epidemic and/or endemic shigella strains in asturias (spain), their frequency and dispersion in our community, and their r-plasmids. an increase of sexually transmitted shigellosis is currently being reported in developed countries. epidemiological features and antimicrobial susceptibility of shigellosis depending on where infection was acquired were investigated. from 2008 to 2013, subjects with shigellosis were studied. isolates were identified by standard microbiological techniques as shigella spp and the disk diffusion method was used to determine antimicrobial susceptibility following clsi guidelines. the epidemiology and antibiotic susceptibility of shigella species changes over time. in this study the clinical characteristics and the antibiotic susceptibility test results of shigella species isolated from patients admitted to hacettepe university ihsan dogramac children's hospital diarrheal diseases training and treatment unit between 1995-2002 (n = 218) were evaluated. a retrospective study of resistance patterns of shigella sp. 
A patient with myelomeningocele: is untethering necessary prior to scoliosis correction? [SEP] in this study we determined the clinical outcome of a one-stage posterior scoliosis correction without a prophylactic untethering for treating scoliosis with an asymptomatic tethered spinal cord. in patients with myelomeningocele (mmc) and coexistent scoliosis, a spinal cord transection (sc-transection) is sometimes performed before scoliosis correction to prevent traction on the myelum after stretching the spinal column. whether or not sc-transection should be recommended during scoliosis correction in patients with mmc to improve bladder function requires further study. the progression of kyphosis in myelomeningocele is independent of skeletal growth and requires early operative correction and stabilization to prevent a loss of sitting ability. in 14 patients with myelomeningocele gibbus, kyphectomy was performed, removing two vertebral bodies on average. all patients with myelomeningocele (mm) are radiographically tethered, and untethering procedures carry significant morbidity risks including worsening neurological function and wound complications. the authors' aim in this study was to evaluate their experience in patients with mm who were not untethered before scoliosis correction. the study results suggested that spinal cord untethering may be unnecessary in patients with mm who are undergoing scoliosis corrective surgery and do not present with clinical symptoms of a tethered cord, even though tethering is radiographically demonstrated. the deforming mechanisms in the congenital lumbar kyphosis of myelomeningocele are situated anteriorly. this preliminary report describes two cases of progressive spasticity and scoliosis in children with myelomeningocele. 
Is aerobic workload positively related to ambulatory blood pressure? [SEP] one bout of aerobic exercise and regular participation in aerobic exercise has been shown to result in a lowering of office and ambulatory blood pressure of hypertensive individuals. intermittent aerobic and anaerobic exercise, however, performed at an intensity >70% of maximal oxygen uptake has been shown to significantly reduce office and ambulatory blood pressure of hypertensive individuals. this review briefly summarizes the results of studies that have examined the effects of single and repeated bouts of aerobic and resistance exercise on office and ambulatory blood pressure of hypertensive individuals. the increased risk may be due to a high relative aerobic workload, possibly leading to increased blood pressure. a fully adjusted mixed model of measurements throughout the day showed significant positive relations (p < 0.001): a 1% increase in mean relative aerobic workload was associated with an increase of 0.42 ± 0.05 mmhg (95% ci 0.32-0.52 mmhg) in systolic abp and 0.30 ± 0.04 mmhg (95% ci 0.22-0.38 mmhg) in diastolic abp. correlations between relative aerobic workload and abp were significant. because workers may have an elevated relative aerobic workload for several hours each working day, this relationship may elucidate a mechanism behind the increased risk for cardiovascular disease among workers exposed to high levels of occupational physical activity. aerobic exercise training reduces exercise blood pressure and may be more modifiable than changes in resting blood pressure. background although exercise training reduces office blood pressure (bp), scarcer evidence is available on whether these benefits also apply to ambulatory blood pressure (abp), which is a stronger predictor of cardiovascular disease and mortality. aerobic exercise reduces blood pressure (bp), but it is unknown whether a high-intensity training approach can elicit a greater bp reduction in populations with elevated bp. 
PREVALENCE OF THE STREPTOCOCUS AGALACTIAE IN THE PREGNANT WOMAN FROM THE AUTONOMIC CITY OF MELILLA: IS CULTURE A DETERMINANT FACTOR? [SEP] from the study of different tissue extracts as media for the growth of pneumococci used in an automatic transfer device, certain inferences are warranted: 1. media made from calf lung or heart, or from horse skeletal muscle maintain virulence over a long period of time. lung medium causes an increase in virulence of seven strains of pneumococci. rabbit medium made from the entire animal apparently is less suitable for the maintenance of virulence of pneumococci than medium made in the same way from guinea pig. a quantitative study of the combined antiphagocytic effects of the m protein and the hyaluronic acid capsules of four strains of group a streptococci revealed the following facts relating to their intraperitoneal virulence in mice and rats: 1. the slightly less virulent strain, t14/46 (matt virulent) was somewhat more susceptible to surface phagocytosis owing to the fact that its smaller capsule was less antiphagocytic than that of the s23m organism. the least virulent strain, t14 (matt avirulent), was the most susceptible of all to phagocytosis. this fact is in keeping with the observation, previously reported, that surface phagocytosis plays a critical role in the defense of the host, particularly during the earliest stages of experimental streptococcal infections. its possible relation to suppuration during the later stages of infection is also discussed. phylogeny suggests that the evolution of placentation in mammals was accompanied by substantial changes in the mammalian immune system: in particular lymph nodes and cd4 high affinity memory antibody responses co-evolved during the same period. 
Is fluoroscopy essential for retrieval of lower ureteric stones? [SEP] ureteroscopy is the definitive management for ureteric stone. conventional ureteroscopy uses fluoroscopy guidance which has radiation exposure to patients as well as hospital staff. ultrasound-guided ureteroscopy is safe and effectively for ureteric stone. fluoroscopy can be avoided during ureteroscopy for uncomplicated stone. although uncommon, ureteroscopy failures have traditionally necessitated repeat ureteroscopy to retrieve retained stone fragments. ureteroscopy is an effective modality for the treatment of distal ureteral stones. ureteroscopy is central to the surgical management of ureteral stones. we developed a radiation-free approach to ureteroscopy using ultrasound guidance to manage ureteral stones. in this feasibility study we found that ureteral stones may be definitively managed in a timely, effective and safe fashion without ionizing radiation in the general population using this novel technique of ultrasound guided ureteroscopy. fluoroscopy is an integral part of urology and is used for various procedures, such as extra-corporeal shock wave lithotripsy, percutaneous nephrolithotomy, uretero-renoscopy, and ureteral stenting. 
Does the sequence of clamp application during open abdominal aortic aneurysm surgery influence distal embolisation? [SEP] thrombosis of the iliac anastomosis is an important complication of open aortic aneurysm repair. the impact of the location of the proximal aortic cross-clamp (suprarenal [sr] vs infrarenal [ir]) on outcomes remains to be determined. the aim of this study was to analyze the effect of proximal aortic cross-clamp location on short-term and overall survival after oaaa repair in a contemporary series. cross-clamping of the abdominal aorta can be associated with significant changes in haemodynamic variables. the case of a fatal cerebral embolism during endovascular repair of an abdominal aortic aneurysm is reported, and the potential mechanisms underlying this unexpected complication are discussed. objective endovascular aneurysm repair for ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm is being increasingly applied as the intervention of choice. results support selection of endograft by operator preference for ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm. the haemodynamic responses following clamping, during the clamp time and following clamp release were studied in 18 patients undergoing aaa resection and 12 patients undergoing bypass grafting for aod. open repair for aortic pathology requires clamping of the aorta. aortic clamp time is an important predictor of outcome following open aortic reconstruction. 
Are lower fasting plasma glucose levels at diagnosis of type 2 diabetes associated with improved outcomes? [SEP] recent evidence indicates that lower glucose levels in people with type 2 diabetes result in fewer complications. it suggests that active and aggressive management of type 2 diabetes in general practice can have a role to play in reducing complications from diabetes. it now appears that insulin has a role earlier in the management of type 2 diabetes. in this study, we sought to evaluate the utility of plasma lipids to improve on fasting plasma glucose and other standard risk factors for the identification of type 2 diabetes or those at increased risk (impaired glucose tolerance). our diabetes risk classification model was trained and cross-validated on a cohort 76 individuals with undiagnosed diabetes or impaired glucose tolerance and 170 gender and body mass index matched individuals with normal glucose tolerance, all with fasting plasma glucose less than 6.1 mmol/l. type 2 diabetes mellitus is characterised by impaired insulin secretion, diminished peripheral insulin action and increased hepatic glucose production. clinical trials have indicated that near-normal glucose control may reduce the risk for microvascular and - to a lesser extent - macrovascular complications in type 2 diabetic patients. clinical studies with rosiglitazone have shown that it is effective in lowering blood glucose levels in type 2 diabetic patients treated with either diet alone, sulphonylurea or metformin. it is established that glycemic control measures involving diet and oral medication reduces glycated hemoglobin concentration (hba1c) in type 2 diabetic patients. in individuals with type 2 diabetes, glycaemic control and cardiovascular risk factor management reduces the likelihood of late-stage diabetic complications. 
Do elderly patients call 911 when presented with clinical scenarios suggestive of acute stroke? [SEP] the primary aim of this study was to assess whether an elderly clinical population correctly endorsed the response to call for emergency services when presented with signs and symptoms of stroke using a standardized questionnaire. stroke is the most common neurologic cause for patient admission to the emergency department (ed) and the risk of stroke increases with age. in total, 16,574 responses to scenarios were examined to investigate whether respondents would recognise stroke symptoms and indicate to call ems immediately. accurate dispatcher stroke recognition is associated with faster emergency medical services response time; however, stroke is often unrecognized during initial emergency calls. most studies have found that less than half of stroke/transient ischemic attack (tia) events result in a 911 call. although acute stroke is a common presentation to an emergency room, the presentation of a patient with acute ischemic stroke, within a limited time window as an appropriate candidate for cerebral thrombolysis, is not common. to explore the factors that facilitate or hamper identification of stroke in emergency calls concerning patients with stroke who have fallen or been in a lying position. early identification of stroke in emergency calls is vital but can be complicated as the patients may be unable to express themselves and the callers generally are bystanders. analysis of transcribed emergency calls concerning 29 patients with stroke diagnoses at hospital discharge, in 2011 and presented with fall/lying position. to increase identification of stroke in emergency calls concerning stroke, the first call-takers' and nurses' action, competence and awareness of obstacles are crucial and if strengthened would likely increase the identification of stroke in emergency calls. 
Cerebromediastinal tuberculosis in a child with a probable Say-Barber-Miller syndrome: a causative link? [SEP] his chest x-ray was suggestive of miliary tuberculosis. the case of a four-year-old boy is reported in whom the diagnosis of multiple cerebral and cerebellar focal tuberculous infections ("tuberculomas") was made. the authors report a 5-year-old boy presented in their clinic with a trochlear nerve palsy as unique neurological manifestation of tuberculous meningitis. we report a case of a 3-year-old boy with spinal tuberculosis who was initially misdiagnosed as having a paraspinal tumor. in order to avoid delayed diagnosis, pediatricians and radiologists must be aware of spinal tuberculosis, which may interfere with other clinical conditions. in our patient, clinical features, previous history of brain tuberculoma and spinal neuroimaging confirmed the diagnosis of tuberculous myelitis. craniovertebral tuberculosis is difficult to diagnose and treat in infants. disseminated (miliary) tuberculosis (tb) was diagnosed on chest radiograph and tb meningitis was confirmed using xpert mtb/rif®. family screening diagnosed the father with sputum smear-positive tb. dual tuberculous infections. 
Are virtual planning and guided surgery for head and neck reconstruction economically viable? [SEP] three-dimensional virtual surgical planning using computer-aided design and modeling (cad/cam) has gained popularity in planning complex orthognathic and osteocutaneous free flap reconstructions of the head and neck because of its ability to guide complex geometric planning in three-dimensional space and save time in the operating room. to conclude, in our hands, cad/cam virtual surgical planning is safe and effective in the performance of complex periorbital osteotomies. virtual planning of reconstructive surgical procedures in patients with osseous and composite defects in the head and neck region is becoming increasingly a state of the art modality. virtual surgical planning (vsp), intraoperative cutting guides and stereolithographic models, provides the head and neck reconstructive surgeon with powerful tools for complex reconstruction planning. computer applications in head and neck reconstruction are rapidly emerging and create not only a virtual environment for presurgical planning, but also help in image-guided navigational surgery. virtual surgery planning has proven useful for reconstructing head and neck defects by fibula osteocutaneous free flaps (foff). virtual surgical planning and computer-aided design and computer-aided modeling are promising technologies with a growing trend in contemporary head and neck reconstruction. virtual surgical planning appears to have a positive impact on the reconstruction of major mandibular defects through the provision of accuracy difficult to achieve through manual placement of the graft, even in the hands of experienced surgeons. the introduction of virtual surgical planning (vsp) has provided the surgeon with a means to increase efficiency, precision and overall patient outcomes. virtual surgical planning (vsp), via commercial services or developed in-house, has been applied to facilitate head and neck reconstruction. 
Do overweight children necessarily make overweight adults? [SEP] several conclusions can be drawn on the basis of the research reviewed: obese children are more likely to become obese adults than are their thinner peers. parent weight may interact with child weight status in the etiology of adult obesity. obese children with obese parents are more likely to become obese adults than are obese children with thin parents. as the obese child gets older, he or she is more likely to become an obese adult. overweight children are also more likely to become overweight adults, with higher risks for heart disease, stroke, hypertension, diabetes, and some types of cancers. children who are overweight tend to remain so up to 20 years of age; in general, they have a 1.5- to twofold higher risk for becoming overweight as adults. compared with thinner children, overweight children (bmi for age between the 85th and 94th centers for disease control and prevention percentiles) have moderately elevated levels of lipids and blood pressure and are at increased risk for becoming obese adults. children that are overweight are more apt to be overweight adults and are more likely to suffer adverse health consequences associated with excess weight. the proportion of children with overweight or obesity has risen rapidly over recent decades, and it is recognized that most obese children become obese adults. obese children tend to become obese adults. 
Biliary atresia: should all patients undergo a portoenterostomy? [SEP] a portoenterostomy (pe) procedure for extrahepatic biliary atresia (ehba) is sometimes performed with a stoma in an attempt to reduce the incidence of acute cholangitis. portoenterostomy is currently the standard first procedure for biliary atresia, and liver transplantation is reserved as a complementary therapy for those with late diagnosis, rapid hepatic decompensation, or failed portoenterostomy. accumulated literature suggested that a prior portoenterostomy did not adversely affect outcomes of liver transplantation in children with biliary atresia. biliary atresia is a rare but devastating disease for which hepatoportoenterostomy remains the primary intervention. both hospital and socioeconomic factors play a role in the early treatment of biliary atresia. the treatment of biliary atresia (ba) is predominantly surgical with firstly an attempt at restoration of bile flow from the native liver by wide excision of the obstructed, obliterated extrahepatic biliary tree to the level of the porta hepatis and a portoenterostomy using a long roux loop-kasai portoenterostomy (kpe). the medical records of 52 children with biliary atresia treated by portoenterostomy and evaluated for liver transplantation were reviewed to determine the frequency of stoma variceal bleeding and the optimal strategies for prevention and treatment. objective: to compare the advantages and disadvantages of two procedures: roux-y with enterostomy and roux-y with spur valve in the treatment of biliary atresia. methods: twenty-four patients with biliary atresia underwent hepatic portoenterostomy with percutaneous jejunal enterostomy (group a) and 24 patients underwent roux-y with antireflux spur valve (group b). hepatic portoduodenostomy with interposition of the ileocecoappendix (hpi) can be used for the surgical treatment of biliary atresia (ba). 
Does a history of unintended pregnancy lessen the likelihood of desire for sterilization reversal? [SEP] unintended pregnancy has been significantly associated with subsequent female sterilization. whether women who are sterilized after experiencing an unintended pregnancy are less likely to express desire for sterilization reversal is unknown. multivariable logistic regression was used to examine the relationship between a history of unintended pregnancy and desire for sterilization reversal while controlling for potential confounders. in this nationally representative sample of 1,418 women who were sterile from a tubal sterilization, 78% had a history of at least one unintended pregnancy and 28% expressed a desire to have their sterilization reversed. in unadjusted analysis, having a prior unintended pregnancy was associated with higher odds of expressing desire for sterilization reversal (odds ratio [or]: 1.80; 95% confidence interval [ci]: 1.15-2.79). in adjusted analysis controlling for sociodemographic factors, unintended pregnancy was no longer significantly associated with desire for reversal (or: 1.46; 95% ci: 0.91-2.34). among women who had undergone tubal sterilization, a prior history of unintended pregnancy did not decrease desire for sterilization reversal. female sterilization is a widely used contraceptive method but in a small group of women, post-sterilization regret occurs. a randomized prospective trial comparing success rates of surgical reversal and ivf after sterilization regret should be conducted. our objective was to determine whether receiving or being denied a wanted abortion is associated with subsequent unintended pregnancy. 
Does early discharge with nurse home visits affect adequacy of newborn metabolic screening? [SEP] to examine the potential benefits of routine nurse home visiting after early discharge, we compared health service use among low-risk newborns with and without a nurse home visit and telephone follow-up after short hospital stays. records of newborns discharged routinely before (n = 83) and after (n = 91) implementation of a universal postpartum home visiting program were reviewed retrospectively. acute care visits, rehospitalizations, and missed well-baby visits consistently appeared less likely among newborns receiving home visiting services, in both unadjusted and adjusted analyses. despite the limitations of this small retrospective study, the consistency of the findings suggests potentially important benefits of home visiting services after early discharge of low-risk newborns, with substantial implications for clinical and reimbursement policy. to determine whether the outcomes of routine home visiting by public health nurses (phn) after early obstetrical discharge differ from those of a screening telephone call designed to identify mothers who need further intervention. early postpartum facility discharge negatively impacts mothers' proper and effective use postnatal care. newborn infants and their mothers are seen by a family physician, a family medicine resident, and a nurse within 48 hours of discharge, after which care is assumed in the community by the child's primary care physician. to examine the impact of early discharge on newborn metabolic screening. early discharge and traditional stay infants were compared to determine the percentage of newborns screened and the timing of the first adequate specimen. in this well established early discharge program with nurse home visits, newborn metabolic screening is not compromised by early discharge. 
Are stroke patients' reports of home blood pressure readings reliable? [SEP] little is known about the reliability of stroke patients' records of home bp monitoring. to assess the reliability of home bp recording in hypertensive patients who had suffered a recent stroke or transient ischaemic attack. this group of elderly stroke patients were able to record their bps reliably at home. home blood pressure (bp) monitoring improves bp control, but it is unknown whether patients accurately report home bp readings to their physician. self-recording of the blood pressure by patients away from hospital or office ("home blood pressure") has been advocated as providing a better estimate of "true" blood pressure. the accuracy of self-recorded blood pressures was therefore assessed in 57 patients with essential hypertension by comparison with simultaneous measurements of clinic blood pressures and with intra-arterial blood pressures recorded at home and at hospital. this study suggests that home blood pressures are as accurate as clinic readings but may be recorded more frequently and thus provide more useful information. the authors assessed the accuracy and quality of self-reported home blood pressure values in an ambulatory managed care population. (1) to assess whether home blood pressure measurement is a reliable alternative to ambulatory blood pressure monitoring for the evaluation of treated patients with inadequate blood pressure control at the clinic; and (2) to evaluate the relationship between home blood pressure and several target-organ damage markers. there is increasing interest n home blood pressure monitors for self-monitoring, but no published research on the experiences of stroke patients who do self-monitor. 
Does increasing blood pH stimulate protein synthesis in dialysis patients? [SEP] earlier studies have shown that hemodialysis (hd) treatment stimulates net protein catabolism. it has been hypothesized that correction of metabolic acidosis might improve the nutritional state of acidotic haemodialysis (hd) patients partly because of a reduced oxidation of branched-chain amino acids (bcaa). we previously summarized evidence that an increase of dialysis dose is associated with better protein intake and better nutritional status. high dietary protein intake directly stimulates albumin synthesis ald albuminuria in rats with heymann nephritis. the aim of this study was to determine whether prescribing a high protein diet and increasing the dose of dialysis would have a favourable effect on dietary protein intake and nutritional status in stable, adequately dialysed haemodialysis patients. prescribing a hp diet resulted in a modest increase in actual protein intake, but increasing dialysis dose did not have a contributing effect. a dietary protein intake of at least 0.9 g/kg ibw/day appears to be sufficient for adequately dialysed haemodialysis patients without overt malnutrition. among 36,757 incident hemodialysis patients in a large united states dialysis organization, we examined baseline and change in renal urea clearance-corrected npcr as a protein intake surrogate and modeled their associations with serum albumin and mortality over 5 years (1/2007-12/2011). among incident hemodialysis patients, higher dietary protein intake represented by npcr and its changes over time appear to be associated with increased serum albumin levels and greater survival. metabolic acidosis, a frequent event in hemodialysis patients, has been implicated as a potential cause of protein-energy malnutrition. 
Can T-cell deficiency affect spatial learning ability following toluene exposure? [SEP] long-term exposure to toluene may result in subtle impairment of cognitive functions. toluene, a volatile organic compound with a wide range of industrial applications, can exert neurotoxic and immunotoxic effects. these results indicate that low-level toluene exposure during the late postnatal period (pnd 8-12) might induce neuroinflammatory mediators via tlr4-dependent nf-κb pathway in the hippocampus of pnd 21 male mice. this is the first study to show developmental phase- and dose-specific changes in neuroimmune markers in infant mice following toluene exposure. therefore, the main purpose of this study was to model the deleterious effects of toluene on memory in mice and to evaluate the effect of environmental enrichment on that response. adolescent mice were exposed to either a single or repeated schedule of toluene administration and their responses to object recognition were analyzed. the results showed that toluene caused memory impairment in mice that received a single or repeated solvent exposure. remarkably, environmental enrichment could reverse memory deficits induced by repeated administration of toluene. acute and chronic toluene inhalation impaired learning, short-term and long-term memory in an object-recognition test and in an inhibitory avoidance task in both groups of age. in conclusion, this work provides evidence of toluene-induced impairment on learning, short- and long-term memory in adolescent and young adult rats, and shows that even a single toluene exposure can induce epigenetic modifications in the rat hippocampus. 
Is there a relationship between homocysteine and vitiligo? [SEP] the role of homocysteine in vitiligo is mentioned in previous studies thus it is probable that it can be a biomarker to determine vitiligo severity. several studies have reported hyperhomocysteinemia in vitiligo patients, suggesting the potential role of elevated homocysteine levels in precipitating vitiligo. interestingly, elevated homocysteine levels were also positively correlated with mthfr 1298 a > c polymorphism in vitiligo patients. several studies have reported increased serum levels of homocysteine (hcy) in vitiligo patients which may be the result of decreased vitamin b12 and folic acid levels. patients with vitiligo have higher serum homocysteine levels and lower vitamin b12 levels than individuals without vitiligo. an elevated homocysteine level has been described in vitiligo. the homocysteine level was significantly higher in vitiligo patients than controls (p = 0.000). therefore, it is possible that an increase of local homocysteine (hcy) interferes with normal melanogenesis and plays a role in the pathogenesis of vitiligo. the homocysteine level was related to the activity of vitiligo and was significantly higher in patients with progressive disease than in controls (25.4 +/- 14.99 vs. 13.1 +/- 4.88 micromol l(-1); p < 0.001). an elevated homocysteine level may be a precipitating factor for vitiligo in predisposed individuals. 
Do dermatomyositis and polymyositis affect similar thigh muscles? [SEP] dermatomyositis (dm) and polymyositis (pm) commonly cause weakness of the thigh muscles. compared with pm, dm affects more thigh muscles, except those of the posterior compartment, which are equally involved in both disorders. abstract the thigh muscles of two patients with dermatomyositis (dm) without muscle weakness or conspicuous creatine kinase elevations were studied by magnetic resonance imaging (mri). both dermatomyositits and polymyositis may occur in the presence of other collagen vascular diseases such as lupus erythematosus, scleroderma, sjögren's syndrome, rheumatoid arthritis, and various vasculitides. dermatomyositis (dm) and polymyositis (pm) are collectively termed autoimmune myopathy. our study suggests that t cell populations in the muscle and skin are different, and the th2 cell infiltrate in the muscle is associated with the low severity of myositis in dm. dermatomyositis and polymyositis are classified as members of idiopathic inflammatory myopathies. dermatomyositis (dm) and polymyositis (pm) are autoimmune myopathies characterized clinically by proximal muscle weakness, muscle inflammation, extramuscular manifestations, and frequently, the presence of autoantibodies. dermatomyositis is a disease mainly of skin and muscle, but may affect lung and other tissues. dermatomyositis (dm) and polymyositis (pm) are idiopathic inflammatory myopathies characterized by proximal greater than distal muscle weakness, elevated serum creatine kinase levels, electrophysiologic abnormalities, and inflammation on muscle biopsy. 
Juvenile ankylosing spondylitis--is it the same disease as adult ankylosing spondylitis? [SEP] juvenile spondyloarthritis (spa) is a distinct disease to adult spa, and usually manifests as peripheral arthritis and enthesitis. ankylosing spondylitis (as) is a chronic inflammatory disease, which involves the spine, peripheral joints and entheses. juvenile-onset ankylosing spondylitis (jas) affects children under the age of 16 years. by contrast with spondyloarthritis in adults, juvenile spondyloarthritis starts with inflammation of peripheral joints and entheses in the majority of children, whereas sacroiliitis and spondylitis may develop many years after the disease onset. juvenile spondyloarthritis is distinct from adult spondyloarthritis and manifests more frequently as peripheral arthritis and enthesitis. eventually, he was diagnosed with juvenile ankylosing spondylitis. juvenile spondyloarthropathy is an umbrella term for a group of childhood rheumatic diseases that can cause chronic arthritis extending to the axial skeleton before the age of 16. this review revises available classification criteria, clinical manifestations and therapeutic options for patients with juvenile spondyloarthropathies. an important unresolved issue in the pathogenesis and clinical course of ankylosing spondylitis (as) is whether juvenile-onset as (joas) is a clinical entity in its own right or just an earlier onset variant of adult-onset as (aoas). ankylosing spondylitis (as) is a common rheumatic disease and is characterized by inflammation of the axial skeleton. 
Is Aspiration Thrombectomy Beneficial in Patients Undergoing Primary Percutaneous Coronary Intervention? [SEP] our aim was to evaluate clinical and procedural outcomes of aspiration thrombectomy-assisted primary percutaneous coronary intervention compared with conventional primary percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with st-segment elevation myocardial infarction. among unselected patients with st-segment elevation myocardial infarction, aspiration thrombectomy-assisted primary percutaneous coronary intervention does not improve clinical outcomes, despite improved epicardial and myocardial parameters of reperfusion. the use of routine aspiration thrombectomy in primary percutaneous coronary intervention (pci) remains controversial. aspiration thrombectomy improves myocardial salvage in high risk stemi patients with angiographic evidence of thrombus. the benefit of the routine application of aspiration thrombectomy in primary percutaneous coronary intervention (ppci) is now well established. the efficacy and safety of thrombectomy as an adjunct to primary percutaneous intervention (pci) in the management of acute myocardial infarction (ami) are debated. the thrombus aspiration during percutaneous coronary intervention in acute myocardial infarction study (tapas) has shown that thrombus aspiration improves myocardial perfusion and clinical outcome compared with conventional primary percutaneous coronary intervention (pci) in patients with st-segment-elevation myocardial infarction. the benefit of the routine application of aspiration thrombectomy in primary percutaneous coronary intervention (ppci) is now well established. randomized clinical trials that examined long-term clinical outcomes of routine aspiration thrombectomy prior to primary percutaneous coronary intervention (pci) in patients with acute st-segment elevation myocardial infarction have yielded different results. at a mean follow-up of 12 months, there was no significant decrease in the risk of all-cause mortality (rr: 0.93, 95% confidence interval [ci]: 0.82-1.05, p = 0.22), major adverse cardiac events (rr: 0.95, 95% ci: 0.87-1.03, p = 0.18), re-infarction (rr: 0.95, 95% ci: 0.80-1.13, p = 0.59), cardiovascular mortality (rr: 0.80, 95% ci: 0.47-1.36, p = 0.40), or st (rr: 0.80, 95% ci: 0.63-1.01, p = 0.06) with routine aspiration thrombectomy. 
Can static foot posture measurements predict regional plantar surface area? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to investigate the associations between static foot posture and morphology of plantar foot muscles and plantar fascia and thus the contributions of these structures to static foot posture. significance this study confirms that foot posture does influence plantar pressures, and that each foot posture classification displays unique plantar pressure characteristics. the intent of this study was to determine if a single or combination of foot anthropometric measures could be used to predict plantar surface area. a three variable model was found to describe the relationship between the foot measures/ratio and total plantar contact area (r2 = 0.77, p < 0.0001)). the results of this study indicate that the clinician can use a combination of simple, reliable, and time efficient foot anthropometric measurements to explain over 75% of the plantar surface contact area, either including or excluding the toe region. this study was designed to evaluate the extent to which a static foot posture measurement tool (the foot posture index - fpi) can provide insight into kinematic variables associated with foot pronation during level walking in individuals with pfps and asymptomatic controls. the intent of this study was to determine if the use of a single or combination of static foot posture measurements can be used to predict rearfoot, midfoot, and forefoot plantar surface area in individuals with pronated or normal foot types. dynamic plantar contact area was collected during walking with a pressure sensor platform. a two variable model was found to describe the relationship between the foot measurements and forefoot plantar contact area (r(2)=0.79, p<0.0001). the results indicate that clinicians can use a combination of simple, reliable and time efficient foot measures to explain 79% and 85% of the plantar surface area in the forefoot and midfoot, respectively. 
Can dentists recognize manipulated digital radiographs? [SEP] however, dental x-ray images may be subject to manipulation with malicious intent using easily accessible computer software. in this study, we sought to evaluate a dentist's ability to identify a manipulated dental x-ray images, when compared with the original, using a variant of the methodology described by visser and kruger. to determine the ability of dentists to recognize digitally manipulated radiographs. half of the radiographs were subjected to digital manipulation to add or remove specific features. image manipulations which alter the diagnostic content of a radiograph are unlikely to be detected by dentists. unlike traditional radiographs, digital images are electronically alterable and offer the potential for enhancing diagnostic information. digital radiography allows dentists to record and view information that cannot be detected by the human eye, which provides the ability to more accurately examine, assess, and diagnose patients. to compare digital images of conventional radiographs with the original radiographs for perceived clarity of periapical lesions and the quality of root canal treatment. digital radiography is gaining popularity among general dental practitioners. dental radiography is an important tool for detection of caries and digital radiography is the latest advancement in this regard. 
Is delayed gastric emptying following pancreaticoduodenectomy related to pylorus preservation? [SEP] delayed gastric emptying (dge) is a frequent complication after pylorus-preserving pancreatoduodenectomy. the aim of this study was to investigate the effect of pylorus resection on postoperative delayed gastric emptying (dge) after partial pancreatoduodenectomy (pd). the mechanism of delayed gastric emptying following pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy is not completely understood. delayed gastric emptying following pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy is related to the presence of non-fibrotic pancreas and postoperative septic complications. to determine the influence of pylorus preservation after pancreaticoduodenectomy, we compared the postoperative course of subtotal stomach-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy (ssppd) and pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy (pppd). delayed gastric emptying (dge) is one of the most common complications after pylorus-preserving partial pancreaticoduodenectomy (pppd). pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy is associated with a high incidence of delayed gastric emptying. pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy is a safe procedure with a high incidence of delayed gastric emptying. delayed gastric emptying (dge) is one of the most frequent complications after pyloric preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy (pppd). early gastric stasis is a frequent complication of pylorus-preserving pancreatoduodenectomy (pppd). 
Is Overexpression of Ki-67 a Prognostic Biomarker of Upper Tract Urinary Carcinoma? [SEP] several small single-center studies have reported a prognostic role for ki-67 labeling index in advanced urothelial carcinoma of the urinary bladder. to investigate whether ki-67 was a useful biomarker of oncological outcome after radical cystectomy for urothelial carcinoma, we assessed its expression in tumor tissue from 713 patients treated with radical cystectomy and bilateral lymphadenectomy at six centers. a high ki-67 labeling index was independently associated with established features of aggressive urothelial carcinoma, disease recurrence, and cancer-specific survival. in conclusion, routine assessment of ki-67 expression status along with assessment of other established predictors of urothelial carcinoma outcome has the potential to improve identification of patients who are at increased risk for disease progression after radical cystectomy and thus may benefit from perioperative systemic chemotherapy. ki-67 expression in ureteroscopic biopsies was significantly correlated with high tumor grade (p=0.013), concomitant carcinoma in situ (p=0.011), and stromal invasion (p=0.048) in surgical resection specimens. determination of ki-67 expression in ureteroscopic biopsy specimens is potentially helpful in clinical decision making for patients with suspected upper urinary tract uc. our results suggest that ki-67 overexpression is an independent predictor of the progression of urothelial carcinoma of the upper urinary tract. we determined the association of the proliferation marker ki-67 with pathological parameters and oncologic outcomes in patients with high grade upper tract urothelial carcinoma. immunohistochemical staining for ki-67 was done prospectively in 101 consecutive patients undergoing radical nephroureterectomy/ureterectomy for high grade upper tract urothelial carcinoma. ki-67 over expression was associated with adverse pathological features in cases of upper tract urothelial carcinoma. 
Does a delay in transfer to a rehabilitation unit for older people affect outcome after fracture of the proximal femur? [SEP] to detemine the relationship between delay in transfer to rehabilitation wards and outcome for patients aged over 75 years with fracture of the proximal femur. an observational study in a district general hospital of all patients admitted to hospital aged over 75 years with fracture of the proximal femur over 3 1/2 years. delay in transfer to a rehabilitation ward was associated with a disproportionate increase in total hospital length of stay for patients aged over 75 with fracture of the proximal femur. intertrochanteric fractures of the femur are prevalent in the elderly, and leave patients with functional restrictions after surgical treatment. to examine the effects of rehabilitation on the clinical outcome following surgical treatment of hip fracture. initial screening of 283 elderly patients with proximal femur fracture; documentation of medical and social history and clinical data; geriatric assessments (activities of daily living and instrumental activities of daily living) during hospital stay and follow-up for 12 months. to evaluate potential predictors of subsequent fracture and increased mortality in a population 65 years or older who suffered a proximal femur fragility fracture. this was a longitudinal study that included patients with a proximal femur fragility fracture, referred from the orthopedics inpatient department to the rheumatology department's fracture liaison service, from march 2015 to march 2017. proximal femur fractures are a common injury after low energy trauma in the elderly. proximal femoral fracture is a common condition in the elderly but very little is known about fracture-related hip pain in these patients after discharge from stationary treatment. 
Does the treatment of amblyopia normalise subfoveal choroidal thickness in amblyopic children? [SEP] recent studies have found a choroidal thickening in amblyopic eyes and suggested that there might be a relationship between the choroid and amblyopia. the present study aimed to evaluate the effect of a six-month treatment of amblyopia on choroidal thickness in anisometropic hyperopic amblyopic children. the mean initial choroidal thickness was significantly higher in the amblyopic eyes than in the fellow eyes (p = 0.019). the mean choroidal thickness was still higher in the amblyopic eyes than in the fellow eyes after the treatment (p = 0.006). although a six-month treatment of amblyopia increased the visual acuity of the anisometropic hyperopic amblyopic eyes, it could not significantly change choroidal thickness. to assess correlations between associated factors and treatment outcome of isoametropic amblyopia attributable to high hyperopia in children and to evaluate changes in retinal thickness during amblyopic treatment. to assess the correlations between the retinal/choroidal structure and the treatment outcomes of amblyopic children. the purpose of this study was to determine the effect of optical correction on the best-corrected visual acuity (bcva) and subfoveal choroidal thickness (ct) in the eyes of children with anisohypermetropic amblyopia. to evaluate choroidal thickness (ct) in the eyes of children with hyperopic anisometropic amblyopia and to assess changes in ct during amblyopia treatment using spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (sd-oct). the purpose of the present study was to investigate choroidal vascular density (cvd) in children with unilateral hyperopic amblyopia. 
A comparison of 500 prefilled textured saline breast implants versus 500 standard textured saline breast implants: is there a difference in deflation rates? [SEP] this study provides the first large-volume (1000 implant) comparison of the deflation rates of poly implant prosthesis prefilled textured saline breast implants versus a control group of mentor siltex textured saline implants. a consecutive series of 500 poly implant prosthesis prefilled textured saline breast implants was compared with a consecutive series of 500 mentor siltex breast implants. each breast implant was evaluated for a 4-year period, and the annual deflation rate (number of deflations during a given year divided by the total number of implants) and cumulative deflation rate (cumulative total of deflations through a given year divided by the total number of implants) were recorded. there was a statistically significant difference between the overall deflation rates of poly implant prosthesis prefilled textured saline breast implants and mentor siltex breast implants at year 2, year 3, and year 4. after 4 years, the 15.56 percent cumulative deflation rate of poly implant prosthesis implants was over 3.5 times higher than the 4.31 percent deflation rate of the mentor siltex implants. there may be several factors contributing to the higher deflation rate seen in poly implant prosthesis implants, including possible in vitro deflation before implantation and silicone shell curing technique. nevertheless, this statistically significant deflation difference must be taken into account when balancing the risks and benefits of poly implant prosthesis breast implants. a double-blind clinical study was undertaken to compare this incidence in saline-filled implants with textured or with smooth surfaces. at the end of the follow-up period, after 1 year, all parameters showed with no doubt that the breasts augmented with textured implants had a lower tendency to develop contracting capsules than the breasts augmented with smooth implants. fifty-three mentor style 1600 smooth saline-filled mammary implants (275-cc base volume) were examined. 
Do foreign bodies migrate through the body towards the heart? [SEP] foreign bodies in the heart are a rare but serious form of cardiac injury. foreign bodies in the heart are rare, may reach the heart by different ways, and cause serious complications. a total series of 104 patients with a foreign body in the heart were analyzed for the etiology, clinical presentation, symptoms, complications and management. a majority of foreign bodies reached the heart by migration [88%]. foreign bodies in the heart may present with a wide variety of symptoms. intravascular foreign bodies may be introduced into the circulation as a complication of minimally invasive or interventional techniques, or during cardiac valve surgery. intravascular foreign bodies may be introduced into the circulation as a complication of minimally invasive or interventional techniques, or during cardiac valve surgery. our experience with posttraumatic and iatrogenic foreign bodies in the heart is presented and discussed along with a review of the literature on this subject. fourteen cases of posttraumatic or iatrogenic foreign bodies in the heart observed between 1955 and 2000 were studied. foreign bodies were removed when in the cardiac cavities (1 case); when in the presence of associated risk factors like embolism, arrhythmia, or infection (3 cases); and when in the presence of associated signs or symptoms including cardiac tamponade (2 cases), arrhythmia (1 case), fever (2 cases), or anxiety (1 case). 
Is there a relationship between serum paraoxonase level and epicardial fat tissue thickness? [SEP] this study aimed to show the relationship between serum paraoxonase 1 level and the epicardial fat tissue thickness. correlation analysis was performed to determine the correlation between epicardial fat tissue thickness, which was measured by echocardiography and serum paraoxonase 1 level. also correlation analysis was performed to show correlation between patients' clinical and laboratory findings and the level of serum paraoxonase 1 (pon 1) and the epicardial fat tissue thickness. no linear correlation between epicardial fat tissue thickness and serum pon 1 found (correlation coefficient: -0.127, p=0.069). when epicardial fat tissue thickness were grouped as 7 mm and over, and below, and 5 mm and over, and below, serum pon 1 level were significantly lower in ≥7 mm group (pon1 : 168.9 u/l) than <7 mm group (pon 1: 253.9 u/l) (p<0.001). serum pon 1 level is not correlated with the epicardial fat tissue thickness. therefore, increased atherosclerosis progression can be found among patients with 7 mm and higher epicardial fat tissue thickness. in btm subjects, osi, tos, looh levels and tac were significantly correlated with serum paraoxonase (r=-0.245, p<0.05; r=-0.231, p<0.05; r=-0.264, p<0.05 and, r=0.342, p<0.05, respectively) and arylesterase activities (r=-0.332, p<0.05, r=-0.308, p<0.05; r=-0.320, p<0.05 and r=0.443, p<0.05). the aim of the present study was to compare serum paraoxonase-1 levels between obese subjects with prediabetes and normal glucose tolerance. paraoxonase (pon) is associated with high-density lipoprotein and protects serum lipid from oxidation. 
Chemoradiation instead of surgery to treat mid and low rectal tumors: is it safe? [SEP] the purpose of this work was to assess the efficacy of nonoperative strategies in the management of primary rectal squamous-cell carcinoma. early reports suggest that the standard treatment is surgery, but clinical outcomes of chemoradiotherapy are more satisfying than those of surgery in recent experience. our aim was to ascertain the effectiveness of chemoradiotherapy for squamous cell carcinoma of the rectum. between may 2002 and april 2006, four patients with primary squamous cell carcinoma of the rectum underwent curative concurrent chemoradiotherapy. the results suggest that chemoradiotherapy is an effective treatment option for squamous cell carcinoma of the rectum. chemoradiotherapy (crt) followed by total mesorectal excision is the standard when mri staging demonstrates threatened surgical margins in locally advanced rectal cancer (larc). a wait-and-see policy might be considered instead of surgery for rectal cancer patients with no residual tumor or involved lymph nodes on imaging or endoscopy after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (clinical complete response, ccr). we conclude that for rectal cancer patients with a ccr after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy, a wait-and-see policy with strict selection criteria, follow-up and salvage treatments achieves outcomes at least as good as radical surgery. to evaluate the treatment outcomes of patients with locally advanced rectal cancer treated with preoperative concurrent chemoradiotherapy (ccrt) or combined chemotherapy together with radiotherapy (cmtrt) without surgery. neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy does not alter anal sphincter preservation or postoperative complications compared with short-course radiotherapy alone in patients with clinical stage t3 or t4 resectable rectal cancer. 
Is calibration the cause of variation in liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry testosterone measurement? [SEP] testosterone measurement by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (lc-ms/ms) is well accepted as the preferred technique for the analysis of testosterone. we investigated the effects calibration in routine clinical lc-ms/ms assays. testosterone measurement by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (lc-ms/ms) is well accepted as the preferred technique for the analysis of testosterone. the recent interest of clinical laboratories in developing serum testosterone assays based on isotope dilution-liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (id-lc-ms/ms) stems from the lack of accuracy of direct immunoassays. liquid-chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (lc-ms/ms) has become the method of choice in steroid hormone measurement. we compared eight routine unpublished lc-ms/ms methods for the simultaneous measurement of testosterone and androstenedione. a simple measurement procedure based on one-step liquid-liquid extraction (lle) and liquid chromatography-isotope dilution tandem mass spectrometry (lc-idms/ms) was developed for total testosterone in human serum. the aim of this study was to compare a sensitive testosterone radioimmunoassay (ria) with results from different ms. we compared testosterone concentrations determined by a sensitive testosterone ria, lower limit of detection 0.03 nmol/l and limit of quantitation 0.1 nmol/l, with four tandem ms that were included in an international external quality assessment program for laboratory medicine. testosterone was measured by tandem ms on 90 healthy women, 67 young healthy men and pregnant women (59 first trimester and 60 second trimester). we developed a method for measuring serum testosterone (t) and 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone (dht) simultaneously via liquid-liquid extraction followed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (lc-ms/ms) with positive-mode electrospray ionization. 
Are complex coronary lesions more frequent in patients with diabetes mellitus? [SEP] complex coronary lesions such as bifurcation and ostial lesions were significantly more common in diabetic patients than in nondiabetic patients. diabetic patients with coronary artery disease are common and complex, with an aggressive progression of atherosclerosis, increased rate of stent complications, and increased rates of incomplete revascularization in multivessel disease compared to non-diabetic patients. the increasing prevalence of diabetes mellitus and its association with cardiovascular disease have become serious public health issues. type 2 diabetes has reached epidemic proportions and an increasing proportion of patients with coronary artery disease (cad) are diabetics. the atherosclerosis associated with diabetes has a complex etiology with even more complicated manifestations, such as multivessel and diffuse coronary disease. patients with diabetes mellitus are prone to a diffuse and rapidly progressive form of coronary artery disease. this study was designed to study the influence of diabetes on the outcome of unstable coronary artery disease (cad). diabetes mellitus (dm) or pre-diabetes status is closely associated with features of vulnerable coronary lesions in patients with stable coronary heart disease or acute coronary syndrome. coronary artery disease (cad) is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with diabetes mellitus. patients with diabetes have a higher prevalence of cad and a larger magnitude of ischemia, and they are more likely to have silent myocardial ischemia and myocardial infarction. 
Are variations in the use of carotid endarterectomy explained by population Need? [SEP] to compare the level of provision of carotid endarterectomy (an intervention of proved efficacy for prevention of stroke in patients with symptomatic high grade carotid artery stenosis) with estimates of need. regional, district, and age-sex operation rates as three year average 1993-6 (use) compared with respective estimates of need for carotid endarterectomy among those who presented with symptomatic carotid disease-transient ischaemic attack or minor stroke. carotid endarterectomy is emerging as the treatment of choice for patients with symptomatic carotid artery stenosis at low operative risk. the carotid endarterectomy procedure has provided an invaluable option in the management of patients with symptomatic atherosclerotic carotid artery disease. we calculated the annual rate of carotid endarterectomy in the u.s. states of california and new york and in the canadian province of ontario from 1983 through 1995. however, the clinical trials of the 1990s, which showed benefit from carotid endarterectomy, were associated with a dramatic resurgence in the rates of the procedure from 1989 to 1995 (from 66 to 99 per 100,000 in california, from 40 to 96 per 100,000 in new york, and from 15 to 38 per 100,000 in ontario). this was a population-based cohort of carotid endarterectomy performed in medicare beneficiaries in new york. clinical data were abstracted from medical charts to assess sociodemographics, clinical indication for carotid endarterectomy, disease severity, comorbidities, and deaths and strokes within 30 days of surgery. we studied patients in ontario who underwent carotid endarterectomy between 1982 and 1994 (n = 12,949) and patients with severe carotid stenosis who were enrolled in two randomized trials of endarterectomy (n = 1646). we compared the proportion of men and women who underwent carotid endarterectomy in each group, over time, and after adjustment for demographic factors. 
Are there effects of intrauterine cocaine exposure on delinquency during early adolescence? [SEP] prenatal cocaine exposure (pce) is associated with increased rates of illicit-substance use during adolescence. these findings suggest different neural substrates of experimentation with illicit drugs between adolescents with and without in utero cocaine exposure. prenatal cocaine exposure (pce) has been linked to child behavior problems and risky behavior during adolescence such as early substance use. first trimester cocaine exposure was a significant predictor of earlier age of first intercourse in a survival analysis, after controlling for race, sociodemographic characteristics, caregiver pre- and postnatal substance use, parental supervision, and child's pubertal timing. these data support the unique sensitivity of males to the effects of gestational cocaine, that moderate prenatal cocaine doses produce greater effects on developing reward circuits than high doses and that housing condition interacts with prenatal treatment and sex such that enrichment increases cocaine cpp mostly in adolescent males prenatally exposed to moderate cocaine doses. the present findings provide new insights into how the use of cocaine during adolescent development may modulate emotional behavior later in life. prenatal cocaine exposure (pce) has significant effects on children's development throughout early childhood. animal models prenatally exposed to cocaine manifest play deficits, decreased social interaction, and increased aggression during competition in adolescence and young adulthood. to ascertain whether level of intrauterine cocaine exposure (iuce) is associated with early adolescent delinquent behavior, after accounting for prenatal exposures to other psychoactive substances and relevant psychosocial factors. contrary to initial popular predictions, intrauterine cocaine is not a strong predictor of adolescent delinquent behaviors in this cohort. 
Is expert breast pathology assessment necessary for the management of ductal carcinoma in situ ? [SEP] management of breast needle core biopsies diagnosed as atypical ductal hyperplasia, atypical lobular hyperplasia, and lobular carcinoma in situ is controversial. current recommendations involve excisional biopsy to rule out ductal carcinoma in situ and/or invasive carcinoma, which have been reported in more than 50% of cases in some series. a more precise diagnosis can be made by using strict criteria for atypical ductal hyperplasia versus ductal carcinoma in situ on needle core biopsy. optimal management of high-risk breast lesions detected by mammogram yielding atypical ductal hyperplasia, flat epithelial atypia, atypical lobular hyperplasia, lobular carcinoma in situ, and radial scar without atypia on core needle biopsy is controversial. the clinical evaluation of the anatomic extent of cancer before treatment, the clinical-diagnostic stage, crudely estimates whether the cancer is localized to the breast, or whether there are regional or distant metastases. we examined breast fine needle aspiration cytology's role as a screening tool in addition to mammography and clinical examination for palpable breast lesions, circumventing operative biopsy of benign lesions while identifying cancer for definitive treatment and significant ductal proliferations that need histologic evaluation, such as atypical ductal hyperplasia and marked ductal hyperplasia. five hundred thirty-three consecutive palpable breast lesions in 498 patients referred to cytopathologists were aspirated and the cytologic findings reported as follows: (1) malignant, treat as any histologic diagnosis of breast cancer (85); (2) suspicious, intraoperative or biopsy confirmation before therapy (11); (3) atypical, biopsy recommended to exclude breast cancer or significant ductal proliferation (atypical ductal hyperplasia and marked ductal hyperplasia) (45); (4) benign, excision not necessary (334); and (5) nondiagnostic, no ductal cells, and biopsy recommended if indicated clinically (58). histopathological grading diagnosis of ductal carcinoma in situ (dcis) of the breast may be very difficult even for experts, and it is important for therapeutic decisions. with the use of fine-needle aspiration biopsy to evaluate non-palpable breast lesions, an increasing number of cases of ductal carcinoma in situ (dcis) are encountered. patients preoperatively diagnosed with ductal carcinoma in situ (dcis) by core needle biopsy (cnb) exhibit a significant risk for upstaging on final pathology, which leads to major concerns of whether axillary staging is required at the primary operation. 
Thoracic and thoracoabdominal aneurysm repair: is reimplantation of spinal cord arteries a waste of time? [SEP] postoperative spinal cord injury (sci) is a devastating complication of surgical repair for thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm or dissection (taad), despite the complex reconstruction of inter-costal or lumbar arteries involved in the surgery. the reimplantation of intercostal arteries during the repair of descending thoracic aortic or thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms preserves spinal cord perfusion and might reduce the risk of spinal cord ischemic injury. we reviewed our experience with patients who had intercostal patch aneurysms after descending thoracic aortic and thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm repair. from january 1986 to july 2008, 38 patients with descending thoracic aortic aneurysms and 117 patients with thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms underwent surgical repair with cardiopulmonary bypass, hypothermic circulatory arrest, and intercostal artery reimplantation as a carrel patch. during aortic surgery, the long-term patency of reimplanted intercostal arteries is unknown, limiting the relevance to preserve spinal cord vascularization. twenty cases of aneurysms limited to the proximal descending thoracic aorta were treated using endovascular repair, without preoperative spinal cord artery identification. the segmental artery destined to the spinal cord artery was identified as originating from outside the aneurysm in 7 patients and inside the aneurysm in 12 patients: t6 r (1), t8 l (2), t9 l (3), t10 l (3), t11 l (3), l1 l (1). thoracic endovascular aortic repair (tevar) is an important surgical option for the emergency treatment of ruptured thoracic aortic aneurysms, but is associated with a risk of spinal cord ischemia (sci). this study aimed to determine predictors and outcomes associated with spinal cord ischemia (sci) after elective fenestrated or branched endovascular aneurysm repair (f/bevar) of thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm (taaa), abdominal aortic aneurysm (aaa), or aortic dissection. spinal cord ischemia (sci) is one of the most feared complications following the repair of thoraco- abdominal aortic aneurysms (taaa). 
Is year of radical prostatectomy a predictor of outcome in prostate cancer? [SEP] we examined whether the year in which radical prostatectomy (rp) was performed is a predictor of treatment outcome after controlling for standard prognostic factors. in patients treated with radical prostatectomy in the prostate-specific antigen (psa) era, it has been demonstrated that the year of treatment in the psa era is associated with better pathologic parameters and outcomes, independently of other well-recognized parameters such as clinical stage, pretreatment psa level, or gleason score. when controlling for tumor, treatment, and follow-up parameters, the year in which rt was performed was still an independent predictor of outcome, consistent with observations made for radical prostatectomy patients. to evaluate the oncological profile and risk of biochemical recurrence of patients with prostate cancer who underwent radical prostatectomy based on the time period in which the patients were operated. observation carried forward study of a cohort of 972 radical prostatectomies performed during 3 time periods (1994-2000, 2001-2006, 2007-2011). to study the association between time from diagnosis to radical prostatectomy (rp-interval) and prostate cancer-specific mortality (pcsm), histological findings in the rp-specimen and failure after rp (rp-failure). to determine the clinical utility of the percentage of positive prostate biopsies in predicting prostate-specific antigen (psa) outcome after radical prostatectomy (rp) for men with psa-detected or clinically palpable prostate cancer. we examined predictors of late biochemical recurrence (more than 10 years after radical prostatectomy), and calculated metastasis-free and cancer specific survival rates from the time of biochemical recurrence. the distribution of prognostic factors between radiation and prostatectomy series seems to favor the latter. to determine if prostate tumour volume is an independent prognostic factor in a contemporary cohort of men who had a radical prostatectomy (rp) for clinically localized disease, as the effect of tumour volume on prostate cancer outcomes has not been consistently shown in the era of widespread screening with prostate-specific antigen (psa). 
Does health information exchange reduce redundant imaging? [SEP] health information exchange (hie) may reduce repeat imaging by facilitating provider access to prior images and reports. health information exchange systems can link the results of diagnostic imaging tests across hospitals and geographic areas. an area of southwestern ontario with a health information exchange system for diagnostic imaging tests had a 13% lower rate of repeat cross-sectional imaging compared with the rest of the province (11.2 vs 12.8%, p < 0.01). with the widespread adoption of picture archiving and communication systems and filmless imaging, ubiquitous and instantaneous access to imaging data has resulted in decreased radiologist-clinician consultations. this study seeks to determine whether health information exchange reduces repeated diagnostic imaging and related costs in emergency back pain evaluation. health information exchange use by any ed personnel was associated with reduced repeated diagnostic imaging (odds ratio 0.36; 95% confidence interval 0.18 to 0.71), as was physician or nurse practitioner health information exchange use (odds ratio 0.47; 95% confidence interval 0.23 to 0.96). no cost savings were associated with health information exchange use because of increased ct imaging when health care providers used health information exchange. health information exchange use is associated with 64% lower odds of repeated diagnostic imaging in the emergency evaluation of back pain. more studies are needed to evaluate specific strategies to increase health information exchange use and further decrease potentially unnecessary diagnostic imaging and associated costs of care. to determine whether health information exchange (hie) reduces potentially unnecessary neuroimaging, increases adherence with evidence-based guidelines, and decreases costs in the emergency department (ed) evaluation of headache. 
Is decompressive surgery effective for spinal cord sarcoidosis accompanied with compressive cervical myelopathy? [SEP] cervical spondylitic myelopathy is a degenerative condition resulting from chronic spinal cord compression and a leading cause of nontraumatic spinal cord dysfunction. the chief surgical goal in the management of cervical spondylitic myelopathy is adequate spinal cord decompression with or without fusion to slow or prevent further neurologic decline. cervical spondylotic myelopathy (csm) is caused by narrowing of the cervical spinal canal, although surgical decompression is an obvious indication for spinal cord stenosis, there are not enough data to determine that surgery is the most indicated intervention for milder forms. surgical decompression worked well in patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy. a retrospective multicenter study of series of 12 patients with spinal cord sarcoidosis who underwent surgery. to evaluate the postoperative outcomes of patients with cervical spinal cord sarcoidosis accompanied with compressive myelopathy and effect of decompressive surgery on the prognosis of sarcoidosis. there are no studies regarding the coexistence of compressive cervical myelopathy with cervical spinal cord sarcoidosis and the effect of decompressive surgery. a total of 12 patients (0.08% of cervical myelopathy) were identified spinal cord sarcoidosis treated with decompressive surgery. as a control subject, 8 patients with spinal cord sarcoidosis without compressive lesion who underwent high-dose steroid therapy without surgery were recruited. the effect of decompression for spinal cord sarcoidosis with compressive myelopathy was not evident. 
Endovenous laser ablation in the treatment of small saphenous varicose veins: does site of access influence early outcomes? [SEP] endovenous laser ablation (evla) of the saphenous vein has become one of the preferred treatments for treating saphenous vein reflux that has resulted in symptomatic lower extremity venous insufficiency or varicose veins. endovenous lasers with various wavelengths have been utilized with good outcomes in treating leg varicose veins. this study determines the efficacy vein ablation and serial venous morphologic evolution of incompetent great saphenous veins (gsvs) after endovenous 1,320-nm laser treatment. fifty patients with symptomatic varicose veins secondary to gsv insufficiency treated with 1,320-nm endovenous laser ablation were enrolled. early and midterm results of endovenous laser treatment (evlt) of the saphenous veins for the treatment of symptomatic insufficiency are promising. to compare two methods of endovenous laser treatment (evlt) for primary varicose veins of lower extremities: first-evlt combined with high ligation of great saphenous vein using pulse mode ablation and 12 w laser ; second-evlt without high ligation and using lower energy (10 w) and continuous mode. to evaluate the safety and efficacy of retrograde endovenous laser ablation (evla) and to compare it with the conventional antegrade evla for incompetent small saphenous vein (ssv). treatment of chronic venous insufficiency of the great saphenous veins by endovenous laser ablation yields good short- and medium-term results, as assessed clinically and technically by echo-color-doppler. the aim was to compare endovenous laser ablation (evla) and endovenous steam ablation (evsa) for great saphenous varicose veins in a non-inferiority study. to verify the mode of action of endosaphenous laser ablation by duplex ultrasound (dus) follow-up, with the support of histologic observations of eight cases, 44 of 182 affected limbs (ceap c2 to c6) were selected for intravenous laser ablation of the great saphenous vein. 
Is a pressor necessary during aortic perfusion and oxygenation therapy of cardiac arrest? [SEP] cardiopulmonary bypass can be associated with vasodilatory hypotension requiring pressor support. the importance of vital organ perfusion in patients suffering cardiac arrest makes arterial vasomotor tone, and the resultant perfusion pressure, critical in resuscitation from sudden death. infusion of a vasopressor during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (cpr) in humans increases end decompression (diastolic) arterial blood pressure, and consequently increases vital organ perfusion pressure and survival. aortic occlusion during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (cpr) increases systemic arterial pressures. after 7 min of cpr with a mechanical compression device, reboa in the thoracic descending aorta at heart level (zone ib, reboa-ib, n = 9), at diaphragmatic level (zone ic, reboa-ic, n = 9) or no occlusion (control, n = 9) was initiated. thoracic aortic occlusion in zone ic during cpr may be more effective in increasing systemic arterial pressures than occlusion in zone ib. the purpose of this study was to compare the perfusion pressure and rate of return of spontaneous circulation produced by standard advanced cardiac life support with that resulting from advanced cardiac life support with simultaneous aortic occlusion and proximal infusion with oxygenated fluid. two minutes after initiation of advanced cardiac life support, selective aortic perfusion and oxygenation were initiated in dogs assigned to one group by inflation of an occluding balloon in the descending aorta and infusion of 450 ml of ultrapurified polymerized bovine hemoglobin through a large bore central infusion port. the use of selective aortic perfusion and oxygenation increases aortic and coronary perfusion pressures during cardiopulmonary resuscitation, resulting in a large increase in the rate of return of spontaneous circulation. hemodynamic resuscitation should be aimed at achieving not only adequate cardiac output but also sufficient mean arterial pressure (map) to guarantee adequate tissue perfusion pressure. 
Do people who were passive smokers during childhood have increased risk of long-term work disability? [SEP] although smoking causes a variety of diseases and both, a high smoking prevalence and permanent occupational disability are a great burden on the population level, data about the impact of smoking habits on occupational disability are sparse. the objective of this study was to examine the influence of smoking habits on occupational disability among construction workers, an occupational group with particularly high smoking prevalence. the association between smoking and occupational disability was examined during a mean follow-up of 10.8 years in a cohort of 14,483 male construction workers in württemberg, germany. clear dose-response relationships were seen between smoking and occupational disability due to all causes, as well as occupational disability due to respiratory, cardiovascular and mental diseases, cancer and dorsopathy. particularly strong associations were seen between heavy smoking (> or =20 cigarettes/day) and occupational disability due to mental and respiratory diseases (hr 3.25, 95% ci 1.93 to 5.46 and hr 3.26, 95% ci 1.69 to 6.27, respectively). smoking is associated with increased risk of occupational disability among construction workers, in particular occupational disability due to respiratory, cardiovascular and mental diseases, cancer and dorsopathy. smoking increases disability risk, but the extent to which smoking cessation reduces the risk of work disability is unclear. we compared the work disability risk after time 2 of the participants who smoked at time 1 and time 2 with that of those who quit smoking between these times. quitting smoking was associated with a reduced risk of any work disability [summary hazard ratio = 0.89, 95% confidence interval (ci) 0.81-0.98]. current smokers and those who began smoking during follow-up had significantly poorer hrql compared with nonsmokers with disabilities. 
Is the covering of the resection margin after distal pancreatectomy advantageous? [SEP] the aim of this study was to analyze the impact of teres ligament covering on pancreatic fistula rate after distal pancreatectomy (dp). patients were randomized to undergo closure of the pancreatic cut margin without (control, n = 76) or with teres ligament coverage (teres, n = 76). for pancreatic tumors located in the body or tail of the pancreas, distal pancreatectomy (dp) remains the surgical procedure of choice to achieve radical tumor removal. our aim was to evaluate the clinical benefits of coverage of the pancreatic resection margin by autologous tissue. coverage of the pancreatic remnant after distal pancreatectomy decreases the rate of clinically relevant pancreatic fistulas, duration of stay, and treatment costs. the aim of this study was to evaluate retrospectively the usefulness of a new surgical technique, the gastric wall-covering method, after distal pancreatectomy. the gastric wall-covering method for the management of the pancreatic stump after distal pancreatectomy reduces the incidence of postoperative pancreatic fistula. appropriate closure of the pancreatic remnant after distal pancreatectomy remains controversial. data on distal pancreatectomy were reviewed to evaluate the effectiveness of staple closure compared with suture closure. the optimal management of the stump of the pancreas following distal resection remains controversial. 
Does treatment duration affect outcome after radiotherapy for prostate cancer? [SEP] to assess the effect of adjuvant radiotherapy (art) on the rate of cancer-specific and overall survival after radical prostatectomy (rp) in a group of patients with a long-term follow-up, as there is controversy about the benefit of art after rp for prostate cancer when endpoints beyond biochemical and local recurrence are considered. the role of postoperative irradiation in patients with clinically localized prostate cancer, either as an adjuvant or salvage radiotherapy, remains controversial. in this study, we evaluate the impact of postoperative radiotherapy on patients diagnosed with prostate cancer with respect to biochemical and clinical disease free survival. we investigated, in a real-life setting, the prognostic relevance of previous primary treatment (radical prostatectomy [rp] or external beam radiotherapy [ebrt]) on overall survival for patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mcrpc) treated with radium-223 (223ra). the optimal timing of radiotherapy after radical prostatectomy for prostate cancer is uncertain. we aimed to compare the efficacy and safety of adjuvant radiotherapy versus an observation policy with salvage radiotherapy for prostate-specific antigen (psa) biochemical progression. radiotherapy (rt) has an established role in the postoperative treatment of prostate cancer patients with extracapsular extension, positive surgical margins or a detectable post-operative prostate-specific antigen (psa). the purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of postoperative radiotherapy in reducing the incidence of prostate carcinoma (pca) recurrences after radical prostatectomy (rp), define the importance of the time interval between surgery and radiotherapy for prognosis and the toxicity of the treatment in comparison with radiotherapy or surgery alone. in the present retrospective, single-institutional study, the radiotherapy (rt) outcomes were evaluated in patients who underwent androgen-deprivation therapy for non-metastatic prostate cancer and subsequently developed castration-resistant disease. following a thorough chart review, the data of 21 patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer who were treated between 2000 and 2010 with external beam radiation therapy (ebrt) at a prostate radiation dose of >45 gy were evaluated. 
Is the urinary biomarkers assessment a non-invasive approach to tubular lesions of the solitary kidney? [SEP] noninvasive molecular tests of urine cells have been developed to monitor the activity of kidney diseases. the type and the extent of tissue damage inform the prognosis of chronic kidney disease (ckd), but kidney biopsy is not a routine test. urinary tests that correlate with specific histological findings might serve as surrogates for the kidney biopsy. we analyzed kidney biopsies to determine whether specific pathological characteristics associated with the monomeric ngal species. this study aims to explore potential noninvasive urinary biomarkers to screen for acute tcmr in kidney transplant recipients (ktrs) using untargeted metabolomic profiling. receiver operating characteristic (roc) curve analysis was used to evaluate the diagnostic performance of potential urinary biomarkers. non-invasive biomarkers that detect occult pathology in patients with normal glomerular filtration rate (gfr) and normal urine albumin excretion may help identify patients at risk for chronic kidney diseases. urine mcp-1 may detect early tubulointerstitial fibrosis in adults with normal kidney function. consequently, a noninvasive test for transplanted kidney health would provide a significant advantage over current clinical practice. urines from kidney donors before nephrectomy, pretransplant patients with native kidney disease, and posttransplant kidney recipients were examined for protein biomarkers to diagnose or prognose kidney disease. 
Is there a role for fondaparinux in perioperative bridging? [SEP] a possible role for fondaparinux as a bridging agent in the perioperative setting is explored. fondaparinux's extended half-life of 17-21 hours complicates its use as a perioperative bridging therapy. guidance for perioperative bridging with fondaparinux must be derived from pharmacokinetic data, surgical prophylaxis trials, case reports, and anesthesia guidelines. three case reports cited the use of fondaparinux sodium as perioperative bridge therapy; one used a 2.5-mg dose, and the other two used a full treatment dose of 7.5 mg. fondaparinux may have a role in bridge therapy for these patients. the role of fondaparinux in perioperative bridge therapy has not been established, and there are some important limitations to its use as a routine bridging agent. patients undergoing major orthopaedic surgery who are being treated with fondaparinux sodium for prevention of venous thromboembolism may be receiving treatment for coronary artery disease or chronic inflammatory disease of the joints or arthritis. we present a successful case of prolonged bridging with fondaparinux in a 69-year-old chinese woman. to review clinical information related to fondaparinux, a synthetic pentasaccharide recently approved for the prevention of deep-vein thrombosis (dvt) in patients undergoing major orthopedic surgeries and for extended dvt prophylaxis after hip fracture surgery. fondaparinux is the first of a new class of synthetic factor xa inhibitors that demonstrated greater efficacy compared with enoxaparin for the prevention of vte in major orthopedic surgery without an increase in clinically relevant bleeding. 
Motor performance in chronic low back pain: is there an influence of pain-related cognitions? [SEP] chronic low back pain (clbp) is often accompanied by an abnormal motor performance. therefore, the aim of the present study is to get insight in the contribution of both pain experience and pain-related cognitions to general motor task performance in clbp. it can be concluded that clbp patients in general have worse motor task performance compared to healthy subjects and that provoking pain-related cognitions further worsened performance. impaired postural control in chronic low back pain (clbp) has been attributed to deficits in sensory and motor functions. unhelpful pain cognitions of patients with chronic low back pain (lbp) may limit physical performance and undermine physical assessment. change in pain cognitions is associated with change in physical performance, even when there is no opportunity to be physically active. little is known about the affected cognitive problems in chronic low back pain patients. chronic pain may be associated with specific (yet undefined) cognitive deficits that affect everyday behaviour. we set out to compare the cognitive function of patients with chronic low back pain (clbp) in the course of multidisciplinary pain treatments before and after therapy. perspective: this article explores individual differences in motor plasticity in the transition to sustained pain. 
Patient comprehension of emergency department care and instructions: are patients aware of when they do not understand? [SEP] patient comprehension of emergency department (ed) discharge instructions is important for ensuring that patients understand their diagnosis, recommendations for treatment, appropriate follow-up, and reasons to return. however, many patients may not fully understand their instructions. many patients do not understand their emergency care plan or their discharge instructions. the objective of the study is to identify and describe the areas of patients' understanding and confusion about emergency care and discharge instructions at the bp koirala institute of health sciences, dharan, nepal. to be able to adhere to discharge instructions after a visit to the emergency department (ed), patients should understand both the care that they received and their discharge instructions. many patients do not understand their ed care or their discharge instructions. many patients are discharged from the emergency department (ed) with an incomplete understanding of the information needed to safely care for themselves at home. comprehension is poor in patients admitted in the emergency observation unit. to determine in patients admitted in the emergency observation unit whether comprehension of diagnosis, prognosis, and management depended on nurses' comprehension, the authors conducted a prospective observational study in a busy adult emergency department of a tertiary teaching hospital in paris over 2 months. patients' and nurses' comprehension of diagnosis, prognosis, and management was compared with the statements of the emergency department attending physicians for these items. 
Can mandibular depiction be improved by changing the thickness of double-oblique computed tomography images? [SEP] therefore, in this study, it was performed to clarify the mandibular depiction of double-oblique reconstructed images when changing their thickness. in double-oblique images, mandibular depiction was evaluated by 5 oral radiologists using a subjective rating score. we concluded that depiction of the superior wall of the mandibular canal cannot be improved by changing the thickness of images. this study was performed to clarify the subjective image quality of the mandibular depiction by shifting the angles of the tomographic objective plane. this study was carried out to compare the accuracy of determination of the mandibular contour and the position of the mandibular canal in cadaver mandibles by the multiplanar reconstruction method (mpr-ct), which has recently come to be used widely for preoperative examinations, with those by tomographic techniques and to evaluate the usefulness of mpr-ct. cone beam computed tomography (cbct) has modified the perspective of dentistry images, providing manipulable threedimensional images with a 1:1 patient:image ratio. the present study aimed to evaluate effects of the number of metal restorations and mandibular position during ct imaging on accuracy of reproduced models. accuracies of reproduced maxillary and mandibular models decreased with increasing numbers of metal restorations and in the closed mandibular position during ct scanning. the objective of the present study was to observe the effect of positioning of the mandible on the accuracy of cross-sectional images obtained by reformatting computerized tomographic (ct) scans. the results showed that the position of the mandible in relation to the ct gantry can influence the precision of the linear measurements. 
Adjuvant radiation of stage III thymoma: is it necessary? [SEP] the role of adjuvant radiotherapy (rt) for patients with stage iii thymoma after complete resection is not definite. the addition of adjuvant radiotherapy did not alter local or distant recurrence rates in patients with stage iii thymoma. some patients enjoy prolonged disease-free survival without adjuvant radiation after resection of stage iii thymoma. the use of routine adjuvant radiation after a complete resection of stage iii thymoma needs to be re-addressed. because of the rarity of the disease and long survival of most patients, the role of adjuvant radiation therapy in patients with surgically resected stage iii thymoma is unclear, and few prospective studies are available. the objective was to evaluate the impact of postoperative radiation therapy after resection of stage iii thymoma. in this large population-based study, most patients with stage iii thymoma were treated with adjuvant radiation. radiotherapy may be recommended for stage iii thymomas, thymic carcinoma, or after incomplete surgical resection. the results of postoperative radiation therapy in 12 patients with stage iii thymoma treated during 1966-1986 were reviewed. these results indicate that postoperative radiation therapy is an effective therapeutic modality in the control of stage iii thymoma. 
Inhibin: a new circulating marker of hydatidiform mole? [SEP] the purpose of the study was to evaluate plasma inhibin as a marker of hydatidiform mole and to compare the results with intact human chorionic gonadotrophin (hcg) and its free beta-subunit. serial determinations of the plasma concentrations of inhibin, intact human chorionic gonadotrophin and its free beta-subunit in cases of hydatidiform mole over an average period of 140 days. five cases of hydatidiform mole, including patients with spontaneous remission after evacuation or persistent trophoblastic disease. women with partial hydatidiform moles had significantly higher serum levels of inhibin a (p < 0.001) and activin a (p < 0.001) than healthy pregnant women, several fold higher than the 95% confidence interval of control values. to define the concentrations of inhibin in serum and tissue of patients with hydatidiform mole and assess their value as a clinical marker of the condition. prospective study of new patients with hydatidiform mole, comparison of paired observations, and case-control analysis. correlation of serum inhibin concentrations with trophoblastic disease. serum concentrations of inhibin, human chorionic gonadotrophin, and follicle stimulating hormone were compared before and seven to 10 days after evacuation of the mole. in this small study serum inhibin concentrations higher than those found in the early follicular phase one to two weeks after evacuation of a hydatidiform mole seemed to be specific for persistent trophoblastic disease. we examined the clinical significance of nm23-h1 expression in complete hydatidiform mole. 
Is the fibronectin-aggrecan complex present in cervical disk disease? [SEP] fibronectin is a large fibril-forming extracellular glycoprotein that seems to be involved in joint diseases. the objective of this study was to investigate the expression of fibronectin in human temporomandibular joint disks obtained from patients with internal derangement and varying extents of disk tissue degeneration/regeneration with that of temporomandibular joint disks free of significant morphological alterations by means of immunohistochemical methods. positive reactions to fibronectin were found in normal and diseased disk tissues but to a different extent. normal disk tissues revealed weak fibronectin expression, which was mainly located along the collagen bundles. distinct reticular fibronectin structures were found inside the diseased disk, particularly nearby the newly formed blood vessels, tears, and clefts. in the covering layer of the disk surface, fibronectin was expressed in a fascicular pattern running parallel to the disk surface. the findings suggest that temporomandibular joint disk tissue can express fibronectin and that the expression is more pronounced in disk specimens of patients with internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint, supporting a role of this glycoprotein in the degeneration/regeneration processes of human temporomandibular joint disk tissue. to determine the presence of a fibronectin-aggrecan complex (fac) in the disk space of persons with chronic low back pain as relates to provocative diskography. aggrecan is the major component of intervertebral disk matrix proteoglycan with multiple functional domains. the intervertebral disc is characterized by a tension-resisting annulus fibrosus and a compression-resisting nucleus pulposus composed largely of proteoglycan. 
Does peritoneal dialysis affect halitosis in patients with end-stage renal disease? [SEP] there are various causes of halitosis, one of which is chronic renal failure. the objective of this study was to investigate halitosis levels in end-stage renal disease (esrd) patients before and after peritoneal dialysis (pd) therapy. the presence of halitosis was assessed using an organoleptic measurement and compared with blood urea nitrogen (bun) levels and salivary flow rates. high bun levels and low salivary flow rates were found to be associated with halitosis. pd may play an important role in decreasing the level of halitosis in esrd patients. the hemodynamic effects of hemodialysis (hd) and peritoneal dialysis (pd) on end-stage renal disease (esrd) patients differ. peritoneal dialysis is commonly used to treat patients with end-stage renal disease. patients on long-term peritoneal dialysis develop edema and fibrosis of the peritoneal membrane, but the morphologic effects on the organs of the female genital tract are obscure. the objective of this study is to determine the incidence and severity of acute pancreatitis (ap) in patients with end-stage renal disease (esrd) on dialysis and whether the dialysis modality [hemodialysis (hd) versus peritoneal dialysis (pd)] confers a higher risk for ap as well as complications or mortality related to ap. recently, it was reported that concomitant hemodialysis (hd) in peritoneal dialysis (pd) patients facilitated continuation of pd treatment and mitigated the deterioration of peritoneal function in patients with uremic symptoms and excess body fluid associated with loss of residual renal function. 
Can elevated troponin I levels predict complicated clinical course and inhospital mortality in patients with acute pulmonary embolism? [SEP] in patients with acute pulmonary embolism (pe), detectable levels of cardiac troponin i (ctni) using a highly sensitive assay have been associated with increased in-hospital mortality. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the value of elevated cardiac troponin i (ctni) for prediction of complicated clinical course and in-hospital mortality in patients with confirmed acute pulmonary embolism (pe). although cardiac troponin i (ctni) elevations during acute pulmonary embolism (pe) are predictive of in-hospital death, it is not clear whether ctni measurements at emergency department (ed) admission are predictive of the occurrence of hypotension. whether in patients with acute central sub-massive or non-massive pulmonary embolism, mild troponin i increase (>0.03 mug/l) predicts in-hospital occurrence of hemodynamic instability and death independent to prognostically relevant clinical, laboratory and echocardiographic information is not fully established. in patients with acute central sub-massive or non-massive pulmonary embolism, even mild increase in troponin i >0.03 microg/l may provide relevant short-term prognostic information independent to clinical, laboratory and echocardiographic data. elevated troponin concentrations are associated with greater morbidity and mortality in patients with pulmonary embolism. whether elevated serum troponin levels identify patients with acute pulmonary embolism at high risk of short-term mortality or adverse outcome is undefined. we performed a meta-analysis of studies in patients with acute pulmonary embolism to assess the prognostic value of elevated troponin levels for short-term death and adverse outcome events (composite of death and any of the following: shock, need for thrombolysis, endotracheal intubation, catecholamine infusion, cardiopulmonary resuscitation, or recurrent pulmonary embolism). elevated troponin levels were significantly associated with short-term mortality (odds ratio [or], 5.24; 95% ci, 3.28 to 8.38), with death resulting from pulmonary embolism (or, 9.44; 95% ci, 4.14 to 21.49), and with adverse outcome events (or, 7.03; 95% ci, 2.42 to 20.43). elevated troponin levels identify patients with acute pulmonary embolism at high risk of short-term death and adverse outcome events. 
Is transurethral catheterisation the ideal method of bladder drainage? [SEP] bladder drainage can be achieved by clean intermittent self-catheterization (cisc), transurethral indwelling catheterization (tic), or with a suprapubic tube (spt). there are two methods of draining urine from the bladder via a catheter. this article outlines the history of urinary catheterisation, reasons for its use, and the rationale for choosing the most appropriate option for patients with urinary dysfunction. intermittent catheterisation is the method of choice for the management of bladder dysfunctions. a suprapubic catheter may be used to drain the bladder of urine as an alternative to an indwelling urethral catheter. catheterisation is commonly used to manage long-term bladder drainage. we sought to evaluate bladder drainage prospectively. urethral catheterization is adequate to effect bladder drainage after intraperitoneal bladder injury. the transurethral catheter (tuc) or supra-pubic catheter is commonly used after robot-assisted radical prostatectomy (rarp). clean intermittent catheterization (cic) through the urethra is the treatment of choice for patients with neurogenic bladder (ngb) or other etiologies that lead to incomplete bladder emptying. 
The colour of pain: can patients use colour to describe osteoarthritis pain? [SEP] the aim of the present study was to explore patients' views on the acceptability and feasibility of using colour to describe osteoarthritis (oa) pain, and whether colour could be used to communicate pain to healthcare professionals. discussion topics included first impressions about using colour to describe pain, whether participants could associate their pain with colour, how colours related to changes to intensity and different pain qualities, and whether they could envisage using colour to describe pain to healthcare professionals. a range of colours was chosen to represent changes in pain intensity. aching pain was consistently identified as being associated with colours such as grey or black, whereas sharp pain was described using a wider selection of colours. the majority of participants thought that they would be able to use colour to describe their pain to healthcare professionals, although issues around the interpretability and standardization of colour were raised. for some patients, using colour to describe their pain experience may be a useful tool to improve doctor-patient communication. this study draws upon patients' descriptions of their pain, to identify and understand their perception of osteoarthritis pain and to categorize pain dimensions. pain is one of the most prominent symptoms of osteoarthritis. eighty patients with a diagnosis of either rheumatoid arthritis, localised osteoarthritis, or generalised osteoarthritis were asked to describe their pain by selecting words from a standardised list of pain descriptors. african-american and caucasian elderly patients with chronic knee or hip symptomatic osteoarthritis describe the quality of their pain differently. 
Inpatient Pediatric Tonsillectomy: Does Hospital Type Affect Cost and Outcomes of Care? [SEP] tonsillectomy is one of the most common and cumulatively expensive surgical procedures in children. we determined if substantial variation in resource use, as measured by standardised costs, exists across hospitals for performing tonsillectomy and if higher resource use is associated with better quality of care, as measured by revisits to hospital. we conducted a retrospective analysis of children undergoing routine outpatient tonsillectomy between 2011 to 2017 across us children's hospitals using an administrative and billing data source. there is substantial variation in hospital resource use and standardised costs for routine outpatient tonsillectomy across us children's hospitals. in conclusion, hospitalized children who underwent tonsillectomy (w/woa) in large or teaching hospitals, or during elective admissions had lower risk of complications. to ascertain whether hospital type is associated with differences in total cost and outcomes for inpatient tonsillectomy. significant differences in costs, outcomes, and patient factors exist for inpatient tonsillectomy based on hospital type. although reasons for these differences are not discernable using isolated claims data, findings provide a foundation to further evaluate patient, institutional, and system-level factors that may reduce cost of care and improve value for inpatient tonsillectomy. the objective of the study was to describe variation in us inpatient tonsillectomy costs and examine whether postoperative complications contribute to these disparities in costs. conclusion across the united states, children with ds hospitalized for tonsillectomy have an increased length of stay and cost of care. 
Does anterior laxity of the uninjured knee influence clinical outcomes of ACL reconstruction? [SEP] excessive physiological anterior and rotational knee laxity is thought to be a risk factor for noncontact anterior cruciate ligament (acl) injuries and inferior reconstruction outcomes, but no thresholds have been established to identify patients with increased laxity. a total of 171 healthy contralateral knees of noncontact acl-injured patients (acl-h group) and 104 healthy knees of control participants (ctl group) were tested for anterior and rotational laxity. the acl-h group displayed greater laxity scores for anterior displacement and internal rotation in their uninjured knee compared with the ctl group (p < .05). the healthy contralateral knees of patients with noncontact acl injuries display different laxity values both for internal rotation and anterior displacement compared with healthy control knees. the effect of an anterior cruciate ligament (acl) reconstruction on restoring normal knee kinematics in unstable knees with physiologic laxity of secondary ligamentous restraints remains unknown. while a primary goal of anterior cruciate ligament (acl) reconstruction is to reduce pathologically increased anterior and rotational knee laxity, the relationship between knee laxity after acl reconstruction and patient-reported knee function remains unclear. increased postoperative rotatory knee laxity after anterior cruciate ligament (acl) reconstruction may be associated with an increased risk of osteoarthritis and inferior subjective outcome, although long-term studies are lacking. purpose/hypothesis: the purpose was to investigate whether postoperative knee laxity is associated with inferior long-term outcome in patients who have undergone acl reconstruction. increased manual anteroposterior and rotatory knee laxity 2 years after acl reconstruction is associated with an inferior long-term subjective outcome. passive rotational laxity tests were completed in 9 patients with an untreated acl injury and compared to measurements at 3 and 12 months after anatomical single bundle acl reconstruction, as well as to the contralateral controls. 
Is the type of remission after a major depressive episode an important risk factor to relapses in a 4-year follow up? [SEP] to investigate how residual symptoms from an index episode of major depressive disorder may be associated with recurrence, the authors conducted a trial involving four maintenance treatment approaches and examined 1) whether the level and variability of residual symptoms differed among the maintenance treatment conditions and 2) whether greater symptom variability is associated with a higher likelihood of recurrence and more rapid recurrence. many individuals treated for depression suffer relapse or recurrence after treatment. the purpose of this study was to identify factors predictive of recurrence and to examine whether previous depressive episodes influence vulnerability for subsequent depression in a sample of remitted recurrently depressed patients. major depression is probably best seen as a chronically recurrent disorder, with patients experiencing another depressive episode after remission. the aim of this review is to meta-analytically examine the effectiveness of psychological interventions to reduce relapse or recurrence rates of depressive disorder. optimal long-term treatment of major depression should assess the background factors affecting remission and recurrent episodes. the duration and number of previous depressive episodes has been shown to be important for recurrence. the results in this study suggest that these factors are also important in predicting the outcome of a major depressive episode and the risk of recurrent episodes. remitted patients with a history of several previous major depressive episodes have a higher risk of relapse/recurrence than patients with fewer previous episodes, and the probability of another episode increases progressively with each successive episode. this study examines the association between the number of previous episodes and modifiable vulnerability factors in remitted patients with recurrent depression. 
Prostate-specific antigen and free prostate-specific antigen in the early detection of prostate cancer: do combination tests improve detection? [SEP] serum prostate-specific antigen (psa), when used in combination with existing detection methods, improves the clinician's ability to detect early and potentially curable prostate cancer. prostate specific antigen (psa) has become an important method for early detection of prostate cancer. to determine the relative role of prostate-specific antigen density (psad) in the early detection of prostate cancer and to assess the hypothesis that psad offers significant advantages over prostate-specific antigen (psa) alone in the evaluation of patients with benign (bph), pre-malignant (pin) and malignant prostatic diseases, we studied retrospectively 149 patients who were evaluated with either prostatic biopsies or by surgical means. we evaluated total psa levels, free psa levels and the prostate volume in asymptomatic patients which came for routine check without medical history of prostate cancer. early studies have demonstrated the advantage of measuring prostate volume with psa total and free levels in serum as a useful tool for early diagnosis of prostate cancer. prostate-specific antigen is currently commonly used as a screening biomarker for prostate cancer, but it has limitations in both sensitivity and specificity. prostate-specific antigen (psa) is commonly used as a serum biomarker for the detection of prostate cancer. prostate-specific antigen (psa) is the most useful marker in the early detection of prostate cancer and for the monitoring of patients with this diagnosis. specifically we compared the usefulness of total prostate specific antigen, the ratio of free-to-total prostate specific antigen, the ratio of p2psa-to-free prostate specific antigen, and a formula combining prostate specific antigen, free prostate specific antigen and p2psa (the beckman coulter prostate health index or phi) to predict prostate cancer in men from the study undergoing prostate biopsy with a prostate specific antigen of 2.5 to 10 ng/ml and nonsuspicious digital rectal examination. this is the first prospective study to our knowledge to demonstrate that p2psa provides improved discrimination between prostate cancer and benign disease in screened men with a prostate specific antigen of 2.5 to 10 ng/ml and a negative digital rectal examination. 
Can homemade alcohol (Raksi) be useful for preserving dead bodies? [SEP] it keeps a body life like in appearance during the time it lies in a state prior to funeral. this study was undertaken to investigate the effectiveness of raksi in sacrificed rats in arresting postmortem changes and establishing scientific fact whether raksi can be an alternative to standard embalming constituent if it is not available. raksi and distilled water were injected for embalming purpose intraventricularly in experiment and control groups of rats respectively and kept for 48 to 96 hours for observation for postmortem changes. observations made at 48 and 72 hours of embalming revealed that raksi can arrest postmortem changes in the rats up to 72 hours (3rd day) successfully in the experimental group whereas moderate to severe postmortem changes were seen in the control group. the raksi used in this experiment contained 34% of alcohol, which was determined by an alcohol hydrometer. experiment clearly demonstrated from its result that raksi can be utilised temporarily for embalming since it contains alcohol and has preservative, bactericidal and disinfectant properties. it is concluded from the study that this knowledge if applied to dead human subjects, may preserve dead bodies temporarily allowing delayed funeral. the use of alcohol-based antiseptics is efficient and approved, however it has some limitations. while the plasma acetaldehyde concentration slightly increased, the rgd showed positive effects on hangover symptoms. considering the reduction of plasma alcohol levels, expiratory concentrations, and hangover severity, we conclude that red ginseng relieves the symptoms of alcohol hangover. 
Do elderly cancer patients have different care needs compared with younger ones? [SEP] the increasingly older population confronts oncologists with an imposing challenge: older cancer patients have specific healthcare needs both independent of and associated with the diagnosis of cancer. the aim of the present study is to examine whether elderly versus younger cancer patients have different needs with respect to attendance, treatment and information. an increasing number of older people are treated for cancer. this article reviews recent literature on the specific needs of older patients with cancer in the treatment phase of the disease. elderly cancer patients may differ from younger patients in their preferences for treatment, in decisional style, and in the kinds of information. while symptomatic differences exist between younger and older advanced cancer patients, few studies have examined the differences in their care with respect to age. our goals were to examine the influences of age differences on physical, psychosocial and spiritual distress among advanced cancer patients. among advanced-stage cancer patients, age is an important determinant of decision making about medical care. we examined age-related differences in patient well-being, care perspectives, and preferences, and the relationship between these patient characteristics and subsequent care practices including care communication, pain management, and acute care utilization during the early treatment phase of late-stage cancer. age-related differences in patient well-being and care perspectives suggest a role for age-sensitive interventions in the treatment of advanced cancer patients. 
Is breast cancer survival improving? [SEP] population-based studies have shown improved survival for patients diagnosed with metastatic breast cancer over time, presumably because of the availability of new and more effective therapies. breast cancer is the most common carcinoma amongst women in the western world, yet there are now encouraging signs that improvements in mortality may be a realistic target. although breast cancer is one of the leading causes of death in women worldwide, there is an overall improvement in the survival of this patient population. early breast cancer detection and advancements in treatment options have resulted in an increase of breast cancer survivors. early detection, surgical intervention, therapeutic radiation, cytotoxic chemotherapies and molecularly targeted agents are transforming the lives of patients with breast cancer, markedly improving their survival. although current breast cancer treatments are largely successful in producing cancer remission and extending lifespan, there is concern that these treatments may have long lasting detrimental effects on cancer survivors, in part, through their impact on non-tumor cells. modern breast cancer treatment offers many women greater prospects of cure or lengthier, good quality survival than was possible in the past. currently, with the development of early detection, increased social awareness and kinds of treatment options, survival rate has improved in nearly every type of breast cancer patients. advances in surgery, radiation therapy, and systemic therapy have resulted in substantial improvements in local and distant tumor control in early-stage breast cancer, which in turn have improved breast cancer-specific and overall mortality. metastatic breast cancer is not a curable disease, but women with metastatic disease are living longer. 
Can common carotid intima media thickness serve as an indicator of both cardiovascular phenotype and risk among black Africans? [SEP] it is not known whether common carotid intima media thickness (cimt) can serve as a surrogate marker of cardiovascular risk among black africans. our findings support cimt as a significant indicator of both cardiovascular risk and phenotype among adult black africans. black ethnicity is related to greater mean and maximum carotid artery intima media thickness when compared to south asians. background studies on the determinants of carotid intima-media thickness ( cimt ), a marker of sub-clinical atherosclerosis, mostly come from white, asian, and diasporan black populations. to compare the mean and maximum common carotid intima-media thickness (ccimt) in blacks (black caribbean and black african) and south asians (people originating from india, pakistan and bangladesh) in a population survey and make associations with established cardiovascular risk factors and peripheral arterial disease (pad). this study sought to compare vascular reactivity and carotid intima media thickness (cimt) between afro-caribbean people in the united kingdom (uk) and the west indies and afro-caribbean and caucasian people in the uk. although several prospective studies have reported independent relations between carotid intima-media thickness (cimt) and risk of incident cardiovascular diseases (cvd) in primarily non-african-american (aa) cohorts, the utility of cimt values for the prediction of incident coronary heart disease and stroke events in blacks remain unclear. the intima-media thickness (imt) of the common carotid artery (cca) is widely used as an early indicator of the development of cardiovascular disease (cvd). to determine whether carotid intima-media thickness is associated with coronary artery disease and cardiovascular risk factors in the indian population, carotid intima-media thickness was measured using high-resolution b-mode ultrasonography in 101 patients with coronary artery disease and 140 control subjects. these results indicate that raised values of average and maximum carotid intima-media thickness are significantly associated with the presence of coronary artery disease and this association is independent of the presence of other conventional cardiovascular risk factors. 
Delayed diagnosis of anorectal malformations: are current guidelines sufficient? [SEP] we reviewed our experience of anorectal malformations, with particular emphasis on the timing of diagnosis. complementary prenatal mri improves the diagnosis of anorectal malformation. anorectal malformations are usually diagnosed at birth, but some patients have presented to this institution beyond the early newborn period without recognition of their anorectal malformations. most anorectal malformations are identified at birth, but a significant number of the milder lesions may not be recognized until later. delayed management of anorectal malformation (arm) increases the surgical and functional complications for the patient. to clarify the extent of delayed diagnosis of anorectal malformations and the consequences of delaying this diagnosis. we performed a retrospective case review of all neonatal admissions with an anorectal malformation to a tertiary paediatric surgery unit. delays in the diagnosis of anorectal malformations are much more common than previously thought. delay in diagnosis or referral of patients with an anorectal malformation (arm) is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. delayed diagnosis of anorectal malformation (arm) is an avoidable event associated with significant complications and morbidity. 
Is being small for gestational age a risk factor for retinopathy of prematurity? [SEP] the risk of retinopathy of prematurity (rop) is associated with low birth weight and low gestational age. low birthweight and decreased postnatal weight gain are known predictors of worse retinopathy of prematurity (rop) but the role of prenatal growth patterns in rop remains inconclusive. retinopathy of prematurity is a retinal vascular disorder seen frequently in very premature infants, and is associated with poor clinical outcomes. the aim of the present study was to assess the association between the incidence of retinopathy of prematurity and mechanical ventilation, oxygen therapy, gestational age, and antenatal steroids in extremely low birth weight infants as well as to retrospectively analyze changes in the incidence and risk factors of retinopathy of prematurity over two study periods. the results of a prospective study of low birthweight infants (less than 1500 g) identifies those at risk of retinopathy of prematurity (r.o.p.) retinopathy of prematurity (rop) is a disorder of the preterm newborn characterized by neurovascular disruption in the immature retina that may cause visual impairment and blindness. to analyze prevalence and risk factors for retinopathy of prematurity (rop) among preterm infants born small for gestational age (sga) and appropriate for gestational age (aga). we sought to find out whether birth weight of less than 1251 g or gestational age less than 30 weeks could provide a safe and efficient screening criteria of detecting treatable retinopathy of prematurity (rop). retinopathy of prematurity (rop) is a complication of prematurity, is diagnosed by ophthalmological screening of infants at risk (birth weight < or = 1,500 g), and may lead to blindness. a low apgar score at 5 minutes has been shown to be a risk factor for development of retinopathy of prematurity (rop). 
Comparative safety of infliximab and etanercept on the risk of serious infections: does the association vary by patient characteristics? [SEP] several studies show that the risk of granulomatous infections following therapy with the anti-tumor necrosis factor (tnf) antibody infliximab is higher than after treatment with the soluble tnfrp75 immunoglobulin fusion construct etanercept. to assess the association between the initiation of infliximab and other immunomodulating drugs and the risk of serious bacterial infection in the treatment of ibd. an increased risk of serious infections, tuberculosis and other opportunistic infections has been reported across various studies, with etanercept appearing to have a modestly better safety profile in terms of tuberculosis and opportunistic infections, and infliximab posing a higher risk of serious infections. to compare the risk of serious infections associated with infliximab in patients with chronic plaque psoriasis against a cohort on nonbiologic systemic therapies. infliximab was compared with nonbiologic systemic therapies, inclusive of any exposure to methotrexate, ciclosporin, acitretin, fumaric acid esters, psoralen-ultraviolet a or hydroxycarbamide. infliximab was associated with an overall increase in the risk of serious infection compared with nonbiologics [adjusted hr (adjhr) 1·95, 95% ci 1·01-3·75] and methotrexate only (adjhr 2·96, 95% ci 1·58-5·57) and a higher risk of serious infection in the first 6 months of therapy (adjhr 3·49, 95% ci 1·14-10·70). infliximab is associated with an increased risk of serious infections compared with nonbiologic systemic therapies in patients with psoriasis in the u.k. and the republic of ireland. this study is aimed at comparing the safety profiles of adalimumab, etanercept and infliximab by analysing the disproportionalities of the associations between the different adverse events and the different biologics in the portuguese spontaneous reporting database. compared with the all other drugs, adalimumab, etanercept and infliximab were all disproportionately associated with 'infections and infestations' (ror: 6·65, 95% ci: 4·50-9·83; ror: 2·74, 95% ci: 1·56-4·81; ror: 2·95, ci 95%: 2·16-4·02, respectively) and with 'neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified' (ror: 7·23, 95% ci: 3·92-13·33; ror: 6·26, 95% ic: 3·12-12·57; ror: 3·94, 95% ci: 2·41-6·44, respectively), etanercept with 'general disorders and administration site conditions' (ror: 2·08, 95% ci: 1·44-3·02) and infliximab with 'immune system disorders' (ror: 5·17, 95% ci: 3·50-7·64), 'respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders' (ror: 1·80, 95% ci: 1·31-2·48) and 'investigations' (ror: 1·82, 95% ci: 1·19-2·78). although the disproportionalities found for adalimumab and etanercept may suggest strong associations with particular adverse events, caution is needed when drawing conclusions on the association between infliximab and the adverse events analysed. 
Fast foods - are they a risk factor for asthma? [SEP] the aim of this study was to determine whether fast foods consumption is associated with asthma or allergic diseases. studies investigating the associations between fast foods consumption and asthma or allergic diseases were considered eligible. the consumption of fast foods was significantly related to current asthma (aor: 1.58; 95% ci: 1.17-2.13 for case-control study and aor: 1.58; 95% ci: 1.10-2.26 for cross-sectional studies), severe asthma (aor: 1.34; 95% ci: 1.23-1.46), asthma ever (aor: 1.36; 95% ci: 1.06-1.75), current wheeze (aor: 1.21; 95% ci: 1.16-1.27), wheeze ever (aor: 1.65; 95% ci: 1.07-2.52), physician-diagnosed allergic rhinitis (odds ratio: 1.43; 95% ci: 1.05-1.95), severe eczema (aor: 1.51; 95% ci: 1.16-1.96) and severe rhino-conjunctivitis (aor: 1.54; 95% ci: 1.18-2.00). this study tests the hypothesis that the consumption of fast food is related to the prevalence of asthma and allergy. recent cross-sectional studies suggested children's current fast food consumption to be related to frequency of asthma and allergies. these findings suggest that in utero exposure to frequent fast food through maternal diet may be a risk factor for asthmatic symptoms in young children. to evaluate if fast food consumption was associated with asthma in children, and if the proposed protective effect of breastfeeding on asthma was altered by fast food consumption. the association between asthma and fast food consumption was evaluated. children with asthma were more likely to consume fast food than children without asthma [crude odds ratio (or) 1.70, 95% confidence interval (ci) 1.23-2.34]. fast food consumption is associated with asthma in children and potentially counteracts the protective effect of prolonged breastfeeding on asthma. 
Can magnetic resonance-ultrasound fusion biopsy improve cancer detection in enlarged prostates? [SEP] to analyze whether magnetic resonance imaging-ultrasonography (mri-us) fusion-guided biopsy detects more and clinical significant prostate cancer (pca) in comparison to conventional transrectal us-guided prostate biopsy (pbx) and to investigate if multiparametric (mp) us during mri-us fusion can further characterize mpmri-suspected lesions according to the prostate mri reporting and data system (pi-rads). to determine whether supplemental biopsy of hypoechoic ultrasound lesions (hul) incidentally found during magnetic resonance imaging (mri)-transrectal ultrasound (trus) fusion-targeted prostate biopsy results in improved prostate cancer (pca) detection. targeted magnetic resonance imaging (mri)/ultrasound fusion prostate biopsy (mri-bx) has recently been compared with the standard of care extended sextant ultrasound-guided prostate biopsy (soc-bx), with the former associated with an increased rate of detection of clinically significant prostate cancer. mp-mri and mri/ultrasound (us) fusion-guided prostate biopsy has been shown to detect more clinically significant pca. compared with standard biopsy, mri/us fusion-guided prostate biopsy improves detection of perineural invasion in pca. multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging (mpmri)/ultrasound fusion-guided biopsy, in short "targeted biopsy (tb)", is becoming more attractive as it improves the detection of clinically significant prostate cancer (cap). the aim of this study was to evaluate the detection rate for clinically significant prostate cancer (pca) after multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging (mpmri)/transrectal ultrasound (trus) fusion biopsy versus extended biopsy or saturation prostate biopsy (spbx) in men enrolled on active surveillance (as). magnetic resonance imaging (mri)/ultrasound fusion-targeted biopsy (tb) has been shown to more accurately identify higher-grade prostate cancers compared with standard-of-care systematic sextant prostate biopsy (sb). multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging (mp-mri) may improve the detection of clinically significant prostate cancer (pca). in this randomized clinical trial, additional prostate magnetic resonance imaging (mri) before prostate biopsy appeared to offer similar diagnostic accuracy compared with routine transrectal ultrasound-guided random biopsy in the diagnosis of prostate cancer. 
Does normothermic normokalemic simultaneous antegrade/retrograde perfusion improve myocardial oxygenation and energy metabolism for hypertrophied hearts? [SEP] beating-heart valve surgery appears to be a promising technique for protection of hypertrophied hearts. normothermic normokalemic simultaneous antegrade/retrograde perfusion (nnsp) may improve myocardial perfusion. the present study was to determine whether nnsp improved myocardial oxygenation and energy metabolism of hypertrophied hearts relative to normothermic normokalemic antegrade perfusion (nnap). twelve hypertrophied pig hearts underwent a protocol consisting of three 20-minute perfusion episodes (10 minutes nnap and 10 minutes nnsp in a random order) with each conducted at a different blood flow in the left anterior descending coronary artery (lad [100%, 50%, and 20% of its initial control]). normothermic normokalemic simultaneous antegrade/retrograde perfusion did not improve, but slightly impaired myocardial oxygenation and energy metabolism of beating hypertrophied hearts relative to nnap. this hypothesis was investigated in an isolated, blood-perfused, rabbit heart langendorff model during 30 minutes of normothermic global ischemia. we conclude that pulsatile reperfusion provides better myocardial preservation than nonpulsatile perfusion after 60 minutes of induced global ischemia. we examined changes induced during ischemia-reperfusion on myocardial metabolism and function by oxygenated warm cardioplegia (cp) and ischemic preconditioning (ip). we sought to determine whether improving coupling between glucose oxidation and glycolysis by stimulating glucose oxidation during reperfusion enhances postischemic recovery of hypertrophied hearts. low rates of glucose oxidation and high glycolytic rates are associated with greater postischemic dysfunction of hypertrophied as compared with nonhypertrophied hearts. 
Are there progressive brain changes in schizophrenia? [SEP] recent cross-sectional studies suggest that brain changes in schizophrenia are progressive during the course of the disorder. the aim of this study was to examine the longitudinal brain changes in patients with chronic older schizophrenia by magnetic resonance imaging (mri). there are ongoing changes in the brains of schizophrenic patients during the course of the illness. numerous imaging studies have revealed structural brain changes in schizophrenia. the progressive brain changes present in chronic schizophrenia may represent a continuous pathophysiological process taking place in the brains of these patients that warrants further study. recent findings in 'at risk' populations have identified progressive changes in various brain regions preceding illness onset, while changes especially in prefrontal and superior temporal regions have been demonstrated in first-episode schizophrenia patients. we followed individuals at high-risk for psychosis to determine whether structural changes in the cerebral cortex occur with the onset of psychosis. there is adequate evidence to suggest that schizophrenia is associated with progressive gray matter abnormalities particularly during the initial stages of illness. here, we review evidence for progressive changes in schizophrenia in order to understand further the pathophysiology of this disorder. we first present evidence for clinical and psycho-social changes over time, followed by evidence from structural brain studies that suggests that schizophrenia is a brain disorder. 
Does concept mapping enhance learning outcome of nursing students? [SEP] the aim of this study was to explore the effectiveness of concept maps in improving the critical thinking of nursing students. this study supports the usefulness of concept maps as a teaching strategy to promote development of nursing students' critical thinking abilities. these findings could provide valuable evidence for establishing concept mapping as a promising teaching strategy for nursing students. concept mapping is a teaching-learning strategy that can be used to evaluate a nursing student's ability to critically think in the clinical setting. nurse educators can employ concept mapping in various situations to promote a deeper level of learning and to improve retention of information among their students. this article reports on a study designed to determine if concept mapping is superior to traditional care planning as a teaching method for practical nursing students. using concept maps in nurse education improves students' critical thinking skills. findings indicated that concept mapping significantly improved students' abilities to see patterns and relationships to plan and evaluate nursing care, and most students (21/23) expressed satisfaction in using the strategy. this study supported concept mapping as an additional learning strategy and has extended knowledge in community-based nursing education. concept mapping enables nursing students connect new information to existing knowledge and integrates interdisciplinary knowledge. 
Is the Androgen Deficiency of Aging Men (ADAM) questionnaire useful for the screening of partial androgenic deficiency of aging men? [SEP] therefore, we evaluated whether the androgen deficiency in aging males (adam) questionnaire, in its original or in a modified 'quantitative' version (qadam), could be used as a surrogate to biochemical determinations for the identification of hypogonadism in elderly males. androgen deficiency is a pervasive problem in the older male population and is thought to be responsible for many symptoms once considered to be the result of normal aging. in this article, we propose a novel screening tool, the quantitative androgen deficiency in the aging male (qadam) questionnaire and report its successful use in quantifying the severity of androgen deficiency in a group of older men. the androgen deficiency in the aging male (adam) questionnaire is widely used to screen for late-onset hypogonadism. we investigated the validity of an arabic version of the saint louis university androgen deficiency in ageing men (adam) questionnaire to screen for androgen deficiency in saudi and non saudi arabic speaking men. the arabic adam questionnaire has a very good sensitivity but very low specificity for screening of androgen deficiency in saudi men, therefore biological confirmation is needed especially when clinical symptoms of androgen deficiency are present. the androgen deficiency in the aging male (adam) questionnaire is commonly used to screen type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm) patients for androgen deficiency symptoms, but the association of low total (tt) and free testosterone (ft) levels with divergent responses to the adam questionnaire remains unclear. a more appropriate designation is androgen decline in the aging male (adam). androgen deficiency in the aging male (adam), also known as andropause, affects an estimated 1 in 200 men. the aging male's symptoms (ams) scale and the androgen deficiency in the aging male (adam) questionnaire have been widely used for screening men suspected of late-onset hypogonadism (loh). 
Does the Transmissible Liability Index (TLI) assessed in late childhood predict suicidal symptoms at young adulthood? [SEP] our previous work demonstrated that the transmissible liability index (tli), an instrument designed as an index of liability for substance use disorder (sud), is associated with risk of substance use disorder. this longitudinal study assessed whether tli measured in 10-12-year-olds (late childhood) predicts suicidal behavior from age 12-14 (preadolescence) to age 25 (young adulthood). we hypothesized that tli would predict number and severity of suicide attempts. tli was significantly associated with number and severity of lifetime suicide attempts. these findings confirm the hypothesis that tli assessed at late childhood is a predictor of frequency and severity of suicidal behavior from preadolescence to young adulthood. traumatic brain injury (tbi) in late adolescence and adulthood is associated with a higher risk of suicide; however, it is unknown whether this association is also present in people who sustained a tbi during childhood. the purpose of the present study was to determine whether experiencing a tbi during childhood is a risk factor for suicide later in life and to examine whether the risk of suicide differs by sex or injury severity. using a survival analysis with time-dependent indicators of tbi, we found a higher risk of suicide for people who sustained a tbi during childhood (hazard ratio (hr) = 1.49, 95% confidence interval (ci): 1.04, 2.14), adolescence (hr = 1.57, 95% ci: 1.09, 2.26), and adulthood (hr = 2.53, 95% ci: 1.79, 3.59). childhood maltreatment poses a risk for the development of suicidal ideation. transmissible liability index (tli), developed employing a high-risk design and item response theory, enables quantification of the latent trait of liability to drug use disorders (dud) in children. 
Are there gender differences in the reasons why African Americans delay in seeking medical help for symptoms of an acute myocardial infarction? [SEP] to identify gender differences in delay time and the reasons why african americans delay in seeking medical care for symptoms of acute myocardial infarction (ami). delays in seeking treatment for signs and symptoms of acute myocardial infarction are longer for african americans than for whites. to determine factors associated with prolonged delay and the extent to which perceived racism influences prehospital delay in african americans with acute myocardial infarction. sixty-one african americans with acute myocardial infarction were interviewed within 1 month of hospital admission. african americans have been shown to have longer delay times than the majority population in seeking care for acute cardiac problems. african american women experience a disproportionate burden of these diseases compared with caucasian women and are also more likely to delay seeking treatment for acute symptoms. targeting interventions to african american women, particularly those in lower socioeconomic groups, may increase knowledge of heart attack and stroke symptoms, subsequently improving preventive action taken in response to these conditions. of those patients with the final diagnosis of myocardial infarction (n = 45), 61% of african american patients attributed symptoms to a gastrointestinal source and 11% to a cardiac source, versus 26% and 33%, respectively, for white patients. understand the meaning of delayed treatment seeking in african-american women with unstable angina and myocardial infarction. phenomenologic analysis of in-depth interview data and field notes on 12 african-american women hospitalized with unstable angina or myocardial infarction. 
Does histologic chorioamnionitis correspond to clinical chorioamnionitis? [SEP] clinical chorioamnionitis and histological chorioamnionitis are important risk factors for neonatal complications and neurodevelopmental impairment in premature infants. it is unclear, however, whether a diagnosis of clinical chorioamnionitis is sufficient to establish a diagnosis of histological chorioamnionitis. the aim of this study was to evaluate the predictive value of clinical chorioamnionitis in the diagnosis of histological chorioamnionitis in extremely premature infants. of the 2470 infants analyzed, 786 were diagnosed with clinical chorioamnionitis and 1129 with histological chorioamnionitis. the finding that clinical chorioamnionitis is a useful predictor of histological chorioamnionitis provides important insights into the relationship between these two diagnoses, and has important implications in determining the appropriate timing of delivery of extremely premature infants. to estimate the rate of histologic chorioamnionitis in the presence of diagnosed clinical chorioamnionitis and determine whether clinical markers of maternal and neonatal infection are associated with histologic chorioamnionitis. chorioamnionitis is an inflammation of the fetal membranes. this research focussed on inflammatory diagnosed histological chorioamnionitis (hca) and aimed to determine whether the bacterial load in fetal membranes correlates to inflammatory response, including histological staging and inflammatory markers in hca. chorioamnion infection is associated with histologic chorioamnionitis and prematurity, but the specific chorioamnion microorganisms associated with histologic chorioamnionitis, prematurity, and poor neonatal outcome have not been identified. histological chorioamnionitis (cam) is one form of intrauterine inflammation that is often seen in cases of preterm birth and are usually confirmed based on pathological examination after delivery. 
Are lifetime prevalence of impetigo, molluscum and herpes infection really increased in children having atopic dermatitis? [SEP] cutaneous infections such as impetigo contagiosum (ic), molluscum contagiosum (mc) and herpes virus infection (hi) appear to be associated with atopic dermatitis (ad), but there are no reports of concrete epidemiological evidence. atopic dermatitis is a common illness in childhood. children with atopic dermatitis are prone to develop cutaneous sensitization due to skin barrier dysfunction. atopic dermatitis is a common condition of early childhood. the association of atopic dermatitis and allergy has been studied for several years. due to compromised barrier function and immune dysregulation, children with atopic dermatitis (ad) are at increased risk of cutaneous infections, yet no literature has been published on disseminated bullous impetigo (dbi) in children with atopic dermatitis (ad). atopic dermatitis (ad) is one of the most common pediatric dermatologic disorders and is associated with an increased risk of recurrent bacterial and viral cutaneous infections, such as impetigo, the most common bacterial infection in children. atopic dermatitis is one of the most common skin disorders in children. in children with atopic dermatitis, contact allergy was observed in 47/104 patients (45.2%). the statistically significant positive results in the highest proportion of patch tests in the youngest age subpopulation of children with atopic dermatitis, and detection of contact allergy most commonly in the youngest subgroup of healthy children, may suggest nonspecifically positive results associated with the immaturity of the epidermal barrier during the first years of life. 
Does sonographic needle guidance affect the clinical outcome of intraarticular injections? [SEP] although ultrasound (us)-guided subacromial injection has shown increased accuracy in needle placement, whether us-guided injection produces better clinical outcome is still controversial. to assess the clinical outcome of ultrasound-guided subacromial injections compared with blind subacromial injections for subacromial impingement syndrome. the aim of this study was to investigate whether ultrasound (us) guidance improves the accuracy and clinical outcome of joint injections as compared with ce guidance in patients with inflammatory arthritis. this study was undertaken to investigate whether ultrasound in combination with clinical examination is better than clinical examination alone at identifying joints that will benefit from intraarticular injections, and to compare the efficacy of ultrasound-guided versus palpation-guided procedures. the relationship of clinical and ultrasound findings at the time of injection with treatment efficacy was examined, with non-swollen joint at the next visit as the outcome measure. our findings indicate that the efficacy of intraarticular glucocorticoid injections varies according to ultrasound findings at the time of injection, supporting the use of ultrasound as a tool to select joints that will benefit from intraarticular injections. we prospectively compared the short term response to randomized blind injection versus sonographic-guided injection of local corticosteroid in patients with painful shoulder. we suggest that sonographic-guided corticosteroid injections should be indicated, at least, in patients with poor response to previous blind injection to ensure accurate medication placement in order to improve therapeutic effectiveness. there is a growing interest in the application of ultrasound (us) guidance for diagnostic and therapeutic joint injections. with real-time needle guidance the success rate of intra-articular injections improves and iatrogenic damage to anatomic structures can be avoided. 
Pancreas retransplantation:  a second chance for diabetic patients? [SEP] a pancreas transplant is a surgical procedure to place a healthy pancreas from a donor into a patient whose pancreas no longer functions properly. the use of pancreas transplantation for type 2 diabetes mellitus is an emerging concept. the present article provides with a review of pancreatic transplantation. transplantation of the pancreas is progressively becoming one of the preferred options of treating the insulin addicted diabetes mellitus. a review of pancreas transplantation as well as the experience with 60 such transplants performed between april 1989 and january 1993 at the university of tennessee, memphis, is reported. the improved results with pancreas transplantation in general, and the emerging evidence that the procedure favorably influences the course of secondary diabetic complications, given an impetus to retransplant patients whose initial graft has failed. after a brief historical background on pancreas transplantation in the treatment of diabetes mellitus, this review deals with the major surgical, pharmacological and functional aspects of this approach. pancreas transplantation has become a viable option for the patient wi th insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus with progressive renal failure. the effects of a pancreas transplantation on the secondary complications of diabetes have been studied extensively. transplantation of pancreas is a generally accepted treatment option for patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus. 
Factors determining the survival of nasopharyngeal carcinoma with lung metastasis alone: does combined modality treatment benefit? [SEP] nasopharyngeal carcinoma (npc) with lung metastasis alone has been reported as a relatively favorable prognostic group, and combined modality treatment might be indicated for selected cases. to identify nasopharyngeal carcinoma prognostic factors in patients with residual or recurrent cervical lymph node metastases after radiotherapy. the clinicopathologic characteristics and prognoses of 67 nasopharyngeal carcinoma patients with residual or recurrent cervical lymph node metastases who were diagnosed and treated were analyzed retrospectively. systemic chemotherapy is the basic palliative treatment for metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma (npc); however, it is not known whether locoregional radiotherapy targeting the primary tumor and regional lymph nodes affects the survival of patients with metastatic npc. therefore, we retrospectively compared the clinical prognoses of patients with residual or recurrent npc treated with endoscopic nasopharyngectomy combined with chemoradiotherapy (crt) with those of patients treated with crt alone. a previous individual patient data meta-analysis by the meta-analysis of chemotherapy in nasopharynx carcinoma (mac-npc) collaborative group to assess the addition of chemotherapy to radiotherapy showed that it improves overall survival in nasopharyngeal carcinoma. our results confirm that the addition of concomitant chemotherapy to radiotherapy significantly improves survival in patients with locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma. this study was aimed at determining the outcome of treatment of nasopharyngeal cancer with concurrent chemoradiotherapy in our setup. the common treatment of primary patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma is chemotherapy and radiotherapy. we conducted a meta-analysis to identify prognostic factors associated with outcomes of patients with recurrent nasopharyngeal carcinoma treated by salvage surgery. 
Do viral infections have a role in benign paroxysmal positional vertigo? [SEP] benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (bppv) is a high-prevalence vestibular end-organ disorder caused by the detachment of utricular otoconia which float in the posterior or lateral semicircular canal. vestibular vertigo traditionally has been considered to be of viral origin and some forms (acute vestibular neuronitis, acute labyrinthitis, acute vertigo) may be manifestations of a viral cranial polyneuritis. to test this hypothesis, otoneurologic signs and serum complement-fixation titers to herpes simplex and herpes zoster were determined in 16 patients with acute vertigo during their attack and several weeks later. viral infections have long been suspected to be causative agents in a number of inner ear dysfunctions. some vertigo results from acute viral labyrinthitis or a cerebrovascular event; many cases are due to loose particulate matter within the semicircular canals. spontaneous nystagmus, which has been considered a typical sign of acute vestibulopathy, has recently been reported in benign paroxysmal positional vertigo involving the lateral semicircular canals (lc-bppv) without unilateral vestibulopathy (pseudo-spontaneous nystagmus, psn), but research about its clinical application is still limited. benign paroxysmal positional vertigo is one of the most common types of vertigo caused by peripheral vestibular dysfunction. although head trauma, migraine, long-term bed rest, ménière disease, viral labyrinthitis, and upper respiratory tract infections are believed to be predisposing factors, most cases of benign paroxysmal positional vertigo are idiopathic. ear surgery is another cause, but after non-otologic surgery, attacks of benign paroxysmal positional vertigo are rare. we describe three cases of benign paroxysmal positional vertigo attacks after non-otologic surgery (one patient after a nasal septoplasty and two patients after dental endodontic treatment) and discuss the pathophysiological mechanism of benign paroxysmal positional vertigo seen after non-otologic surgery, its diagnosis and treatment. 
Does the enteral feeding advancement affect short-term outcomes in very low birth weight infants? [SEP] the optimal rate of enteral feeding (ef) advancement in very low birth weight infants is under debate. early enteral feeding helped to improve the weight of elbw infants. transition to enteral feeding is difficult for very low-birth-weight (vlbw; ≤1500 g) infants, and optimal nutrition is important for clinical outcomes. controversy exists regarding the optimal enteral feeding regimen of very low birth weight infants (vlbw). we prospectively studied the influence of center-specific enteral feeding advancement in 1430 vlbw infants recruited from 13 tertiary neonatal intensive care units in germany on short-term outcome parameters. to evaluate the effect of early total enteral feeding (etef) when compared with conventional enteral feeding (cef) in stable very-low-birth-weight (vlbw; 1,000-1,499 g) infants on the postnatal age (in days) at attaining full enteral feeds. to study the effect of minimal enteral feeding (mef) on intestinal permeability and feeding tolerance in preterm infants with intrauterine growth retardation (gestational age < 37 weeks, birth weight for gestational age p < 10). observational data have shown that slow advancement of enteral feeding volumes in preterm infants is associated with a reduced risk of necrotizing enterocolitis but an increased risk of late-onset sepsis. limiting the number of days until achievement of full enteral feeding in extremely low birth weight neonates (elbw; < 1000 g) might affect growth in the first years of life. the effect of a change in strategy to achieve full enteral feeding at an earlier stage in elbw neonates was assessed. 
Is late-night salivary cortisol a better screening test for possible cortisol excess than standard screening tests in obese patients with Type 2 diabetes? [SEP] measurement of salivary cortisol is considered an expedient screening method for hypercortisolism, but its usefulness in the context of t2d is uncertain. to compare the performance, in terms of specificity for cortisol excess, of late-night salivary cortisol with 24-hour urine-free cortisol (24hr ufc) and overnight 1mg dexamethasone suppression test (1mg dst) in a group of obese t2dm patients. late-night salivary cortisol has a poor specificity for cortisol excess in obese patients with t2dm with 24 hr ufc showing significantly better specificity in our population. we aimed to evaluate whether basal or evening salivary cortisol may predict the occurrence of incident insulin resistance (ir) or t2dm. we aim to examine the association of cortisol levels and diurnal secretion patterns with prevalence of type 2 diabetes and hba1c levels as well as the potential impact of sex and adiposity on this association. multivariate regression analyses were employed to examine the association between salivary cortisol (measured upon waking (m1), 30min after awakening (m2), and in the late night (lnsc)) and type 2 diabetes as well as glycated hemoglobin (hba1c) with adjustments for potential confounders. the aim was to examine the association of diurnal cortisol secretion with future t2d and impaired glucose metabolism in a community-dwelling population. the presence of an enhanced cortisol secretion in patients with type 2 diabetes is debated. 10 pm salivary cortisol correlated significantly with fasting plasma glucose (fpg), 2 h plasma glucose (2h pg) and glycated hemoglobin (hba1c) while post dex salivary cortisol correlated with 2h pg, hba1c and salivary α-amylase with 2h pg. 10 pm salivary cortisol correlated significantly with fasting plasma glucose (fpg), 2 h plasma glucose (2h pg) and glycated hemoglobin (hba1c) while post dex salivary cortisol correlated with 2h pg, hba1c and salivary α-amylase with 2h pg. 
Does psychological distress predict disability? [SEP] this study investigated the causal relationship between pain and disability via psychological distress (and its components depression, stress, and anxiety) by using mediation path analysis. the results of the mediation analysis suggest that approximately 30% of the relationship between subacute pain and later disability is dependent on the level of patients' psychological distress. the finding that psychological distress only partially (30%) mediated the pain-disability relationship indicates that other factors should also be explored. further analysis into the components of psychological distress revealed that the symptoms of depression and stress, but not anxiety, are responsible for mediation of the pain-disability relationship. past studies among patients with injuries ranging in severity have predominantly reported that functional impairments predict subsequent psychological concerns, rather than the other way around; however, it remains unclear whether this directionality holds for individuals with mild tbi (mtbi). symptoms of both depression and anxiety significantly predicted subsequent functional limitations (λs = -0.21 and -0.25), whereas the reverse effects were nonsignificant (λs = -0.05 and -0.03); thus, psychological concerns appeared to function as a precursor to functional impairment. we examined whether the risk of self-reported psychological distress becomes progressively higher the longer the history of distress and whether prolonged history of distress modifies associations between risk markers and future distress. multinomial logistic regression analysis was used to examine the associations of sociodemographic characteristics, physical health problems, social support and mental health service use among those with no psychological distress, with psychological distress having no history of mdd, and with psychological distress having a history of mdd, adjusted for sociodemographic characteristics. unemployment, physical health problems, and lack of social support were much more common among those with psychological distress without a history of mdd than those with no psychological distress, and were largely comparable with those with psychological distress having a history of mdd. among the possible predictors of back pain outcomes that have been studied, indices of psychological distress have been found to have a high prognostic value. 
Does preloading with colloids prevent hemodynamic changes when neurosurgical patients are subsequently changed to the seated position? [SEP] the aim of the study was to study the effect of crystalloid preloading on hemodynamic parameters during positioning the patient from supine to sitting position. this study examined whether preoperative volume loading with crystalloids alone or with a crystalloid-colloid combination can prevent hemodynamic changes that may be causative for unfavorable neurologic outcomes. colloid preloading diminishes post-spinal hypotension. colloid preload has a clinical advantage over the coload strategy, in reducing hypotensive episodes under low dose spinal anesthesia. colloid preloading is superior to crystalloid in reducing the risk for spinal anesthetic-induced hypotension. the effects of colloid loading after spinal anesthesia on hemodynamics in parturients during cesarean section have not been fully understood. this study tested the hypothesis that colloid loading after spinal blockade can reduce hypotension compared with preloading, and affect neonatal outcomes. colloid loading after induction of spinal anesthesia was similarly effective in reducing hypo- tension compared with preloading in cesarean section. fluid preloading with colloids reduces hypotension after spinal anesthesia for cesarean delivery more effectively than crystalloids. we aimed to evaluate the hemodynamic profile during stroke volume-directed fluid administration in patients undergoing neurosurgery either in the sitting or the prone position. 
Does continuous intravenous infusion of low-concentration epinephrine impair uterine blood flow in pregnant ewes? [SEP] bolus intravenous injection of epinephrine can decrease uterine blood flow. this study examined the effects of intravenous infusion of epinephrine on uterine blood flow in the gravid ewe. epinephrine 15 micrograms decreased uterine blood flow to 68 +/- 14% of baseline (mean +/- sd). in gravid ewes, intravenous infusion of < or = 1.67 micrograms/min epinephrine altered neither maternal hemodynamics nor uterine blood flow. the effect of epinephrine given epidurally with local anesthetics on uterine blood flow is controversial. previous work in pregnant ewes demonstrated a transient but significant (14 per cent) decrease in uterine blood flow when 2-chloroprocaine with epinephrine (10 micrograms/l) was used. the purpose of the present study was to determine the effect of intravenously administered epinephrine on the maternal cardiovascular response and uterine artery blood flow velocity (ubfv) in the pregnant guinea pig. in an earlier study, epidural anesthesia increased uterine vascular resistance and fetal acidosis during hemorrhage in gravid ewes. the purpose of this study was to determine the effects of epidural anesthesia on: 1) the mean arterial pressure/uterine vascular resistance relationship; and 2) arginine vasopressin concentrations and plasma renin activity during hemorrhage in gravid ewes. the effects of imipramine and amitriptyline on the responses of the uteroplacental vasculature to norepinephrine and phenylephrine were investigated in the pregnant ewe. 
Is there a first night effect on sleep bruxism? [SEP] this study investigated the first night effect on the polysomnographic diagnosis of sleep bruxism (sb). sleep variables showed a significant first-night effect with lower sleep efficiency, longer sleep latency and higher frequency of arousals. this article acknowledges sleep-wear phenomena and suggests research to study the correlation between sleeping postures and nocturnal bruxism through scientific studies. the aim of this study was to assess the first night effect on sb. sleep-related bruxism may directly impact sleep quality. this study aims to evaluate potential relationships between sleep bruxism events and related daytime symptoms. controls and patients with sleep bruxism presented similar sleep architecture. the cumulative durations of sleep bruxism events (phasic, tonic, and combined) were significantly correlated with deterioration of sleep quality, whereas neither the event index per hour of sleep nor the count of event types (phasic/tonic) were related to sleep quality. patients with sleep bruxism present with higher levels of daytime fatigue and sleepiness than control subjects who experience good sleep and may also exhibit impairments of sleep quality which are related to the duration of bruxism occurrence rather than to its frequency. the "first night effect" (fne) is the alteration of sleep architecture observed on the first night of polysomnographic (psg) studies. 
Does menopausal transition affect the quality of life? [SEP] the directly attributable effect of menopausal transition on women's quality of life (qol) remains unclear. this study investigates the relationship between perceived change in qol and menopausal transition status, socio-economic circumstances, lifestyle factors, and life stress. menopausal transition status was significantly associated with change in physical health (p<0.001) and psychosomatic (p<0.001) domains, but not personal life. physical and psychological changes during menopausal transition may affect various aspects of everyday functioning including women's work ability and work productivity. presence of menopausal symptoms has been well-acknowledged to negatively affect quality of life (qol). the nature of menopause, hormone therapy, and time elapsed since menopause) are known to affect women's health-related quality of life. we address whether the menopausal transition affects health-related quality of life (hrqol). the menopausal transition, or perimenopause, is characterized by menstrual irregularities, vasomotor symptoms, sleep disturbances, mood symptoms, and urogenital tract atrophy. menopause is characterized by an altered hormonal status and by a decrease in life quality due to the appearance of uncomfortable symptoms. the menopausal transition (mt) is a critical period associated with physiologic changes that influence women's long-term health and longevity. 
Can clinicians use the PHQ-9 to assess depression in people with vision loss? [SEP] the phq-9 is a brief, 9-item, self-administered screening tool widely used in primary care medical settings to assess the potential presence of major depressive disorder (mdd). the phq-9 was originally developed as a screener for depression in primary care and is commonly used in medical settings. the objectives of this study were to evaluate the validity of the patient health questionnaire-9 (phq-9) for detecting diagnostic and statistical manual-defined major depressive episodes in people with neurologic conditions. thus, the purpose of this study was to evaluate the test performance of the phq-9 for detecting major and minor depression in elderly patients in primary care. to investigate whether the patient health questionnaire-9 (phq-9) possesses the essential psychometric characteristics to measure depressive symptoms in people with visual impairment. our findings demonstrate that the phq-9, when scaled with rasch analysis, forms a linear interval measurement of depressive symptoms suitable for use in a vision impaired population. the patient health questionnaire-9 (phq-9) is increasingly used as a depression assessment tool in cardiac patients. to assess the clinical utility of the patient health questionnaire-9 (phq-9), a validated instrument for measurement of depression severity, in differentiating patients with and without dementia, referred with complaints of memory impairment to dedicated memory clinics. phq-9 proved useful as a brief screen for depression in patients attending dementia clinics with a complaint of memory impairment. the nine-item depression module from the patient health questionnaire (phq-9) is well validated and widely used as a brief diagnostic and severity measure, but its validity as an outcome measure for depression has not yet been established. 
Should all human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients with end-stage renal disease be excluded from transplantation? [SEP] the great majority of u.s. renal transplant centers will not transplant kidneys to hiv-infected patients with end-stage renal disease, even if their infection is asymptomatic. human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection in a patient with end-stage renal disease was considered a contraindication for renal transplantation till now despite the advent of highly active antiretroviral therapy with the apprehension that immunosuppression would further jeopardize the already compromised immune status of the patients. human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection has traditionally been considered an absolute contraindication for transplantation because immunosuppression will accelerate the disease progression and increase mortality. now renal transplantation is the gold standard treatment for end-stage renal disease in hiv-infected patients, but increased rejection and toxicity rates and compliance with treatment are important issues. although patients positive for hiv were once thought to be unsuitable candidates for kidney transplantation, their increasing numbers with end-stage renal disease (esrd) and the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy has indicated that they should no longer be excluded for transplantation. despite the availability of new effective antiretroviral therapies, hiv-infected people are generally excluded from kidney transplantation, the treatment of choice for esrd. human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection has long been a contraindication to kidney transplantation due to transplant immunosuppression, hiv-associated renal dysfunction, and nephrotoxicity associated with antiretroviral therapy (art). emerging data has shown that kidney transplantation may be a viable option for appropriately selected hiv patients with end-stage renal disease (esrd). human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) disease was considered an absolute contraindication to kidney transplantation until recently. human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-infected patients have historically been excluded from consideration for transplantation out of concern for the effects of immunosuppression on the progression of hiv disease. 
Is the 7th TNM edition suitable for biological predictor in early gastric cancer? [SEP] the study aimed to evaluate its predictive ability on survival and compare the difference between the 6th and 7th editions of ajcc tnm system in gastric carcinoma. the objective of this study was to investigate whether the seventh edition of the american joint committee on cancer/international union against cancer tnm classification (tnm7) had superior discriminatory ability over the sixth edition of the tnm classification (tnm6) in patients with gastric cancer regardless of their country of origin. although the extent of lymphadenectomy was associated with the overall survival (os) of gastric cancer (gc) patients, the n stages of the seventh edition of the tnm classification were identified as the most intensively independent predictors of gc prognosis. to demonstrate that the seventh edition of the tumor-node-metastasis (tnm) classification for gastric cancer (gc) should be updated with the number of negative lymph nodes for the improvement of its prognostic prediction accuracy. this study aimed to compare the seventh edition of the tumor node metastasis (tnm) staging system to the sixth edition to validate its usefulness in predicting prognosis for gallbladder cancer. we aim to evaluate its predictive ability and to compare the performance of the 6th and 7th editions of the ajcc tnm staging systems in esophageal cancer. we aimed to compare the predictive capacity of the ajcc-7 for colorectal cancer with the 6th edition of the ajcc tnm staging system (ajcc-6). to investigate whether the 8th edition of tumor, node, metastasis (tnm) staging could properly evaluate the prognosis of gastric cancer patients. the prognostic performance between the 7th and 8th edition of tnm staging was compared and clinicopathologic features were analyzed. to better provide prognostic information and therapeutic guidance for gastric cancer patients, the tnm staging system should be further improved in the future. 
Does growth hormone replacement therapy reduce mortality in adults with growth hormone deficiency? [SEP] adults with hypopituitarism and documented growth hormone deficiency are now eligible for replacement therapy. quality of life (qol) is impaired in patients with adults with growth hormone deficiency (aghd) of any cause, especially if additional hypopituitarism is present, and improves after replacement therapy with recombinant human growth hormone (rhgh). it has been suggested that gh-deficient adults may have premature mortality, abnormalities in body composition and bone density with impaired physical performance and psychological well-being, which are sometimes improved by gh replacement. adult patients with growth hormone deficiency are thought to be at higher risk of mortality from cardiovascular disease. eighteen patients with severe growth hormone deficiency. this paper reviews the effects of growth hormone deficiency on bone health, cardiovascular function, metabolic profile and quality of life during transition and young adulthood. it is widely recommended that consideration should be given to the therapeutic use of growth hormone (gh) in adults with gh deficiency, whether the condition is of childhood or adult onset. in adults, growth hormone deficiency (ghd) has been associated with low bone mineral density (bmd), an effect counteracted by growth hormone (gh) replacement. whether gh is beneficial in adults with age-related bone loss and without hypopituitarism is unclear. the incidence of atherosclerosis is increased in growth hormone (gh) deficient-individuals. 
Attaining negative margins in breast-conservation operations: is there a consensus among breast surgeons? [SEP] the 2014 society of surgical oncology-american society for radiation oncology consensus suggested "no ink on tumor" is a sufficient surgical margin for invasive breast cancer treated with breast-conserving surgery (bcs). although negative surgical margins are an important prognostic factor in the breast-conserving treatment of breast cancer, the required width of these margins is still under debate. negative margins are associated with reduced risk of ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence (ibtr) for women with ductal carcinoma in situ (dcis) treated with breast-conserving surgery (bcs). we review the evidence on surgical margins in bct for early-stage invasive breast cancer. acquisition of negative resection margins is paramount in the surgical management of operable breast cancer. flap morbidity and cosmetic outcome following margin re-excision was compared between reconstructed breasts that underwent re-excision vs those reconstructed after prophylactic mastectomy (controls). thirty-six (2.5%) out of 1443 patients were found to have positive mastectomy margins following immediate breast reconstruction between may 2007 and november 2012. re-excision of positive mastectomy margins following immediate autologous breast reconstruction requires a multidisciplinary approach and may be performed with minimal additional morbidity while preserving optimal cosmetic outcome. our aim was to address this knowledge gap by determining the prevalence of positive and narrow margins after breast-conserving surgery, and evaluating how margin status impacted local recurrence and overall survival. we systematically review the evidence on surgical margins in bct for invasive breast cancer to support the development of clinical guidelines. 
Can serum be used for analyzing the EGFR mutation status in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer? [SEP] obtaining tumor samples for epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) mutation analysis during treatment can be difficult; therefore, serum samples may be a convenient alternative. we analyzed serum egfr mutations in the japanese phase 2 jo22903 study in chemotherapy-naive non-small-cell lung cancer patients with tumor egfr mutations. agreement between serum and tumor egfr mutations and time course changes of egfr mutations were evaluated. the clinical applicability of screening surgically resected nonsmall cell lung cancer (nsclc) tumour tissue and serum for activating epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) mutation is unknown. the detection of epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) mutations in plasma or serum has previously been reported to be feasible for non-small-cell lung cancer (nsclc). the detection of egfr mutations in plasma or serum is a noninvasive method to confirm egfr mutation status in patients with nsclc. the epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) mutation status related to the treatment approach for advanced non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) patients. epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) mutational testing in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (nsclc) is usually performed in tumor tissue, although cfdna (cell-free dna) could be an alternative. detection of activating epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) mutation is crucial for individualized treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (nsclc). epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) mutation status has been shown to predict response to anti-egfr tyrosine kinase inhibitors in non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc). 
Do Web-based and clinic samples of gay men living with HIV differ on self-reported physical and psychological symptoms? [SEP] using an internet-based questionnaire, we assessed hiv-related stigma, loneliness, and event-level sexual behaviors in a sample of hiv positive msm (n = 100) residing within a largely rural area in the midwestern united states. the present study determined lifetime and current psychiatric functioning in a sample of homosexual or bisexual men at various stages of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection in order to address several questions regarding the relationship between psychopathology and hiv infection. hiv+ asymptomatic or symptomatic and hiv- homosexual or bisexual men completed self-report measures of psychological and health functioning and participated in structured diagnostic interviews. the survey data were from a sample of 542 self-identified gay men, 40% of whom were hiv positive, recruited from six high hiv-caseload general practices in australia. a higher proportion of the hiv-positive gay men (48.4%) reported multiple sexual problems than the hiv-negative men (35.1%, p = 0.002). factors independently associated with multiple sexual problems among the hiv-negative gay men were poorer general health and interpersonal isolation, whereas for the hiv-positive gay men, they were adoption of avoidant strategies to cope with daily life stress, sexual risk-taking in casual encounters, and the use of antidepressants. our findings underscore the complex interactions between depression, sexual dysfunction, sexual risk taking, hiv infection, and general well-being among homosexually active men. data collected as part of a psychosocial study of gay and bisexual men's experiences of living with hiv infection as a chronic illness were examined to investigate the psychological impact of the perceived availability of illness-related support and negative illness-related network interactions in a sample of men from this population. in a cross-sectional survey, a population-based sample of men aged 18 to 64 years who self-identified as gay or bisexual were interviewed by telephone regarding their sexual behaviors, hiv serostatus, and gay venue visit patterns. this study aimed to establish the prevalence of psychosocial problems in gay men with hiv infection, and to identify factors associated with psychological morbidity. 
Are patients with diabetes receiving the same message from dietitians and nurses? [SEP] nurses who care for patients with diabetes and who provide diabetes education need to continually assess patients' understanding about dm and its treatment. the purpose of this study was to determine if registered dietitian (rd) and registered nurse (rn) certified diabetes educators (cdes) provide similar recommendations regarding carbohydrates and dietary supplements to individuals with diabetes. perceptions of acute care nurses and hospitalized patients with diabetes. sixty-four nurses and 54 patients with diabetes were queried about their experience with diabetes caring behaviors. to compare patients' and healthcare professionals' beliefs and attitudes towards diabetes. comparisons on level of self-management across diabetes type revealed significant differences for diet and glucose testing. insulin treated patients with diabetes spontaneously express concerns about their actual quality of life and daily hassles and mention long-term worries after explicit questioning. many physicians will manage the care of hospitalized patients with diabetes mellitus who require parenteral nutrition or enteral tube feeding. the nutritional assessment, indications for nutrition support, estimate of nutritional needs, and biochemical monitoring guidelines for critically ill patients with diabetes are similar to those for nondiabetic patients. the overall impression was that patients were receiving appropriate information about diabetes, but there does appear to be room for improvement in some areas, particularly the importance of blood pressure and lipid control. 
Preparing patients at high risk of falls for discharge home after rehabilitation: Do we meet the guidelines? [SEP] discharge from the hospital is a high risk transition period for older adults at risk of falls. to determine whether rehabilitation inpatients at high risk of falls receive adequate falls risk assessment, management and handover on discharge as per australian best practice guidelines. medical records of 121 people who received inpatient rehabilitation were retrospectively screened; records of 50 people discharged home and at high falls risk (fall in last 12 months, fall preceding/during admission) were audited. data extracted included falls risk identification during rehabilitation and in discharge documentation; falls risk factors assessed; and fall prevention strategies implemented. failure to adequately address risks during hospitalization could contribute to falls post-discharge. pre-discharge occupational therapy home assessments are common practice, and considered important for falls prevention in older people. this prospective, observational cohort study describes the association between pre-discharge home assessment and falls in the first month post-discharge from a rehabilitation hospital. pre-discharge occupational therapy home assessments are sound post-discharge falls-prevention strategies in non-neurological patients. to inform development of transitional fall prevention programs, nine older adults designated as being at risk of falls during hospitalization who were recently discharged home were asked about their perceptions of fall risk and prevention, as well as their knowledge and opinion of materials from the centers for disease control and prevention stopping elderly accidents, deaths & injuries initiative. prevention programs tailored to the post-discharge period may engage patients in fall prevention, promote well-being and independence, and link hospital and community efforts. 
Expression of c-kit protooncogen in hepatitis B virus-induced chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma: has it a diagnostic role? [SEP] to explore new biomarkers for indicating the recurrence and prognosis in hepatitis b virus (hbv)-related hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) patients after tumor resection, we investigated the expression and prognostic value of c-kit(cd117) in hbv-related hcc. immunohistochemistry was used to estimate the expression of c-kit(cd117) and cd34 in the liver cancer tissues. recently, it has been reported that hepatitis b virus (hbv) dna is detected in cancerous liver tissues in some hepatitis b surface antigen negative chronic hepatitis c patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc). the results of this study corroborate previous reports of frequent detection of hbv dna in the liver tissue of anti-hcv positive/hbs antigen negative patients with hcc, but do not support an essential role of hbv in hepatocarcinogenesis in patients with chronic hepatitis c and occult hbv infection. to evaluate hepatic expression of the nuclear proliferative marker ki-67 and the p53 oncoprotein in hepatitis b virus (hbv)/hcv cirrhosis in relation to dysplastic liver cell changes and hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc). we investigated the clinical significance of cytokeratin 7 expression in the noncancerous hepatitis tissue in patients with hepatitis b virus-related hepatocellular carcinoma. chronic hepatitis b (chb) is prevalent worldwide and can develop into liver cirrhosis and liver carcinoma. the aim of the present study was to assess the diagnostic value of a panel of cellular proteins that can be recognized by autoantibodies in patient serum for hepatitis b virus (hbv)‑related liver cirrhosis. one of the major antecedent factors preceding the development of hepatocellular carcinoma is chronic hepatitis b virus infection. we analyzed the expression of nuclear-transcription factor-kappa b (nf-kappab) during hepatocarcinogenesis in order to evaluate its dynamic expression and its clinical value in the development and diagnosis of hcc. 
Longer term quality of life and outcome in stroke patients: is the Barthel index alone an adequate measure of outcome? [SEP] to consider whether the barthel index alone provides sufficient information about the long term outcome of stroke. the place of the barthel index as the standard outcome measure for populations of stroke patients is still justified for long term follow up, and may be a proxy for different outcome measures intended for the assessment of other domains. to determine the prognostic value of single items of the barthel index (bi) at discharge from rehabilitation, in predicting independence in personal activities of daily living (adl) (bi score ≥ 95/100) at five years after stroke. we examined primary outcomes by national institutes of health stroke scale (nihss), barthel index (bi) and modified rankin scale (mrs), and qol by stroke impact scale (sis) and european quality of life scale (eq-5d) from the virtual international stroke trials archive (vista). despite good recovery from a stroke, the quality of life (qol) of most stroke patients living in the community is not always restored in their acute or recovery phase. a community-based cohort of stroke patients was examined with the barthel adl index and the sickness impact profile at fixed intervals post-stroke. available outcome measures assess neurological impairment, disability, or handicap, yet often inadequately characterize the full impact of a stroke on patients' lives. indeed, quality of life and subjective well-being should be taken into account in any assessment of stroke survival. to assess long-term quality of life in stroke patients (compared with healthy controls) and the corresponding determinants and predictive factors. life satisfaction and quality of life were significantly impaired in stroke patients, compared with controls. 
Do women residents delay childbearing due to perceived career threats? [SEP] more women are delaying childbearing while they pursue a career, gain financial stability and seek an appropriate partner. in western countries, a social trend toward delaying childbearing has been observed in women of reproductive age for the last two decades. these concerns are based on centuries-old observations, yet women are delaying childbearing to pursue educational and career goals in greater numbers than ever before. the proportion of women who are intentionally delaying pregnancy beyond the age of 35 years has increased greatly in the past few decades because of the clash between the optimal biological period for women to have children with obtaining additional education and building a career. what are the psychosocial determinants of women's intentions to delay childbearing until after 35 years? attitudes, pressure from important others, perceived self-confidence and anticipated regret all influence the decision-making process of women aged 18-30 years to defer their attempts to conceive their first child until 35+ years. this research augments our understanding of the decision-making process and key beliefs underlying the decision to delay childbearing. in industrialized countries worldwide, women are delaying childbearing for a variety of reasons, including pursuit of career, greater financial independence, improved and more accessible contraception and longer life expectancy. there is a tendency among women today to delay the age at which they have their first child or subsequent children. recently, career, education, financial, and other goals have coerced women to delay childbearing all over the world. 
Do general practitioner hospitals reduce the utilisation of general hospital beds? [SEP] to assess whether populations with access to general practitioner hospitals (gp hospitals) utilise general hospitals less than populations without such access. gp hospitals seem to reduce the utilisation of general hospitals with respect to admissions as well as occupied bed days. to examine hospital bed use by general practices with and without access to general practitioner beds. information from the contract management system for general medicine and surgery, and from smr returns for geriatric medicine and gp beds was used to compare hospital bed use in district general hospitals (dghs) and in general practitioner beds for practices with and without access to gp beds. taking into account gp bed day use, practices with access to gp beds used 6.1% more hospital bed days per 1000 patients than did practices with no access. these findings largely replicate work in england that found substantial decreases in general medical and geriatric medicine bed use in practices with access to gp beds, combined with an overall increase in occupied bed day use of 6-8% per 1000 patients. the variation in the number of patients general practitioners refer to hospital is a source of concern because of the costs generated and the implications for quality and quantity of care this paper compares 32 general practitioners with high referral rates with 35 doctors with low referral rates drawn from a study of 201 doctors. in a study assessing the role of general practitioner hospitals (gphs) in the health service two main questions were addressed: 1) are general practitioner beds used for short-term medical observations, or as a supplement for long-term geriatric care? this paper reviews literature related to general-practitioner hospital beds. only about 1% of these general-practitioner beds are located in a consultant hospital.in the discussion three questions are raised: will general-practitioner inpatient care have a useful function in the future? 
Some aspects of social exclusion: do they influence suicide mortality? [SEP] this investigation aims to examine how social deprivation influences suicide mortality and to identify which related factors of deprivation have a higher potential to reduce suicide risk in urban and rural queensland, australia. in urban areas, suicide rates were positively associated with tenant households in public housing, aboriginal and torres strait islander people, the unemployment rate and median individual income, but inversely correlated with younger age and households with no internet access. the extent to which social deprivation contributes to suicide mortality varies considerably between rural and urban areas. geographic variations in the incidence of deliberate self-harm (dsh) and suicide have been shown to be associated with area-based measures of socio-economic deprivation and social fragmentation. for suicide, the only significant association was with socio-economic deprivation in males (r = 0.79), but this was attenuated after controlling for social fragmentation. while loss of socioeconomic status (ses) has been linked to suicidal behavior, it is unclear whether this experience is merely a downstream effect of psychopathology ("downward drift"), a sign of hardship, or an independent psychological contributor to suicide risk. in older adults, the experience of status loss is associated with contemplated and attempted suicide even after accounting for objective indicators of social status and psychopathology. this article investigates the role of social context on individual suicide mortality with attention paid to the possibility that contextual effects are simply the sum of individual characteristics associated with suicide. results show that adults living in cities with more socioeconomic disadvantage and fewer families living together have higher odds of suicidal death than adults living in less disadvantaged cities and cities with more families living together, respectively, after controlling for individual-level socioeconomic status, marital status, and family size. the findings support classic sociological arguments that the risk of suicide is indeed influenced by the social milieu and cannot simply be explained by the aggregation of individual characteristics. 
Does parity increase insulin resistance during pregnancy? [SEP] after adjustment for covariates, an increased number of pregnancies was associated with increased fasting insulin (p < 0.05) and decreased insulin sensitivity (p < 0.05). pregnancy is characterized by peripheral insulin resistance, which is physiologically compensated by an increase in insulin secretion. pregnant women presented with a metabolic pattern suggestive of enhanced insulin resistance, namely increased fasting and post-load insulin levels. increasing parity may be a risk factor for the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus and the metabolic alterations during a normal pregnancy induces a prediabetic state; thus, multiple pregnancies may act as a risk factor for development of type 2 diabetes if these physiological alterations in glucose homeostasis are not reversed postpartum. pregnancy is characterized by progressive insulin resistance. the present study evaluated whether the adiponectin/leptin ratio is associated with insulin resistance in pregnancy, since this ratio has been shown to be associated with insulin resistance in obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus, metabolic syndrome and polycystic ovary syndrome. high parity has been suggested to increase risk of maternal cardiovascular disease independent of body mass index measured after childbearing. pregnancy is, however, associated with persistent weight gain and metabolic changes that, independent of parity, increase the risk of cardiovascular disease. pregnancy is associated with marked insulin resistance that seems to have little, if any, impact on the long-term risk of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (niddm) in the general population. pregnancy is known to be associated with an increased demand for insulin that is normally compensated by an increased beta cell mass and insulin secretion. 
Informed consent for total hip arthroplasty: does a written information sheet improve recall by patients? [SEP] informed consent plays a pivotal role in the operative process, and surgeons have an ethical and legal obligation to provide patients with information to allow for shared decision-making. this study aims to evaluate the effect of procedure-specific consent forms on patient's recall four weeks after total hip replacement (thr). sixty adult patients undergoing total hip replacement were allocated to be consented using either the generic or the surgery-specific consent form. consent is a legal and ethical requirement for undertaking surgical procedures; however, the literature suggests that there continues to be poor recall among patients of the surgical risks discussed during the consent process. the aim of this study was to evaluate whether the addition of a preadmission procedure-specific consent document would improve patient recall of surgical risks at 4 weeks after total hip replacement in patients consented with a procedure-specific consent form. the goal of the current study was to investigate whether preoperative rehabilitation advice reinforced by a patient information booklet can aid recovery after total hip arthroplasty in terms of pain, function, satisfaction, and quality of life. the test group was 126 patients undergoing revision or primary total hip arthroplasty; 65 patients were given information verbally, 61 patients were given written information. providing patients with validated information before total hip arthroplasty may help lessen discrepancies between patients' expectations and the surgical result. obtaining informed consent for an operation is a fundamental daily interaction between orthopaedic surgeon and patient. thirty-eight consecutive patients who were admitted to the hospital for total joint replacement were studied to determine their understanding of the elements of informed consent at the time when they signed the consent document before the operation and their recall of those elements six months after the operation. 
Is gastric cancer different in Korea and the United States? [SEP] background: stomach cancer incidence shows substantial racial-ethnic disparity in the united states, with korean americans experiencing by far the highest incidence. we examined stomach cancer incidence trends in korean americans by tumor subsite, histology, and stage and compared them with incidence rates in racial-ethnic groups with the second highest rate (japanese americans) and the lowest rate (non-hispanic whites; nhws) as well as populations in south korea and japan.methods: we calculated age-adjusted incidence rates by racial-ethnic groups, sex, and tumor characteristics, using the 1988-2012 california cancer registry data. although korean americans were diagnosed at an earlier stage than other californians, the proportion with localized disease (43%) was much smaller than in south korea (57%), where population-based screening is available.conclusions: stomach cancer incidence declined in the highest risk ethnic groups. this study demonstrates better survival for gc patients in korea compared with the us as determined by multivariate analysis with a validated gastric cancer nomogram. gastric cancer is prevalent globally, particularly in asian countries such as japan and korea. while the prevalence of gastric cancer is not nearly as high in the united states (u.s.) as in asia, the treatment armamentarium differs widely between regions. while the natural history of gastric cancer seen in the u.s. markedly differs from that seen in asia, the u.s. experience with endoscopic and minimally invasive techniques is beginning to parallel those seen in japan and korea. although the overall incidence of gastric cancer in the united states is decreasing, korean-americans are increasingly at risk of developing this type of cancer. the epidemiology of gastric cancer in the korean population is associated with environmental and genetic factors. gastric cancer is the most highly prevalent cancer among korean americans, occurring at a higher rate than among other asian americans and non-latino whites. 
Do we need imaging to diagnose appendicitis in children? [SEP] this study aimed to determine which children with suspected appendicitis should be considered for a computerized tomography (ct) scan after a non-diagnostic ultrasound (us) in the emergency department (ed). accordingly, advanced imaging with ultrasound (us), computed tomography (ct), and/or magnetic resonance imaging has become routine for most children undergoing diagnostic evaluation for appendicitis. diagnostic imaging is often used in the evaluation of children with possible appendicitis. we previously reported an appendiceal imaging protocol in which children with equivocal clinical presentations for acute appendicitis undergo ultrasonography (us) followed by computed tomography (ct). to define and test selective imaging guidelines to increase diagnostic accuracy and reduce unnecessary testing for children with suspected appendicitis. an integrated clinical-imaging approach, applying clinical scores that are able to predict which children with acute abdominal pain do or do not have a high probability of presenting with appendicitis may improve the effectiveness of the imaging diagnosis of appendicitis at the hospital level. here, we investigate the influence of the duration of pain on the diagnostic accuracy of advanced imaging in children being evaluated for acute appendicitis. this retrospective study investigated the value of medical imaging (ultrasonography and/or computed tomography [ct]) for patients with suspected appendicitis. despite studies advocating routine use of medical imaging for patients with suspected acute appendicitis, this study showed that the clinical evaluation is still paramount to the management of patients with suspected acute appendicitis before considering medical imaging. to evaluate the clinical utility of ultrasonography in appendicitis, the authors analyzed prospectively all children evaluated for possible appendicitis from january 1 through december 31, 1997. 
Discharging patients earlier from Winnipeg hospitals: does it adversely affect quality of care? [SEP] the seven large (125 beds or more) acute care hospitals in winnipeg. all patients designated to be transferred from four winnipeg hospitals between june 1, 1988, and may 31, 1989. length of time waiting for nursing-home placement and relative rates of placement. acute hospital discharge delays are a pressing concern for many health care administrators. in canada, a delayed discharge is defined by the alternate level of care (alc) construct and has been the target of many provincial health care strategies. risk factors for long-stays (more than 30 days) in winnipeg hospitals were identified, including sociodemographic, illness, and system characteristics. the largest determinant of length of stay was discharge destination; discharge to a nursing home increased length of stay by 173% and 89% for medical and surgical patients, respectively. hospital of stay also made a big difference for patients discharged to nursing homes. following the closure of manitoba hospital beds, the manitoba government adopted a strategy of shifting hospital care from more expensive urban hospitals to less expensive rural facilities. readmissions to the original hospital were substantially shorter (mean, 10.4 days [95% ci, 10.3-10.6] versus 11.6 days [95% ci, 11.3-12.0]; adjusted means, 11.0 versus 12.0; p<0.0001) and had lower mortality (14.4% versus 15.0%; adjusted odds ratio, 0.89; 95% ci, 0.82-0.96) than readmissions to different hospitals. 
Does the distribution of health care benefits in Kenya meet the principles of universal coverage? [SEP] the aim of this paper is to assess the extent to which the kenyan health financing system meets the key requirements for universal coverage, including income and risk cross-subsidisation. the kenyan health system is highly inequitable and policies aimed at promoting equity and addressing the needs of the poor and vulnerable have not been successful. data presented in this paper are part of a study that explored feasibility of health insurance in kenya. in 2018, decades of sustained policy efforts to promote equitable, affordable and quality health services have culminated in the launch of a universal health coverage scheme, initially piloted in four kenyan counties and planned for national rollout by 2022. through its focus on increasing affordability of care for all kenyans, the newly launched universal health coverage scheme represents a crucial step towards reducing disparities in health care utilization. in many developing countries such as kenya, changes to health-care financing systems are being implemented as a means of providing equitable access to health care with the aim of attaining universal coverage. further analyses are required to determine the equity of health-care utilization and the effect of proposed reforms on overall equity of the kenyan health-care system. kenya has made progress towards universal health coverage as evidenced in the various policy initiatives and reforms that have been implemented in the country since independence. the purpose of this analysis was to critically review the various initiatives that the government of kenya has over the years initiated towards the realization of universal health care (uhc) and how this has impacted on health equity. this study aimed to assess the extent to which the kenyan health system provides effective and equitable maternal and child health services, as a means of tracking the country's progress towards universal health coverage. 
Cholesterol screening in school children: is family history reliable to choose the ones to screen? [SEP] cholesterol screening for children is recommended currently only for those with a family history of premature coronary heart disease or hyperlipidemia. the authors report on a pediatric-office-based cholesterol screening program where the predictive values of family history indicators were evaluated along with reported television viewing, physical activity, and dietary habits in 1081 children (aged 2 to 20 years, mean 7.4 +/- 3.6 [sd] years). we studied the ability of comprehensive family histories to identify children with hyperlipidemia in a group of 114 children (mean age, 8 +/- 4 years) who were referred for treatment of hypercholesterolemia. a study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of family history factors as screening criteria for childhood hypercholesterolemia. to evaluate a more effective method of identifying children with familial hypercholesterolaemia by screening a population at high risk. the current recommendations for childhood cholesterol screening include screening children in whom 1) a parent/grandparent has premature heart or vascular disease or died suddenly; 2) a parent has an abnormal lipid profile; 3) the family history is unobtainable. the goals were to determine whether family history of heart disease or high cholesterol can predict which children have high cholesterol levels and to examine the feasibility of screening large numbers of elementary school students. to examine the predictive value of family history in detecting children with high blood cholesterol, finger-stick screening was done in 1,118 children ages 9-10 whose parents provided parental and grandparental history of cardiovascular disease events and risk factors. children with family histories of hypercholesterolemia, coronary heart disease, and stroke were advised to have a random cholesterol test. child-parent screening for familial hypercholesterolemia has been proposed to identify persons at high risk for inherited premature cardiovascular disease. 
Bony defects in chronic anterior posttraumatic dislocation of the shoulder: Is there a correlation between humeral and glenoidal lesions? [SEP] we investigated the effects on shoulder stability of both glenoid and humeral defects in the glenohumeral joint. recurrent anteroinferior shoulder dislocations are often associated with bony glenoid and humeral defects. to evaluate the influence of glenoid and humeral bony defects on preoperative shoulder function in recurrent anteroinferior shoulder instability. to evaluate glenoid osteophytes in shoulders with traumatic anterior instability by using computed tomography (ct) and to elucidate the influence of instability on the progression of dislocation arthropathy in different age groups. humeral head bone defects (hill-sachs lesions) are caused by anterior shoulder dislocation with impaction of the posterosuperior humeral head onto the anterior glenoid rim. traumatic anterior glenohumeral joint dislocation is the most common type of shoulder instability. shoulders with recurrent anterior instability often have combined bony defects of the humeral head and glenoid. the aim of this study was to define the relationship of combined humeral head and glenoid defects on anterior shoulder instability. bony defects of the humeral head and glenoid have been associated with high failure rates after arthroscopic stabilization for anterior instability. recurrent shoulder dislocation and anterior instability are most commonly attributed to pathology of the capsulolabral complex with the presence of bony loss at the humeral and glenoid surfaces. 
Do parents recall and understand children's weight status information after BMI screening? [SEP] we investigated whether parents are able to accurately perceive their child's weight status at age 5. as parents of young children are often unaware their child is overweight, screening provides the opportunity to inform parents and provide the impetus for behaviour change. we aimed to determine if parents could recall and understand the information they received about their overweight child after weight screening. the purpose of this study was to examine the presumed mechanisms by which bmi reporting might impact child weight by assessing parents': (1) recall of bmi reports, (2) accuracy in recalling child overweight status, and (3) reactions to bmi reports. results: after 1 year of bmi reporting, parents of children with overweight were less likely [odds ratio (or) = 0.7, 95% confidence interval (ci): 0.5-0.9] to recall receiving a bmi report and less likely (or = 0.2, 95% ci: 0.1-0.3) to accurately recall their child's weight status from the bmi report, compared with parents of children with healthy weight. conclusions: parents' recall of receiving a school-based bmi report is low, as is the accuracy of recall of child's overweight status. we investigated whether parents and health professionals accurately identify children's weight status. in this study, we identify predictors of parental underestimation of child weight status and support for school-based bmi screening and reporting. school-based body mass index (bmi) screenings can help parents make informed decisions about their child's health, but schools have questioned parents' understanding and attitudes about bmi measures and report cards. accurate parental perceptions of their children's underweight status are needed to prevent overlooking potential disordered eating patterns or health conditions affecting growth. 
Does ambulatory process of care predict health-related quality of life outcomes for patients with chronic disease? [SEP] although assessment of the quality of medical care often relies on measures of process of care, the linkage between performance of these process measures during usual clinical care and subsequent patient outcomes is unclear. to examine the link between the quality of care that patients received and their survival. in this study, the functional medicine model of care demonstrated beneficial and sustainable associations with patient-reported hrqol. the aim of the study was to examine the impact of a chronic care model (ccm) on the participant's health-related quality of life (qol). patients with chronic illness use health services more often but little is known about the use that coronary heart disease patients make of primary care. to determine whether the time elapsed and the perceived quality of life following a major acute coronary event are associated with utilization rate of primary care services. health-related quality of life (hrqol) is considered a representative outcome in the evaluation of chronic disease management initiatives emphasizing patient-centered care. we evaluated the association between receipt of processes-of-care (poc) for diabetes and hrqol. interventions to improve care for persons with chronic medical conditions often use quality of life (qol) outcomes. the patient-centered medical home (pcmh) has clinical benefits for chronic disease care, but the association with patient-reported outcomes such as health-related quality of life (hrqol) is unexplored in patients with multimorbidity (two or more chronic diseases). 
Does perspective-taking increase patient satisfaction in medical encounters? [SEP] to clarify the differences in primary care patients' and senior medical students' perceptions of medical students' patient-centred attitude. significant differences between medical students' and patients' perceptions of medical students' patient-centred attitudes suggest the necessity of educational efforts to overcome the gap between the groups. it is a useful tool in the medical encounter as it provides the physician with a fuller, more personalized view of the patient, and it provides the patient with a sense of connectedness to the physician that may allow him/her to more freely express his/her emotional distress. a matter of debate is whether the patient's perception of time spent with the physician improves patient satisfaction. clinical empathy instills a sense of satisfaction in the patient. higher physician self-reported empathy has been associated with higher overall patient satisfaction. overall higher empathy scores were associated with higher patient satisfaction, though minor heterogeneity occurred between different provider characteristics. one hundred twenty-eight advanced cancer patients in an outpatient supportive care center were randomized to complete validated questionnaires about patients' perception of physician's level of compassion, professionalism, impression, and preference of physician for themselves and their family after watching scripted videos depicting a physician delivering an mo versus a less optimistic (lo) message followed by a clinical vignette depicting a worse outcome. the study found that a patient's perception of a physician's compassion did not change after reading a vignette describing a negative clinical outcome, regardless of whether the physician had given a more or a less optimistic message to the patient. recently there has been a growing recognition of the importance of the patient's point of view in assessing the outcomes of medical care. 
Is first-line single-agent mitoxantrone in the treatment of high-risk metastatic breast cancer patients as effective as combination chemotherapy? [SEP] patients with metastatic breast cancer unresponsive to cyclophosphamide-methotrexate-5-fluorouracil with or without tamoxifen were randomized to either mitoxantrone, 12 mg/m2, or doxorubicin, 60 mg/m2, every 3 weeks. mitoxantrone appears to be an effective and well-tolerated agent for breast cancer. recent studies have also shown that combination regimens including mitomycin are effective as initial therapy in advanced breast cancer. to determine whether patients with high-risk metastatic breast cancer draw benefit from combination chemotherapy as first-line treatment. a total of 260 women with measurable metastatic breast cancer fulfilling high-risk criteria, previously untreated with chemotherapy for their metastatic disease, were randomized to receive either mitoxantrone 12 mg/m(2) or the combination of fluorouracil 500 mg/m(2), epirubicin 50 mg/m(2) and cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m(2) (fec) every 3 weeks. no significant difference was detected between the treatment with mitoxantrone as a single agent and the combination of low-dose fec in terms of response or survival; therefore, the imperative of the necessity of first-line combination chemotherapy for patients with high-risk metastatic breast cancer may be questioned. in a previous phase i trial, the authors developed a tandem high-dose combination of two cycles of mitoxantrone and cyclophosphamide for the treatment of patients with metastatic breast carcinoma (mbc) and high-risk breast carcinoma (hrbc). we performed a phase i/ii study of single-agent high-dose mitoxantrone therapy for advanced breast cancer. we conclude that high-dose mitoxantrone therapy for metastatic breast cancer was relatively well tolerated but was not associated with a higher response rate than that of standard dose mitoxantrone. three first-line combination chemotherapy regimens which included mitoxantrone were studied for the treatment of advanced breast cancer. 
Are patients with Werlhof's disease at increased risk for bleeding complications when undergoing cardiac surgery? [SEP] it is generally assumed, that patients with werlhof's disease (wd) are at increased risk for bleeding complications when undergoing cardiac surgery with extracorporeal circulation. patients with wd may possibly undergo cardiac surgery without a markedly enhanced risk for bleeding complications despite a more than usual transfusion requirement and significantly lower platelet counts perioperatively. patients with werlhof's disease and undergoing a cardiac surgical procedure with cardiopulmonary bypass are at increased risk for bleeding complications. between may 1995 and july 1998, 10 patients with werlhof's disease underwent a cardiac surgical procedure with cardiopulmonary bypass in our department. our data demonstrate that immunoglobulin treatment of patients with werlhof's disease and mean platelet counts of less than 80x10(9)/l significantly augments platelet counts preoperatively. postoperative bleeding is a concern for all patients undergoing heart surgery, which could be due to surgical causes or coagulation disorder. postoperative bleeding is common in patients with congenital heart disease (chd). expected and unexpected bleeding occur frequently in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. severe post-operative bleeding in cardiac surgery is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. it is well recognized that excessive bleeding increases the mortality and morbidity rates of any surgical procedure, but patients who undergo heart and lung transplantation, either singly or in combination, have a greater probability of bleeding more frequently and to a greater extent than patients who undergo many other types of surgery. 
Is neck pain associated with worse health-related quality of life 6 months later? [SEP] current evidence suggests that neck pain is negatively associated with health-related quality of life (hrqol). the purpose of this study was to investigate the association between increasing grades of neck pain severity and hrqol 6 months later. the neck pain trajectories over 6 months were no or mild neck pain, improving neck pain, worsening neck pain, and persistent neck pain. compared with participants without neck pain at baseline, those with mild (β=-1.53, 95% confidence interval [ci]=-2.83, -0.24), intense (β=-3.60, 95% ci=-5.76, -1.44), or disabling (β=-8.55, 95% ci=-11.68, -5.42) neck pain had worse physical hrqol 6 months later. a worsening course of neck pain and persistent neck pain were associated with worse physical hrqol. our analysis suggests that neck pain may be a contributor of future poor physical hrqol in the population. chronic neck pain is a common condition associated not only with a decrease in neck muscle strength, but also with decrease in health-related quality of life (hrqol). identify prognostic factors for pain intensity and perceived non-recovery at three, six and 12 months after a first episode of idiopathic, non-traumatic neck pain. for the outcome 'perceived non-recovery' at 12 months, we found moderate evidence for both 'a previous period of neck pain' and 'accompanying headache' as prognostic variables for persistent pain, based on univariate analysis. the aim of this study was to examine the association between grades of neck pain severity and health-related quality of life (hrqol), using a population-based, cross-sectional mailed survey. 
Does oral α-galactosidase relieve irritable bowel symptoms? [SEP] the aim was to evaluate the effect of alpha-galactosidase administration, in a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled protocol, on intestinal gas production and gas-related symptoms after a challenge test meal in healthy volunteers. the administration of 1200 galu of alpha-galactosidase induced a significant reduction of both breath hydrogen excretion and severity of flatulence. alpha-galactosidase reduced gas production following a meal rich in fermentable carbohydrates and may be helpful in patients with gas-related symptoms. our aim was to assess the effects of long-term treatment with a prokinetic agent, cisapride, on postprandial jejunal motility and symptoms in the irritable bowel syndrome (ibs). of the true irritable bowel syndrome patients, all had symptomatic improvement with decreased medication, eight of the nine patients with moderate symptoms improved markedly, and five of the 16 patients with mild symptoms improved significantly. antidepressants are used in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome but it is unclear whether any symptomatic improvement is due solely to correction of an associated affective disorder, or whether these drugs have effects on bowel function which may be of therapeutic benefit. although there is a high prevalence of affective disorder in irritable bowel syndrome clinic patients, these drugs may have additional therapeutic actions on the gut. to evaluate the efficacy of a mixture of beta-glucan, inositol and digestive enzymes in improving gastrointestinal symptoms in patients affected by inflammatory bowel disease (ibd)-irritable bowel syndrome (ibs). we have shown that supplementation with a mixture of beta-glucan, inositol and digestive enzymes reduces bloating, flatulence and abdominal pain, improving the overall clinical condition of ibd-ibs patients. functional gastrointestinal symptoms such as abdominal pain, bloating, distension, constipation, diarrhea and flatulence have been noted in patients with irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) or inflammatory bowel disease (ibd). 
Is there a connection between sublingual varices and hypertension? [SEP] twenty-two patients with untreated varices were examined. sublingual varices have earlier been related to ageing, smoking and cardiovascular disease. the aim of this study was to investigate whether sublingual varices are related to presence of hypertension. digital photographs of the lateral borders of the tongue for grading of sublingual varices were taken, and blood pressure was measured. an association between sublingual varices and hypertension was found (or = 2.25, p < 0.002). mean systolic blood pressure was 123 and 132 mmhg in patients with grade 0 and grade 1 sublingual varices, respectively (p < 0.0001, ci 95 %). mean diastolic blood pressure was 80 and 83 mmhg in patients with grade 0 and grade 1 sublingual varices, respectively (p < 0.005, ci 95 %). sublingual varices indicate hypertension with a positive predictive value of 0.5 and a negative predictive value of 0.80. an association was found between sublingual varices and hypertension. it is concluded that rectal varices are common in extrahepatic portal hypertension. 
Can CT predict the level of CSF block in tuberculous hydrocephalus? [SEP] treatment of obstructive hydrocephalus in children with tuberculous meningitis (tbm) depends on the level of the cerebrospinal fluid (csf) block. the aim of this study was to determine whether communicating and non-communicating hydrocephalus in tbm can be differentiated by means of cranial computerised tomography (ct). a number of ct indices were measured in 50 children with communicating and 34 children with non-communicating hydrocephalus according to air-encephalographic findings. the present study evaluated the incidence, predictive factors and impact of hydrocephalus on overall prognosis of tuberculous meningitis. of 80 patients with tuberculous meningitis, 52(65%) had hydrocephalus at presentation. in 13 patients, with early tuberculous meningitis, there was complete resolution of hydrocephalus. hydrocephalus occurs in approximately two-third of patients with tuberculous meningitis and has an unfavorable impact on the prognosis. hydrocephalus in early stages of tuberculous meningitis may resolve completely. our objective was to determine whether changes in csf parameters are associated with poor neurological outcome in tuberculous meningitis. although computerized cranial tomography (ct) is useful for the diagnosis of hydrocephalus and various fluid-containing intracranial cysts. 
MR arthrography of the shoulder: do we need local anesthesia? [SEP] magnetic resonance arthrography is a well-established diagnostic method in degenerative and traumatic disorders of the shoulder. a patient survey (n = 74) utilizing a visual analog scale (vas) measured the intensity of pain in arthrography injection by those receiving local anesthetics (n = 36) versus those who did not (n = 38). routine use of local anesthesia of the skin in arthrography injection is unnecessary. comparing techniques of general anesthesia and regional anesthesia in arthroscopic shoulder surgery, some studies have shown differences in the intensity of immediate postoperative pain and neuroendocrine response, but the inflammatory response when using balanced general anesthesia (bga) vs. an ultrasound-guided (usg) single-dose interscalene block (sdib) has not been compared. the article reviews the current literature regarding shoulder anesthesia and analgesia. techniques and outcomes are presented that summarize our present understanding of regional anesthesia for the shoulder. we prefer to perform arthroscopy while the patient is under general anaesthesia, as local anaesthetic may result in unnecessary patient discomfort and there can be difficulty in distracting and rotating the humerus. we randomly allocated 30 adults who underwent shoulder arthroscopy under general anaesthesia to ultrasound-guided shoulder block or interscalene block with 20 ml bupivacaine 0.5%. mr arthrography (mra) is commonly used in the assessment of shoulder internal derangements. patients underwent shoulder mra after anterior intra-articular contrast injection under fl- or us-guidance or without image-guidance. 
Does cognitive function predict frequency compressed speech recognition in listeners with normal hearing and normal cognition? [SEP] the aim was to investigate the relationship between cognitive ability and frequency compressed speech recognition in listeners with normal hearing and normal cognition. there was a statistically significant relationship between speech recognition and cognition for the unprocessed condition but not for the frequency-compressed conditions. the relationship between cognitive functioning and recognition of frequency compressed speech-in-noise was not statistically significant. neurocognitive functions, such as working memory capacity, inhibition-concentration, information processing speed, and nonverbal reasoning contribute to aided speech recognition outcomes in adults with hearing loss. in normal-hearing listeners, linguistic and cognitive factors determine most of speech-in-noise performance. the results suggest that poor verbal working-memory capacity and to a lesser extent poor lexical-access ability limit speech-recognition ability in listeners with a ci. cognitive functions contribute to speech recognition outcomes in adults with hearing loss. our findings provide further converging evidence that cognitive factors contribute to speech processing by adult ci users and can help explain variability in outcomes. this study compares performance of 24 young normal-hearing (aged 18-28 years) and 24 elderly (aged 61-85 years) listeners on auditive (sensitivity, frequency selectivity, and temporal resolution), cognitive (memory performance, processing speed, and divided attention ability), and speech perception tests (at the phoneme, spondee, and sentence level). the results show that: (a) in young listeners, individual differences in speech perception performance are remarkably small resulting in low correlations between the tests, while in the elderly tests of phoneme, spondee, and sentence perception overlap considerably; (b) speech perception in the elderly seems to be largely determined by hearing loss at the higher frequencies, whereas the effects of other auditive and cognitive factors seem to be relatively small or absent; and (c) performance in the elderly is only partly correlated with age. 
Should cavitation in proximal surfaces be reported in cone beam computed tomography examination? [SEP] a clinical study was done to assess the clinical diagnostic accuracy of cone beam computed tomography (cbct) in detecting proximal cavitated carious lesions in order to determine whether cavitation should be reported when a cbct examination is available. radiographic assessment recording lesions with or without cavitation was performed by two observers in bitewings and cbct sections. the separator was removed after 3 days and the surfaces recorded as cavitated (yes/no), i.e. cbct was more accurate in detecting cavitation in proximal surfaces than bitewing radiographs; therefore a cbct examination performed for other clinical applications should also be assessed for proximal surface cavities in teeth without restorations, and when detected, this pathology must be part of the dentist's report. the development of a method for probing cavitation, irrespective of its location in tissues, would improve the efficiency and application of ultrasound in the clinic. cavitation was not observed by pci, however it was detectable with abi. acoustic cavitation was imaged at six different acoustic power levels and six different locations through the acoustic beam in water at a fixed power level. the present study presents a test protocol for the assessment of cavitation generated by different replacement valves under simulated physiologic conditions. to report the use of cone beam computed tomography in the assessment of external cervical resorption lesions. cone beam computed tomography can be a useful diagnostic tool in the management of external cervical resorption lesions. 
Do supervised colorectal trainees differ from consultants in terms of quality of TME surgery? [SEP] this study aimed to compare operative and oncological outcomes between trainees undergoing a mentored training programme and a consultant trainer. the distribution of colorectal operative surgical workloads between consultants and trainees was examined over a 15-year period in the colorectal service at the wellington school of medicine. anorectal surgery, except fistula surgery, was more commonly performed by trainees, whereas abdominal colorectal surgery was more commonly performed by consultants. outcomes for 150 patients operated on by a single colorectal surgeon at a private hospital were compared with those of 344 patients admitted under the same surgeon and operated on by closely supervised trainee surgeons in a public teaching hospital between 1995 and 2002. outcomes after resection for colorectal cancer did not differ between the consultant and trainees in the context of a closely supervised training programme. we sought to determine whether unobserved supervisor performance influences the quality of colonoscopy performed by trainees, by studying how supervisors perform alone and how trainees perform while under those same supervisors. the primary outcomes were the wt and adr of trainees performing colonoscopies under supervision. outcomes were compared in the two cohorts by a principal surgeon (senior resident or staff) and supervised in all cases by a senior colorectal consultant. based on a cross-sectional design analysis with a median follow-up of 96 months (range, 12-216 months), long-term outcomes for 111 patients operated on by consultants were compared with those of 42 patients operated on by supervised trainees in an academic teaching hospital between 1987 and 2002. this review and meta-analysis supports evidence that trainees can obtain similar clinical results like expert surgeons in laparoscopic colorectal surgery if supervised by an experienced trainer. 
Affect-regulated exercise intensity: does training at an intensity that feels 'good' improve physical health? [SEP] affect-regulated exercise to feel 'good' can be used to control exercise intensity amongst both active and sedentary individuals and should support exercise adherence. it is not known, however, whether affect-regulated exercise training can lead to physical health gains. the aim of this study was to examine if affect-regulated exercise to feel 'good' leads to improved fitness over the course of an 8-week training programme. exercise intensity was affect-regulated to feel 'good'. affect-regulated exercise to feel 'good' can be used in a training programme to regulate exercise intensity. we believe that the extended duration of our exercise training program was the key factor in allowing subjects to reach a new steady-state level of physical activity within their daily lives. exercise training regimes can lead to improvements in measures of cardiorespiratory fitness (crf), improved general health, and reduced morbidity and overall mortality risk. a growing body of evidence suggests that exercise training with low-volume but high-intensity may be a time-efficient means to achieve health benefits. we hypothesised that compared to high-intensity resistance exercise, relatively low training intensity could also improve in vivo markers of healthy physiologic and endocrine functions in previously sedentary older individuals. preference for and tolerance of high-intensity exercise are associated with enjoyment of and adherence to hift. 
Do socioeconomic differences in mortality persist after retirement? [SEP] this review aims at identifying gaps in knowledge on socioeconomic gradients in mortality in the oldest old. the authors review literature on oldest old population with a focus on unanswered questions: do socioeconomic status (ses) gradients in mortality persist after 80; does the magnitude of the gradient change as compared with younger populations; which socioeconomic/socio-demographic determinants should be used in this population with specific characteristics (e.g., with respect to sex ratio and household type)? we investigated trends in absolute and relative educational inequalities in old age mortality in norway between 1961 and 2009. socioeconomic inequalities in mortality are well-known in middle-aged and younger old adults, but the situation of the oldest old is less clear. the aim of this study was to investigate socioeconomic inequalities for all-cause, cardiovascular and dementia mortality among the people aged 90 or older. socioeconomic inequalities persist in mortality for 90+-year-olds, but their magnitude varies depending on the cause of death and the indicator of socioeconomic status. the effect of socio-economic disadvantage on mortality is well documented and differences exist even at older ages. in this prospective study we examine differences in dfle and total life expectancy (tle) at older ages using a range of measures of socio-economic advantage. we aimed to examine the association between retirement age and mortality among healthy and unhealthy retirees and to investigate whether sociodemographic factors modified this association. there are striking socioeconomic differences in life expectancy, but less is known about inequalities in healthy life expectancy and disease-free life expectancy. 
Women with synchronous primary cancers of the endometrium and ovary: do they have Lynch syndrome? [SEP] women with lynch syndrome have an additional need to address the substantial increased lifetime risk of endometrial and ovarian cancer. endometrial or ovarian cancer can be the presenting cancer in individuals with lynch syndrome, or can be a second cancer. lynch syndrome-associated endometrial cancers are primarily endometrioid, although non-endometrioid subtypes including clear cell, papillary serous and mmmt have been reported. the goal of this study was to evaluate the outcome of patients with lynch syndrome diagnosed with non-endometrioid endometrial cancer. data from consecutive patients diagnosed with lynch syndrome and with a histological diagnosis of non-endometrioid endometrial cancer were retrospectively collected in two referral institutes in italy. non-endometrioid endometrial cancer occurring in patients with lynch syndrome might be associated with improved oncologic outcomes compared with controls. ovarian cancers associated with lynch syndrome are predominantly clear cell or endometrioid in histology. women with lynch syndrome (ls) are at increased risk for endometrial (ec) and ovarian carcinoma (oc). in addition, women with lynch syndrome have a substantially increased risk of developing endometrial cancer particularly pre-menopausally when symptom detection is more difficult. lynch syndrome, a hereditary cancer syndrome, predisposes women to colorectal, endometrial, and ovarian cancer. 
Can emergency physicians accurately and reliably assess acute vertigo in the emergency department? [SEP] to validate a clinical diagnostic tool, used by emergency physicians (eps), to diagnose the central cause of patients presenting with vertigo, and to determine interrater reliability of this tool. a convenience sample of adult patients presenting to a single academic ed with isolated vertigo (i.e. the present study sought to assess practice patterns in the assessment of patients in the ed with peripherally-originating vertigo with respect to utilization of hints and neuroimaging. vertigo is a common cause of emergency department attendance. vertigo/dizziness is a common reason for emergency department (ed) visits. emergency physicians (eps) must distinguish patients with dizziness/vertigo owing to serious central nervous system (cns) disorders. physicians find acute vertigo a diagnostic challenge. recent evidence highlights the difficulty that acute vertigo may sometimes pose to the clinician. recent findings have not made the assessment of acute vertigo any easier for the nonspecialist. faced with an acutely dizzy patient, the frontline physician must determine whether or not the symptoms are vestibular in origin and, if they are, which vestibular disorder they best fit. 
Orthostatic myoclonus: an underrecognized cause of unsteadiness? [SEP] orthostatic unsteadiness (unsteadiness on standing) is a relatively common symptom and can have neurological or non-neurological causes. have recently described a syndrome presenting with unsteadiness or leg jerking during standing or gait initiation difficulty which they have termed orthostatic myoclonus (om). orthostatic tremor is a rare condition, though its exact prevalence is unknown, which is clinically characterized by a feeling of unsteadiness or being about to fall on standing and which disappears on walking, sitting, or lying down. orthostatic myoclonus (om) is a recognized syndrome of gait unsteadiness accompanied by lower limb myoclonus provoked by the assumption of an upright posture. orthostatic tremor (ot) is a rare disorder characterized by tremor and a feeling of unsteadiness while standing that resolve upon walking or sitting. recently, orthostatic myoclonus (om) has been suggested as a cause of gait impairment and unsteadiness in neurodegenerative diseases. the aim of this study was to investigate the frequency of orthostatic myoclonus, its clinical characteristics and the underlying associated neurological disorders. a retrospective analysis of clinical data and electromyogram surface recordings from subjects with unexplained unsteadiness/gait impairment was performed. orthostatic myoclonus is often underdiagnosed and can be considered a possible cause of unsteadiness in subjects with neurodegenerative diseases. orthostatic tremor (ot) is a movement disorder characterized by a sensation of unsteadiness and tremors in the 13-18 hz range present upon standing. 
Is the cell death in mesial temporal sclerosis apoptotic? [SEP] mesial temporal sclerosis (mts) is characterized by neuronal loss in the hippocampus. studies on experimental models and patients with intractable epilepsy suggest that apoptosis may be involved in neuronal death induced by recurrent seizures. we searched evidence for apoptotic cell death in temporal lobes resected from drug-resistant epilepsy patients with mts by using the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (tdt) and digoxigenin-11-dutp (tunel) method and immunohistochemistry for bcl-2, bax, and caspase-cleaved actin fragment, fractin. these data suggest that either apoptosis is not involved in cell loss in mts, or a very slow rate of cell demise may have precluded detecting tunel-positive neurons dying through apoptosis. therefore temporal hypometabolism has been suggested to reflect mesial temporal sclerosis (mts). mesial temporal sclerosis, otherwise known as hippocampal sclerosis, is the most common entity associated with medically intractable temporal lobe epilepsy. we present a 44-year-old man with a history of intractable partial complex seizures secondary to right-sided mesial temporal sclerosis and discuss the magnetic resonance imaging findings utilizing a high resolution technique. controversy exists regarding the pathogenetic relationship of mesial temporal sclerosis (mts) to epileptogenesis. the present autopsy-based study attempts to clarify the etiologic relationship between mesial temporal sclerosis and epilepsy. mesial temporal sclerosis (mts) is the most common lesion in chronic, intractable temporal lobe epilepsies (tle) and characterized by segmental neuronal cell loss in major hippocampal segments. 
Contrast-enhanced MR imaging of hand and finger joints in patients with early rheumatoid arthritis: do we really need a full dose of gadobenate dimeglumine for assessing synovial enhancement at 3 T? [SEP] to investigate the diagnostic value of a half dose compared with a full dose of gadobenate dimeglumine in the assessment of synovitis or tenosynovitis in the wrist and finger joints in patients with early rheumatoid arthritis (ra) and a disease activity score greater than 3.2. therefore, half-dose gadobenate dimeglumine at 3-t mr imaging may be sufficient for assessing synovitis or tenosynovitis in early ra. to explore whether synovitis and bone lesions in the wrists and finger joints visualized by plain magnetic resonance imaging (mri)-based findings correspond exactly or not to those judged by gadolinium-diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (gd-dtpa)-enhanced mri-based findings. magnetic resonance imaging of the wrists and finger joints of both hands were examined in 51 early-stage rheumatoid arthritis (ra) patients whose median disease duration from the onset of articular manifestations to entry was 5 months, by both plain (t1 and short-time inversion recovery images) and gd-dtpa-enhanced mri (post-contrast fat-suppressed t1-weighted images) simultaneously. the usefulness of gadolinium (gd)-dtpa enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (mri) of the wrist joint for predicting articular destruction was investigated in 49 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (ra). contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging with maximum intensity projection (mri-mip) is an easy, useful imaging method to evaluate synovitis in rheumatoid hands. early mr diagnosis of inflammatory rheumatic joint disease relies on the detection of the proliferating synovium. this presentation discusses the role of contrast-enhanced mri in the assessment of inflammatory rheumatic joint disease. to examine the relation between rate of synovial membrane enhancement, intra-articular pressure (iap), and histologically determined synovial vascularity in rheumatoid arthritis, using gadolinium-dtpa enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (mri). the optimal time interval for volume assessment of synovial hypertrophy after injection of gadolinium contrast agent is dose dependent. 
Does laparoscopic cholecystectomy influence peri-sinusoidal cell activity? [SEP] in animal studies cholecystectomy has been found to alter the normal effect of cholecystokinin (cck) on sphincter of oddi (so) function. we therefore investigated the effect of laparoscopic cholecystectomy on so motility before and after infusion with cck. a prospective study of so motility, under basal conditions and during cck (ceruletide) infusion, was carried out in eight women with uncomplicated gallstone disease, before and after laparoscopic cholecystectomy. laparoscopic cholecystectomy increased common bile duct pressure (p = 0.01) and decreased the frequency of phasic contractions (p=0.05). following laparoscopic cholecystectomy an indisputable inhibitory effect of cck in the so was found. laparoscopic cholecystectomy (lc) is routinely done for symptomatic gallstone disease; however, its role in relieving dyspeptic symptoms in cholelithiasis is controversial. subjects were 25 consecutive patients who underwent cholecystcholangiography during laparoscopic cholecystectomy. based upon the results of this study we believe that cholecystcholangiography is the technique of choice for intraoperative cholangiography during laparoscopic cholecystectomy. laparoscopic cholecystectomy is a surgical treatment for acute cholecystitis or symptomatic cholelithiasis. twenty-one patients underwent silc and 49 patients underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy (lc). 
Does case-mix based reimbursement stimulate the development of process-oriented care delivery? [SEP] reimbursement based on the total care of a patient during an acute episode of illness is believed to stimulate management and clinicians to reduce quality problems like waiting times and poor coordination of care delivery. although many studies already show that this kind of case-mix based reimbursement leads to more efficiency, it remains unclear whether care coordination improved as well. this study aims to explore whether case-mix based reimbursement stimulates development of care coordination by the use of care programmes, and a process-oriented way of working. sem reveals that adoption of the case-mix reimbursement within hospitals' budgeting processes stimulates hospitals to establish care programmes by the use of process-oriented performance measures. this study demonstrates that hospital management can stimulate the development of care programmes by the adoption of case-mix reimbursement within hospitals' budgeting processes. increasing clinical demand for medical services in an environment of limited financial resources to reimburse for such services has lead to the evolution of case management processes. a case management process that focuses on medical necessity and seeks flexibility from patients, physicians, providers, and payors can help to maintain appropriate high-quality care with costs that, over time, deliver value to all participants in the process. although the trend toward case-mix reimbursement is a step in the right direction, it is an inadequate means of enhancing the quality of long-term care and optimizing cost-effectiveness. as healthcare reimbursement shifts from being volume to value-focused, new delivery models aim to coordinate care and improve quality. a case-mix management system relies on the skills of physicians, nurses, and financial managers to devise cost effective treatment plans and product line initiatives. 
Risky sexual behavior among college students With ADHD: is the mother-child relationship protective? [SEP] adhd is marked by an apparent contradiction in social relationships: those with the disorder have more difficulty establishing close relationships but report increased rates of risky sexual behavior. two studies examined the relationship between adhd symptomatology and fear of intimacy, sexual anxiety, and sexual behavior in college students. adhd symptomatology, particularly inattention, was related to multiple aspects of risky sexual behavior. as such, the current study examined protective factors (i.e., maternal relationship quality and religiosity) and risk factors (i.e., child sexual abuse, parent substance misuse, and risky behaviors) for coercive sexual assault and total sexual assault and whether they vary by sexual orientation among college women. using multiple group structural equation modeling with data from 7399 participants at wave i and wave iii of the national longitudinal study of adolescent to adult health (add health), we examined whether and how residential fathers' parenting relates to their children's sexual risk behavior independent of mothers' parenting processes, and whether these associations differ across children's sex and for children of teen and older mothers. prior studies have established that attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (adhd) is associated with risky sexual behavior, but it remains unknown whether individuals with adhd also are more likely to become parents while being teenagers. therefore, the main aim of this study was to investigate whether individuals with adhd would be more likely to become teenage parents compared with individuals without adhd. the association between adhd (n = 27,479 cases) and parenthood (first child) in age intervals of 12 to 16, 17 to 19, 20 to 24, 25 to 29, 30 to 34, 35 to 39, and 40 years and above was investigated by poisson regression and expressed as incidence rate ratios (irrs) with accompanying 95% cis. compared with individuals without adhd, those with adhd were significantly more likely to become parents at 12 to 16 years of age (irr for females 3.62, 95% ci 2.14-6.13; irr for males 2.30, 95% ci 1.27-4.17) and at 17 to 19 years of age (irr for females 1.94, 95% ci 1.62-2.33; irr for males 2.27, 95% ci 1.90-2.70). individuals with adhd are significantly more likely to become teenage parents compared with individuals without adhd. 
Rotator cuff tear--an occupational disease? [SEP] the rotator cuff frequently sustains athletic and occupational injury, often resulting in chronic pain and disability. the rotator cuff tear is one of the most frequent musculoskeletal disorders, but the real incidence is not clearly known because it's usually asymptomatic, even if it's more common in patients with shoulder pain (36%). rotator cuff disease is a common disorder leading to shoulder pain and loss of function. rotator cuff tears are the most common injury seen by shoulder surgeons. glenohumeral osteoarthritis develops in many late-stage rotator cuff tear patients as a result of torn cuff tendons, termed "cuff tear arthropathy." rotator cuff tear secondary to chronic synovitis eroding the rotator cuff tendon is a complication of rheumatoid arthritis that has received little attention. rotator cuff tear is a very common and disabling condition that can be related to acute trauma. rotator cuff (rtc) tears are a common clinical problem resulting in adverse changes to the muscle, but there is limited information comparing histopathology to contractile function. rotator cuff tear is a muscle-tendinous injury representative of various musculoskeletal disorders. rotator cuff tear is a common musculoskeletal disease that often requires surgical repair. 
Is there a need for pelvic CT scan in cases of renal cell carcinoma? [SEP] to determine the necessity of pelvic computed tomography (ct) in patients of renal cell carcinoma (rcc). in all patients, tumour was identified in the kidney on preoperative ct scan. pelvic ct does not offer additional information in the vast majority of cases with rcc and should be performed selectively. the goal of this study was to determine the yield and cost-effectiveness of pelvic ct in staging renal cell carcinoma. the records of 119 patients who underwent preoperative ct of the abdomen and pelvis during a 6-year interval and then underwent partial or radical nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma were reviewed for ct findings and pathologic stage. ct of the pelvis has a negligible yield in the staging of renal cell carcinoma and should not be routinely performed. preoperative computed tomography or magnetic resonance (mr) imaging are commonly used for radiological evaluation of renal cell carcinoma (rcc) before radical nephrectomy or nephron sparing surgery(nss). the royal college of radiologists (rcr) recommend ct of the kidneys, ureters and bladder (ctkub) as the first-line investigation for renal colic, stating that excess scan length above the upper pole of the highest kidney should not exceed 10% of the total scan length. a non-contrast ct scan with hu fewer than 20 may not be an adequate evaluation for incidental renal masses, as over 1 in 5 prccs demonstrate lower attenuation than this cutoff. in a prospective study, a total of 76 consecutive patients with suspected renal cell carcinoma were preoperatively assessed for tumor staging using multidetector-row ct. triphasic ct imaging (i.e., noncontrast, arterial, and parenchymal phase) was performed using multidetector-row ct with reconstructed slice thicknesses of 2 and 5 mm. 
Prognostic factors for cervical spondylotic amyotrophy: are signs of spinal cord involvement associated with the neurological prognosis? [SEP] retrospective clinical analyses of patients with cervical spondylotic amyotrophy (csa). this article reviews the current evaluation and treatment of patients with myelopathy due to cervical spondylotic disease and other structural disorders of the spine. cervical spondylosis is associated with myelopathy and radiculopathy, which sometimes mimic clinical manifestations of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als), a fatal neurodegenerative disorder that affects upper and lower motor neurons. we investigated 63 patients with als to clarify the complications of cervical spondylosis and other spinal disorders and to explore the history of surgical treatment for them. our results indicate that nearly half of all als patients have their disease complicated by cervical spondylosis, and that a careful differential diagnosis for als is necessary before making decisions about spinal surgery. intramedullary signal intensity changes on magnetic resonance imaging (mri) in cervical spondylotic myelopathy are thought to be indicative of the prognosis. to determine the radiographic and clinical factors that correlate with the prognosis after surgery in patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy and to investigate the factors affecting the outcome of intramedullary signal changes on mri. a prospective study evaluating clinical parameters and mri in consecutive patients operated on for cervical spondylotic myelopathy. the presence of intramedullary signal changes on t1- as well as t2-weighted sequences on mri in patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy indicates a poor prognosis. distal-type cervical spondylotic amyotrophy (csa) is a rare form of cervical spondylotic myelopathy (csm). 
Parasacral sciatic nerve block: does the elicited motor response predict the success rate? [SEP] this prospective, randomized, single-blinded study compared the success rate of the sciatic nerve block using this approach when one or both major components of this nerve (i.e., tibial nerve and common peroneal nerves) are stimulated in 50 patients undergoing foot or ankle surgery. we conclude that a two-stimulation technique provides a better success rate than a single-injection technique when a popliteal sciatic nerve block is performed using the lateral approach with 20 ml of local anesthetic. incomplete sensory blockade of the foot after sciatic nerve block in the popliteal fossa may be related to the motor response that was elicited when the block was performed. we investigated the appropriate motor response when a nerve stimulator is used in sciatic nerve block at the popliteal fossa. six volunteers classified as american society of anesthesiologists' physical status i underwent 24 sciatic nerve blocks. the objective of this study is to determine the sensitivity of paresthesia and motor response to electrical nerve stimulation as tools for nerve localization when a 22-gauge insulated needle is used for the performance of axillary-nerve block. we retrospectively compared the effects of the two types of motor response and those of minimal evoked current above and below 0.5 ma on ultrasound-guided subgluteal sciatic nerve block using mepivacaine or ropivacaine, two local anesthetics with different onset time and duration. the primary endpoints were the onset and duration of blockade of the sciatic nerve block. when ultrasound-guided subgluteal sciatic nerve block was conducted with nerve stimulation, the motor response pattern did not markedly affect the progress of sensory or motor blockade or block duration. the ability of parasacral sciatic nerve block to provide consistent obturator nerve and perineal blockade remains undetermined. 
Is Bare-Metal Stent Implantation Still Justifiable in High Bleeding Risk Patients Undergoing Percutaneous Coronary Intervention? [SEP] bare stents reduce acute complications and repeat revascularization following percutaneous coronary intervention (pci), but are costly and may lead to in-stent restenosis. to avoid prolonged dual antiplatelet therapy (dapt), current guidelines recommend using a bare metal stent when pci is indicated to treat patients at high risk of bleeding. a total of 2456 patients considered at high risk of bleeding will be randomized in a double-blind fashion to the biofreedom drug-coated stent or to a control arm (gazelle bare metal stent). we discuss the actual evidence-based knowledge for the percutaneous management of this lesion subset, focusing on the devices that are actually considered the gold standard for this treatment: bare-metal stents and distal protection devices. bare-metal stent (bms) use in patients with st-elevation myocardial infarction (stemi) undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention (pci) has been associated with higher rates of adverse cardiac events, including target lesion and target vessel revascularization. bare stent implantation in the treatment for native and recurrent coarctation of the aorta (coa) has become established as an alternative to surgery and balloon angioplasty. percutaneous coronary intervention (pci) with bare metal stent (bms) was performed on patients for whom coronary artery bypass grafting was a high risk or those selected by lesion anatomy such as large simple ostial or body lesion. the hypothesis of the debut trial was that percutaneous coronary intervention with drug-coated balloons is non-inferior to percutaneous coronary intervention with bare-metal stents for this population. at 9 months, major adverse cardiac events had occurred in one patient (1%) in the drug-coated balloon group and in 15 patients (14%) in the bare-metal stent group (absolute risk difference -13·2 percentage points [95% ci -6·2 to -21·1], risk ratio 0·07 [95% ci 0·01 to 0·52]; p<0·00001 for non-inferiority and p=0·00034 for superiority). percutaneous coronary intervention with drug-coated balloon was superior to bare-metal stents in patients at bleeding risk. 
Ovarian torsion in children: is oophorectomy necessary? [SEP] most pediatric surgeons perform oophorectomy in girls presenting with ovarian torsion in which the ovary appears necrotic. all children with ovarian torsion on the gynecology and general surgery services between 1988 and 2002 were reviewed. children with an ovarian torsion who were treated in our department from 1997 to 2016 were studied retrospectively. oopherectomy is the most common procedure performed by pediatric general surgeons for ovarian torsion. the purpose of this systematic review by the american pediatric surgical association outcomes and evidence based practice committee was to examine evidence from the medical literature and provide recommendations regarding the optimal treatment of ovarian torsion. there appears to be overwhelming evidence supporting ovarian detorsion rather than oopherectomy for the management of ovarian torsion in pediatric patients. preservation of the ovary in children with torsion is justified in terms of future ovarian reserve. children and adolescents who have suffered from ovarian torsion may be at risk for asynchronous torsion of the contralateral ovary. pelvic pain in a young girl has always raised the clinical suspect of an ovarian torsion; the possibility of asynchronous bilateral ovarian torsion is rare, but it is described in the literature and has catastrophic consequences; this condition has to be known and treated in the proper way by pediatric surgeons as well as by gynecologists in order to maximize the future fertility of the young patients. ovarian torsion in children is an uncommon cause of acute abdominal pain but mandates early surgical management to prevent further adnexal damage. 
Does minimal access major surgery in the newborn hurt less? [SEP] due to smaller incisions, fewer wound injuries, and a shorter time of recovery, laparoscopic procedures are becoming increasingly popular in pediatric surgery, but the safety of their application in low-body-weight or premature infants should be a major concern. the advantages of shorter operating time, avoidance of intubation, and shorter hospital stay have made this the gold standard for premature and other high-risk infants requiring minor procedures. minimal access surgery (mas) is gaining ground on the classical open approach by laparotomy or thoracotomy as it minimizes damage to the abdominal or thoracic wall. the advent of minimally invasive surgical techniques in the neonate has been delayed due to the limited working space and the unique physiology of the newborn. this review focuses on recent developments in minimally invasive surgery in neonates and the evidence for its use. due to their small size, neonates have not benefited from the advances in endoscopic surgery as rapidly as their adult counterparts. this article reviews these new developments and discusses the potential for even further improvements in neonatal surgery in the future. this was because of their small size and distinct physiological characteristics, neonates were not operated on using minimally invasive surgery until recently. advantages of minimally invasive surgery seen in older children and adults, such as shortened hospital stay and less pain, also apply to neonates. there is no doubt that minimally invasive surgery for neonates is still in its infancy, and for many neonatal conditions requiring surgery, the benefits of minimally invasive surgery need to be established with well-designed studies. 
Does aerobic fitness influence microvascular function in healthy adults at risk of developing Type 2 diabetes? [SEP] examining participants who had fitness measured from young adulthood to middle age, we found that fitness was associated with lower risk for developing prediabetes/diabetes, even when adjusting for bmi over this time period. to investigate whether aerobic fitness is associated with skin microvascular function in healthy adults with an increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes. however, in the 'at-risk' group alone, individuals with higher levels of aerobic fitness also had better microvascular and endothelial responsiveness. to determine whether cardiorespiratory fitness, an objective marker of physical activity, is associated with risk for impaired fasting glucose and type 2 diabetes. low cardiorespiratory fitness was associated with increased risk for impaired fasting glucose and type 2 diabetes. aerobic exercise improves vascular endothelial function in people with type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm). low cardiovascular fitness is an independent risk factor for type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease in adults. questions remain as to whether higher levels of cardiorespiratory fitness, a measure of regular physical activity, are associated with lower risk of cardiovascular disease (cvd) mortality in overweight and obese individuals with diabetes. we have therefore assessed the effects of a twice-weekly moderate, aerobic exercise programme, without a concomitant weight loss diet, on plasma inflammatory and endothelial dysfunction biomarkers in older type 2 diabetic patients. the present study investigates the effect of regular aerobic exercise on arterial stiffness after glucose ingestion in young males. 
Are high flow nasal cannulae noisier than bubble CPAP for preterm infants? [SEP] the use of high-flow nasal cannulae is an increasingly popular alternative to nasal continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) for noninvasive respiratory support of very preterm infants (gestational age, <32 weeks) after extubation. in this multicenter, randomized, noninferiority trial, we assigned 303 very preterm infants to receive treatment with either high-flow nasal cannulae (5 to 6 liters per minute) or nasal cpap (7 cm of water) after extubation. the use of high-flow nasal cannulae was noninferior to the use of nasal cpap, with treatment failure occurring in 52 of 152 infants (34.2%) in the nasal-cannulae group and in 39 of 151 infants (25.8%) in the cpap group (risk difference, 8.4 percentage points; 95% confidence interval, -1.9 to 18.7). although the result for the primary outcome was close to the margin of noninferiority, the efficacy of high-flow nasal cannulae was similar to that of cpap as respiratory support for very preterm infants after extubation. high-flow nasal cannulae (hfnc) are increasingly used for respiratory management of preterm infants. we compared the effect of hfnc versus nasal cpap on diaphragm electrical activity (eadi) in preterm infants. preterm infants ≤1500 g were randomised in a crossover design to receive 2 hours of either infant flow(®) cpap (if-cpap) at 5-6 cmh2 o or hfnc with the flow rate adjusted to achieve an equivalent pharyngeal pressure. in this cohort of preterm infants, the majority exhibited greater diaphragm activation, as assessed by neural breathing patterns, when supported with hfnc than if-cpap, suggesting that nasal cpap may provide more effective respiratory support. heated, humidified, high-flow nasal cannula (hhhfnc) is increasingly being used, but there is a paucity of evidence as to the optimum flow rates in prematurely born infants. recently, heated humidified high-flow nasal cannula (hhhfnc) has been introduced and applied as a noninvasive respiratory support in neonates. 
Nutritional assessment of gluten-free diet. Is gluten-free diet deficient in some nutrient? [SEP] elimination of gluten from the diet may be associated with nutritional imbalance; however, the completeness of this diet in energy and macro- and micronutrients in children is not well described. understanding the nutritional adequacy of the gluten-free diet in children during this critical period of growth and development when dietary intake is strongly influential is important. nutritional inadequacies may be risks of a gluten-free diet in a paediatric population. several studies have reported nutritional deficiencies in individuals on a gluten-free diet. the present study aimed to determine whether the nutritional profile of gluten-free diet could be improved through the use of alternative grains. moreover, an inadequate macronutrient intake was reported related above all to the focus on the avoidance of gluten that often leaving back the importance of nutritional quality of the choice. despite the gf-diet is necessary in celiac disease treatment and the attention is on gluten avoidance, the evaluation of nutritional quality of the diet must be considered. the gluten-free diet is essential in celiac disease, although it is increasingly used for other perceived health benefits for which an analysis of perceived benefit should be weighed against any nutritional risks. we aim to review the literature on the gfd, the gluten content in naturally gluten-free (gf) and commercially available gf food, standards and legislation concerning the gluten content of foods, and the vitamins and mineral content of a gfd. numerous studies indicate mineral deficiencies in people on a gluten-free (gf) diet. 
Standardizing care in medical oncology: are Web-based systems the answer? [SEP] despite the prolific use of electronic support systems there has been relatively little research on the uptake of web-based systems in the oncology setting. our objective was to examine the uptake of a web-based oncology protocol system (http://www.eviq.org.au) by australian cancer clinicians. web-based patient information systems are an emerging tool in the drive towards improving efficiency and effectiveness of health care. the purpose of this study was to demonstrate the feasibility of using the world wide web to communicate critical radiology quality and performance metrics to departmental and hospital management staff. we compared the quality of common malignancy web sites to assess them for language or disease differences and to perform a quality comparison between medical and layperson terminology. our aim was to compare in regular care the effects of (1) an internet-based patient provider communication service (ippc), (2) webchoice, a web-based illness management system for breast cancer patients (ippc included), and (3) usual care on symptom distress, anxiety, depression, (primary outcomes), and self-efficacy (secondary outcome). in spite of practice variations and moderate use of the interventions, our results suggest that offering web support as part of regular care can be a powerful tool to help patients manage their illness. efforts to improve cancer care quality should focus on more seamless integration of ehrs into routine care delivery and emphasize increasing the capacity of all care clinicians to communicate effectively and coordinate efforts when administering high-risk treatments in ambulatory settings. widespread integration of the internet has resulted in an increase in the feasibility of using web-based technologies as a means of communicating with patients. it may be possible to develop secure and standardized systems that facilitate internet-based patient-reported outcomes which could be used to improve patient care. 
Antiretroviral therapy related adverse effects: Can sub-Saharan Africa cope with the new "test and treat" policy of the World Health Organization? [SEP] art in the developing world has moved to a new era with the who recommendation to test and immediately treat hiv-positive individuals. a high frequency of pretreatment hiv drug resistance (pdr) can compromise art efficacy. there is concern over increasing prevalence of non-nucleoside reverse-transcriptase inhibitor (nnrti) resistance in people initiating antiretroviral therapy (art) in low-income and middle-income countries. we assessed the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of alternative public health responses in countries in sub-saharan africa where the prevalence of pretreatment drug resistance to nnrtis is high. single witness: the current development of guidelines for antiretroviral therapy in resource-limited settings raised the issues of the possible use of drug resistance testing (drt) in middle- and low-income countries, especially in the context of prevention of mother-to-child transmission (mtct) programmes. although resource limitation make it clear that drt cannot be recommended as an essential part of clinical management of hiv-infected pregnant women in africa, it is important to monitor the prevalence and incidence of drug resistance on a population basis as art is scaled up worldwide and programmes for the prevention of mtct will be implemented. detection of tdr may predict virologic failure of first-line nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (nnrti)-based antiretroviral therapy (art). increased global access and use of antiretroviral therapy (art) for human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) has been postulated to undermine hiv prevention efforts by changing individual risk-taking behavior. antiretroviral therapy (art) has changed the outlook of human immune-deficiency virus (hiv)/acquired immuno deficiency syndrome (aids) patients worldwide. as antiretroviral therapy (art) is becoming increasingly available to people in developing countries, art adherence challenges assume ever greater significance. 
Are the elderly with oropharyngeal carcinoma undertreated? [SEP] to determine if elderly patients with oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (opscc) are receiving less treatment and to evaluate the benefit of aggressive therapy in this population. elderly patients with hpv+ oropharyngeal cancer (opc) represent an understudied cohort of the hpv epidemic. elderly patients with head and neck cancer often receive non-standard treatment for reasons other than comorbidity. seventy patients aged 45-60 years and 51 patients aged > or = 70 years with cancer of the oral cavity, pharynx (stage ii-iv) or larynx (stage iii-iv) participated in the study before treatment and 1 year later. this study shows that the impact of treatment on quality of life did not differ between elderly and younger patients with head and neck cancer. data regarding cancer treatment in older patients is limited because the elderly have been under-represented in clinical trials. in this review, we have shown that elderly patients with esophageal cancer have various alternatives for adequate treatment. purpose: the reported data of elderly escc are rather limited and there is a lack of information to guide treatment decisions for elderly patients with esophageal cancer. elderly patients with ovarian carcinoma have a poorer prognosis compared with their younger counterpart, and this depends in most cases on undertreatment. the aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of advanced age in combination with nt in esophageal carcinoma patients who underwent an esophagectomy. 
Preoperative staging of patients with liver metastases of colorectal carcinoma. Does PET/CT really add something to multidetector CT? [SEP] the aim of this study was to evaluate the influence of flurodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography computed tomography (fdg pet-ct), as an adjunct to conventional ct staging, in the detection of extrahepatic disease in patients with potentially resectable colorectal liver metastasis. this study has shown similar results to other recent studies and supports the use of pet-ct as a necessary staging modality in patients with potentially resectable colorectal liver metastases. pet-computed tomography (pet-ct) is a useful staging imaging modality in colorectal liver metastases (crlm). we compared the impact of pet/pet-ct with conventional imaging, versus conventional imaging alone, in patients with potentially resectable colorectal cancer liver metastases. moderate-quality evidence suggests that preoperative pet/pet-ct does not improve os or dfs in patients with colorectal cancer liver metastases. this study assesses the accuracy of routine whole body fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (fdg-pet) in the pre-operative staging of patients with colorectal liver metastases (clm). in this randomized controlled trial in patients with colorectal liver metastases, we investigated whether the addition of (18)f-fdg pet is beneficial and reduces the number of futile laparotomies. a total of 150 patients with colorectal liver metastases selected for surgical treatment by imaging with ct were randomly assigned to ct only (n = 75) or ct plus (18)f-fdg pet (n = 75). preoperative evaluation of resectable colorectal cancer liver metastases with positron emission tomography (pet) combined with computed tomography (pet-ct) is used extensively. the purpose of this study was to compare the diagnostic performance of preoperative positron emission tomography (pet) with fdg and intraoperative sonography with the standard of histologic examination of resected liver specimens in evaluating patients for curative resection of liver metastases from colorectal cancer. 
Can myometrial electrical activity identify patients in preterm labor? [SEP] to assess the association between myometrial electrical activity and time-to-delivery in preterm labor using uterine electromyography. myometrial electrical activity was measured via the electrical uterine monitor (eum) device. to estimate the risk of preterm birth in women admitted to the tertiary maternity hospital for preterm contractions by measuring electrical uterine activity. the objective of the study was to determine whether myometrial electrical activity can differentiate false from true preterm labor. measuring myometrial electrical activity may enhance identification of patients in true premature labor. uterine electrical activity is correlated to the appearance of uterine contractions. therefore, understanding the genesis and the propagation of uterine electrical activity may provide an efficient tool to diagnose preterm labor. using a novel technique of electrical uterine myography (eum) we aimed to determine which factors affect myometrial activity during active phase of labor. electrical uterine activity during the active phase of labor prior to rupture of membranes is affected by maternal age, previous cesarean delivery status and cervical dilatation. changes in electromyography integral activity and mean, power density spectrum energy, and intrauterine pressure integral activity occurred late during preterm labor, in a range of 2-4 hours before delivery. 
Schizophrenia patients with high intelligence: A clinically distinct sub-type of schizophrenia? [SEP] however, it appears that some patients with schizophrenia have intelligence quotients (iqs) in the superior range. schizophrenia patients whose estimated premorbid and current iq both lay in the superior range were statistically indistinguishable from iq-matched healthy controls on all neurocognitive tests. our results confirm the existence of patients meeting dsm-iv diagnostic criteria for schizophrenia who have markedly superior premorbid intellectual level and appear to be free of gross neuropsychological deficits. identifying neurocognitive subtypes in schizophrenia may help establish neurobiologically meaningful subtypes of the disorder, but is frequently confounded by differences in intellectual function between individuals with schizophrenia and controls. cognitively distinct subgroups of schizophrenia have been defined based on premorbid and current iq, but little is known about the neuroanatomical differences among these cognitive subgroups. evidence suggests that, as a group, patients with schizophrenia have intellectual deficits that may precede the manifestation of psychotic symptoms; however, how successfully intelligence tests are able to discriminate schizophrenia from other psychotic disorders has yet to be investigated in detail. using wechsler adult intelligence scale-revised (wais-r) data for 55 inpatients with schizophrenia and 28 inpatients with non-schizophrenic psychotic disorders (nspd) (schizophreniform disorder, brief psychotic disorder, delusional disorder, psychotic disorder due to a general medical condition, and psychotic disorders not otherwise specified), intelligence performance was compared between schizophrenia and nspd and among different subtypes of schizophrenia. intelligence performance in schizophrenia did not differ with respect to diagnostic subtypes and longitudinal courses. we conclude that schizotypy is a construct with apparent phenomenological overlap with schizophrenia and stable interindividual differences that covary with performance on a wide range of perceptual, cognitive, and motor tasks known to be impaired in schizophrenia. schizophrenia (sz) is often characterized by cognitive and intellectual impairment. 
Is ankle/arm pressure predictive for cardiovascular mortality in older patients living in nursing homes? [SEP] the aim of the longitudinal partage study was to determine the predictive value of blood pressure (bp) and pulse pressure amplification, a marker of arterial function, for overall mortality (primary endpoint) and major cardiovascular (cv) events, in subjects older than 80 years of age living in a nursing home. (predictive values of blood pressure and arterial stiffness in institutionalized very aged population [partage]; nct00901355). to identify whether ankle/arm index (aai) is a predictive factor for cardiovascular mortality in institutionalised elderly. to investigate whether a marked decrease in postprandial systolic blood pressure correlates with a higher incidence of falls, syncope, new coronary events, new stroke, and total mortality at long-term follow-up in older nursing home residents. in a prospective study of 499 nursing home residents aged 62 years or older, at 29-month mean follow-up, the maximal reduction in postprandial systolic blood pressure was correlated with the incidence of falls, syncope, new coronary events, new stroke, and total mortality. a marked reduction in postprandial systolic blood pressure in older nursing home residents was associated at long-term follow-up with a higher incidence of falls, syncope, new coronary events, new stroke, and total mortality. the aim of the longitudinal study partage (predictive values of blood pressure and arterial stiffness in institutionalized very aged population) was to determine the predictive value of blood pressure (bp) and arterial stiffness for overall mortality, major cardiovascular events and cognitive decline in a large population of institutionalized patients aged 80 and over. baseline values obtained herein demonstrate that elderly patients living in nursing homes present hemodynamic characteristics which are different to those described in community-living elderly populations, and indicate the interest of assessing, in longitudinal studies, the role of bp and arterial stiffness in morbidity and mortality in this population. to assess whether the ankle-brachial index is related to functional impairment, clinical fractures and mortality in nursing home residents, and whether this effect is associated or not with low bone mass. an altered ankle-brachial index is a marker of vascular mortality in elderly nursing home residents. 
Is nasogastric decompression useful in prevention of leaks after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy? [SEP] nasogastric or nasojejunal decompression has been used routinely to prevent anastomotic leakage, hasten the return of bowel function and shorten hospital stay after gastrectomy for gastric cancer. routine nasogastric or nasojejunal decompression is unnecessary after gastrectomy for gastric cancer. whether nasogastric or nasojejunal decompression (nd) prevents anastomotic leakage, hastens the return of bowel function, and shortens hospital stay after gastrectomy for gastric cancer has long been controversial. nasogastric decompression has been routinely used in most major abdominal operations to prevent the consequences of postoperative ileus. the aim of the present study was to assess the necessity for routine prophylactic nasogastric or nasojejunal decompression after gastrectomy. routine prophylactic postoperative nasogastric decompression is unnecessary after elective gastrectomy. the aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and necessity of the nasojejunal tube decompression after gastrectomy. laparoscopic gastric surgeries are routinely performed with use of a nasogastric tube to decompress the upper gastrointestinal tract. it can be used as an alternative to nasogastric tube decompression of the gastrointestinal tract for laparoscopic-assisted gastrectomy. we aimed to describe a strategy for preventing occurrence of chronic gastric leaks after complicated sleeve gastrectomy in patients necessitating relaparoscopy and external drainage as a first step of gastric leak management. 
The objective structured clinical examination: can physician-examiners participate from a distance? [SEP] recruitment of physician examiners for an objective structured clinical examination (osce) can be difficult. the following study will explore reasons why physicians volunteer their time to be osce examiners. the medical council of canada (mcc) administers an objective structured clinical examination for licensure. traditionally, physician examiners (pe) have evaluated these examinees. adoption of the objective structured clinical examination may be hindered by shortages of clinicians within a specialty. we assessed the inter-rater agreement between expert and non-expert clinician examiners in an integrated objective structured clinical examination for final year medical undergraduates. this study was a systematic investigation of family physician office-based activities outside of the examination room. the oral examination is a traditional method for assessing the developing physician's medical knowledge, clinical reasoning and interpersonal skills. we wondered whether virtual simulation could serve as a practical format for delivery of an oral examination. the virtual simulated oral examination was shown to be a feasible alternative to the traditional oral examination format for assessing em residents. 
CPAP therapy in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and obstructive sleep apnea: does it offer a better quality of life and sleep? [SEP] continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) is an established treatment of obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (osas). as expected, cpap was effective in treating the sleep-related breathing disorder. during long-term treatment with cpap the complaint list revealed a significant improvement of the extent of subjective impairment due to physical and general complaints (26.4+/-9.9 versus 20.4+/-11.1), and nhp a significant improvement of emotional reactions (19.8+/-21.7 versus 11.1+/-14.0) and energy (50.8+/-36.6 versus 32.1+/-36.7), but not of pain, physical mobility, sleep, social isolation, and quality of life as assessed by the it is concluded that long-term continuous positive airway pressure therapy is effective in improving not only pathological breathing patterns but also parameters that estimate quality of life in patients with obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome. does adherence to cpap therapy improve outcomes in patients with concurrent interstitial lung disease and osa? the recent literature shows an increased incidence of obstructive sleep apnea (osa) in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (ipf). our aim was to assess the effect of cpap on sleep and overall life quality parameters in ipf patients with osa and to recognize and overcome possible difficulties in cpap initiation and acceptance by these patients. we hypothesized that continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) therapy could improve sleep-induced left ventricular (lv) dysfunction in patients with obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (osa). continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) is an effective treatment for obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (osas) but therapy adherence is often low. continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) is currently the treatment of choice for sleepiness in patients with obstructive sleep apnoea (osa); however, adherence is often thought to be suboptimal. continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) delivered via a nasal mask during sleep immediately alleviates obstructive apneas and improves sleep quality and daytime somnolence. 
Does open access endoscopy close the door to an adequately informed patient? [SEP] the impact of open-access endoscopy was examined in 168 consecutive patients referred from 8 primary-care practices to our tertiary hospital-based endoscopy center. open access endoscopy (oae) decreases the waiting time for patients and clinical burden to gastroenterologist; however, the appropriateness of referrals for endoscopy and thus the diagnostic yield of these endoscopies has become an important issue. we also evaluated patients' preference for undergoing open access endoscopy as opposed to having prior consultation with a gastroenterologist and compared preparedness for endoscopic procedures between the two groups. the aim of our study was to compare the extent of preknowledge of procedures and test explanation, patient medical complexity, information transfer and overall patient satisfaction between a patient group referred for outpatient open access endoscopy versus a patient group from a gastrointestinal (gi) subspecialty clinic. patients undergoing open access procedures are less likely to be properly informed about their endoscopic procedure. our results indicate that with open access endoscopy, a defined mechanism needs to be in place for communication of endoscopic results to the patient. open access gastroscopy allows physicians to refer patients for endoscopic procedures without a prior consultation. informed consent is legally and ethically required before a patient undergoes an endoscopic procedure, yet current literature suggests that patient comprehension of key components of informed consent is poor. outpatients undergoing endoscopy. open-access endoscopy is considered to be more cost-effective and time efficient than the traditional practice of referring patients for preprocedural consultation with a gastrointestinal endoscopist. 
Is hypoalbuminemia an independent prognostic factor in patients with gastric cancer? [SEP] studies have indicated that hypoalbuminemia is associated with decreased survival of patients with gastric cancer. the aim of the study was to assess the relation between hypoalbuminemia, the systemic inflammatory response, and survival in patients with gastric cancer. hypoalbuminemia, a known marker for malnutrition and increased morbidity and mortality, has been associated with impaired prognosis in different cancer entities. hypoalbuminemia, a known marker for malnutrition, has been associated with an increased risk for perioperative morbidity and poor prognosis in patients with solid tumors. pre-treatment hypoalbuminemia is an independent prognostic biomarker for os in patients with vulvar cancer. the association between hypoalbuminemia and poor prognosis in patients with cancer is well recognized. hypoalbuminemia is associated with poor prognosis in patients with certain chronic diseases, such as end-stage renal disease and cancer. hypoalbuminemia has been reported as a risk factor for post-operative complications and unfavorable survival in cancer patients. hypoalbuminemia was independently associated with shortened overall survival (hr 2.2 (95% ci 1.6-3.0); p<0.001) even after adjusting established prognostic factors such as age, tumor stage, performance status, and post-operative residual disease. pre-operative hypoalbuminemia can be used as both an independent predictive factor for severe post-operative complications and as prognostic parameter regarding overall survival in eoc patients. 
Can the postoperative pain level be predicted preoperatively? [SEP] this study evaluates the relationship between preoperative experimental pain assessment and postoperative pain and opioid consumption. preoperative measurement of the electrical pain thresholds may, therefore, be useful as a screening tool to identify patients at high risk of postoperative pain. patients often reference their pain threshold to predict how they will tolerate surgical pain and the need for postoperative analgesia, but the direct relationship between these factors has not yet been studied. ideally, the intensity of postoperative pain should be predicted so as to customize analgesia. quantitative testing of a patient's basal pain perception before surgery has the potential to be of clinical value if it can accurately predict the magnitude of pain and requirement of analgesics after surgery. this review includes 14 studies that have investigated the correlation between preoperative responses to experimental pain stimuli and clinical postoperative pain and demonstrates that the preoperative pain tests may predict 4-54% of the variance in postoperative pain experience depending on the stimulation methods and the test paradigm used. pre-operative identification of reliable predictors of post-operative pain may lead to improved pain management strategies. this study was a prospective investigation of the extent to which psychologic variables could be predictive of postoperative pain. study aims were: 1) to evaluate whether an assessment of pre-operative distress factors could predict the intensity of postoperative pain; and 2) to characterize the unique pattern in which anxiety and pain catastrophizing scores relate to postoperative pain. although previous research has shown that certain medical data and psychosocial factors predict postoperative pain, it remains unclear whether they also contribute to a more distinct outcome measure that is based on classification of self-reported outcome criteria. 
Proliferative index obtained by DNA image cytometry. Does it add prognostic information in Auer IV breast cancer? [SEP] to investigate whether the s + g2/m fraction (proliferative index) is a prognostic determinant in breast cancers classified as auer iv. prognostic evaluation of auer iv dna histograms with respect to the high versus low s + g2/m fraction, obtained by image cytometry on consecutive breast cancer imprint preparations. in this prospective study, an image cytometric dna-analysis was performed in 86 women with breast neoplasms (72 primary invasive carcinomas and 14 benign lesions). cellular dna content is an important prognostic parameter. tumour tissue dna content is correlated with known histopathological prognostic feature assessing its significance as prognostic parameter in 25 cases of carcinoma breast. the prognostic value of classical prognosticators in 92 invasive breast cancers with long follow-up has been compared with a number of dna-related image cytometric features (2c deviation index (2cdi)), auer (histogram) type, 5c exceeding rate (5cer), dna malignancy grade (mg), and the morphometrically assessed mitotic activity index (mai) and mean nuclear area (mna). the prognostic significance of the "dna malignancy grade" (dna-mg) was tested in a series of 104 breast cancer patients in comparison with tnm staging, histomorphologic grading according to bloom and richardson, mean nuclear area (mna) and dna-histogram classification according to auer. these findings show that the dna-mg is a valid and reliable prognostic index that adds significant prognostic information to tnm staging. the proliferative activity of a tumour is considered to be an important prognostic factor in primary breast cancer. thus, in conclusion, the growth fraction of a tumour as determined by the mib-1 labelling index is an important prognostic factor in patients with primary breast cancer. 
Does skin care frequency affect the severity of incontinence-associated dermatitis in critically ill patients? [SEP] incontinence-associated dermatitis is a ubiquitous, nosocomial condition commonly present in critically ill patients in the intensive care unit. critically ill patients, by the nature of their critical illness and therapies used to treat their presenting condition, are commonly predisposed to faecal incontinence and are consequently at high risk of developing incontinence-associated dermatitis. the aim of this paper is to provide a review of the literature relating to incontinence-associated dermatitis from the critically ill patients in the intensive care setting. furthermore, an exposition of incontinence-associated dermatitis from the critically ill patient and intensive care nursing perspectives will be presented through a review of the skin barrier function, clinical presentation, risk factors, clinical assessment and severity categorization, prevention and management of incontinence-associated dermatitis. it is imperative that critical care nurses have an appreciation of incontinence-associated dermatitis as a common, yet preventable condition, and are equipped with knowledge to appropriately prevent and manage this common complication. we examined the prevalence of incontinence and skin injury in areas exposed to incontinence among inpatients at 2 hospitals. acute care patients in medical, surgical, and intensive care units at a community and teaching hospital were surveyed to determine the rates of urinary and fecal incontinence and the prevalence of incontinence-associated dermatitis or skin ulceration. the purpose of this study was to measure the prevalence of incontinence-associated dermatitis (iad) among incontinent persons in the acute care setting, characteristics of iad in this group, and associations among iad, urinary, fecal, and dual incontinence, immobility, and pressure injury in the sacral area. to investigate the incidence of incontinence-associated dermatitis (iad) among patients in the intensive care unit (icu) and to identify potential risk factors to establish a reference for clinical nursing work. incontinence-associated dermatitis (iad), resulting from diarrhoea and/or faecal incontinence, is a common problem in intensive care, occurring in 7-50% of the patients, with an estimated 10 million dollars spent annually on continence skin care. 
Is primary angioplasty an acceptable alternative to thrombolysis? [SEP] primary angioplasty offers several advantages to thrombolysis for the treatment of acute myocardial infarction. we sought to determine the effectiveness of primary angioplasty compared with thrombolysis in clinical practice. in clinical practice, primary angioplasty for the treatment of acute myocardial infarction (ami) has not yet been proven more effective than intravenous thrombolysis, nor have subgroups of patients been identified who would perhaps benefit from primary angioplasty. these large registry data showed the effect of primary angioplasty to be more favorable than thrombolysis for the treatment of patients with ami in clinical practice. coronary angioplasty is being increasingly used as the primary treatment for patients with acute myocardial infarction, but controversy remains over its potential adoption in preference to thrombolysis as standard care. this report summarizes the published evidence on health outcomes after primary angioplasty compared with thrombolysis or no intervention for patients with acute myocardial infarction. the role of primary angioplasty versus thrombolytic therapy for the treatment of coronary thrombosis has been the subject of recent randomised trials. recent randomized trials comparing primary coronary angioplasty and intravenous thrombolysis at the acute stage of myocardial infarction have shown a limited but definite advantage for primary angioplasty. this review critically analyzes the evidence comparing primary angioplasty with thrombolytic therapy and concludes that reasonable health care professionals may still find considerable uncertainty about the superiority of primary angioplasty for all situations. the magnitude of benefit for primary angioplasty over thrombolysis is probably less than 1 to 2 lives saved/100 patients treated and largely depends on the choice of thrombolytic agent, time to treatment, place of treatment, and adjunctive therapy. 
Should HIV-infected patients be screened for silent myocardial ischaemia using gated myocardial perfusion SPECT? [SEP] a higher prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors (crfs) in hiv-infected patients, together with chronic infection and treatments, has resulted in an increased risk of silent myocardial ischaemia (smi). the objective of this study was to evaluate whether myocardial spect should be used for screening hiv-infected patients with no clinical symptoms of coronary artery disease. the prevalence of smi detected by myocardial spect was determined in 94 hiv-infected patients with a normal clinical cardiovascular examination in relation to anthropomorphic parameters, crfs, inflammatory and hiv infection status, and treatment. in male hiv-infected patients older than 52 years and with at least two other crfs, screening for smi using myocardial spect was about four times more likely to be positive than in the general population. silent myocardial ischaemia--as evaluated by stress-induced perfusion defects on myocardial perfusion scintigraphy (mps) in patients without a history of chest pain--is frequent in diabetes and is associated with increased rates of cardiovascular events. in diabetic patients without obstructive coronary disease, myocardial perfusion study can be predictor of cardiac events. to determine the prevalence of asymptomatic ischemic heart disease (ihd) in hiv patients by myocardial perfusion scintigraphy (mps) and to determine the value of coronary artery calcium score (cacs), carotid intima-media thickness (cimt) and pericardial fat volume as screening tools for detection of ihd in subjects with hiv. hiv patients on average had 35% increased pericardial fat volume and increased concentration of biomarkers of atherosclerosis in the blood. hiv patients with myocardial perfusion defects had increased pericardial fat volume compared with hiv patients without perfusion defects (314±43 vs. 189±12 ml; p<0.001). the finding was strongly associated with pericardial fat volume, whereas cardiovascular risk scores, cimt and cacs seem less useful as screening tools for detection of myocardial perfusion defects in hiv patients. 
Does the aggressive use of polyvalent antivenin for rattlesnake bites result in serious acute side effects? [SEP] antivenom is used to neutralise snake bite toxins in people showing evidence of envenomation. to assess the effects of drugs given routinely with snake antivenom to prevent adverse effects. significant envenomation from a rattlesnake bite can result in tremendous local tissue destruction, and severe envenomation can cause death. rattlesnake venoms can cause a wide range of adverse human health effects. we present a rare case of rattlesnake envenomation resulting in severe systemic effects and syndrome relapse. venomous snakebites are lethal and occur frequently worldwide each year, and receiving the antivenom antibody is currently the most effective treatment. rattlesnake envenomations commonly produce coagulopathy and thrombocytopenia, yet clinically significant bleeding is uncommon. the risk of developing bleeding following rattlesnake envenomation is increased in patients who use antiplatelet or anticoagulant medications. laboratory studies have demonstrated that venom from several species, including the mojave rattlesnake (crotalus scutulatus scutulatus), can inhibit platelet aggregation. rattlesnake envenomation causes a spectrum of symptoms and signs, many of which closely resemble an anaphylactic reaction. 
Do resident's leadership skills relate to ratings of technical skill? [SEP] this study addressed three evaluation questions about the effectiveness of a workshop to teach residents how to teach: (1) how do residents evaluate their own teaching skills? (2) how do students evaluate residents' teaching skills? (3) do residents of various specialties differ in their teaching skills? medical knowledge and clinical performance ratings are major criteria for assessing the competence of resident physicians. the results were compared with the residents' score from in-training examination and clinical performance score from the medical staff correlation between teaching skill and knowledge, teaching skill, and performance was done by using bivariate correlation. staff surgeons' assessment of resident involvement correlated highly with the surgical skills assessment form. recent studies have focused on surgeons' nontechnical skills in the operating room (or), especially leadership. the aim of this study was to investigate the influence of residents' overall appreciation of their supervisor's leadership and observation of specific supervisor leadership behaviours on job satisfaction. we invited residents (n = 117) to rate how often they observed certain task and relation-oriented leadership behaviours in their supervisor and overall appreciation of their supervisor's leadership. medical students consistently rated residents higher with respect to teaching skills than residents rated themselves, and these data were highly statistically significant. 
The FOOTSTEP self-management foot care programme: are rheumatoid arthritis patients physically able to participate? [SEP] the footstep self-management foot care programme is a clinical and cost-effective programme for basic foot care in the elderly. a consecutive cohort of ra patients undergoing podiatry care underwent tests for sight, reach and grip strength to determine their physical ability to undertake self-managed foot care. an estimated 55-90% of patients with rheumatoid arthritis have foot problems. patients with rheumatoid arthritis receiving custom-made therapeutic footwear for the first time formed an inception cohort. therapeutic footwear was used with moderate intensity by most rheumatoid arthritis patients and was associated with a substantial decrease in pain and activity limitations. therapeutic footwear is a relevant treatment option for patients with rheumatoid arthritis and foot problems. to evaluate the effectiveness of foot orthoses using the foot function index (ffi) in a group of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (ra) during a period of 6 months. up to 90% of people with rheumatoid arthritis (ra) experience foot problems leading to reduced function, mobility, quality of life and social participation, and impacts on body image, but these can be improved with general foot care, orthoses, footwear and patient education. up to 50% of people with rheumatoid arthritis (ra) have foot symptoms at diagnosis, hence early foot health intervention is recommended and this should include patient education. the aims of this study were to determine the prevalence, impact and care of foot problems in all patients with ra in one geographical area and identify factors associated with accessing foot care. 
CYP2D6*4 allele and breast cancer risk: is there any association? [SEP] the cytochrome p450 2d6 (cyp2d6) polymorphism was reported to have a significant impact on outcome of tamoxifen treatment in estrogen receptor positive breast cancer patients. the objective of this study was to explore the effect of the cyp2d6*4 polymorphism on tamoxifen treatment outcome in a cohort of patients from a single clinical trial which included women with a history of previous chemotherapy. while earlier data on cyp2d6 and tamoxifen excluded women with prior chemotherapy, the present analysis suggests that cyp2d6*4 genotype might be particularly crucial in this group of high-risk patients. in this study the association between the most prevalent cyp2d6 null-allele in caucasians (cyp2d6*4) and breast cancer mortality was examined among all incident users of tamoxifen in a population-based cohort study. the risk of breast cancer mortality is increased in tamoxifen users with decreased cyp2d6 activity, consistent with the model in which endoxifen formation is dependent on cyp2d6 activity. the objective of this study was to assess the association between m2 (a2455g, ile462val) and m4 (c2453a, thr461asn) polymorphisms in cyp1a1 and breast cancer risk among jordanian women and in subgroups stratified by menopausal status and smoking history. no statistically significant overall association was found between breast cancer risk and cyp1a1 m2 genotypes (p-value = 0.55; or = 0.77; 95% ci= 0.32 - 1.83) nor with the m4 polymorphism (p-value= 0.95; or= 0.95; 95% ci= 0.51- 1.88). the aim of the present study was to evaluate the association between the cyp3a4*1b gene polymorphism (rs2740574) and the risk of developing breast cancer. in the present case-control study, the frequency of the cyp3a4*1b gene polymorphism was determined in 148 women with breast cancer and in 245 women without the disease. we previously identified associations between polymorphism in the cytochrome p450 cyp2d6 gene and outcome in several cancers. 
Does base deficit predict mortality in patients with severe traumatic brain injury? [SEP] base deficit (bd) is a marker of tissue hypoxia in polytrauma patients. the aim of this study was to examine the presence of bd in patients with isolated severe traumatic brain injury (tbi), and to assess if it correlates with the outcomes in these patients. traumatic brain injury (tbi) is a major cause of death and disability throughout the world. traumatic brain injury (tbi) is a major public health problem and a leading cause of death worldwide. we conducted a retrospective cohort study using data from the national trauma databank from 2008-2012 to study all patients admitted with a diagnosis of severe tbi, excluding children, patients with non-isolated tbi, transfers, and hospitalization <48 h. we used multivariable poisson regression to analyze the association between demographic, clinical, and facility-level characteristics and in-hospital mortality. in order to determine if mortality is a function of severe brain injury, 545 trauma patients with and without severe brain injury were prospectively studied. it is well-known that severe traumatic brain injuries (tbi) have a poor outcome. several factors associated with an unfavourable outcome after severe traumatic brain injury (tbi) have been described: prolonged pre-hospital time, secondary referral to a level 1 trauma centre, the occurrence of secondary insults such as hypoxia, hypotension or low end-tidal carbon dioxide (etco(2)). although several factors are known to influence prognosis after acute brain injury, physiologic derangements were found to be associated with, or contributing to, increased mortality and disability in these patients. severe traumatic brain injury (tbi) is associated with a 30-70% mortality rate. 
Does increased use of private health care reduce the demand for NHS care? [SEP] the use of the private sector for health care is increasing, but it is unclear whether this will reduce demand on the nhs. increased private health care activity does not reduce the demand for nhs care: nhs and private referral rates were positively associated with each other after adjusting for age, deprivation and practice. is this in order to benefit patients or to allow the private sector to subsidize nhs care? policy change has eroded the entitlement of uk residents to free state-provided health care, with a resulting rise in the use of the private sector. this paper examines the choice between public and private health care. arrangements to cut nhs waiting lists will reduce demand for private medical insurance. consequently although total private provision is dwarfed by the aggregate provision of health care under the national health service, whether measured in bed availability, expenditure or throughput, the private sector is found to be a much more significant supplier of certain procedures. private medicine has been growing rapidly in great britian, a trend the author says indicates dissatisfaction with the national health service (nhs). the author attributes this trend to three factors: (1) private medicine is now generating enough capital to finance a substantial expansion of its own facilities; (2) deterioration in nhs; and (3) the low price of private health plans. this paper studies the interaction between public and private health care provision in a national health service (nhs), with free public care and costly private care. 
Does confined placental mosaicism account for adverse perinatal outcomes in IVF pregnancies? [SEP] to assess the association between confined placental mosaicism (cpm) and adverse pregnancy outcome. human confined placental mosaicism (cpm), where the placental trophoblast is mosaic for a chromosome abnormality but the fetus is chromosomally normal, can cause problems for prenatal diagnosis, but its causes are poorly understood. ivf singletons have poorer perinatal outcomes than singletons from spontaneous conceptions. the aim of this study was to compare the incidence of confined placental mosaicism (cpm) in ivf/icsi pregnancies and spontaneous conceptions. the association between chromosomal mosaicism observed on chorionic villus sampling (cvs) and poor pregnancy outcome has been well documented. confined placental mosaicism is found in a higher percentage of cases of unexplained intrauterine growth retardation (iugr) than in those of normal pregnancies. in this study, using a mouse model, we not only revealed changes in the placenta caused by ivf at embryonic day 18.5 (e18.5), but also attempted to identify factors that correlate with ivf-induced abnormal placental development. confined placental mosaicism is tissue specific chromosomal mosaicism arising in both chromosomally normal and abnormal zygotes. while intrauterine survival of some chromosomally abnormal embryos and fetuses appears to be significantly enhanced by its presence, the effect of confined placental mosaicism on chromosomally normal fetuses is variable and at present time still unpredictable. prenatally diagnosed trisomy 16 mosaicism is associated with the increased risk of poor pregnancy outcome including intrauterine growth restriction, intrauterine death and fetal malformation. 
Utility of unenhanced fat-suppressed T1-weighted MRI in children with sickle cell disease -- can it differentiate bone infarcts from acute osteomyelitis? [SEP] children with sickle cell disease (scd) are at risk of bone infarcts and acute osteomyelitis. unenhanced t1-w fat-saturated mr images have been proposed as a potential tool to differentiate bone infarcts from osteomyelitis. to evaluate the reliability of unenhanced t1-w fat-saturated mri for differentiation between bone infarcts and acute osteomyelitis in children with scd. the bone marrow signal intensity on t1-w fat-saturated imaging was not significant for the differentiation between bone infarct and osteomyelitis (p = 0.56). the bone marrow signal intensity on unenhanced t1-w fat-saturated mr images is not a reliable criterion to differentiate bone infarcts from osteomyelitis in children. the purpose of this investigation was to illustrate a variety of soft-tissue abnormalities on mr imaging encountered in connection with acute marrow infarction in children with sickle cell disease. extraosseous abnormalities on mr imaging preclude differentiation of acute marrow infarction from osteomyelitis in children with sickle cell disease. to prove the hypothesis that acute bone infarcts in sickle cell disease are caused by sequestration of red blood cells (rbcs) in bone marrow, and to evaluate the unenhanced t1 fat-saturated (fs) sequence in the differentiation of acute bone infarction from acute osteomyelitis in patients with sickle-cell disease. acute bone infarcts in sickle cell disease are caused by sequestration of red blood cells in the bone marrow. distinguishing between acute presentations of osteomyelitis (om) and vaso-occlusive crisis (voc) bone infarction in children with sickle cell disease (scd) remains challenging for clinicians, particularly in culture-negative cases. 
Cancer of the buccal mucosa: are margins and T-stage accurate predictors of local control? [SEP] most treatment failure of buccal mucosal cancer post surgery is locoregional recurrence. narrow surgical margin ≤3 mm, but not 5 mm, is associated with high risk for locoregional recurrence of buccal mucosa carcinoma. a case-and-control study comprised of patients with buccal carcinoma and controls without the disease was conducted. the purpose of the study was to analyze the outcomes after surgical therapy (peroral wide excision) for early squamous carcinoma of the buccal mucosa. this is a retrospective study of localized squamous carcinoma of the buccal mucosa treated with peroral wide excision at a major tertiary-care hospital. to evaluate treatment outcome and factors affecting locoregional control and distant metastasis in buccal mucosal and lower alveolar squamous cell carcinoma. to identify the significant predictors of locoregional recurrence in early stage squamous cell carcinoma (scc) of buccal mucosa with pathologically clear surgical margins and negative neck. the purpose of the study was to study the outcomes of per oral wide excision of early t1-2 n0 squamous cell cancer of buccal mucosa. this is a retrospective study of early and localized squamous cell cancer of the buccal mucosa treated with peroral wide excision at a tertiary-care hospital. peroral wide excision seems to be an adequate procedure for t1-2n0 localized squamous cancer of buccal mucosa. 
Can mass drug administration lead to the sustainable control of schistosomiasis? [SEP] effective control of schistosomiasis remains a challenging problem for endemic areas of the world. given knowledge of the biology of transmission and past experience with mass drug administration (mda) programs, it is important to critically evaluate the likelihood that mda programs will achieve substantial reductions in schistosoma prevalence. our aim was to assess biannual mass drug administration (mda) applied alone or with complementary snail control or behaviour change interventions for the reduction of schistosoma haematobium prevalence and infection intensity in children from zanzibar and to compare the effect between the clusters. preventive chemotherapy is advocated for the global control and elimination of schistosomiasis. despite the well known short-term benefits of treating patients for schistosomiasis, the impact of mass drug administration (mda) campaigns to control the disease in the long term remains unresolved. preventive chemotherapy is advocated for the global control and elimination of schistosomiasis. mass antiparasitic drug administration programs and other control strategies have made important contributions in reducing the global prevalence of helminths. schistosomiasis is a debilitating neglected tropical disease that infects over 200 million people worldwide. schistosomiasis remains a major global health problem. large-scale administration of anthelminthic drugs currently is the most widely used intervention for controlling morbidity due to schistosomiasis and soil-transmitted helminthiasis. 
Can D-dimer become a new diagnostic parameter for acute appendicitis? [SEP] plasma d-dimer is known to be a useful clinical marker of thrombogenic status, and d-dimer is used as a diagnostic marker for acute aortic dissection (aad). d-dimer levels may be useful in risk stratifying patients with suspected aortic dissection to rule out aortic dissection if used within the first 24 hours after symptom onset. prospective studies investigating the diagnostic value of d-dimer and a clinical decision rule for pe in pediatrics are needed. plasma d-dimer has been used as a complementary initial diagnostic marker for acute aortic dissection (aad). after adjustment for age, systolic blood pressure, platelet counts, and intervals from symptom onset to hospital, a high admission d-dimer level (≥20 μg/ml) was still a powerful independent predictor of in-hospital mortality (hazard ratio 3.195, 95% confidence interval 1.110-9.196, p = 0.031). our results suggest a high admission d-dimer level (≥20 μg/ml) might be a powerful predictor for increased in-hospital mortality in patients with stanford type a aad, and these patients may benefit more from surgical intervention. the acute onset of intense abdominal pain requires rapid evaluation, and since d-dimer level is reported to be useful in the diagnosis of patients with suspected acute superior mesenteric artery occlusion, our aim was to evaluate the value of d-dimer testing in the diagnosis of acute surgical abdomen with no precise diagnosis. in a patient with acute abdomen without precise diagnosis, a d-dimer level above the cut-off value (4.7 microg fibrinogen equivalent units/ml) may be an indicator with high sensitivity for surgical pathology requiring laparotomy. d-dimer levels were measured in preoperative heparinized plasma samples from 100 patients with confirmed aad for up to 10 d after onset of dissection. d-dimer, as well as other biomarkers related to coagulation, is significantly increased during severe bacterial infection and sepsis. 
Is there a relationship between rheumatoid arthritis and periodontal disease? [SEP] increasing epidemiologic evidence supports a link between periodontitis and rheumatoid arthritis. a high prevalence of periodontitis has been reported in rheumatoid arthritis (ra) patients, although the strength of this association, its temporal link and the possible relationship between the severity of periodontitis and ra disease activity remain unclear. periodontitis is an inflammatory disease of dental supporting tissues (gingiva, periodontal ligament, and bone) and it has been suggested as a possible etiology for rheumatoid arthritis (ra). rheumatoid arthritis (ra) and periodontitis are common chronic inflammatory conditions and share many pathologic features. because of several similar features in the pathobiology of periodontitis and rheumatoid arthritis, in a previous study we proposed a possible relationship between the two diseases. the results of this study provide further evidence of a significant association between periodontitis and rheumatoid arthritis. rheumatoid arthritis (ra) and periodontitis are chronic inflammatory diseases that share common risk factors. rheumatoid arthritis (ra) and periodontitis are common chronic inflammatory conditions. periodontal disease has been implicated in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (ra), an autoimmune disease characterized by immune-mediated synovial damage, and antibodies to citrullinated antigens. rheumatoid arthritis and periodontitis are two prevalent chronic inflammatory diseases in humans and are associated with each other both clinically and epidemiologically. 
Do clinical variables predict pathologic radiographs in the first episode of wheezing? [SEP] to determine if clinical variables assessed in relation to albuterol aerosol treatments accurately identify children with pathologic radiographs during their initial episode of bronchospasm. a prospective convenience sample of children with a first episode of wheezing. to evaluate the prevalence of pathologic chest radiographs in infants presenting with a first episode of wheezing during respiratory syncytial virus (rsv) seasons and to compare demographics and clinical variables between patients with benign and pathologic chest radiographs. associations between signs and symptoms and chest radiograph findings were evaluated. seventeen percent of 140 previously healthy infants presenting with a first episode of wheezing during rsv seasons had a pathologic chest radiograph. susceptibility to early rhinovirus-induced wheezing has been recognized as an important risk factor for childhood asthma, but data on the first wheezing episode are limited. we studied 111 first-time wheezing children aged between 3 and 23 months (88/23 in-/outpatients). we searched for predictors of recurrent wheezing using nasopharyngeal aspirates obtained from patients during the first wheezing episode who were hospitalized with an acute lower respiratory tract illness. to evaluate the effect of clinical, laboratory and radiological data on the decision to prescribe antibiotics to paediatric patients with first time wheezing as well as to seek criteria that would justify antibiotic use. in this prospective, observational study on previously healthy children <18 years, we aimed to study the diagnostic ability of clinical features and inflammatory markers to (i) predict pathologic chest radiography in suspected pneumonia and (ii) differentiate etiology in radiological proven pneumonia. 
Globulomaxillary cysts--do they really exist? [SEP] while mucoceles of the oral mucosa are relatively common, multiple mucous retention cysts have not previously been reported. in this article two such cases, in which numerous minor salivary gland ducts had dilated to the point of cyst formation, are described. although many of these lesions can be dismissed as benign simple cysts, requiring intervention only for symptomatic relief, complex cystic and solid masses require biopsy. as an isolated finding, homogeneous complicated cysts can be classified as probably benign, with intervention only considered with interval development or enlargement, abscess is suspected, or if suspicious features develop. the so-called "globulomaxillary cyst", described as a fissural cyst, caused by entrapped epithelium between the nasal and maxillary process, is no longer considered for its own entity. nevertheless, cystic lesions, which correspond to the previous image of globulomaxillary cysts, do still occur in daily practice. in a retrospective study, 17 cases (12 men and 5 women, 12-59 years old) of primarily diagnosed globulomaxillary cysts are analysed according to clinical, radiological and histological aspects, catamnestic processed and assigned to a new entity. according to the results of our study and the data from the international literature, the entity globulomaxillary cyst is no longer justified. solitary bone cysts, also known as haemorrhagic, traumatic or simple bone cysts, of the jaws are a well-recognised entity, being found primarily in the mandible, occasionally in the maxilla and rarely in the zygoma. clinically the cyst was confused with a benign lesion. 
MiraLAX vs. Golytely: is there a significant difference in the adenoma detection rate? [SEP] in recent clinical trials (rct) of bowel preparation, golytely was more efficacious than miralax. we hypothesised that there is a difference in adenoma detection between golytely and miralax. this was a post hoc analysis of an rct that assessed efficacy and patient tolerability of golytely vs. miralax/gatorade in average risk screening colonoscopy patients. golytely had a higher rate of a bbps score ≥ 7 (82.5% vs. miralax 67.8%, p=0.02). on multivariate analyses, golytely was 2.13 × more likely to be associated with a bbps ≥ 7 (95% ci 1.05-4.32, p = 0.04) and 2.28 × more likely to be associated with adenoma detection (95% ci 1.05-4.98, p = 0.04) than miralax. golytely was more efficacious than miralax in bowel cleansing, and was independently associated with both bowel prep quality (bbps ≥ 7) and higher adenoma detection. to compare bowel preparation scores of miralax/gatorade vs. golytely and examine differences in patient tolerability. golytely's median total bbps score was significantly higher than that of miralax [9 (iqr 7-9) vs. 8 (iqr 6-9), p = 0.034]. golytely had a higher rate of an excellent equivalent bbps score of 8 or 9 than miralax (70% vs. 55%, p = 0.036). golytely was more efficacious than miralax/gatorade in bowel cleansing; both preparations were equally tolerated by patients. 
Does government assistance improve utilization of eye care services by low-income individuals? [SEP] studies reported on in this article suggest that the low-income population might be more effectively served, and at less expense, by health maintenance organizations that provide service on a prepaid, capitation basis. this article reviews the literature relating to the prevalence of low vision, its impact on affected individuals, and how low-vision intervention affects those with visual impairments. this review considers the ways in which the impact of low-vision care has been evaluated. the existing literature demonstrates that low-vision intervention can be highly valued by low-vision patients and can have a significant impact on an individual's daily life and activities. low-vision assistive devices are not covered by medicare and many private insurers, although there is evidence that they can improve functioning and quality of life. to determine if sociodemographic disparities exist in the use of low-vision services by medicare beneficiaries. multivariable logistic regression was performed to evaluate if sociodemographic or economic factors were associated with self-reported use of low-vision devices or low-vision rehabilitation among medicare beneficiaries 65 years and older who self-reported vision impairment. additional research is needed to clarify the association between sociodemographics and use of low-vision services in the medicare population. however, policy makers could consider expanding medicare coverage to include low-vision devices in an effort to address significant disparities in the use of this evidence-based intervention. this article uses the intersectionality approach to understand how eye care seeking behaviour changes in men and women with increase in age and visual impairment in a poor and underserved region of india. 
Does telmisartan prevent hepatic fibrosis in rats with alloxan-induced diabetes? [SEP] this study evaluated the effect of telmisartan on the livers of diabetic rats and also aimed to determine the hepatic distribution and role of transforming growth factor beta (tgf-beta) in diabetes-related hepatic degeneration while taking into account the possible protective effects of telmisartan. fifteen adult male rats were used and divided into three groups: the non-diabetic healthy group, alloxan-induced diabetic control group, and the alloxan-induced diabetic telmisartan group. our study of the numerical density of hepatocytes shows a significant difference between the diabetic control group and diabetic rats treated with telmisartan. results suggest that telmisartan may reduce type-i diabetes mellitus-induced hepatic injury by suppressing activated hepatic stellate cells through concomitant tgf-beta1 down-regulation. telmisartan significantly attenuated the hyperglycemia and hypoinsulinemia in diabetic rats. histopathological gastric tissue damage induced by indomethacin in diabetic rats was ameliorated by telmisartan treatment. immunohistochemical analysis revealed that telmisartan markedly attenuated the reduction in insulin content of pancreatic islet beta-cells, and prevented the indomethacin-induced overexpression of inducible nitric oxide synthase and nuclear factor-kappab in gastric mucosa of diabetic rats. these results suggest that treatment with telmisartan reduces oxidative stress by local ras activation and protects against islet beta-cell damage and dysfunction. we have studied the effect of 8 weeks treatment with telmisartan (5 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) on cardiovascular complications associated with streptozotocin (stz) diabetic rats. these results demonstrated that telmisartan effectively ameliorated coronary insulin resistance and inflammation in diabetic rats and upregulated adipor1/r2 expression via activation of ppar-γ in the coronary artery and vsmcs. 
Two-year follow-up survey of patients with allergic contact dermatitis from an occupational cohort: is the prognosis dependent on the omnipresence of the allergen? [SEP] occupational contact dermatitis (ocd) contributes significantly to the burden of occupational disease, but there is little known about prognostic factors. a two years retrospective analysis of patients diagnosed as contact allergic dermatitis with positive patch test attending the dermatology clinic was performed. the importance of occupational environments in relation to the course of an atopic skin disease was investigated. the prognosis for occupational contact dermatitis is often poor. to investigate the prognosis, assessed by eczema, job status and skin-related quality of life, among patients allergic to rubber chemicals and latex (ubiquitous allergens) and epoxy (nonubiquitous allergen), 2 years after recognition of occupational allergic contact dermatitis. from a cohort of all patients recognized as having occupational dermatitis by the danish national board of industrial injuries in 2010, 199 patients with relevant rubber allergy (contact allergy to rubber chemicals or contact urticaria from latex) or epoxy allergy were identified. at follow-up, patients with contact urticaria had significantly poorer prognosis than those with contact allergy, and there was a trend towards a poorer prognosis for those with contact allergy to rubber chemicals than those with allergy to epoxy. numerous studies have focused on emerging allergens causing contact allergy and allergic contact dermatitis in eczema populations and the general population, whereas only a few european multicenter studies systematically manage to detect prevalence rates of various contact allergies over time in eczema populations. contact allergy is a life-time condition, which may lead to allergic contact dermatitis in individuals who do not manage to avoid exposure to the ascertained allergen in question. of each allergen we discuss in detail the temporal trend of prevalence, source of exposure, clinical manifestation of allergic contact dermatitis and legislative measurements on how to regulate the exposure. 
Can calprotectin predict relapse risk in inflammatory bowel disease? [SEP] faecal calprotectin is predictive of clinical relapse in inflammatory bowel disease and ultrasound is sensitive in detecting its post-surgical recurrence. an evaluation is made of the utility of fecal calprotectin in predicting relapse in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (ibd). fecal calprotectin may be a useful marker for predicting relapse in patients with ibd. fecal calprotectin seems to have a diagnostic precision in predicting relapse in quiescent ulcerative colitis patients. fecal calprotectin seems to be a reliable marker of relapse in quiescent crohn's disease patients. the aim of our study was to assess whether the predictive value of faecal calprotectin-a non-invasive marker of intestinal inflammation-for clinical relapse is different in ulcerative colitis (uc) and crohn's disease (cd). faecal calprotectin levels correlate with inflammation in inflammatory bowel disease. faecal calprotectin is a reliable tool for predicting crohn's disease (cd) relapse in patients with sustained remission. in patients responding to an infliximab induction regimen, faecal calprotectin measurement at w14 cannot predict crohn's disease clinical relapse at 1year. the purpose of the study was to determine the role of fecal calprotectin and lactoferrin in the prediction of inflammatory bowel disease relapses, both in patients with ulcerative colitis (uc) and crohn's disease (cd), in a large, long-term, follow-up study. 
Can nurse-led preoperative education reduce anxiety and postoperative complications of patients undergoing cardiac surgery? [SEP] however, although there is evidence that preoperative education interventions can lead to positive postoperative outcomes for surgical patients in general, less is known about the effectiveness among patients undergoing cardiac surgery, especially chinese cardiac patients. to determine whether a preoperative education intervention designed for chinese cardiac patients can reduce anxiety and improve recovery. this form of preoperative education is effective in reducing anxiety and depression among chinese cardiac surgery patients. the objective of the study was to evaluate the effect of nurse-initiated preoperative education and counseling on postoperative complications and anxiety symptoms following cabg. nurse-initiated preoperational education and counseling were associated with a reduced rate of perioperative complications and a reduced level of anxiety following cabg. the objectives of this study are to evaluate the effectiveness of preoperative patient education provided for patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery. to update evidence of the effectiveness of preoperative education among cardiac surgery patients. there is evidence that preoperative education interventions can lead to improved patient experiences and positive postoperative outcomes among a mix of general surgical patients. some trials have demonstrated the effects of preoperative education on improving physical and psychosocial recovery of cardiac patients, while others found no evidence that patients' anxiety is reduced or of any effect on pain or hospital stay. therefore a randomized controlled trial was designed to elucidate the consequences of pre-operative education, given before admission, on postoperative pain, anxiety, depression and wellbeing in the 6 months following a first episode of coronary artery surgery. 
Is there a discrepancy between patient and physician quality of life assessment? [SEP] discrepancies in perception of well-being between physicians and patients may interfere with the effectiveness of treatment. a systematic review and meta-analysis were performed to explore the (dis-)agreement in quality-of-life assessments between patients and physicians. there may be a wide disparity between the perceptions of patients and those of their treating physicians concerning the quality of life associated with a given state of health. the concordance between patient-reported qol and physician-estimated qol was evaluated. primary care physicians were better at assessing their patients' overall wellbeing while diabetes-specialists were better at assessing their patients' diabetes-specific qol. discordance between patient- and caregiver-reported quality of life (qol) is well recognized. quality of life (qol) in patients with schizophrenia has been assessed both from physician and patient perspectives, but little is known about agreement between these perspectives and predictors of agreement. medical professionals should cautiously deliberate when using caregiver-reported quality of life to substitute for patient-reported quality of life. quality of life measurements can help to estimate the well-being of chronically ill patients, and disclose discrepancies in perception between physicians and patients that might otherwise interfere with the effectiveness of treatment. therefore, we investigated whether physician assessments can be used to evaluate the patients' health-related quality of life (hrqol). 
Impact of MPH programs: contributing to health system strengthening in low- and middle-income countries? [SEP] health systems strengthening (hss) interventions are increasingly being implemented to improve maternal and child health (mch) services in low- and middle-income countries (lmics). this study reviews global literature on cost-effectiveness of hss interventions in improving mch. hss interventions concentrated on the components of service delivery, health financing, human resources and quality improvement. performance-based financing (pbf) is being implemented across low- and middle-income countries to improve the availability and quality of health services, including medicines. performance-based financing (pbf) is currently tested in many low- and middle-income countries as a health system strengthening strategy. pay-for-performance programs are introduced in an increasing number of low- and middle-income countries with the goal of reducing maternal and child mortality and morbidity through increased health service utilization and quality. pay for performance (p4p) mechanisms to health facilities and providers are currently being tested in several low- and middle-income countries (lmic) to improve maternal and child health (mch). although quality improvement is now prominent on the health policy agendas of governments in low- and middle-income countries (lmics), including countries of the eastern mediterranean region (emr), progress to date has not been optimal. efforts to support the scale-up of integrated mental health care in low- and middle-income countries (lmics) need to focus on building human resource capacity in health system strengthening, as well as in the direct provision of mental health care. many low and middle income countries have inherited publicly funded and provided health services, often operating at relatively low levels of technical efficiency. 
Is diffusion-weighted imaging a significant indicator of the development of vascularization in hypovascular hepatocellular lesions? [SEP] to compare the value of diffusion-weighted mri (dwi) with the venous "washout" appearance during dynamic mri for the assessment of small arterial hypervascular lesions in cirrhotic liver. diffusion-weighted imaging (dwi) as a new technique of magnetic resonance imaging (mri) is used to detect focal hepatic lesions. this study was designed to evaluate the significance of dwi to differentiate focal hepatic lesions less than 3 cm in diameter by the quantitation of apparent diffusion coefficient (adc) values. the objective was to evaluate the efficacy of diffusion-weighted imaging (dwi) in predicting the development of vascularization in hypovascular hepatocellular lesions (hhls). to determine whether adding diffusion-weighted imaging (dwi) to gadoxetic acid-enhanced 3.0t magnetic resonance imaging (mri) can improve the detection of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc), particularly for small lesions (≤2 cm) in patients with liver cirrhosis. it has been reported that the apparent diffusion coefficient (adc) value of hepatocellular carcinomas (hcc) on diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (mri) is associated with their histological grade. to compare the diagnostic performance of magnetic resonance (mr) imaging features, including those on diffusion-weighted (dw) and t2-weighted images, in differentiating between hypovascular hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) and dysplastic nodules seen as hypointense nodules at hepatobiliary phase gadoxetic acid-enhanced mr imaging. to determine whether peritumoral hypointensity seen on hepatobiliary phase images of preoperative gadoxetate disodium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (eob-mri) is useful for predicting microvascular invasion of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc). to validate the usefulness of diffusion-weighted imaging (dwi) in the differentiation of high-flow haemangiomas showing pseudo-washout appearance on gadoxetic acid-enhanced hepatic mri from small hypervascular hepatocellular carcinomas (hccs). limited studies have evaluated the role of diffusion weighted imaging (dwi) and apparent diffusion coefficient (adc) for histologically grading the hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc). 
Are failures of anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction associated with steep posterior tibial slopes? [SEP] background  increased tibial slope has been shown to be associated with higher anterior cruciate ligament (acl) reconstruction failure rate. purpose/hypothesis  the purpose of this study was to investigate the correlation of tibial slope with anterior tibial translation and acl reconstruction outcome. increased sagittal plane posterior tibial slope has been identified as a risk factor for primary anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (aclr) failure. steep posterior tibial slope (pts) and excessive anterior tibial translation (att) have been identified as important anatomic risk factors for anterior cruciate ligament (acl) injury, which have raised concerns about clinical outcomes after primary acl reconstruction (aclr). an increased posterior tibia plateau angle is associated with increased risk for anterior cruciate ligament injury and re-rupture after reconstruction. background  a growing body of research is indicating that the tibial slope and the geometry of the tibiofemoral meniscal-cartilage interface may affect the risk of anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (aclr) failure. there is evidence that tibial slope may play a role in revision risk after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (aclr); however, prior studies are inconsistent. increased posterior tibial slope has been identified as a possible risk factor for injury to the anterior cruciate ligament (acl) and has also been shown to be associated with acl reconstruction graft failure. to determine the relationship between posterior tibial slope and further acl injury in patients who have already undergone revision acl reconstruction. increased posterior tibial slope, as measured from lateral knee radiographs, was associated with increased risk of graft rupture and contralateral acl injury after revision acl reconstruction. 
Does evidence-based practice improve patient outcomes? [SEP] evidence-based nursing practice is essential to the delivery of high-quality care that optimizes patients' outcomes. studies continue to show improved outcomes when best evidence is used in the delivery of patient care. evidence-based medicine is the utilization of evidence from studies published in the medical literature to help clinicians make decisions with and for their patients. evidence-based practice attempts to implement the results of research trials (evidence) and to translate those results into clinical practice, with the presumed goal of improving the effectiveness of clinical care. evidence-based practice is the application of the best available empirical evidence, including recent research findings to clinical practice in order to aid clinical decision-making. [corrected] promoting the adoption of medical evidence into clinical practice has been advocated as one approach to improving healthcare quality and reducing medical errors. to determine the effectiveness of selected interventions on the adoption of medical evidence into clinical practice. the implementation of evidence-based practice in perioperative nursing holds promise of improving quality of care and client outcomes. several factors within health care have precipitated an emphasis on evidence-based practice. several studies pointed out that evidence-based practice (ebp) promotes healthcare quality, reduces healthcare costs and improves the patients' experience. 
Multidisciplinary decisions in breast cancer: does the patient receive what the team has recommended? [SEP] the strength in the management of locally advanced breast cancer lies in the team approach to multimodality care. many decisions confront physicians caring for patients with breast cancer. to compare the amount of shared decision making in breast cancer surgery interactions when providers do and do not make a treatment recommendation. multidisciplinary team recommendations will influence treatment decisions but their effect on patient outcome is unknown. patients with breast cancer face complex medical decision-making. we investigated the impact of a physician-communicated, patient-specific radiation therapy (rt) plan review on patient-reported outcomes (pros) for patients with breast cancer receiving adjuvant rt in a prospective randomized trial. it is mandatory for treatment decisions for patients with colorectal cancer to be made within the context of a multi-disciplinary team (mdt) meeting. we hypothesised that patients treated for breast cancer would benefit from targeted therapeutic action delivered by general practitioners on the recommendations of a multidisciplinary team based in primary care. primary care-based multidisciplinary review of treated breast cancer patients is feasible and, for most, results in benefit. breast cancer management requires a multidisciplinary approach that is tailored to the patient's stage at presentation, desire for breast conservation or reconstruction, estimation of risk of recurrence, and assessment of the benefits and toxicities of potential adjuvant therapies. 
Does quilting suture prevent seroma in abdominoplasty? [SEP] quilting sutures are a recent development in abdominoplasty surgery that aim to prevent the incidence of seroma. the aim of this article was to assess the effectiveness of quilting suturing in the prevention of seroma formation. quilting suture for closure of the undermined area in abdominoplasty avoids the occurrence of seroma. for more than 5 years, we have used the quilting suture technique in 130 patients without the occurrence of seroma after abdominoplasty. the aim of this study was to compare the use of suction drains, quilting sutures, and fibrin sealant in abdominoplasty to determine the best strategy to prevent seroma formation. the authors evaluated the incidence of seroma for 3 abdominoplasty techniques: preservation of scarpa's fascia, placement of progressive tension (or quilting) sutures, and application of fibrin glue. placement of progressive tension sutures or preservation of scarpa's fascia during abdominoplasty may reduce the likelihood of postoperative seroma. the purpose of this study was to verify the efficacy of the use of quilting suture to prevent seroma. recent innovations in abdominoplasty include progressive tension "quilting" sutures or scarpa fascia preservation to limit the risk of seromas and hematomas. this study is designed to evaluate the effect of abdominal quilting sutures on the incidence of abdominal seroma formation in patients undergoing pedicled transverse rectus abdominis musculocutaneous (tram) flap reconstruction. 
Does feeding tube insertion and its timing improve survival? [SEP] early feeding < or = 4 h after peg placement may represent a safe alternative to delayed or next-day feedings. gastrostomy tube (g-tube) placement during three-stage surgical palliation of single-ventricle cardiac physiology has been shown to improve weight gain in this population of infants who often suffer from inadequate feeding. the authors studied the results of 882 fluoroscopically guided feeding tube placements in 448 patients in 1 year to determine rates of success and complications, as well as the long-term outcome of this population of patients. however, results from various randomized clinical trials (rcts) indicate earlier feeding may be an option. therefore, we conducted a meta-analysis to analyze the effect of earlier feedings (≤3 h) after percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (peg) placement. early tube feeding ≤3 hours after peg placement has no significant differences to delayed or next-day feeding in respect to complications, death in ≤72 hours, or number of significant gastric residual volumes at day 1. this case illustrates the importance of recognising patients at high risk for feeding tube placement complications, meticulous placement technique and appropriate follow-up once the tube has been inserted. postoperative benefits of feeding tubes must be weighed against morbidity related to placement and use. use of the feeding tube was linked to treatment interval, length of stay, major complication grade (all at p<0.0001), metastatic stage (p=0.0007) and noncurative intent (p=0.001). tube feeds beyond discharge were associated with time interval (p<0.0001), length of stay (p=0.0006) and noncurative intent (p=0.014). 
Does prostate morphology affect outcomes after holmium laser enucleation? [SEP] to determine whether prostate morphology or technique used has any effect on postoperative outcomes after holmium laser enucleation of the prostate. those patients with trilobar prostate morphology are more likely to achieve a greater decrease in the pvr urine volume after holmium laser enucleation of the prostate. in this study we investigated how surgeon experience with holmium laser enucleation of the prostate affected operative time, adverse events and outcomes related to urination. no significant changes were seen postoperatively in surgery related factors such as morcellation time, resected prostate volume, infectious or noninfectious surgery related complications, or urination related outcomes (p >0.05) experience with at least 20 cases in particular affected surgical time (p = 0.0050), enucleation time (p = 0.0068) and urinary incontinence after holmium laser enucleation (p = 0.0021). holmium laser enucleation of the prostate is superior to other modalities for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia. holmium laser enucleation of the prostate is a minimally invasive approach which accomplishes complete adenoma removal and, as such, provides unique advantages over other surgical treatments for men with benign prostatic hyperplasia. we compared outcomes in men who underwent holmium laser enucleation of the prostate in the primary vs the re-treatment setting. patient demographics, and operative and perioperative outcomes were compared between re-treatment and primary holmium laser enucleation of the prostate. perioperatively, re-treatment holmium laser enucleation of the prostate was associated with significantly shorter operative time, reduced blood loss, lower specimen weight and shorter length of stay. immediate perioperative outcomes of holmium laser enucleation of the prostate performed in the re-treatment setting were no different from those in the primary setting. 
Do acute changes in heart rate by isoproterenol affect aortic stiffness in patients with hypertension? [SEP] increased aortic stiffness is a independent risk factor of cardiovascular disease in patients with hypertension. acute changes of the heart rate (hr) have been reported not to affect the aortic stiffness in pacing. however, it is unknown whether acute changes in hr caused by sympathomimetics can affect the aortic stiffness in patients with hypertension. we investigated the effect of acute changes in hr produced by isoproterenol on the aortic stiffness in 17 hypertensive patientss (mean age: 59 +/- 9 years). aortic stiffness was not affected by acute changes in hr produced by isoproterenol which suggests that it is not necessary to consider acute changes in hr when measuring aortic pwv. arterial stiffness and cardiac function are important predictors of cardiovascular events in patients with hypertension, even with adequate blood pressure (bp) control. relaxation to nitroglycerin and isoproterenol was determined in isolated aortic rings from one-kidney, one clip hypertensive (1k1c), coarctation hypertensive (ch) and normotensive control (c) rats. we examined effects of an acute change in blood pressure on carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity and carotid artery distensibility (inversely related to stiffness) in normotensive control subjects (n=20, mean age 42) with mean arterial pressure (map) 84+/-1.7 mm hg (mean+/-se) and subjects with essential hypertension (n=20, mean age 45, map 104+/-2.0 mm hg). in patients with sustained essential hypertension, the degree of cardiac hypertrophy correlates significantly with the increase in aortic rigidity, which is assessed by the calculation of the characteristic impedance, by the measurement of carotid-femoral pulse-wave velocity, or by the calculation of the peterson elastic modulus at the level of the aortic arch. modifications in the stiffness of the aorta and other large arteries must be considered to understand reversion of cardiac hypertrophy as a result of antihypertensive treatment. 
"Occult" posttraumatic lesions of the knee: can magnetic resonance substitute for diagnostic arthroscopy? [SEP] magnetic resonance imaging (mri) is the most widely used non-invasive test for assessing intra-articular injuries of the knee. magnetic resonance imaging (mri) of the knee joint has often been regarded as a noninvasive alternative to diagnostic arthroscopy. before ordering an mri and arthroscopy, a thorough physical examination of the affected knee was performed and a preliminary diagnosis made. although magnetic resonance imaging (mri) of the knee is known to be an accurate technique for diagnosing soft tissue disorders of the knee, the value of mri in improving patient outcome is controversial. the study shows that mri of the knee is a valuable tool for augmenting the diagnostic process. mri scanning of the knee joint has often been regarded as the noninvasive alternative to diagnostic arthroscopy. magnetic resonance imaging has emerged as the primary investigation for evaluation of the knee injury because of its high resolution and accuracy and it has often been regarded as the noninvasive alternative to diagnostic arthroscopy. the objective of this study was to find out the various types of traumatic lesions of the knee on mri, to correlate the results with arthroscopy, and to establish the accuracy of mri in detecting ligament and meniscal injury. mri is a noninvasive, useful and reliable diagnostic tool for evaluating knee injury and it can be used as a first line investigation in patients with knee injury. in brief although magnetic resonance imaging of the knee is performed primarily to assess meniscal and soft-tissue pathology, traumatic osseous lesions also may be detected with this method. 
Could ESC (Electronic Stability Control) change the way we drive? [SEP] esc (electronic stability control) is a crash avoidance technology that reduces the likelihood of collisions involving loss of control. although past and emerging research indicates that esc is effective in reducing collision rates and saving lives, and its inclusion in all vehicle platforms is encouraged, drivers may demonstrate behavioral adaptation or an overreliance on esc that could offset or reduce its overall effectiveness. collectively, results suggest that behavioral adaptation to esc is likely in certain drivers; however, its proven effectiveness in reducing the likelihood of being involved in a serious crash probably outweighs any potential increases in unsafe driving. electronic stability control (esc) systems were developed to reduce motor vehicle collisions (mvcs) caused by loss of control. introduced in europe in 1995 and in the usa in 1996, esc is designed to improve vehicle lateral stability by electronically detecting and automatically assisting drivers in unfavorable situations. electronic stability control (esc) is designed to help drivers maintain heading control of their vehicles in high-speed or sudden maneuvers and on slippery roads. there is little or no effect of esc in all multi-vehicle crashes; however, there is a 17-38% reduction in more serious, fatal multi-vehicle crashes. electronic stability control (esc) is a crash avoidance system found on many vehicles. esc is designed to help the driver stay in control of the vehicle during an emergency manoeuvre, such as when the driver needs to swerve to avoid an obstacle. vehicle control systems such as esc (electronic stability control), mdps (motor-driven power steering), and ecs (electronically controlled suspension) improve vehicle stability, driver comfort, and safety. 
The insertion allele of the ACE gene I/D polymorphism. A candidate gene for insulin resistance? [SEP] we tested the hypothesis that the deletion allele of the ace gene is associated with insulin resistance. we related ace genotype to components of the insulin-resistance syndrome in 103 non-insulin-dependent diabetic (niddm) and 533 nondiabetic white subjects. the ace insertion/deletion (i/d) polymorphism has been identified as a genetic risk factor for coronary heart disease (chd). the deletion (d) allele of the ace gene may be associated with higher insulin sensitivity. the purpose of this study was to investigate the association of the i/d polymorphism of the ace gene with insulin sensitivity and chd risk factors. these data suggest that the i/d polymorphism is not associated with risk factors for chd in overweight sedentary women; however, women who are homozygous for the d allele of the ace gene are more insulin sensitive, whereas women who are homozygous for the i allele of the ace gene have greater insulin resistance and potential risk for type 2 diabetes. the frequent ace insertion/deletion polymorphism (i/d) is, albeit inconsistently, associated with impaired glucose tolerance and insulin resistance. recent studies suggest that the ace i/d polymorphism may influence the risk of developing nephropathy in patients with insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (iddm), although the mechanism responsible for the effect is unknown. the ace gene i/d polymorphism was detected by pcr. an insertion/deletion (i/d) polymorphism in the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) gene has repeatedly been shown to be associated with ischaemic heart disease, but the association of this genetic marker with diabetic microangiopathy is controversial. 
Do ventricular arrhythmias in athletes subside over time? [SEP] to investigate the long-term follow-up of athletes with ventricular arrhythmias during an exercise test. our results showed that ventricular arrhythmias during exercise are more commonly associated with cardiovascular abnormalities in young competitive athletes and in female athletes. athletes are subject to the same arrhythmias as the general population, but the frequency and significance of the arrhythmias may be different. ventricular tachyarrhythmias commonly occur in trained athletes during ambulatory holter electrocardiography and are usually associated with a benign course. twenty-four hour holter electrocardiographic monitoring was performed at peak training and after 3 to 6 months of deconditioning and was repeated in the present study after 2, 6, and 12 months of retraining in 37 athletes with frequent and complex ventricular tachyarrhythmias and without cardiovascular abnormalities. subsequently, a progressive reduction was seen in the frequency of all ventricular arrhythmias during the 1 year of training to well below that at the peak training levels (vpcs 917 ± 1,630, couplets 1.8 ± 4.2, and nonsustained ventricular tachycardia 0.4 ± 1.2). in conclusion, in elite athletes without cardiovascular disease, a resumption in intense training after deconditioning was associated with variable, but prolonged, suppression of ventricular ectopy. to investigate the long-term follow-up ofathletes with ventricular arrhythmias during an exercise test. athletes engaged in competitive sports are more likely to develop ventricular arrhythmias during exercise. these arrhythmias subside over time when athletes are engaged in non-competitive sports. 
Does ethnicity affect where people with cancer die? [SEP] : substantial ethnic differences have been reported in the probability that death will occur in a hospital setting rather than at home, in a hospice, or in a nursing home. : there are sizeable ethnic differentials in the probability that a death will occur in a hospital in california. to determine the role of ethnicity and health care, 5-year survival of patients with cervical cancer was compared between patients in the philippines and filipino-americans, who have the same ethnicity, and between filipino-americans and caucasians, who have the same health care system. ethnicity may be associated with important aspects of end-of-life care, such as what treatments are received, access to palliative care and where people die. place of cancer death varies ethnically and internationally. to establish place of cancer death by ethnicity and describe patient characteristics. although the place of death has a great influence on the quality of death and dying for cancer patients, whether the survival time differs according to the place of death is unclear. ethnic disparities in cancer survival have been documented in many populations and cancer types. hispanic men reported greater cancer fatalism compared with non-hispanic white men (β = 0.15, p = 0.03), and both hispanics (β = 0.19, p < 0.01) and african americans (β = 0.20, p < 0.01) reported greater medical mistrust than non-hispanic whites. this analysis examines ethnic differences in the place of death of elderly hospice patients. 
Are patients with serious mental illness more likely to be admitted to nursing homes with more deficiencies in care? [SEP] patients diagnosed with serious mental illness (smi) who qualify for nursing home placement tend to require high levels of both psychiatric and nursing care. compared with other patients, patients with schizophrenia (n=23,767) tended to enter nursing homes with more total (13.3 vs. 11.2, p<0.001) and healthcare-related deficiencies (8.6 vs. 7.2, p<0.001); and patients with bipolar disorder (n=19,741) were more likely to enter facilities with more problematic care too (12.5 vs. 11.2, p<0.001 for total deficiencies; and 8.2 vs. 7.2, p<0.001 for healthcare-related deficiencies). patients diagnosed with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder (ie, smi) were more likely than other patients to be admitted to nursing homes with higher deficiency citations for both overall quality and clinical care quality. placing people with mental illnesses in nursing homes is an important policy concern. using nursing home minimum data set assessments from 2005, we found much variation across states in both the rates of mental illness among nursing home admissions and the estimated rates of admission among people with mental illnesses. we also found that newly admitted people with mental illnesses were younger and more likely to become long-stay residents than those admitted with other conditions. taken together, these results suggest that state-level mental health and nursing home factors may influence the likelihood of long-term nursing home use for people with mental illnesses. we sought to determine whether patients with mental health diagnoses in the department of veterans affairs (va) are more likely to be admitted to nursing homes and to identify sociodemographic, utilization, and clinical characteristics, especially indicators of mental illness severity, associated with nursing home admission among mentally ill patients. of 3,952,229 va patients with no prior nursing home use, 15.2% received a mental health diagnosis, of which, 4.6% were eventually admitted to a nursing home. although factors leading to nursing home entry among the mentally ill are similar to those driving entry in the general population, those with more severe mental health problems are still more likely to be admitted. 
Does an additional antirotation U-Blade (RC) lag screw improve treatment of AO/OTA 31 A1-3 fractures with gamma 3 nail? [SEP] the u-blade (rc) lag screw for the gamma3® nail was introduced to provide monoaxial rotational stability of the femoral head and neck fragment. the purpose of this study was to evaluate whether the use of the u-blade (rc) lag screw is associated with reduced cut-out in patients with ota/ao 31a1-3 fractures. between 2009 and 2014, 751 patients with ota/ao 31a1-3 fractures were treated with a gamma3® nail at our institution. the most common fracture among group b with a cut-out of the lag screw were ao/ota 2.3 and 3.2 fractures whereas in group a cut-out was most commonly seen in ao/ota 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3 fractures, there was no significant reduction of the cut-out rate in group b 2.2% (n=3) compared to group a 3.7% (n=5). in our study the u-blade (rc) lag screw did not reduce the cut-out in treatment of ota/ao 31a1-3 fractures at all. the objective of this retrospective study was to investigate the surgical outcomes of ao/ota 31 a1-3 trochanteric fractures treated with the new-generation gamma3 nail with u-blade (rc) lag screw and to analyze the risk factors related to fixation failure. gamma3 nail with u-blade lag screw showed favorable results for trochanteric hip fractures, with low cut-out rate (0.6%). as an alternative to standard ao/association for the study of internal fixation plate and screw techniques, retrograde intramedullary locked nailing of supracondylar and intracondylar (ao/association for the study of internal fixation type 33) fractures is reviewed. from one level 1 trauma center, 216 consecutive adult intertrochanteric femoral fractures (ota/ao type 31 a3) were retrospectively identified with intramedullary nail fixation from 2004 through 2013. 1004 ota/ao 31a, 31b2.1 fractures treated with either a single screw cephalomedullary nail (gamma 3) or an integrated dual screw cephalomedullary nail (intertan) between february 1, 2005, and june 30, 2013. 
The Omega-3 Index: a new risk factor for death from coronary heart disease? [SEP] the omega-3 index (eicosapentaenoic acid + docosahexaenoic acid) content in red blood cell membranes has been suggested as a novel risk marker for cardiac death. to assess the ability of the omega-3 index to predict all-cause mortality, cardiac death and sudden cardiac death following hospitalization with an acute coronary syndrome (acs), and to include arachidonic acid (aa) in risk assessment. in 2004, the 'ω-3 index' was described as the sum of eicosapentaenoic acid (epa, 20 : 5 n-3) and docosahexaenoic acid (dha, 22 : 6 n-3) in red blood cells (rbcs) as an index of coronary heart disease mortality. this review outlines new evidence to support the ω-3 index as a tool to inform disease prognosis. several lines of evidence support the omega-3 index as a risk factor for scd: in epidemiological studies, a steep dependence of risk for scd and the omega-3 index has been observed between 6.5% (risk 0.1) and 3.3% (risk 1.0). the omega-3 index can assess risk for scd and monitor therapy with epa + dha. in particular, the omega-3 index (rbc eicosapentaenoic acid+docosahexaenoic acid, epa+dha) has been shown to be independently and inversely related to risk for sudden cardiac death and for acute coronary syndromes. the omega-3 index, a measure of long-chain omega-3 fats in red blood cell membranes, predicts heart disease mortality in adults, but its association with cardiovascular risk factors in younger populations is unknown. the percentage of epa + dha in red blood cells (rbc), also known as the omega-3 index, has recently been proposed as a risk marker for death from coronary heart disease (chd). the omega-3 index (o3i), which is calculated as the proportion of epa and dha in red blood cell (rbc) membranes, has been inversely associated with the risk of coronary heart diseases and coronary mortality. 
May mean platelet volume levels be a predictor in the diagnosis of pelvic inflammatory disease? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to investigate whether platelet indexes [platelet count, mean platelet volume (mpv), platelet-large cell ratio (p-lcr), and platelet distribution width (pdw)] could serve as diagnostic tools to evaluate the potential significance of platelet heterogeneity on thrombus formation. the aim of this study was to investigate whether platelet indices-mean platelet volume (mpv), platelet distribution width (pdw), and plateletcrit (pct) would be useful as noninvasive biomarkers for determining the severity of endometriosis. our finding may not sufficient for employing platelet indices solely in this differential diagnosis, but our finding could provide a suggestion for clinical physicians so that attention is paid to the value of platelet indices and that these may be taken into account when making decisions about the initial or advanced stages of endometriosis. platelet activation and destruction is a well recognized feature of pre-eclampsia, but the current literature is contradictory regarding the role of mean platelet volume (mpv) in the diagnosis of this condition. mean platelet volume is a more significant biomarker of pre-eclampsia. the level of platelet volume (mpv) has been reported to be a laboratory marker in inflammatory cases. to investigate the association between mean platelet volume and erectile dysfunction (ed) and to search whether this marker can be used for diagnosis of ed. we investigated whether the mean platelet volume would be a useful marker in the evaluation of inflammatory bowel disease activity. mean platelet volume is significantly reduced in active inflammatory bowel disease and is negatively correlated with the known inflammatory bowel disease activity markers and the platelet activation products. we propose that mean platelet volume provides a useful marker of activity in inflammatory bowel disease. 
Do cytokine concentrations in pancreatic juice predict the presence of pancreatic diseases? [SEP] cytokine concentration in pancreatic juice of patients with pancreatic disease is unknown. we aimed to evaluate the cytokine concentrations in pancreatic juice of patients with abdominal pain to discriminate presence from absence of pancreatic disease. pancreatic juice levels of interleukin-8, interleukin-6, intercellular adhesion molecule 1, and transforming growth factor-beta 1 were measured by modified enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. individual cytokine concentrations were not significantly different in chronic pancreatitis compared with pancreatic cancer. interleukin-8 concentration in pancreatic juice can be used to discriminate between normal pancreas and patients with pancreatic disease. we aim to show that cytokines can be identified from pancreatic fluid by (1) collecting pancreatic fluid with the epft method, (2) processing the fluid for cytokine-targeted microarray analysis, and (3) comparing cytokine profiles in pancreatic fluid of chronic pancreatitis (cp) patients and of chronic abdominal pain (cap) controls. pancreatic juice was collected from patients with three pancreatic diseases: pc, chronic pancreatitis (cp), and simple choledocholithiasis (cds), and analyzed by 2-de, maldi-tof/ms, and western blot. pancreatic juice (pj) [il-8] has been proposed as a marker for pancreatic diseases. although the role of cytokines in the etiopathology of chronic pancreatitis (cp) is well recognized, information on pancreatic tissue cytokines in cp with/without associated diabetes is unavailable. the aim of the present study was to identify the differences in pancreatic cytokines and observe their correlations with the glycemic status in cp. 
Does the sex of acute stroke patients influence the effectiveness of rt-PA? [SEP] we explored whether sex might modify the effect of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtpa) on outcomes in patients with acute ischemic stroke. using a combined database including subjects from the national institute of neurological disorders and stroke (ninds), alteplase thrombolysis for acute noninterventional therapy in ischemic stroke (atlantis) a and b, and the second european cooperative acute stroke study (ecass ii) trials, we examined 90-day outcomes in patients randomized to rtpa versus placebo by sex. in this pooled analysis of rtpa in acute ischemic stroke, women benefited more than men, and the usual gender difference in outcome favoring men was not observed in the thrombolytic therapy group. in this study we assess the effect of sex on radiological and functional outcomes in evt-treated acute stroke patients and determine if differences in baseline perfusion status between men and women might account for differences in outcomes. the objective of the study is to examine the influence of sex differences in relation to age on the prognosis after iv rtpa treatment in acute stroke patients. to determine the association between sex and functional outcomes after thrombolytic treatment for acute ischemic stroke in the context of a clinical trial. the use of rtpa in stroke patients aged >80 years remains controversial and it is debated whether there are sex-based differences in the response to rtpa. further study of how sex affects stroke outcome is needed. some studies report that women are less likely to receive iv rt-pa treatment for stroke than men. we identified studies that reported sex-specific iv rt-pa treatment rates for acute stroke. 
Are head and neck specific quality of life measures necessary? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to determine whether head and neck-specific health status domains are distinct from those assessed by general measures of quality-of-life (qol). most cancer-specific quality-of-life assessments give a single composite score for head and neck cancer-related quality of life. to develop and evaluate an improved multidimensional instrument to assess head and neck cancer-related functional status and well-being. the head and neck quality of life questionnaire is a promising multidimensional tool with which to assess head and neck cancer-specific quality of life. consequences of treating head and neck cancer are reflected in health-related quality of life (hrqol) patient-reported outcomes. improved understanding and management of health-related quality of life represents one of the greatest unmet needs for patients with head and neck malignancies. the purpose of this study was to prospectively measure health-related quality of life associated with different anatomical (head and neck) surgical resections. health-related quality of life (hrqol) associated factors are vital considerations prior to treatment decision-making for head and neck cancer patients. the goal of this investigation was to examine the relationship between, and application of, two disease specific quality of life (ql) measures currently being employed for head and neck cancer patients: the functional assessment of cancer therapy-head and neck scale (fact-h&n) and the performance status scale for head and neck cancer patients (pss-hn). understanding health-related quality of life (hrqol) is crucial to providing high-quality survivorship care for patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (hnscc). 
Diabetes mellitus among Swedish art glass workers--an effect of arsenic exposure? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to search for evidence of an association between occupational arsenic exposure and diabetes mellitus, as implied by the relation of this disease to arsenic in drinking water in a recent study from taiwan. the observations from this study provide limited support for the possibility that occupational arsenic exposure could play a role in the development of diabetes mellitus. past arsenic exposure was found associated with increased incidence of type 2 diabetes. this paper reviewed the potential biological mechanisms of arsenic-induced diabetes mellitus based on the current knowledge of the biochemical properties of arsenic. to examine the association between ingested inorganic arsenic and prevalence of diabetes mellitus, in 1988, the authors studied 891 adults residing in villages in southern taiwan where arseniasis is hyperendemic. there was a dose-response relation between cumulative arsenic exposure and prevalence of diabetes mellitus. these results suggest the chronic arsenic exposure may induce diabetes mellitus in humans. the observation of the relation between arsenic exposure and diabetes mellitus is further supported by studies carried out in sweden and bangladesh. in sweden, case-control analyses of death records of copper smelters and glass workers revealed a trend of increasing diabetes mellitus with increasing arsenic exposure from inhalation. we evaluated the association of inorganic arsenic exposure on diabetes in the hortega study, a representative sample of a general population from valladolid, spain. 
Does SYNTAX score predict in-hospital outcomes in patients with ST elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention? [SEP] a high syntax score (sxscore) is a predictor of adverse outcomes for stable and unstable coronary syndromes. we aimed to examine whether a high sxscore will determine in-hospital clinical outcomes in patients with st-elevation myocardial infarction (stemi) undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention. the study evaluated the correlation between baseline syntax score, residual syntax score, and syntax revascularization index and long-term outcomes in st-elevation myocardial infarction (stemi) patients with primary percutaneous coronary intervention (pci) on an unprotected left main coronary artery lesion (uplmca). cardiogenic shock (p=0.001), age (p=0.008), baseline syntax score ii (p=0.006), and syntax revascularization index (p=0.046) were independent mortality predictors at one-year follow-up. besides cardiogenic shock (hr 3.28, p<0.001), timi 0/1 flow (hr 2.17, p=0.021) and age (hr 1.03, p=0.006), baseline syntax score ii (hr 1.06, p=0.006), residual syntax score (hr 1.03, p=0.041), and syntax revascularization index (hr 0.9, p=0.011) were independent predictors of mortality at three years of follow-up. the aim of the study was to assess the relationship between baseline and post-procedural thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (timi) epicardial blood flow grade and mortality in patients with acute coronary syndromes (acs) who were treated with early percutaneous coronary intervention (pci). the prognostic factors of in-hospital mortality in all comers and unselected patients with st elevation myocardial infarction (stemi) undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention (pci) have not been well established. we assessed whether interventional complexity in patients presenting with st-segment elevation myocardial infarction (stemi) undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention (ppci) predicted long-term outcome. consecutive patients undergoing ppci for stemi underwent syntax scoring, based on angiographic images obtained at coronary intervention. the aim of the study was to evaluate the impact of preprocedural thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (timi) flow on one-year mortality in patients with st-segment elevation myocardial infarction (stemi) treated by primary angioplasty. 
Is micro-computed tomography reliable to determine the microstructure of the maxillary alveolar bone? [SEP] to analyze the reliability of micro-computed tomography (micro-ct) to assess bone density and the microstructure of the maxillary bones at the alveolar process in human clinics by direct comparison with conventional stereologic-based histomorphometry. analysis of osseous microstructural variables including bone volumetric density (bv/tv) of 39 biopsies from the maxillary alveolar bone was performed by micro-ct. micro-ct is a reliable technique to determine the bone density and the microstructure of the maxillary alveolar bone at the site of dental implant insertion. images of mandibular interdental alveolar bone in the premolar and molar regions were obtained using micro-ct and compact ct. the aim of this study was to investigate the influence of posterior mandibular dimensions (height and width at various levels) on alveolar bone microarchitecture using microcomputed tomography (micro-ct). the aim of this study was to assess the trabecular microarchitecture of the maxilla by using cone beam computed tomography (cbct) and micro-computed tomography (micro-ct) ex vivo. the objective of this investigation was to develop a micro-ct methodology for quantifying tooth-supporting alveolar bone in 3-d following experimental preclinical situations of periodontitis or reconstructive therapy. micro-ct and software digitized specimens were reconstructed three-dimensionally for linear and volumetric parameter assessment of alveolar bone (linear bone height, bone volume, bone volume fraction, bone mineral content, and bone mineral density). micro-computed tomography is an efficient method for quantifying the density and mineralization of mandibular microarchitecture. microfocus x-ray computed tomography (micro-ct) has been applied as a method for the nondestructive and detailed assessment of trabecular bone patterns and tooth structure. 
Does use of hydrophilic guidewires significantly improve technical success rates of peripheral PTA? [SEP] to determine whether the use of hydrophilic guidewires has influenced the success of peripheral percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (pta), the results of pta performed before and after the introduction of such guidewires (end of 1989) were analyzed. before hydrophilic guidewires became generally available, the technical success rates for iliac stenosis pta were 96%, for femoral stenosis pta 84%, and for femoral occlusion 78%. since the introduction of hydrophilic guidewires, the technical success rates of pta have improved and are now approaching 100%. to determine whether the use of hydrophilic guidewires has increased the technical success rate of peripheral percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (pta). we performed 125 procedures and analyzed the technical success rates of pta using the conventional guidewire first and then if needed, the hydrophilic guidewire for iliac and sfa stenoses or occlusions. the technical success rate after pta of stenosed iliac arteries was achieved in 96% (24/25) using conventional wires and 100% using hydrophilic guidewire; in iliac occlusions, the rates were 60% (15/25) and 96%, respectively; in femoral stenosis - 84% (21/25) and 100%; in occlusions in the first group: lesions <10 cm -64% (16/25) and 96%, in the second group: lesions >10 cm -48% (12/25) and 88%. the use of hydrophilic guidewires made significant difference to the technical success rate of pta, especially in occlusion and more complicated lesions. the development of hydrophilic guidewires has provided the vascular interventionalist with an important tool to more effectively deliver diagnostic and therapeutic equipment. to determine whether significant variation in performance exists between commonly used guidewires, a single-blinded, randomized study was conducted to evaluate three hydrophilic guidewires: the zipwire (boston scientific corp., natick, massachusetts), the hiwire (cook, inc., bloomington, indiana), and the glidewire (terumo medical corp., somerset, new jersey), which were used by three operators in 100 consecutive vascular disease patients. these results demonstrate that there are measurable differences between hydrophilic guidewires based on guidewire characteristics and operator preference. 
Does frozen section alter surgical management of multinodular thyroid disease? [SEP] the need for and extent of thyroid surgery for a thyroid nodule is usually primarily based on fine-needle aspiration (fna) and frozen section diagnosis. the relative role of these modalities in 66 patients who had undergone fna and subsequent thyroidectomy with frozen section was investigated. when strict histologic and cytologic criteria are applied, fna and frozen section are accurate and complementary methods that help in determining the operative management of thyroid masses. this study evaluates the indication for frozen section (fsx) in the management of the solitary thyroid nodule given the increasing use of fine-needle aspiration biopsy (fnab). the role of routine frozen section (fs) in the surgical management of thyroid nodules remains uncertain. the value of intraoperative frozen-section biopsy of thyroid nodules (solitary or dominant in a multinodular goitre) was examined in patients who underwent fine-needle aspiration cytology (fnac) for diagnosis before operation. intraoperative biopsy by frozen section is useful in patients undergoing surgery for a thyroid nodule with a 'suspicious' cytology. the value of routine frozen section examination for intraoperative diagnosis of thyroid cancer and determination of extent of thyroidectomy is controversial and needs to be evaluated on an institution to institution basis. the role of intraoperative frozen section in certain organ systems such as the thyroid continues to be problematic. frozen section (fs) evaluation during thyroid surgery is often used to guide intraoperative management. 
Could chest wall rigidity be a factor in rapid death from illicit fentanyl abuse? [SEP] chest wall rigidity has been reported after the administration of high-dose intravenous fentanyl. this case report supports the observation that low-dose intravenous fentanyl may also cause chest wall rigidity. a discussion of the management of fentanyl-induced chest wall rigidity is presented. induction of anesthesia with fentanyl has been associated with such extreme rigidity as to cause failure of bag-and-mask ventilation. therefore, fentanyl-induced rigidity was studied in 5 control patients to establish the dose at which ventilation became impossible and in 5 patients with tracheostomies to investigate changes in pulmonary compliance. since its introduction into clinical practice, it has been known that fentanyl and other synthetic opioids may cause skeletal muscle rigidity. we present 2 infants who developed chest wall rigidity, requiring the administration of neuromuscular blocking agents and controlled ventilation after analgesic doses of fentanyl. previous reports regarding chest wall rigidity after the administration of low-dose fentanyl in infants and children are reviewed, the pathogenesis of the disorder is discussed, and treatment options offered. of 380 patients who underwent aortocoronary artery bypass under high-dose (100 micrograms/kg) fentanyl anesthesia, 29 (7.6%) developed the sudden onset of extreme thoracic and abdominal rigidity, leading to respiratory depression 2 to 6 h postoperative, after an apparently normal recovery from the anesthesia. a case of thoraco-abdominal rigidity leading to respiratory failure is described in the post-operative period in an elderly patient who received a moderate dose of fentanyl. 
Is severe pain immediately after spinal augmentation a predictor of long-term outcomes? [SEP] pain is a significant problem following spinal cord injury (sci) and has a major influence on quality of life and the ability to engage in rehabilitation. severe, immediate postprocedural pain and the need for analgesics after vertebroplasty can be a discouraging experience for patients and caregivers. the goal of this study was to investigate whether the presence of severe pain immediately after vertebroplasty predicts short- and long-term pain relief. outcomes were pain severity and pain medication score and usage at 1 month and 1 year after vertebroplasty. patients with severe pain immediately after vertebroplasty have similar long-term outcomes compared with patients without severe pain. to determine the typical trajectory of pain during the first 6 months after spinal fusion surgery for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (ais) and the extent to which certain demographic, medical, and psychological variables modify this trajectory. pain after spinal fusion surgery for ais may not improve predictably with elapsed healing time, and limited data exist on predictors of the course of pain during the initial months after surgery. although pain typically declines predictably with healing time from spinal fusion surgery for ais, higher preoperative levels of pain and anxiety may be risk factors for chronic postsurgical pain whereas greater pain coping efficacy may help optimize postsurgical pain outcomes. chronic or persistent pain is increasingly recognised as a consequence of surgery in a number of different disciplines. this study aims to estimate the incidence of persistent pain following spinal surgery for scoliosis in a group of mainly adolescent patients. 
Can computerised tomography replace bone scintigraphy in detecting bone metastases from breast cancer? [SEP] bone scintigraphy is the standard procedure for the detection of bone metastases in breast cancer patients. to compare whole-body fdg-pet/ct and bone scintigraphy for the detection of bone metastases on a lesion basis in breast cancer patients. since both lytic and sclerotic metastases can occur in breast cancer patients, bone scintigraphy may remain of additional value in these patients. the ability to detect sclerotic bone metastases based on increased fdg uptake supports the use of fdg pet/ct as a staging procedure in breast cancer patients, but knowledge of factors determining the visibility of bone metastases with fdg pet/ct is crucial. whole-body bone scans and whole body (18)f-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomographic/computed tomographic scans are sensitive for detecting bone metastasis in patients with breast cancer. although bone scintigraphy is widely used to detect metastatic breast cancer, the usefulness of 18fdg-pet for detecting bone metastasis has not been clearly evaluated. the purpose of this study was to compare the diagnostic accuracy of 18fdg-pet with bone scintigraphy in detecting bone metastasis in breast cancer patients. the incremental value of single-photon emission computed tomography-computed tomography (spect-ct) over planar bone scintigraphy and spect in detecting skeletal lesions in breast cancer patients and its effect on patient management is assessed in this study. although the radionuclide bone scan is the method of choice for detection of metastatic lesions of the osseous pelvis, computed tomography should be used as a complementary study in certain patients. this study aimed to compare the detection of bone metastases from breast cancer on f-18 fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (fdg-pet) and bone scintigraphy (bs). 
Does obesity impact the pattern and outcome of trauma in children? [SEP] childhood obesity in trauma has been associated with increased incidence of long-bone fractures, longer icu stays, and decreased closed head injuries. we conducted this study to ascertain the effects of obesity on the hospital outcome of injured children. obesity has been identified as risk factor for poor outcomes in adult trauma patients, but has not been investigated adequately in younger patients. the purpose of this study was to investigate the impact of obesity on the outcomes of a severely injured population of children and adolescents. the implications of childhood obesity on pediatric trauma outcomes are not clearly established. the present study examines whether obesity was associated with poor outcomes following pediatric burn injuries. children with obesity may possess unique injury characteristics that may affect their emergency care. to better understand this relationship, we investigated the association of obesity in pediatric trauma patients and intra-abdominal injuries (iais) and routinely utilized emergency department (ed) diagnostic procedures (computed tomography (ct) scans and ultrasound (us) examinations). children with obesity had decreased odds for iai after adjusting for race, mechanical force injury (mfi) type, vomiting, and abdominal wall trauma (adjusted odds ratio (aor)=0.58 (95% ci 0.35-0.97); p-value=0.04). further research is needed in other pediatric populations with obesity and blunt injuries. 
Is non-invasive diagnosis of esophageal varices in patients with compensated hepatic cirrhosis possible by duplex Doppler ultrasonography? [SEP] non-invasive methods are required to diagnose presence and grading of esophageal varices in patients with hepatic cirrhosis and in this respect we have evaluated the role of transient elastography and abdominal ultrasound parameters. cirrhotic patients were prospectively evaluated by transient elastography and doppler ultrasound for diagnosis of presence and grading of esophageal varices, the results being compared with the findings of the esophagogastroduodenoscopy. the purpose of this study was to compare the diagnostic accuracy of simple recognition of hepatic vein waveform abnormalities using doppler sonography with portal doppler flowmetry for the noninvasive assessment of esophageal varices in patients with hepatitis c cirrhosis. simple recognition of patterns seen in hepatic vein waveform morphology in patients with liver cirrhosis caused by hepatitis c is superior to portal doppler flowmetry for predicting the size of esophageal varices. this study aimed to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of transient elastography and other noninvasive methods for the diagnosis of esophageal varices (ev) in patients with cirrhosis. our aims were to develop a noninvasive predictive tool to identify cirrhotic patients with esophageal varices and to evaluate whether portal doppler ultrasonographic parameters may improve the value of other predictors. the aim of the study was to examine the role of doppler ultrasonography of the portal vein in predicting esophageal variceal bleeding in patients with liver cirrhosis and portal hypertension by comparing the ultrasound data to the endoscopic findings. 99 patients with liver cirrhosis and esophageal varices underwent color doppler ultrasonography and esophagogastroduodenoscopy. results suggest that color doppler ultrasonography is a useful noninvasive method for evaluating the risk of esophageal variceal bleeding in patients with liver cirrhosis. one hundred twenty-nine cirrhotic patients and 60 noncirrhotic healthy controls were enrolled after endoscopic survey for the presence of esophageal varices. 
Is (18)F-FDG a surrogate tracer to measure tumor hypoxia? [SEP] the radiotracer 18f-fluoromisonidazole ([18f]fmiso) has been used with positron emission tomography (pet) to reveal tumor hypoxia. 18f-fluoromisonidazole (fmiso) positron emission tomography (pet) can detect tumor hypoxia noninvasively. the objective of this study was to determine whether kinetic analysis of dynamic (18)f-fluoromisonidazole data provides better discrimination of tumor hypoxia than methods based on a simple tissue-to-plasma ratio. 2-deoxy-2-[fluorine-18] fluoro-d-glucose (18f-fdg) positron emission tomography (pet) is a useful modality for the assessment of tumour glucose metabolism by upregulation by hypoxia. the aim of this study was therefore to design a surrogate for 18f-fmiso tbrmax based on 18f-fdg pet and contrast-enhanced ct radiomics features, and to study its performance in the context of hypoxia-based patient stratification. the results of this study support the role of (18)f-faza as a non-invasive prognostic marker for tumor hypoxia. experimental data suggest that the accumulation of [(18)f]fluorodeoxyglucose (fdg) in malignant tumours is related to regional hypoxia. the aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical potential of fdg positron emission tomography (pet) to assess tumour hypoxia in comparison with [(18)f]fluoromisonidazole (fmiso) pet and po(2)-polarography. quantitative evaluation of tumor hypoxia based on h-1-(3-[18f]fluoro-2-hydroxypropyl)-2-nitroimidazole ([18f]fmiso) positron emission tomography (pet) can deliver important information for treatment planning in radiotherapy. with support of immunohistochemistry data, this study shows that various analysis methods for [18f]fmiso pet perform differently for assessment of tumor hypoxia. 
Can dogs prime autistic children for therapy? [SEP] canine-assisted therapy has been receiving growing attention as a means of aiding children with autism spectrum disorder (asd). the present study aims at providing additional quantitative evidence on the potential of dogs to positively modulate the behavior of children with asd. these findings are in accordance with previous experimental work and provide additional support for the assertion that dogs can prime autistic children for therapy. prompted by the need to find effective ways to enhance compliance in children with autism spectrum disorder (asd), and building on the increasing interest in dog-assisted interventions for this population, this study provides an exploratory test on whether dogs may assist children with severe asd in complying with challenging demands while also decreasing behavioral and cardiovascular distress. exploratory analyses suggest more synchrony between children with asd and their therapy dogs, compared to the children with ds. children with autism spectrum disorder (asd) have deficits in social skills, and interaction with service dogs has been associated with increased social skills for children with asd. scientific literature exploring the value of assistance dogs to children with autism spectrum disorder (asd) is rapidly emerging. this research calls for occupational therapy practitioners' attention to the potential benefits that may derive from using dogs to promote spontaneous imitation, and increase imitation performance, in people with asd, particularly children. this pilot study sought to investigate the benefits of animal-assisted activities with dogs and psychiatrically hospitalized youth with autism spectrum disorder. results suggest that animal-assisted activities with a dog may promote social-communication behaviors in psychiatrically hospitalized youth with autism spectrum disorder. 
Are 99mTc leukocyte scintigraphy and SBFT studies useful in children suspected of having inflammatory bowel disease? [SEP] to evaluate (99m)tc-hmpao leukocyte scintigraphy as an investigation for inflammatory bowel disease (ibd). to investigate the use of (99m)tc-hmpao (hexamethyl propylene amine oxime) leucocyte scintigraphy as a non-invasive screening test for inflammatory bowel disease. the goal of this retrospective study was to assess whether 99mtc-white blood cell (wbc) scintigraphy and upper gastrointestinal small bowel follow-through (ugi-sbft) could exclude inflammation in children suspected of having inflammatory bowel disease (ibd). the aim of the study was to assess the diagnostic accuracy of scintigraphy with 99mtechnetium hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (99mtc-hmpao) labeled leukocytes in children with suspected ibd. eighty-five children (age 12.4 ± 4.3 years, 47% boys) with suspected ibd based on clinical presentation, laboratory and ultrasound findings underwent scintigraphy with 99mtc-hmpao labeled leukocytes. scintigraphy with 99mtc-hmpao labeled leukocytes in children with suspected ibd has high accuracy and offers a non-invasive option for detecting the presence of gastrointestinal inflammation. we reviewed 312 (99m)tc leukocyte (99m)tc-wbc studies to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of (99m)tc-wbc for identifying small-bowel and gastric inflammation in children with crohn's disease. to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of scintigraphy with technetium 99m white blood cells (wbc) for detection of colonic inflammation in children with and children without inflammatory bowel disease (ibd). scintigraphy with 99mtc wbc is a useful noninvasive diagnostic test to determine the extent and distribution of inflammation in children with ibd. the goal of this study was to evaluate the accuracy of computerized tomography (ct) and 99mtc-white blood cell (wbc) scintigraphy versus colonoscopy in assessing inflammatory bowel diseases (ibd) in a large population of children. 
Risk factors for avascular necrosis of bone in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus: is there a role for antiphospholipid antibodies? [SEP] avascular necrosis of bone (avn) is a well known complication in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). objectives the aim of this study was to investigate the association between antiphospholipid antibodies and non-thrombotic and non-gestational manifestations of systemic lupus erythematosus. antiphospholipid antibodies (apl), namely anticardiolipin antibodies (acl) and lupus anticoagulant (lac), have been associated with an increased risk of thrombosis in systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). atherosclerosis is an important complication of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) and primary antiphospholipid syndrome (aps). although antiphospholipid antibodies (apl) are associated with arterial and venous thrombosis in systemic lupus erythematosus (sle), the extent to which they influence other cardiovascular manifestations is either controversial or uncertain. high titres of serum antiphospholipid antibodies are a possible pathogenic factor for cardiac lesions in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. to evaluate the association between isotypes of anti-beta2-glycoprotein i antibodies (anti-beta2-gpi) and thrombosis and to identify antiphospholipid antibodies (apl) that are most associated with thrombosis in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). avascular necrosis of bone is a common manifestation of systemic lupus erythematosus, particularly in those patients receiving corticosteroids. the authors review the pathogenesis and diagnosis of avascular necrosis and describe an ankle arthrodesis in a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus who developed avascular necrosis of the talus. not only antiphospholipid antibodies (apls) but also other factors should be considered in assessing the risk of thrombosis development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) and antiphospholipid antibodies (apls). 
Prostate bed target interfractional motion using RTOG consensus definitions and daily CT on rails : Does target motion differ between superior and inferior portions of the clinical target volume? [SEP] using high-quality ct-on-rails imaging, the daily motion of the prostate bed clinical target volume (pb-ctv) based on consensus radiation therapy oncology group (rtog) definitions (instead of surgical clips/fiducials) was studied. the aim of this study was to quantify interfraction variation in motion of the prostate bed to determine these margins. prostate bed motion was calculated for the upper and lower segments by measuring the position of surgical clips located close to midline relative to bony anatomy in the axial (translational) and sagittal (tilt) planes. the mean magnitude of movement of the prostate bed in the anterior-posterior, superior-inferior and left-right planes, respectively, were as follows: upper portion, 0.50 cm, 0.28 cm, 0.10 cm; lower portion, 0.18 cm, 0.18 cm, 0.08 cm. the random and systematic errors, respectively, of the prostate bed motion in the anterior-posterior, superior-inferior and left-right planes, respectively, were as follows: upper portion, 0.47 cm and 0.50 cm, 0.28 cm and 0.27 cm, 0.11 cm and 0.11 cm; lower portion, 0.17 cm and 0.18 cm, 0.17 cm and 0.19 cm, 0.08 cm and 0.10 cm. the difference in motion between the superior and inferior portions of the prostate bed is statistically insignificant in the left-right and superior-inferior directions, but statistically significant in the anterior-posterior direction, which warrants a nonuniform ptv margin scheme. to report on the interfraction total positioning error of the postoperative prostate bed and to quantify its components (bony misalignment [bm] and prostate bed motion [pbm]) using daily kilovoltage cone-beam computed tomography (cbct). to assess the robustness of scanned ion beam treatment plans against the interfraction internal target motion and evaluate the limits of validity of target-based isocenter realignment for prostate cancer radiation therapy. for bony-structure based registration, internal prostate motion is the main factor determining the margin from clinical target volume to planning target volume. the purpose of this study was to measure interfractional internal motion of the prostate and to identity the factors which enlarge or reduce the margin, with special focus on patients' anatomical characteristics. 
Esophagogastric devascularization without splenectomy in portal hypertension: safe and effective? [SEP] when acute or chronic sclerotherapy fails or when bleeding is secondary to gastric varices or portal hypertensive gastropathy, emergency surgery may be life-saving and should be done promptly before worsening hepatic functional decompensation develops. esophagogastric variceal hemorrhage is a life-threatening complication of portal hypertension. in this study, we compared the therapeutic effect of a novel surgical procedure, esophagogastric devascularization without splenectomy (edws), with the widely used modified esophagogastric devascularization (med) with splenectomy for the treatment of portal hypertension. edws is a safe and effective treatment for esophagogastric varices secondary to portal hypertension in selected patients. single-stage biliary decompression without prior shunt surgery, although risks for catastrophic bleeding, it is feasible to perform upfront hepaticojejunostomy in a splenectomized patient where shuntable vein is not available in patient with portal biliopathy. based on the thoughts that transthoracic approaches give less load to liver than transabdominal ones, and that effectiveness for bleeding esophageal varices is secured by cardiectomy with complete devascularization of lower esophagus and upper stomach, a new operative procedure for esophageal varices is described which is more safely applicable to the risky patients. the role of laparoscopic selective esophagogastric devascularization and splenectomy (lsegds) in the treatment of esophagogastric variceal bleeding and hypersplenism in patients with cirrhotic portal hypertension has not been well studied. to investigate the safety and efficacy of lsegds for esophagogastric variceal bleeding and hypersplenism in patients with cirrhotic portal hypertension. from may 2011 to december 2014, 74 patients with portal hypertension resulting from liver cirrhosis underwent surgery for gastroesophageal variceal bleeding and hypersplenism. forty-one of these patients underwent laparoscopic esophagogastric devascularization and splenectomy (legds), and the others underwent lsegds. 
Does maternal obesity have an influence on feeding behavior of obese children? [SEP] parental obesity is highly predictive of child obesity, and preterm infants are at greater risk of obesity, but little is known about obese and non-obese mothers' responsiveness to preterm infant cues during feeding. some studies show that greater parental control over children's eating habits predicts later obesity, but it is unclear whether parents are reacting to infants who are already overweight. maternal feeding practices have been proposed to play an important role in early child weight gain and obesogenic eating behaviors. the aim of the present study was to explore prospective relationships between maternal feeding practices, child weight gain and obesogenic eating behaviors in 2-year-old children. the competing hypothesis that child eating behaviors predict changes in maternal feeding practices was also examined. furthermore, restriction, emotional feeding, encouragement to eat, weight-based restriction and fat restriction were associated prospectively with the development of obesogenic eating behaviors in children including emotional eating, tendency to overeat and food approach behaviors (such as enjoyment of food and good appetite). maternal feeding practices play an important role in the development of weight gain and obesogenic eating behaviors in young children and are potential targets for effective prevention interventions aiming to decrease child obesity. background: parental restrictive feeding (i.e., limiting food intake of children) has been linked to childhood overweight. the postnatal feeding practices of obese and overweight mothers may place their children at increased risk for the development of obesity through shared biology and family environments. this article reviews the feeding practices of obese mothers, describes the potential mechanisms linking maternal feeding behaviors to child obesity risk, and highlights the potential avenues of intervention. 
Is plate clearing a risk factor for obesity? [SEP] a tendency to clear one's plate when eating may be a risk factor for obesity in an environment where food is plentiful. whether plate clearing is associated with increased body weight in a cohort of us participants was examined. nine hundred and ninety-three us adults (60% male, 80% american european, mean age=31 years) completed self-report measures of habitual plate clearing together with behavioral and demographic characteristics known to be associated with obesity. plate clearing tendencies were positively associated with bmi and remained so after accounting for a large number of other demographic and behavioral predictors of bmi in analyses (β=0.18, 95% cis=0.07, 0.29, p<0.001); an increased tendency to plate clear was associated with a significantly higher body weight. the tendency to clear one's plate when eating is associated with increased body weight and may constitute a risk factor for weight gain. clearing one's plate out of habit when eating may promote excess energy consumption. this study examined whether plate clearing is related to increased body weight in a sample of young adults. plate clearing was predictive of heavier body weight in both unadjusted and adjusted analyses. clearing one's plate when eating is associated with heavier body weight, and the prevalence of this behaviour may depend on parenting practices and concerns about food waste. further work examining the longitudinal effect of plate clearing on weight gain is now needed. 
Should lower limb fractures be treated surgically in patients with chronic spinal injuries? [SEP] fusion should be considered for patients with low back pain and isthmic spondylolisthesis who have failed nonoperative treatment. to analyze the treatment outcome of patients with lower thoracic and lumbar fractures combined with neurological deficits. although various methods of the surgical treatment for lower thoracic and lumbar fractures are used, there has been no surgical treatment established as a superior option than others. between march 2001 and august 2009, this study enrolled 13 patients with lower thoracic and lumbar fractures who underwent spinal canal decompression by removing posteriorly displaced bony fragments via the posterior approach and who followed up for more than a year. the posterior direct decompression could be used as one of treatments for lower thoracic and lumbar fractures combined with neurologic injuries. the indications for surgery have generally included fracture instability or failed nonoperative management. to evaluate the difference in terms of overall complications between surgical and non-surgical management of lower limb fractures in patients with chronic spinal cord injury (sci). a 13-year retrospective study including patients with chronic spinal cord lesion admitted for sublesional lower limb fractures. we compared the number of overall complications between surgical and non-surgical management of fractures. lower extremity fractures due to osteoporosis in patients with sci are responsible for local and general complications. 
Is vancomycin MIC creep a worldwide phenomenon? [SEP] vancomycin mic creep has been reported by some institutions but not confirmed in large surveillance studies. "mic creep" is a phenomenon that describes an increase of an organism mics over time and have been reported from different parts of the world. this study was conducted to assess presence of vancomycin minimum inhibitory concentration (mic) creeps among clinical isolates of methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (mrsa) in saudi arabia. furthermore, to analyze the causes of vancomycin mic creeps and the relationship between vancomycin mics and the outcome among patients with mrsa infection. the data demonstrated vancomycin mic creep among clinical isolates in our hospital, and the mic creep may be caused by the increasing usage of vancomycin. there are reports of an increase in vancomycin minimum inhibitory concentration (mic) against methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (mrsa) over time, a phenomenon referred to as "mic creep", but some studies have conflicting results. increased use of vancomycin has led to frank resistance and increase in mic (mic creep). there have been several reports of upward creep in vancomycin mics for staphylococcus aureus [predominantly methicillin-resistant s. aureus (mrsa)] over recent years, but only in single centres or using contemporaneous results. the phenomenon of vancomycin minimum inhibitory concentration (mic) creep is an increasingly serious problem in the treatment of methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (mrsa) infections. due to the rise in methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (mrsa) infections and widespread use of vancomycin, mrsa isolates with reduced susceptibility to vancomycin are emerging (i.e., mic creep). 
Does short-term treatment with proton pump inhibitors cause rebound aggravation of symptoms? [SEP] while the physiological existence of rebound acid hypersecretion (rahs) after withdrawal of proton pump inhibitors (ppi) therapy is established, the clinical implications are less certain. rebound acid hypersecretion might occur after treatment with proton pump inhibitors. this study looks for a rebound aggravation of symptoms after short-term treatment with lansoprazole. rebound acid hypersecretion after withdrawal of proton pump inhibitor (ppi) may lead to symptom aggravation and difficulties in withdrawing anti-reflux medication. a trend toward relapse of reflux symptoms and esophagitis during long-term treatment with proton pump inhibitors has been reported. a significant proportion of patients on proton pump inhibitors (ppi) reports insufficient control of symptoms, most probably resulting from ongoing reflux of non-acid and acid material. the occurrence and the clinical relevance of rebound acid hypersecretion after discontinuation of proton pump inhibitors is unclear. to perform a systematic review of rebound acid hypersecretion after discontinuation of proton pump inhibitors. these two studies suggested that rebound acid hypersecretion may occur in h. pylori-negatives after 8 weeks of proton pump inhibitors. two recent studies-one of which is published in this edition of the american journal of gastroenterology-have reported that new dyspeptic or reflux symptoms may develop among previously asymptomatic individuals after withdrawal of a short course of a proton pump inhibitor (ppi). 
Do family physicians make good sentinels for influenza? [SEP] to determine whether volunteer family physician reports of the frequency of influenza-like illness (ili) usefully supplement information from other influenza surveillance systems conducted by the centers for disease control and prevention. evaluation of physician reports from five influenza surveillance seasons (1987-88 through 1991-92). family physicians provide sensitive, timely, and accurate community influenza morbidity data that complement data from other surveillance systems. case reporting through a voluntary network of sentinel physicians is a commonly used method of passive surveillance for monitoring rates of influenza-like illness (ili) worldwide. physicians of the spanish influenza sentinel surveillance system report and systematically swab patients attended to their practices for influenza-like illness (ili). seasonal influenza surveillance is usually carried out by sentinel general practitioners (gps) who compile weekly reports based on the number of influenza-like illness (ili) clinical cases observed among visited patients. influenza outbreaks affect millions of people every year and its surveillance is usually carried out in developed countries through a network of sentinel doctors who report the weekly number of influenza-like illness cases observed among the visited patients. to discover if continuous computerised collection of morbidity data through a medical practice based sentinel network can be used to monitor influenza-like illness (ili) epidemics. to evaluate the opportunities and limitations of using laboratory data to enhance sentinel general practice surveillance of influenza. sentinel general practice surveillance of influenza in wales is simple, flexible, acceptable, timely, representative, and relatively sensitive. 
Aberrant loss of dickkopf-3 in gastric cancer: can it predict lymph node metastasis preoperatively? [SEP] here, we investigated the expression of dkk-3 protein in gastric cancer and its potential value as a prognostic marker. dkk-3 expression in tumor vessels of patients with gastric cancer identifies a population of patients with relatively favorable prognosis. this study assessed the dkk3 protein expression in gastric cancer and its potential value as a prognostic marker. dkk3 expression was evaluated by immunohistochemistry in 158 gastric cancer samples from patients who underwent gastrectomy from 2002 to 2008. loss of dkk3 expression was found in 64 of 158 (40.5%) samples, and it was associated with advanced t stage (p < 0.001), lymph node metastasis (p < 0.001), uicc tnm stage (p < 0.001), tumor location (p = 0.029), lymphovascular invasion (p = 0.035), and perineural invasion (p = 0.032). based on the preoperative clinical stage assessed by computed tomography (ct), loss of dkk3 expression was predominantly associated with worse prognosis in patients with clinically node-negative advanced gastric cancer (agc). loss of dkk3 protein expression was significantly associated with poor survival in patients with gastric cancer and was strongly correlated with the tnm stage. li-cadherin expression was significantly correlated with tumor histology and lymph node metastasis: furthermore, reduced expression of li-cadherin was closely associated with tumor progression and lymph node metastasis in human gastric carcinoma. there is a close association between reduced expression of li-cadherin and lymph node metastasis in human gastric cancer. predicting lymph node metastasis (lnm) accurately is vital to design optimal treatment strategies preoperatively for gastric cancer (gc) patients. 
Is ganglionated plexi ablation during Maze IV procedure beneficial for postoperative long-term stable sinus rhythm? [SEP] we investigated the role of surgical ablation targeting the autonomous nervous system during a cox-maze iv procedure in the maintenance of sinus rhythm at long-term follow-up. we evaluated whether ganglionic plexi isolation improves the results of the maze procedure during mitral valve surgery. a retrospective study was conducted of 79 patients who underwent cox maze iv concomitantly with open-heart surgery with (gp group) or without (maze group) ganglionated plexus mapping. ganglionated plexus ablation with cox maze iv did not reduce the incidence of recurrent atrial fibrillation in comparison to maze alone. ganglionated plexi ablation outcomes with and without prior mapping were compared between perioperative and early postoperative periods. cox maze iii ablation is one of the effective ways for restoring sinus rhythm for patients undergoing open heart surgery. the aim of present study was to evaluate efficacy of maze iii ablation procedure for restoring sinus rhythm among patients who had underwent open heart surgery. based on the results of this study, cox maze iii ablation procedure is an effective and safe way for restoring sinus rhythm among patients who are candidate for open heart surgery, while no significant complication was seen among patients. we investigated the effect of the maze procedure with intensive pulmonary vein isolation (pvi) guided by ganglionated plexus (gp) mapping (the maze with gp ablation group) on a long-term postoperative maintenance of sinus rhythm in patients with permanent atrial fibrillation (af) and compared with that in patients undergoing the maze procedure with the conventional pvi (the maze group). sinus rhythm and atrial contraction recovered early after the maze procedure in most patients and were maintained for more than two years. 
Double reading of barium enemas: is it necessary? [SEP] a double-contrast barium meal has been carried out on 37 patients in whom there had been disagreement in diagnosis between the routine barium meal and subsequent oesophago-gastro-duodenoscopy. these findings suggest that a double-contrast barium meal should be routinely used in the diagnosis of dyspepsia. a biphasic approach with a medium-density barium suspension can be attempted in nearly every patient; if the patient proves unable to cooperate for an optimal double-contrast examination, a single-contrast examination can be performed with the same barium swallowed. to determine which of two types of barium preparation, a dry powder (ac-14, e-z-em, montreal) or a premixed suspension (liquid polibar plus, e-z-em), gives better mucosal coating for double-contrast enema studies, the authors compared the results of two series of 80 examinations each, one for each of the preparations. two case reports are presented in which a barium enema was carried out immediately following rectal biopsy. barium enema studies are considered essential for the diagnosis of tubular colonic duplication with opacification of two colons being the diagnostic sign. yet in certain cases, barium enema apparently does not show positive findings. a case is reported in which a barium follow-through study established the complete diagnosis of duplication of colon and terminal ileum. although controversy has surrounded the use of single- and double-contrast barium enemas for many years, a growing opinion exists that these studies are complementary, each possessing advantages in different clinical settings. we have found that when interpretation of double-contrast studies is difficult because suspected abnormalities are subtle or because technical quality of examinations is less than ideal, single-contrast enemas can be helpful. 
Is severe macrosomia manifested at 11-14 weeks of gestation? [SEP] at 11-12 weeks' gestation, our sonographic images showed multiple fetal deformities. fetal mri at 14 weeks' gestation confirmed a large anterior wall defect with herniation of the liver and bowel. this study was planned to evaluate the efficiency of the 11-14 week scan in detecting fetuses with major fetal structural abnormalities. fetal structural abnormalities classified as major and early onset were noted. a high proportion of fetuses with holoprosencephaly, exomphalos and megacystis diagnosed at 11-13 weeks of gestation are aneuploid, but in the majority of cases exomphalos and megacystis represent temporary abnormalities that resolve spontaneously. macrosomia is diagnosed when excessive intrauterine fetal growth occurs and the birth weight surpasses an established limit. the causes and risk factors for fetal macrosomia are diverse. pregnancies with fetal macrosomia are considered high risk and require intensive antenatal care. delivery of a macrosomic baby is also high risk and should be performed in tertiary centres with experienced obstetricians. this study reports the ultrasound findings and pregnancy outcome for a series of monoamniotic twin pregnancies diagnosed at 11-14 weeks' gestation. 
Do older adults with cancer fall more often? [SEP] this study examined community-dwelling elderly to identify if individuals with a history of cancer fall at a higher rate than those without cancer, and if the occurrence of falls was influenced by individual characteristics, symptoms, or function. increasingly cancer is becoming a disease of older people and fall rates are higher in elders living with cancer. falls in older adults with cancer are common, yet factors associated with fall-risk are not well-defined and may differ from the general geriatric population. cancer symptoms and the side effects of its treatment can increase the risk of falling among older adults with cancer. we sought to assess the prevalence and risk factors for falls in older patients with cancer. falls are common in older patients with cancer and lead to adverse clinical outcomes. the aim of this study is to understand the circumstances of falls in older patients with cancer. people with cancer often have multiple risk factors for falls. there is a high prevalence of falls in community-dwelling older patients with a cancer diagnosis. falls are prevalent among older patients with cancer. 
Scrotal approach to both palpable and impalpable undescended testes: should it become our first choice? [SEP] to compare the clinical and morphological features of impalpable and palpable cryptorchid testes, as there is debate about how much effort is appropriate to bring an impalpable undescended testicle into the scrotum. to determine the advantages of scrotal incision in the treatment of undescended testis. a single scrotal incision orchidopexy has become accepted as a valid approach for patients with palpable undescended testicles. because this approach also allows easy detection of atrophic testes or testicular remnants, it recently has also emerged as an alternative initial surgical approach to impalpable undescended testicles. if a 'low' palpable testis (defined as testis that can be manipulated to the scrotum) was found, a scrotal approach was used. in cases of 'high' palpable testis (testis that cannot be manipulated to scrotum), the inguinal approach was used. this tailored approach to a palpable undescended testis appears simple, safe, and effective, providing high success rate with marginal complications. a personal series of consecutive explorations for undescended testes is presented, with particular emphasis on the impalpable testis. surgical therapy of undescended testes is indicated when the testis is located in any site other than the scrotum, especially after unsuccessful hormonal treatment. high scrotal orchidopexy is a satisfactory approach to any palpable maldescended testis, having the advantage of using a single incision and requiring less dissection and anatomical disruption of the inguinal region, with excellent cosmesis. 
Is grandmultiparity an independent risk factor for adverse perinatal outcomes? [SEP] it is suggested that grandmultiparity is a troublesome condition in obstetric settings because of increased perinatal complications. this multicenter cohort study aimed to determine whether grandmultiparity (parity ≥ 6) poses a risk for uterine rupture in women with no previous cesarean delivery. traditionally grandmultiparity has been considered to be an obstetric hazard both to the mother and foetus. a higher frequency of hypertensive disorders in pregnancy, preterm birth, anaemia, malpresentations, multiple pregnancy and premature rupture of membranes, postpartum haemorrhage and retained placenta was noted in the grandmultipara which also had a slightly higher caesarean delivery rate. in our set up, grandmultiparity continues to challenge our obstetric practice with its associated increased likelihood of maternal and perinatal complications. grandmultiparity has been associated with complications for both mother and the fetus. to evaluate if grandmultiparity is a risk factor in the presence of adequate antenatal care. grandmultiparas had almost three times increased risk of having postpartum hemorrhage compared to ngmp group. our study indicates that grandmultiparity is a risk factor for pregnancy in this part of the world, even in the presence of reasonable antenatal care. grand multiparity remains a risk in pregnancy and is associated with an increased prevalence of maternal and neonatal complications (malpresentation, meconium-stained liquor, placenta previa and a low apgar score) compared with other multiparous women who delivered at muhimbili national hospital. 
Does the investing layer of the deep cervical fascia exist? [SEP] although the investing cervical fascia has been considered as an impenetrable barrier, clinically, the placement of the block deep or superficial to the fascia provides the same effective anesthesia. using a combination of dissection, e12 sheet plastination, and confocal microscopy, fascial structures in the anterior cervical triangle were examined in 10 adult human cadavers. in the upper cervical region, the fascia of strap muscles in the middle and the fasciae of the submandibular glands on both sides formed a dumbbell-like fascia sheet that had free lateral margins and did not continue with the sternocleidomastoid fascia. the fascial structure deep to platysma in the anterior cervical triangle comprised the strap fascia. this study provides anatomical evidence to indicate that the so-called investing cervical fascia does not exist in the anterior triangle of the neck. deep neck spaces are regions of loose connective tissue filling areas between the 3 layers of deep cervical fascia, namely, superficial, middle, and deep layers. a profound understanding of the relationship between the deep cervical fasciae and the skull base is essential for skull base surgery. to our knowledge, there has been little research on the relationship between the deep cervical fasciae and inferior surface of the skull base; thus, this study aims to examine the fascial network of the skull base. dissection of six embalmed adult cadavers, along with ultrasound imaging on four living subjects, were carried out to determine the existence, topography, and thickness of the membranous layer of superficial fascia in different regions of the body. it is a discrete space completely enclosed by the deep layer of deep cervical fascia. 
Is crime associated with over-the-counter pharmacy syringe sales? [SEP] to identify factors predicting pharmacy syringes sales to pwid. pharmacy syringe sales was strongly associated with pharmacist supportive beliefs about syringe access by pwid and their comfort level selling syringes to pwid. notably, pharmacies located in communities with high rates of opioid overdose mortality were 56% less likely to sell syringes without a prescription than those in communities with lower rates. statistics on drug-related crime are on the upswing as an increasing number of perpetrators recognize that wholesalers and hospitals are large depots of injectable narcotics and controlled substances. although pharmacy sales of otc syringes are associated with reduced injection-mediated risks and decreases in human immunodeficiency virus infection rates, little is known about the factors associated with syringe purchase among injection drug users (idus). in multivariate analyses, age, race, injection frequency, the type of drug injected, and the source of syringe supply were independently associated with otc syringe purchases. in a city with both seps and pharmacies as syringe source and disposal options for pwid, these findings suggest that while pharmacies are selling syringes, they are not as readily involved in safe syringe disposal. describe the prevalence of opioid shoppers in prescribers' practices. community pharmacies serve as key locations for public health services including interventions to enhance the availability of syringes sold over-the-counter (otc), an important strategy to prevent injection-mediated hiv transmission. our combined statistical and spatial analyses provided an innovative approach to assess the sociodemographic and geographic factors associated with the presence of community pharmacies and pharmacies that participate in otc syringe sales. 
Is prophylactic fixation a cost-effective method to prevent a future contralateral fragility hip fracture? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to examine the cost-effectiveness of prophylactic fixation of the uninjured hip to prevent contralateral hip fracture. : a markov state-transition model was used to evaluate the cost and quality-adjusted life-years (qalys) for unilateral fixation of hip fracture alone (including internal fixation or arthroplasty) compared with unilateral fixation and contralateral prophylactic hip fixation performed at the time of hip fracture or unilateral fixation and bilateral hip pad protection. however, prophylactic fixation was found to be a cost-effective method to prevent contralateral hip fracture in: 1) women 71 to 75 years old who had 30% greater relative risk for a contralateral fracture; and 2) women younger than age 70 years. : prophylactic fixation with a cephalomedullary nail was not found to be cost-effective for the average older woman who sustained a hip fracture. the study supports the need for basic science and clinical trials investigating the effectiveness of prophylactic fixation for patient populations at higher lifetime risk for contralateral hip fracture. the purpose of this study is to use markov modeling to determine whether contralateral prophylactic femur fracture fixation is cost-effective after a bisphosphonate-associated atypical femur fracture and, if so, what patient-related factors may influence that determination. markov modeling was used to determine the cost-effectiveness of contralateral prophylactic fixation after an initial atypical femur fracture. prophylactic fixation of the contralateral side after unilateral atypical femur fracture is not cost-effective for standard-risk patients but is cost-effective among high-risk patients between 60 and 89 years of age with a high risk for an atypical femur fracture defined by patients with more than one risk factor such as asian ethnicity, prodromal pain, varus proximal femur geometry, femoral bowing, or radiographic changes such as periosteal beaking and a transverse radiolucent line. primary outcome was to evaluate, in patients suffering from osteoporotic fnf, the effectiveness of pns in reducing the incidence of a contralateral hip fracture. considering that current pharmacological approach can achieve, at best, a marginal reduction in fnf especially in patients at high risk, complementary approaches to provide immediate prevention of hip fractures may need to be developed. 
Is double-balloon enteroscopy an accurate method to diagnose small-bowel disorders? [SEP] the double balloon enteroscopy is an important method for the endoscopic approach of the small bowel that provides diagnosis and therapy of this segment's disorders, with low complication rate. double-balloon enteroscopy has allowed us not only to inspect deeply the small bowel but also to carry out interventions for diseases of the small bowel. double-balloon enteroscopy is useful for the diagnosis and treatment of small bowel polyps and tumours. the advent of double-balloon enteroscopy has enabled more accurate diagnosis and treatment of small bowel disorders. to prospectively assess the diagnostic and therapeutical impact of double-balloon enteroscopy in patients with suspected or documented small bowel disease. our prospective analysis shows that double-balloon enteroscopy is a useful, safe and well-tolerated new method with a high diagnostic and therapeutic impact for the management of suspected or documented small bowel diseases. the aim of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic and therapeutic impact of double-balloon enteroscopy in patients with suspected or documented small bowel disease who were referred to our tertiary center, which was the first to introduce the double-balloon enteroscopy system in turkey. our prospective analysis suggests that double-balloon enteroscopy is a feasible and useful technique for the diagnosis as well as treatment of small intestinal disorders. the purpose of this study was to determine the value of double-balloon enteroscopy in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases of the small intestine. double-balloon enteroscopy is safe, effective in the diagnosis of diseases of the small intestine in addition to endoscopic therapy. 
Does strategy training reduce age-related deficits in working memory? [SEP] here, we offer the first evidence of direct transfer-of-benefits from perceptual discrimination training to working memory performance in older adults. moreover, using electroencephalography to evaluate participants before and after training, we reveal neural evidence of functional plasticity in older adult brains, such that training-induced modifications in early visual processing during stimulus encoding predict working memory accuracy improvements. metacognition research suggests age-related deficits in updating and utilizing strategy knowledge, but other research suggests age-related sparing when information can be consolidated into a coherent mental model. our findings mirror those in the mental model literature suggesting age-related sparing of strategy use when information can be integrated into a coherent mental model. the strategy-deficit hypothesis states that age differences in the use of effective strategies contribute to age-related deficits in working memory span performance. as indicated by previous research, aging is associated with a decline in working memory (wm) functioning, related to alterations in fronto-parietal neural activations. in our study we investigated the impact of wm training on variety of cognitive tasks performance among older adults and the impact of the initial wm capacity (wmc) on the training efficiency. numerous studies reported an age-related deficit in verbal working memory (wm). as mnemonic utilization deficit in older adults associates with age-related decline in executive function, we hypothesized that memory strategy training combined with executive function training might induce larger training effect in memory and broader training effects in non-memory outcomes than pure memory training. forty healthy older adults were randomly assigned to a combined cognitive training group or a memory strategy training group. 
Does the SCL 90-R obsessive-compulsive dimension identify cognitive impairments? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to identify the cognitive deficits correlated with specific symptom dimensions. the current study investigated whether candidate cognitive endophenotypes may be used to validate a schizo-obsessive subtype. using within-subject random effect regression analyses and cross-trait cross-relative analyses, we evaluated the association between obsessive-compulsive symptoms (ocss) and cognitive performance in 984 patients with nonaffective psychosis (22.5% with ocss), 973 unaffected siblings (7.7% with ocss), 851 parents (4.2% with ocss), and 573 controls (4.5% with ocss). presence of obsessive-compulsive symptoms (ocs) affects performance on tests of some cognitive functions, such as the trail making test (tmt), and may affect the level of disability in schizophrenia (sz). in obsessive-compulsive disorder (ocd), there is impairment in executive functions and nonverbal memory. our objective was to examine whether the scl-90-r, a widely used self-report measure of distress and psychopathology, could screen for personality disorders in general and for severe personality disturbance (spd) in particular, at the time when patients seek treatment for a state (mood or anxiety) disorder. the scl-90-r subscales that contributed the most to the screening discriminability of this scl-90-r-derived screening measure were hostility, paranoid ideation, somatization, and obsessive-compulsive behavior. the present study examined the relationship between performance on a degraded-ax continuous performance test (cpt) and continuous dimension scores created from a structured clinical interview for schizotypal personality disorder (spd), which reflected both the breadth and severity of schizotypal personality symptoms, in 52 undergraduate students. individuals who are not clinically diagnosed with obsessive-compulsive disorder (ocd) but still display obsessive-compulsive (oc) tendencies may show cognitive impairments. results indicate that the subscales of the oci-r are valid measures of six symptom subtypes of ocd. 
Is fetal anatomic assessment on follow-up antepartum sonograms clinically useful? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical usefulness of a fetal anatomic survey on follow-up antepartum sonograms. eligible women had at least 1 prior sonographic examination beyond 18 weeks' gestation with a complete and normal fetal anatomic assessment and at least 1 follow-up sonogram. full fetal anatomic surveys were performed on all follow-up sonograms regardless of the indication. neonatal charts were reviewed for those patients whose follow-up sonograms revealed unanticipated fetal anomalies. compared with follow-up sonography for other reasons, repeated sonography for fetal growth evaluation yielded a higher incidence of unexpected fetal anomalies: 15 (12.3%) of 122 versus 6 (3.5%) of 172 (p = .01). a fetal anatomic survey on follow-up sonograms may identify unanticipated fetal anomalies, especially when the indication is for fetal growth. first-trimester ultrasound examination is of value to establish dates or assess fetal viability in cases of bleeding but provides limited information on the well-being of the fetus. sonographic analysis of fetal biometry has been useful in the antepartum detection of intrauterine growth retardation (iugr). participants were 16,300 women at 17 through 21 weeks' gestation with a singleton pregnancy presenting for screening anatomic sonography between january 2009 and december 2013. main outcome measures were (1) incomplete visualization of anatomy at initial screening sonography; (2) among women with incomplete but otherwise normal initial screening ultrasound examinations, recommendation for and performance of repeat sonography; and (3) among women undergoing repeat sonography, discovery of abnormal fetal anatomy within anatomic components that were previously incompletely visualized. 
Is muscle power related to running speed with changes of direction? [SEP] biomechanics (and energetics) of human locomotion are generally studied at constant, linear, speed whereas less is known about running mechanics when velocity changes (because of accelerations, decelerations or changes of direction). present results highlight that running humans can exert a larger negative than positive power, in agreement with the fundamental proprieties of skeletal muscles in vivo. fraction of maximum force according to the force-length-velocity curves) might mediate the energetic cost of running. by mapping the operating length and velocity of the soleus fascicles onto the experimentally assessed force-length and force-velocity curves, we investigated the association between the energetic cost and the force-length-velocity potentials during running. however, the relationships between muscle and tendon structure to performance are highly dependent on the speed and intensity of the movement. the kinetic properties of muscle that could influence locomotor frequency include rate of activation, rate of cross-bridge "attachment", intrinsic shortening velocity, and rate of deactivation. biomechanical findings show that running is asymmetric in many kinetic properties. running stiffness is a vital kinetic property of yet unknown pattern of lateralization. force-velocity (fv) relationships have been used previously to calculate maximal power production and to identify an optimal velocity of shortening (v(opt)-fv) to produce such power in skeletal muscle. the power of shortening contractions in skeletal muscle is determined by the force-velocity relationship. 
Can magnetic resonance imaging accurately predict concordant pain provocation during provocative disc injection? [SEP] to determine in an experimental model the reliability of patients' subjective interpretation of pain concordancy during provocative disc injection. reproduction of significant pain on disc injection, which is similar to patients' usual pain, is believed to prove that the disc injected is the source of the patient's low back pain. to correlate magnetic resonance (mr) image findings with pain response by provocation discography in patients with discogenic low back pain, with an emphasis on the combination analysis of a high intensity zone (hiz) and disc contour abnormalities. disc protrusion with hiz [sensitivity 45.5%; specificity 97.8%; positive predictive value (ppv), 87.0%] correlated significantly with concordant pain provocation (p < 0.01). the proposed mr classification is useful to predict a disc with concordant pain. the aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between discography-induced pain and morphological disc changes, occurring during axial loaded mri (almri). the relationship between concordant pain at discography and morphological disc measures (degeneration, height, bulge, angle, area, and circumference) at mri/almri was investigated. the patients, who experienced pain with injection into a morphologically normal disc adjacent to a morphologically abnormal disc, were included in the study. the purpose of this study was to determine if vibration pain provocation could be combined with magnetic resonance imaging (mri) to increase its specificity in identifying symptomatic disc disruption identified by discography. results of this noninvasive pain provocation method can improve the specificity and accuracy of mri in identifying symptomatic disc lesions. 
Is a 9-month treatment sufficient in tuberculous enterocolitis? [SEP] we therefore compared the efficacy of 6-month and 9-month therapy in the treatment of intestinal tb. ninety patients definitely diagnosed with intestinal tb were randomized into 6-month (n = 45) or 9-month (n = 45) treatment groups, prospectively. in conclusion, the 6-month therapy was as effective as 9-month therapy in patients with intestinal tb and may have the additional benefits of reduced treatment cost and increased compliance. to assess the incidence of tb relapse and associated factors in hiv-infected patients receiving a 9-month tuberculostatic regimen and concomitant haart. considering its safety and tolerance, our results suggest that a 9-month regimen would be recommendable in patients with severe immunosuppression until the optimal duration of tb treatment in hiv-infected patients has been defined in a randomised clinical trial including haart. treatment of latent tuberculosis infection (ltbi) is an important aspect of tuberculosis control in the united states, but the effectiveness of this strategy is compromised by poor adherence to the recommended 9-month isoniazid regimen. isoniazid given daily for 9 months is the standard treatment for latent tuberculosis infection (ltbi), but its effectiveness is limited by poor completion rates. the recommended treatment for latent tuberculosis infection is isoniazid for 9 months, but this regimen has a low completion rate. one hundred ninety-seven patients with abdominal tuberculosis (gastrointestinal, 154; peritoneal, 40; mixed, 3) were randomized to receive 6 months (n = 104) or 9 months (n = 93) of antituberculosis therapy using intermittent directly observed therapy. there was no difference in efficacy of antituberculosis therapy delivered for either 6 months or 9 months in either gastrointestinal or peritoneal tuberculosis, confirming the efficacy of intermittent directly observed therapy. 
Does coronary angiography before emergency aortic surgery affect in-hospital mortality? [SEP] to study the relationship between coronary angiography and in-hospital mortality in patients undergoing emergency surgery of the aorta without a history of coronary revascularization or coronary angiography before the onset of symptoms. in the setting of acute ascending aortic dissection warranting emergency aortic repair, coronary angiography has been considered to be desirable, if not essential. overall, in-hospital mortality was 18.0%, and there was no significant difference between those who had coronary angiography on the day of surgery compared with those who had not (no: 16%, n = 81 vs. multivariate analysis revealed that a history of myocardial infarction (mi) was the only predictor of in-hospital mortality (relative risk: 4.98 95% confidence interval: 1.48-16.75, p = 0.009); however, coronary angiography had no impact on in-hospital mortality in patients with a history of mi. these data indicate that determination of coronary anatomy may not impact on survival in patients undergoing emergency surgery of the aorta and support the concept that once diagnosed, patients should proceed as quickly as possible to surgery. performing preoperative coronary angiography (ca) before surgical repair of a type a acute aortic dissection (ta-aad) remains controversial. we analyzed 1,343 patients from january 27, 1996, to may 3, 2010, with ta-aad from the international registry of acute aortic dissection who underwent surgical or endovascular repair during the index hospitalization, with (n = 156) or without (n = 1,187) preoperative ca. coronary artery disease (cad) is associated with increased morbidity and mortality after open repair of thoracic aorta. in patients with surgically treated true aortic aneurysm, cad was frequently observed, suggesting that aggressive preoperative coronary evaluation is needed. we examined differences in the incidence of pre-existing coronary disease and subsequent coronary events between patients undergoing acute type a dissection repair and patients undergoing elective proximal aortic aneurysm repair. 
Is bicompartmental knee arthroplasty more favourable to knee muscle strength and physical performance compared to total knee arthroplasty? [SEP] bi-cruciate retaining total knee arthroplasty has several potential advantages including improved anteroposterior knee stability compared to contemporary posterior cruciate-retaining total knee arthroplasty. bicompartmental knee arthroplasty features bone and ligament sparing as unicompartmental knee arthroplasty and is presumably better in the recovery of muscle strength and function compared to total knee arthroplasty (tka) though not previously reported in the literature. the aim of the study was to compare isokinetic knee muscle strength and physical performance in patients who underwent either bicompartmental knee arthroplasty or tka. although theoretically plausible, bicompartmental knee arthroplasty was not superior in knee muscle strength and physical performance at 1 year compared with total knee arthroplasty. interest in bicompartmental knee arthroplasty (bka) for the treatment of medial patellofemoral osteoarthritis (mpfoa) has grown in recent years because bka offers a bone and ligament-preserving alternative to total knee arthroplasty (tka). bicompartmental or unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (bka, uka) is currently advocated as an alternative solution to conventional total knee arthroplasty (tka) in order to preserve bone stock and ligaments for limited osteoarthritis (oa) with intact anterior and posterior cruciate ligaments (acl, pcl). this prospective cohort study compares functional outcomes of bicompartmental knee arthroplasty (bka) and total knee arthroplasty (tka) in patients with osteoarthritis (oa) of the patellofemoral and medial compartments. the purpose is to demonstrate that bi-unicom- partmental knee arthroplasty (bi-uni) can produce equivalent long-term outcomes to total knee arthroplasty (tka) in patients with bicompartmental knee osteoarthritis involving both the medial and lateral tibio-femoral compartments. bicompartmental knee arthroplasty (bika) is a favorable alternative to total knee arthroplasty for degenerative disease limited to two knee compartments. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the short-term outcomes of patients, undergoing bicompartmental knee arthroplasty at a single institution by a single surgeon using a robotic-assisted system. 
Can gingival crevicular blood be relied upon for assessment of blood glucose level? [SEP] this study examined conditions under which gingival crevicular blood (gcb) could be used to obtain a useful glucose reading to screen for undiagnosed diabetes during routine dental visits. it is possible that gingival crevicular blood (gcb) from routine periodontal probing may be a source of blood for glucose measurements. study was carried out to evaluate the efficacy of a glucometer for screening diabetes using gingival crevicular blood and to compare the blood glucose levels in the gingival crevicular blood sample and blood sample collected by finger puncture method using glucometers. this study revealed the existence of a positive correlation between gingival crevicular blood and capillary blood glucose level (r = 0.826), and gingival blood glucose level estimates 68.2% of capillary blood glucose level. this pilot study examines whether a novel diabetes screening approach using gingival crevicular blood (gcb) could be used to test for hemoglobin a1c (hba1c) during periodontal visits. to evaluate whether during routine periodontal examination blood from gingival tissues can be used for determining glucose levels. gingival crevicular blood collected during diagnostic periodontal examination can provide a valid and acceptable source for measuring blood glucose levels using a glucometer. this study was conducted to assess the usefulness of the gingival crevicular blood for estimating the glucose level during routine periodontal examination using xitux diagnostics smart-x self-monitoring blood glucose device among jordanian patients attending dental teaching clinics. glucose level was measured in a sample of gingival crevicular blood and in another sample obtained by finger puncture using a self-monitoring device. in conclusion, gingival crevicular blood can provide an acceptable source for measuring blood glucose level. 
Predicting admission at triage: are nurses better than a simple objective score? [SEP] to investigate whether nurses performing triage are able to predict the need for admission of patients attending the emergency department (ed) with sufficient accuracy to facilitate hospital bed management. a prospective observational study was performed in which nurses performing triage, in a large urban uk hospital, were asked to predict whether patients would ultimately be admitted or discharged from the ed. we compared two methods of predicting hospital admission from ed triage: probabilities estimated by triage nurses and probabilities calculated by the glasgow admission prediction score (gaps). in this single-centre prospective study, triage nurses estimated the probability of admission using a 100 mm visual analogue scale (vas), and gaps was generated automatically from triage data. gaps, a simple clinical score, is a better predictor of admission than triage nurses, unless the nurse is sure about the outcome, in which case their clinical judgement should be respected. the purpose of this study was to determine if triage nurses could accurately predict patient dispositions. the triage nurses predicted admissions with a sensitivity of 71.5% and discharges with a specificity of 88.0%. this study aimed to evaluate the ability of using the front door score to enhance the accuracy of emergency nurse triage decisions for patients who present with chest pain. the chest pain triage reliability of nurses using the front door score was found to be much more credible than that of nurses using the triage scale. to gain an understanding of the accuracy of acuity assessment made by emergency department (ed) triage nurses, to compare the differences between the characteristics of triage nurses according to hospital variables and the accuracy of acuity ratings, and to explore the influence of nursing variables on the judgement of triages. 
Target Serum Urate: Do Gout Patients Know Their Goal? [SEP] to determine what proportion of patients treated for gout by the tertiary level rheumatology service at the royal brisbane hospital between 2014 and 2018 reached target serum urate (su) levels. background: although gout is accompanied by the substantial burden of kidney disease, there are limited data to assess renal function as a therapeutic target. methods: patients with gout who underwent continuous urate-lowering therapy (ult) for at least 12 months were included. conclusions: the "treat-to-target" approach in the long-term management of gout is associated with better renal outcomes, with a greater impact on those with impaired renal function. in real life, in a substantial proportion of gouty patients receiving urate-lowering therapy (ult), urate levels are not maintained below the target of 6.0 mg/dl. we aimed to search for factors associated with poor control of serum uric acid (ua) levels in a large population of patients with gout receiving ult. knowledge of these factors might help physicians identify cases of gout that may be less likely to achieve target urate level. to examine gout patients' knowledge of their condition, including the central role of achieving and maintaining the serum urate (su) goal with the use of urate-lowering therapy (ult). determine the proportion of patients achieving target serum urate (su), defined as < 6 mg/dl for patients with non-severe gout and < 5 mg/dl for patients with severe gout, as well as the proportion of patients achieving remission after 5 years of followup. hyperuricemia leading to urate crystal formation in tissues represents the pathophysiological mechanism of gout. 
Diagnosis and follow-up in constipated children: should we use ultrasound? [SEP] ultrasound (us) is a noninvasive method of assessing the bowel that can be used to screen for bowel pathology, such as inflammatory bowel disease, in children. pelvic ultrasound (us) has been used in various different ways to assess severity of constipation. in conclusion, ultrasound can be a reliable and safe imaging tool to support diagnosis and staging and may help in the noninvasive monitoring of treatment in children. ultrasound (us) is a versatile imaging study for the evaluation of the bowel in children. the aim of study was to evaluate if pelvic ultrasound can be useful in managing children with chronic idiopathic constipation. ultrasonography has shown to be useful in the diagnosis of constipation. children without constipation who underwent abdominal sonography were assigned to the control group. with the emerging use of ultrasound in the evaluation of children with crohn disease presenting with acute abdominal symptoms, there is a need to become familiar with the sonographic features of this disease. in infants and young children with suspicion of genitourinary tract anomalies, ultrasonography (usg) is usually the first imaging modality. to assess the diagnostic usefulness of ultrasonography (us) in intussusception in children and determine whether color doppler sonography (cds) can indicate bowel viability and help in prediction of reducibility. 
Are neighbourhood social capital and availability of sports facilities related to sports participation among Dutch adolescents? [SEP] the aim of this study is to explore whether availability of sports facilities, parks, and neighbourhood social capital (nsc) and their interaction are associated with leisure time sports participation among dutch adolescents. multilevel logistic regression analyses, with neighborhood and individual as levels, were conducted to examine associations between physical and social environmental factors and leisure time sports participation. the number of sports facilities, sports clubs, or city parks in a residential neighbourhood may affect the likelihood that people participate in sports and their preferences for a certain sports location. this study aimed to assess whether objective physical and socio-spatial neighbourhood characteristics relate to sports participation and preferences for sports locations. data from dutch adults (n = 1201) on sports participation, their most-used sports location, and socio-demographic characteristics were collected using an online survey. objective land-use data and the number of sports facilities were gathered for each participant using a 2000-m buffer around their home locations, whereas socio-spatial neighbourhood characteristics (i.e., density, socio-economic status, and safety) were determined at the neighbourhood level. this longitudinal study aimed to identify individual and environmental predictors of adolescents' sports participation and to examine whether availability of sports facilities moderated the intention-behaviour relation. to determine if perceptions of the social and physical environment are associated with active transport and leisure-time sports among belgian youth and to investigate if this relationship is moderated by self-efficacy. in the netherlands, youth-care organisations and community sports clubs are collaborating to increase socially vulnerable youths' participation in sport. the present study examined correlations between adolescent sports participation and demographic factors, socioeconomic status (ses) and sociocultural factors. 
Did the call for boycott by the Catholic bishops affect the polio vaccination coverage in Kenya in 2015? [SEP] in august 2015, the catholic bishops in kenya called for boycott of a polio vaccination campaign citing safety concerns with the polio vaccine. the national vaccination coverage was 93% compared to 94% in the november 2014 campaign. compared to the november 2014 campaign, the proportion of children who were not vaccinated due to parent's refusal significantly increased from 6% to 12% in august 2015. however, if the call for boycott is repeated in future it could have some significant negative implication to polio eradication. this survey was conducted (i) to evaluate the vaccination coverage in different settings and cohorts using the seroprevalence of anti-poliovirus (pv) antibodies as a surrogate measure, and (ii) to explore the usefulness of an elisa in a country with limited resources and a specific epidemiological setting. kenya reported its last case of indigenous wild poliovirus (wpv) in 1984 but suffered from an outbreak of circulating vaccine-derived poliovirus type 2 (cvdpv2) in 2018. we aimed to describe kenya's polio surveillance performance 2016-2018 using who recommended polio surveillance standards. however, poliovirus eradication is hampered globally by epidemics of vaccine-derived polio. for example, in 2003, local imams, traditional leaders and politicians declared a polio campaign boycott, due to the concerns about the safety of the polio vaccine. although the campaigns resumed in 2004, many parents continued to refuse vaccination because of the persistence of rumours of vaccine contamination, and anger about the poor state of health services for conditions other than polio. 
Recurrent spontaneous abortion and skewed X-inactivation: is there an association? [SEP] several studies suggest that highly skewed x chromosome inactivation (hsxi) is associated with recurrent spontaneous abortion. we compared the distribution of x chromosome inactivation (xci) skewing percentages (range: 50%-100%) among women with spontaneous abortions in four karyotype groups-trisomy (n = 154), chromosomally normal male (n = 43), chromosomally normal female (n = 38), nontrisomic chromosomally abnormal (n = 61)-to the distribution for age-matched controls with chromosomally normal births (n = 388). we have investigated prospectively the frequency of x chromosome aneuploidy in lymphocyte cultures from 104 women with a normal chromosome constitution and a history of recurrent pregnancy loss defined as 2 or more spontaneous abortions. the role of extremely skewed x-chromosome inactivation (xci) has been questioned in the pathogenesis of recurrent spontaneous abortion (rsa) but the results obtained were conflicting. recent studies show that women experiencing recurrent spontaneous abortion exhibit nonrandom x-chromosome inactivation (xci) more often than in controls. evidence of an association between skewed x chromosome inactivation (sxci) and idiopathic recurrent spontaneous abortion (rsa) is conflicting. x-inactivation pattern, using polymeric x-linked women with idiopathic rsa and 80 control subjects with a single successful pregnancy and no history of spontaneous abortion. the purpose of this study was to determine whether there is an association between skewed x-inactivation and recurrent spontaneous abortion in a large, well-defined sample of women with recurrent loss. the incidence of x-inactivation skewing of 90% or greater was no different whether there had been at least 1 live birth (9.9%), or no previous live births and at least 3 losses (5.6%, p > .05). skewed x-inactivation is not associated with recurrent spontaneous abortion but is associated with increasing maternal age. 
Does increased patient awareness improve accrual into cancer-related clinical trials? [SEP] patients' awareness of clinical research and their involvement in clinical trials is of great importance, but it is difficult to estimate the extent of knowledge on the research being undertaken. although the participation of cancer patients in clinical trials is critical to the identification of new treatment protocols that improve survival or reduce treatment side effects, usually fewer than 3% of all newly diagnosed patients are enrolled in clinical trials. this paper examines the role that the cancer information service (cis) played in the nationwide education initiative sponsored by the national cancer institute to increase accrual to clinical trials. efforts to increase patient and public awareness of clinical trials as a treatment option are described, and the unique role of the cis in response to the education initiative is highlighted. recruitment to cancer clinical trials needs to be improved, as does patient knowledge and understanding about clinical trials, in order for patients to make an informed choice about whether or not to take part. audiovisual patient information (avpi) has been shown to improve knowledge and understanding in various areas of practice, but there is limited information about its effect in the cancer clinical trial setting, particularly in relation to consent rates. clinicians treating cancer patients often are faced with the challenge of having to decide whether or not to incorporate information from these new studies into their daily clinical practice. whilst there is some research examining strategies to improve patient understanding about clinical trials and promote patient involvement in clinical decision-making, there are deficiencies in these areas. understanding the influence or impact of epidemiological factors on cancer outcomes in clinical trials can broaden our knowledge of disease, trial populations and therapeutic effects thus leading to improved patient care. cancer clinical trials offer patients an opportunity to receive new and innovative treatment, as well as contribute to the future of cancer care. 
Does airway surgery lower serum lipid levels in obstructive sleep apnea patients? [SEP] we aimed to evaluate the effect of upper airway surgery on lipid profiles. surgery may improve blood lipid levels in patients with osa, especially in patients with preoperative dyslipidemia, potentially yielding a major benefit in metabolism and cardiovascular sequelae. prospective studies should examine this potential metabolic effect of airway surgery for osa. weight loss after bariatric surgery is associated with reduction in adverse cardiovascular outcomes; however, the impact of obstructive sleep apnea (osa) on reduction of cardiovascular outcomes after bariatric surgery in morbidly obese patients is not known. we assessed the relationships between fasting lipid levels and obesity and osa severity, and explored the impact of positive airway pressure treatment on 2-year fasting lipid level changes. this pilot study investigates the perioperative effects of bariatric surgery on obstructive sleep apnea and on the physical and biomechanical characteristics of the upper airway. mean values for the apnea/hypopnea index and body mass index significantly reduced after surgery. limited evidence suggests bariatric surgery can result in high cure rates for obstructive sleep apnea (osa) in the morbidly obese. bariatric surgery significantly reduces the apnea hypopnea index. obstructive sleep apnea is commonly associated with metabolic changes and obesity, and changes in body weight by either medical or surgical approaches have been considered to affect the severity of sleep apnea and appetite-controlling hormones. 
Is withdrawal-induced anxiety in alcoholism based on beta-endorphin deficiency? [SEP] anxiety disorders predispose individuals to the development of alcohol dependence in humans. here, we addressed the hypothesis of a relationship between basal anxiety levels and the development of ethanol (etoh)-induced behavioral sensitization (eibs), a model of neuroadaptations occurring after repeated etoh exposure which is proposed to play a role in early and recurring steps of addiction. withdrawal anxiety is a significant factor contributing to continued alcohol abuse in alcoholics. together, our results suggest that increased glutamatergic function may contribute to anxiety expressed during withdrawal from chronic ethanol. alcohol addiction causes severe problems, and its deprivation may potentiate symptoms such as anxiety. alcohol dependence is associated with anxiety during withdrawal. the endocannabinoid (ecb) system participates in the neuroendocrine and behavioral response to stress and changes in corticolimbic ecb signaling may contribute to alcohol withdrawal-induced anxiety. acute alcohol withdrawal increased anxiety-like behavior, produced widespread disturbances in ecb-related mrna, and reduced anandamide (aea) content in the bla and 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-ag) content in the vmpfc of male, but not female rats. this is suggested to be due, in part, to the effect of alcohol on β-endorphin (β-ep)-producing neurons in the hypothalamus. alcoholism is a chronic disorder characterized by the appearance of a withdrawal syndrome following the abrupt cessation of alcohol intake that includes symptoms of physical and emotional disturbances, anxiety being the most prevalent symptom. 
Do older patients receive adequate stroke care? [SEP] our work provides further evidence that also the oldest patients may benefit from conservative stroke unit care. however, there is evidence to suggest that, in some instances, older stroke patients may receive poorer quality care than younger patients.our aim was to systematically review evidence of the quality of care provided to patients with acute stroke related to their age. patients' age may be a factor in the care they receive after an acute stroke. older adults are not only at higher risk of experiencing stroke, but also have multiple co-morbidities that make treatment for secondary stroke prevention challenging. stroke is one of the leading causes of death and disability and it is more likely to occur in those who are older. the authors propose a number of recommendations in relation to stroke care in older survivors of a recent ischemic stroke. older patients are associated with increased stroke prevalence, worse outcome, and risk of undertreatment in comparison with younger patients. patients 80 years of age or older presented with significantly more severe strokes than younger patients, median scandinavian stroke scale score 39 vs 42 (p = .003). patients older than 80 years experience more severe strokes and frequently have minor impairments before stroke. the increase in impairment after stroke is comparable with what is observed in younger patients, suggesting that good recovery after stroke may also be expected in older patients. 
Doppler examination of uteroplacental circulation in early pregnancy: can it predict adverse outcome? [SEP] abnormal blood flow patterns in fetal circulation detected by doppler ultrasound may indicate poor fetal prognosis. randomised and quasi-randomised controlled trials of doppler ultrasound for the investigation of umbilical and fetal vessels waveforms in high-risk pregnancies compared to no doppler ultrasound. abnormal blood flow patterns in fetal circulation detected by doppler ultrasound may indicate poor fetal prognosis. randomised and quasi-randomised controlled trials of doppler ultrasound for the investigation of umbilical and fetal vessels waveforms in high-risk pregnancies compared with no doppler ultrasound. we investigated the predictive value of a uterine artery doppler in the identification of adverse pregnancy outcomes such as 'pre-eclampsia' and 'small fetus for gestational age' (sga). abnormal blood flow patterns in fetal circulation detected by doppler ultrasound may indicate poor fetal prognosis. randomised and quasi-randomised controlled trials of doppler ultrasound for the investigation of umbilical and fetal vessels waveforms in high-risk pregnancies compared with no doppler ultrasound. randomised trials of doppler ultrasound for the investigation of umbilical artery waveforms in high risk pregnancies compared to no doppler ultrasound. randomised trials of doppler ultrasound for the investigation of umbilical artery waveforms in high risk pregnancies compared to no doppler ultrasound. the aim of this preliminary study was to investigate the assessment of the intraplacental fetal circulation with a new multigate doppler system. 
Can vitamin C prevent complex regional pain syndrome in patients with wrist fractures? [SEP] it is proposed that vitamin c administration can reduce disproportionate pain and stiffness after distal radius fracture; however, randomized trials that tested this hypothesis have had inconsistent results. (1) is administering vitamin c after distal radius fracture associated with better rom, patient-reported upper extremity function, and pain scores? vitamin c does not seem to facilitate recovery after distal radius fracture, but amelioration of maladaptation to nociception (pain interference) merits greater attention. the primary objective of this systematic literature review and meta-analysis was to assess the efficacy of vitamin c therapy in preventing crps-i after a wrist fracture. daily supplementation with 500mg of vitamin c per day for 50 days decreases the 1-year risk of crps-i after wrist fracture. vitamin c has been proposed to improve outcomes after a distal radial fracture by promotion of bone and soft-tissue healing and reduction of the prevalence of complex regional pain syndrome (crps). some studies recommend the use of vitamin c to prevent complex regional pain syndrome. the current recommendation is to use daily doses of vitamin c to prevent the occurrence of the complex regional pain syndrome (crps) following a distal radius fracture. vitamin c reduces the prevalence of complex regional pain syndrome after wrist fractures. clinical evidence suggests that vitamin c (vit c) may protect against the development of complex regional pain syndrome (crps) after fracture or surgery. 
Is digoxin use for cardiovascular disease associated with risk of prostate cancer? [SEP] protective effects have been suggested for digoxin against prostate cancer risk. long-term usage of the antiarrhythmic drug digoxin has been connected to lowered risk of prostate cancer. we evaluated the association between use of digoxin, beta-blocker sotalol, and other antiarrhythmic drugs and prostate cancer risk in a retrospective cohort study. digoxin or other antiarrhythmic drugs are not associated with any clear decrease in prostate cancer risk. compared to never-users of antiarrhythmic drugs, we found no significant association between digoxin use and prostate cancer risk overall [odds ratio (or) 0.95, 95% confidence interval (ci): 0.89-1.01] or for advanced prostate cancer risk (or: 0.90, 95% ci: 0.77-1.05). we show that digoxin or other common antiarrhythmic drugs generally do not associate with prostate cancer risk at population level during maximum follow-up of eight years. a recent observational study has shown that digoxin use was associated with a 25% reduction in prostate cancer risk. the aim of this study was to investigate whether digoxin use after diagnosis of prostate cancer was associated with decreased prostate cancer-specific mortality. using time-dependent cox regression models, unadjusted and adjusted hazard ratios (hr) and 95% confidence intervals (cis) were calculated for the association between post-diagnostic exposure to digoxin and prostate cancer-specific mortality. digoxin use was associated with an increase in prostate cancer-specific mortality before adjustment (hr = 1.59; 95% ci 1.32-1.91), but after adjustment for confounders, the association was attenuated (adjusted hr = 1.13; 95% ci 0.93-1.37) and there was no evidence of a dose response. 
Are income-related differences in active travel associated with physical environmental characteristics? [SEP] rates of active travel vary by socio-economic position, with higher rates generally observed among less affluent populations. aspects of both social and built environments have been shown to affect active travel, but little research has explored the influence of physical environmental characteristics, and less has examined whether physical environment affects socio-economic inequality in active travel. this study explored income-related differences in active travel in relation to multiple physical environmental characteristics including air pollution, climate and levels of green space, in urban areas across england. we hypothesised that any gradient in the relationship between income and active travel would be least pronounced in the least physically environmentally-deprived areas where higher income populations may be more likely to choose active transport as a means of travel. three-level binary logistic regression models were used to explore how associations between the trip being active (by bike/walking) and three income groups, varied by level of multiple physical environmental deprivation. the income-related gradient in making active trips remained steep in the least environmentally-deprived areas because those in the highest income groups were markedly less likely to choose active travel when physical environment was 'good', compared to those on the lowest incomes (or = 0.44, 95% ci = 0.22 to 0.89). the socio-economic gradient in active travel seems independent of physical environmental characteristics. active travel was associated with being younger, living in owner-occupied accommodation, not having to travel a long distance to work and not having access to a car, whereas overall physical activity was associated with living in social rented accommodation and not being overweight. apart from access to local amenities, environmental characteristics may have limited influence on active travel in deprived urban populations characterised by a low level of car ownership, in which people may have less capacity for making discretionary travel choices than the populations studied in most published research on the environmental correlates of physical activity. socio-economic advantage, housing location and/or car ownership influence walking and cycling (active travel) for transport. 
Can Roux-en-Y gastric bypass provide a lifelong solution for diabetes mellitus? [SEP] roux-en-y gastric bypass (rygb) has become a prominent therapeutic option for long-term treatment of morbid obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2d). roux-en-y gastric bypass (rygb) has shown good diabetes remission in obese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm), but long-term complications were observed. the roux-en-y gastric bypass and the biliopancreatic diversion effectively induce weight loss and long-term control of type 2 diabetes in morbidly obese individuals. roux-en-y gastric bypass (rygb) is a recommended treatment for type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm) in patients with obesity, with superiority over medical therapy. one of the few interventions, however, that can remit diabetes is the roux-en-y gastric bypass (rygb) surgery. we applied a long roux-en-y (ry) gastrojejunostomy (bypassed jejunum over 100 cm) as a reconstruction method for diabetes control to gastric cancer patients with type 2 diabetes and body mass index (bmi) < 35 kg/m(2). laparoscopic roux-en-y gastric bypass (lrygb) has been shown to be an effective treatment for type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm) in patients with morbid obesity. patients with a bmi less than 35 kg/m(2) and uncontrolled t2dm may benefit from a laparoscopic roux-en-y gastric bypass. roux-en-y gastric bypass (gbp) is able to induce the remission of t2dm. roux-en-y gastric bypass (rygb) has been shown to significantly improve glucose control in patients with type 2 diabetes (t2dm). 
Does the severity of obstructive sleep apnea predict patients requiring high continuous positive airway pressure? [SEP] the aim of this study was to assess the accuracy for indication of continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) treatment in patients with suspected obstructive sleep apnea (osa) based on clinical and oximetry data as compared to polysomnography (psg). the objective of our study was to assess the application of nasal continuous positive airway pressure (ncpap) with supplemental oxygen for correction of upper airway obstructive episodes and hypoxaemia during sleep in stable patients with sleep apnoea-hypopnoea syndrome (sahs) and severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd). we conclude that nasal continuous positive airway pressure with supplemental oxygen constitutes a practical therapeutic alternative for hypoxic patients with sleep apnoea-hypopnoea syndrome and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. to determine whether therapeutic positive airway pressure (pap) level predicts response to hypoglossal nerve stimulation (hgns) for obstructive sleep apnea using the coprimary outcomes of apnea-hypopnea index (ahi) and 4% oxygen desaturation index. therapeutic positive airway pressure level predicts response to hypoglossal nerve stimulation for obstructive sleep apnea. obstructive sleep apnea (osa) patients may develop central respiratory events under continuous positive airway pressure (cpap), referred to as complex sleep apnea (compsa). esophageal pressure amplitude (deltapes), inspiratory pulmonary resistance (rli) and inspiratory flow limitation score (fs) are used as indices of upper airway obstruction for the titration of nasal continuous positive airway pressure (ncpap) in patients with obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (osas). obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (osas) is characterized by repeated upper-airway obstruction during sleep. certain respiratory control characteristics determine whether patients with collapsible upper airway develop stable or unstable breathing during sleep, thereby influencing the severity of obstructive apnea (osa). to evaluate the prevalence of patients at a high risk of having osa among patients undergoing bronchoscopy with sedation and to investigate whether snoring during the procedure predicts patients who are at risk of osa, we prospectively enrolled 517 consecutive patients who underwent the procedure with moderate sedation. 
Do the changes in the serum levels of IL-2, IL-4, TNFalpha, and IL-6 reflect the inflammatory activity in the patients with post-ERCP pancreatitis? [SEP] to evaluate the early changes in serum levels of proinflammatory and antiinflammatory cytokines after ercp and to assess their value in the early recognition of post-ercp pancreatitis. serum levels of tumor necrosis factor alpha, interleukin-1beta, interleukin-6, interleukin-8, and interleukin-10 significantly increased at 8 and 24 hours but not at 1 and 4 hours after ercp in patients with post-ercp pancreatitis, in comparison with patients without pancreatitis. proinflammatory and antiinflammatory cytokines significantly increased in the early stage after ercp-induced pancreatitis. among the inflammatory cytokines, interleukin-6 is the most useful for recognition of post-ercp pancreatitis. to investigate the association between early changes (within 24 hours) in the serum interleukin (il)-2, il-4, tumor necrosis factor (tnf)alpha, and il-6 levels and the development of post-ercp pancreatitis. the levels of il-4 at 24 hours after ercp were significantly lower in the patients with post-ercp pancreatitis than in those without pancreatitis, while tnfalpha levels at 12 hours after ercp were higher in the complicated group than those of the uncomplicated group. the ratios of tnfalpha/il-4 at 12 and 24 hours after ercp were found significantly higher in the patients with post-ercp pancreatitis than in those without pancreatitis. the enhancement of serum tnfalpha and il-6 levels in the patients with ercp-induced pancreatitis reflects the inflammatory activity. in this study, we assessed changes in the serum levels of interleukin-6 (il-6), a proinflammatory cytokine, and interleukin-10 (il-10), an anti-inflammatory cytokine, in patients with acute pancreatitis. il-6 increased in the first 24 h of post-ercp pancreatitis. 
Is routine intraoperative frozen-section examination of sentinel lymph nodes in breast cancer worthwhile? [SEP] intraoperative frozen section (ifs) examination of sentinel lymph nodes (sln) is useful in selecting patients with invasive breast cancer for immediate axillary lymph node dissection. the goal of our study was to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of sentinel lymph node biopsy (slnb) frozen section (fs) examinations to detect metastatic lymph nodes and also its potential role in avoiding unnecessary demolitive axillary surgery. examination of sentinel lymph nodes for breast carcinoma in the frozen section room at the time of surgery is useful and, if positive, can result in completion axillary dissection at that time. sentinel lymph node frozen section is used to obviate the need for a second operation in breast cancer patients with involved nodes. sentinel lymph node biopsy (slnb) is currently the suggested axillary staging procedure in patients with early-stage breast cancer (bc) and usually requires intraoperative frozen-section (fs) examination of the removed nodes. accurate intraoperative pathologic examination of sentinel lymph nodes (slns) has been an important tool that can reduce the need for reoperations in patients with sln-positive breast cancer. sentinel lymph node (sln) examination in breast carcinoma is crucial to spare patients unnecessary lymph node (ln) dissection. in breast cancer staging, the need for intraoperative sentinel lymph node (sln) evaluation has still not been adequately established. intraoperative fs examination of the sln is a useful predictor of axillary lymph node status in breast cancer patients. sentinel lymph node dissection is a minimally invasive surgical technique for staging of breast carcinoma. 
Preoperative platelet count in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma: is it a prognostic factor? [SEP] platelet count is inversely related to prognosis in many cancers; however, its role in esophageal cancer is still controversial. the purpose of this study was to determine the prognostic value of preoperative platelet count in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (escc). we analyzed perioperative platelet counts as a potential clinical marker for survival after transthoracic en bloc resection for esophageal cancer. an increase in platelet counts measured on pod 10 following transthoracic en bloc esophagectomy and extended lymphadenectomy is an independent prognostic indicator for improved survival in patients with esophageal cancer. the aims of the study were to investigate the clinical significance of preoperative plasma fibrinogen level and platelet count in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (escc) treated by curative surgery. we investigated the relationship between platelet-related prognostic markers and anti-platelet or anti-coagulant therapies for survival outcomes in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. the aim of this study is to analyze the clinicopathologic significance and prognostic value of platelet counts in patients with esophageal cancer. platelet counts were measured before surgery in 374 patients diagnosed between 1987 and 1999 with primary esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. a high platelet count is associated with tumor progression and poor survival in patients with esophageal carcinoma. we prospectively studied 50 consecutive patients with esophageal cancer and analyzed the relation of preoperative platelet count and crp levels with the clinico-pathological characteristics and stage of the disease. 
Can we predict urinary stone composition based on an analysis of microelement concentration in the hair and urine? [SEP] accurate determination of urinary stone composition has significant bearing on understanding pathophysiology, choosing treatment modalities and preventing recurrence. petrographic sections of stones were also imaged by fluorescent and polarized light microscopy with composition analysis correlated to alendronate +ve nanocrystal counts in corresponding urine samples. the mineral composition of a urinary stone may influence its surgical and medical treatment. knowledge of urinary stone composition and structure provides important insights in guiding treatment and preventing recurrence. we aim to study whether 24-hour urine analysis may predict the urinary stone composition. we retrospectively identified patients with calcium oxalate and uric acid stone compositions who also had a 24-hour urine collection within 3 months of stone analysis. on logistic regression, body mass index (bmi) (odds ratio [or] 1.351, 95% confidence interval [ci] 1.133-1.609; p<0.001), urinary sodium (or 1.021, 95% ci 1.004-1.037; p=0.013), calcium (or 0.987, 95% ci 0.979-0.996; p=0.003), oxalate (or 0.890, 95% ci 0.804-0.985; p=0.024), and uric acid (or 0.989, 95% ci 0.982-0.997; p=0.005) were significant predictors for urinary stone composition. results demonstrate the applicability of such an approach in investigating associations of minor and trace elements with mineralogical constituents of stones, especially in low concentrations, where traditional methods of mineralogical analysis are not capable of quantifying mineral content reliably. a prospective study was designed to determine the correlation of stone composition with its radiographic morphology. the aim of this study was to investigate the correlation between stone composition and single-energy noncontrast computed tomography (ncct) parameters, including stone heterogeneity index (shi) and mean stone density (msd), in patients with urinary calculi. 
Could ADMA levels in young adults born preterm predict an early endothelial dysfunction? [SEP] to investigate the early relationships between bp, capillary density and endothelial function after very preterm birth. children born very preterm had lower functional capillary density than term controls (89.9 capillaries mm(-2) vs. 96.6 capillaries mm(-2), p = 0.04). children born very preterm have lower functional skin capillary density, higher bp and higher hr. to assess the presence of potential alterations to endothelial function in young adults born preterm at extremely low birth weight (<1000 g; ex elbw). we have tested the hypothesis that low birthweight as a result of preterm birth is associated with reduced flow-mediated endothelial-dependent vasodilation (fmd), which is an early stage in the development of atherosclerosis. to look for differences in the urinary metabolic profile and in the hematic asymmetric dimethylarginine (adma) levels between a group of young adults born preterm with an extremely low birthweight (<1000 g; ex-elbw; n=19) and a control group of subjects born at term with a weight appropriate for their gestational age (aga; n=13); and to look for a possible correlation between the urinary metabolic profile in ex-elbw and their hematic levels of adma. low birth weight is associated with endothelial dysfunction in young adults. plasma asymmetric dimethylarginine (adma) is a novel risk factor for atherosclerosis and has been observed to associate with endothelial function in cross-section studies. in the present study our aim was to investigate whether plasma adma levels are predictive of brachial artery endothelial function in a prospective setting. these data suggest that plasma adma may have a determinative role in predicting endothelial function. 
Can fractional lasers enhance transdermal absorption of topical lidocaine in an in vivo animal model? [SEP] it has been shown in vitro that pretreatment of skin with fractional lasers enhances transdermal delivery of drugs. the aim of this study is to demonstrate in vivo firstly that laser enhances transdermal drug absorption and secondly that this can be manipulated by altering laser settings. this study demonstrates that laser pretreatment significantly increases absorption of topical lidocaine so that it is detectable in the blood and that manipulating laser settings can affect drug absorption. preclinical studies have demonstrated that laser pretreatment at low energies enhances absorption of topical lidocaine. the authors assess the safety and efficacy of laser-assisted transdermal delivery of topical anesthetic. efficacy of topical anesthetics can be enhanced by pretreatment of the skin with ablative fractional lasers. aims of this study were to compare the efficacy of pretreatment with two different ablative fractional laser modalities, a co2 laser and an er:yag laser, and to assess the role of laser density in ablative fractional laser assisted topical anesthesia. fractional laser assisted topical anesthesia is effective even with very low energy settings and an occlusion time of only 15 minutes. ablative fractional laser treatment facilitates delivery of topical mal deeply into the skin. pretreatment of skin with ablative fractional lasers (afxl) enhances the uptake of topical photosensitizers used in photodynamic therapy (pdt). 
Does intra-abdominal desmoid disease affect patients with an ileal pouch differently than those with an ileorectal anastomosis? [SEP] patients with a pouch had more long-term complications than patients with an ileostomy within the same period of time (52.6% vs. 26.3%). ileal pouch-anal anastomosis has come to represent the procedure of choice for patients requiring surgery for mucosal ulcerative colitis. the secondary diagnosis of crohn's disease after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis is associated with protracted freedom from clinically evident crohn's disease, low pouch loss rate, and good functional outcome. these data support a prospective evaluation of ileal pouch-anal anastomosis in selected patients with crohn's disease. after proctocolectomy, ileal pouch-anal anastomosis may not be feasible, especially in the case of desmoid tumor or after failed ileal pouch-anal anastomosis requiring excision of the pouch. it has been suggested that, owing to pouchitis, uc patients do not attain the same quality of life that fap patients do after the ileal-pouch anal anastomosis operation. ileoanal anastomosis is a surgical procedure performed in patients with ulcerative colitis. it is unclear whether pre-pouch ileitis heralds an aggressive inflammatory pouch disease in patients with ileal-pouch anal anastomosis (ipaa). inflammatory complications of ileal pouch-anal anastomosis (ipaa), including pouchitis and crohn's disease (cd) of the pouch, are common in patients with restorative proctocolectomy for ulcerative colitis. ileal j-pouch-anal anastomosis is a commonly accepted surgical treatment for patients with ulcerative colitis. 
Does anastomotic leakage affect functional outcome after rectal resection for cancer? [SEP] anastomotic leakages are one of the most serious complications of postoperative recovery among patients that undergo rectal cancer resection. the aim of this study was to evaluate oncological outcome for patients with and without anastomotic leakage after colon or rectal cancer surgery. short-term morbidity, mortality, and long-term oncological outcomes are negatively influenced by the occurrence of anastomotic leakage after rectal cancer surgery. anastomotic leaks after restorative resections for rectal cancer may lead to worse long-term outcomes. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the best current evidence assessing anastomotic leaks in rectal cancer resections with curative intent and their impact on survival and cancer recurrence. anastomotic leaks after restorative resections for rectal cancer adversely impact cancer-specific mortality and local recurrence. the types of anastomotic leakage that develop following rectal cancer surgery and their impact on long-term outcomes are not well documented. this study aimed to compare the clinical characteristics of various types of anastomotic leakage after anterior resection in rectal cancer patients and evaluate their impact on the long-term oncologic outcomes. in rectal cancer, anastomotic leakage was reported to have a negative impact on both short- and long-term outcomes. the aim of this study was to assess outcomes of patients who developed an anastomotic leak after low anterior resection of the rectum for rectal cancer. 
Health care for immigrants in Europe: is there still consensus among country experts about principles of good practice? [SEP] european member states are facing a challenge to provide accessible and effective health care services for immigrants. this study assessed the views and values of professionals working in different health care contexts and in different european countries as to what constitutes good practice in health care for immigrants. for each country, the process aimed to produce a national consensus list of the most important factors characterising good practice in health care for migrants. on the need for more consistent governance of health care services for immigrants. experts across europe asserted the right to culturally sensitive health care for all immigrants. this article investigates european countries' attribution of rights to immigrants: have these rights become more inclusive and more similar across countries? this study aimed to learn more about european people's views on the responsiveness of their country's health systems and healthcare providers. health services across europe provide health care for migrant patients every day. structured interviews with open questions and case vignettes were conducted with health care professionals working in areas with high proportion of migrant populations in 16 countries. in each country, professionals in nine primary care practices, three accident and emergency hospital departments, and three community mental health services (total sample = 240) were interviewed about their views and experiences in providing care for migrant patients, i.e. 
Can clinical supervision sustain our workforce in the current healthcare landscape? [SEP] the aim of this article is to explore and examine the current role and status of clinical supervision in the nhs. clinical supervision has been an aspect of nursing practice in various forms for several years; however, it remains challenging to ensure its widespread implementation across healthcare organisations. there is an increasingly evident need for formalised support in nurses' busy practice settings, so it is important to improve the quality of clinical supervision in healthcare. this article provides an overview of clinical supervision, outlining its features and functions in healthcare practice. clinical supervision is important for effective health service delivery, professional development and practice. high quality clinical supervision is an important component of clinical governance and has been shown to be beneficial to practitioners, patients and the organisation. to ensure quality of care delivery clinical supervision has been implemented in health services. clinical supervision has gained wide recognition in recent years as an essential component of a practitioner's continuing professional development. this article outlines the elements required to establish and sustain an effective clinical supervision arrangement for health professionals, based on current evidence and the author's expert opinion. clinical supervision is a strategy supporting nurses, midwives and other healthcare professionals in the provision of quality healthcare. 
Is the determination of specific IgE against components using ISAC 112 a reproducible technique? [SEP] the immunocap isac 112 is a fluoro-immunoassay that allows detection of specific ige to 112 molecular components from 51 allergenic sources. the allergen microarray immunoassay, isac 112, is a repeatable and reproducible in vitro diagnostic tool for determination of sige beyond the own laboratory. the immunocap© isac allows for the determination of specific immunoglobulin e (ige) against 103 recombinant or purified allergen components in a single analytical step. immunocap isac 112, is a commercially available molecular allergy ige multiplex test. to perform a comparison between the isac multiplex ige assay and the immunocap singleplex test results. the positive percent agreements (ppa) and negative percent agreement (npa) of corresponding allergens between the isac sige test and the extract-based singleplex immunocap results at cutoff 0.1 kua/l varied between 60-100 % for ppa and 78-97 % for npa. standardized and reproducible assays of specific ige antibodies contribute to the quality of diagnosis and treatment of allergic disease. this study indicates that the vidas stallertest and pharmacia cap assays are feasible and replicable for measuring allergen-specific ige. in conclusion, the carla system represents an efficient and reliable immunoassay for the evaluation of serum specific ige. this study aimed to compare the diagnostic agreement of two singleplex sige detection assays. 
Is the first urinary albumin/creatinine ratio (ACR) in women with suspected preeclampsia a prognostic factor for maternal and neonatal adverse outcome? [SEP] to establish whether a spot urinary albumin: creatinine ratio (acr) measured before 20 weeks of gestation can predict subsequent pre-eclampsia when urinary albumin is measured by high-performance liquid chromatography (hplc). the aim of this study was to determine the prognostic value of the first urinary albumin/creatinine ratio (acr) for adverse maternal and neonatal outcomes and how it relates to other prognostic factors. acr is an independent prognostic factor for maternal and neonatal adverse outcomes in suspected preeclampsia. to assess whether a spot urinary albumin:creatinine ratio (acr) measured before 20 weeks of gestation can predict subsequent development of preeclampsia. women who subsequently developed preeclampsia had higher spot urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio (median 30.795 [9.7-92.8]) in comparison with women who developed gestational hypertension (median 5.2 [0.7-7.2]) and unaffected women (median 5.2 [2.5-9.6]). a spot urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio of more than 9.8 mg/g of creatinine can predict the development of preeclampsia in later pregnancy with the sensitivity and specificity of 67 and 76%, respectively. to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of albumin-creatinine ratio (acr) in woman with preeclampsia and eclampsia and examine the association between acr and fetomaternal outcome. to assess whether a single urinary spot urinary albumin:creatinine ratio (acr) can be used to estimate 24-hour urinary protein excretion in women with preeclampsia. to determine if microalbuminuria can be used as a predictive marker of preeclampsia and adverse pregnancy and neonatal outcomes in women with pre-existing diabetes and to compare the prognostic utility of urinary albumin to creatinine ratio (uacr) and urinary protein to creatinine ratio (upcr). the aim of this study was to establish whether a spot urinary albumin/creatinine ratio (acr) measured between 20 and 28 weeks of gestation can predict subsequent pre-eclampsia in asymptomatic pregnant women. 
Is there awareness of pharmaceutical expenditure in the reformed primary care system? [SEP] the rapid rise of prescribing expenditure is a concern in many industrialised countries and methods to manage medicines are widely employed. the increasing costs of bringing products to the market, as well as increased utilization of pharmaceuticals contribute to increased pharmaceutical expenditure; however, appropriate pharmaceutical use can, in certain cases, reduce overall healthcare costs. much healthcare expenditure is on pharmaceutical drugs. in response to concerns about the cost burden of medical care in general and rising pharmaceutical costs in particular, a number of recent studies have examined trends in pharmaceutical expenditures. in this paper, we examine methodological approaches that have been used to describe and analyze trends in medical and pharmaceutical expenditures using recent studies as examples. pharmaceutical expenditures are increasing as a proportion of health expenditures in most rich countries. this should include policies aiming to influence physicians' prescribing and a shared responsibility of pharmacists, physicians and patients towards expenditures. the objectives of the paper are to examine pharmaceutical expenditures and utilisation in canada, review the major cost control strategies for pharmaceuticals, and discuss the future issues and challenges for pharmaceutical policy in canada. prescription drug costs have been the focus of much research in the health care economy, within managed care organizations, and hospital systems. pharmacy costs are drivers of general health care spending, premium increases, and to a lesser extent, hospital spending. 
Do women with ovaries of polycystic morphology without any other features of PCOS benefit from short-term metformin co-treatment during IVF? [SEP] the aim of the present study was to assess the effect of the pre-treatment and co-administration of metformin in infertile pcos women treated with controlled ovarian stimulation (cos) followed by timed intercourse (ti) or intrauterine insemination (iui). in insulin-resistant women with pcos, metformin pre-treatment and co-administration with hpfsh increases the mono-ovulatory cycles. background recent studies suggest that metformin may be more effective in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (pcos) who are non-obese. to some extent, the use of metformin may improve endometrial receptivity and pregnancy outcomes of women with polycystic ovarian syndrome (pcos) undergoing in vitro fertilization/intracytoplasmic sperm injection. metformin is widely used among women with polycystic ovary syndrome (pcos). to assess whether metformin is associated with improved outcomes of ivf/icsi-et in women with pcos. in this study, metformin treatment was associated with a decreased risk of ohss but had no association with the overall clinical pregnancy rate or live birth rate among women with pcos undergoing ivf/icsi-et. a total of 339 non-obese pcos patients undergoing ivf were evaluated according to the supplementation of metformin. in women with polycystic ovary syndrome, metformin treatment before or during assisted reproductive technology cycles increases clinical pregnancy rates and decreases the risk of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome. metformin is successfully used in the treatment of cycle disorders and anovulation in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (pcos). 
Estimated fetal weight by ultrasound: a modifiable risk factor for cesarean delivery? [SEP] some have suggested, based on limited data, that knowledge of an estimated fetal weight from a sonogram in a low-risk population, particularly in the setting of a larger fetus, is associated with increased risk of cesarean delivery. we aimed to investigate, among women delivering neonates weighing greater than 3500 g, whether having had a sonographically estimated fetal weight in temporal proximity to delivery was associated with the risk of cesarean delivery. we conducted a retrospective cohort study of term nulliparous women delivering live-born, cephalic, singleton, nonanomalous fetuses with birth weights of greater than 3500 g. the study was powered to detect a 30% change in cesarean delivery frequency with the presence of a sonographic examination after 36 weeks' gestation. to assess the association of a sonographic estimated fetal weight (sonoefw) with the risk of cesarean delivery in women with macrosomic or small for gestational age (sga) infants. maternal age, height, body mass index, parity, gestational age, bishop score, ultrasonic amniotic fluid volume, fetal head position, estimated fetal weight, and transvaginal cervical length were studied prospectively in 267 women at 36 or more weeks of gestation immediately before induction of labor. to determine the perinatal outcome of fetuses who had birthweights less than that expected from early third trimester ultrasound scanning. retrospective estimation of centile fetal weight at early third trimester ultrasound scanning compared with actual centile birthweight corrected for gestational age, parity and sex. an actual birthweight greater than 5% less than the birthweight estimated from ultrasound scanning identified 44 babies (22%) with an increased risk of ctg abnormalities (chi 2 = 8.38, p less than 0.0025; odds ratio (or) = 2.54; 95% ci 1.36 to 4.78) and need for operative delivery (chi 2 = 5.81, p less than 0.0125; or = 1.94; 95% ci 1.15 to 3.27), when compared with the remainder of the sample. prior studies suggest knowledge of estimated fetal weight (efw), particularly by ultrasound (us), increases the risk for cesarean delivery. to evaluate the performance of ultrasonographic estimated fetal weight (efw) at 35 + 0 to 36 + 6 weeks' gestation in the prediction of delivery of a small-for-gestational-age (sga) neonate and assess the additive value of, first, maternal risk factors and, second, fetal growth velocity between 20 and 36 weeks' gestation in improving such prediction. 
Does Mammographic Density have an Impact on the Margin Re-excision Rate After Breast-Conserving Surgery? [SEP] margin status is an important prognostic factor for local recurrence after breast-conserving surgery (bcs) in patients with breast malignancy. this study compares the reoperation rates, volume of breast excised in cm(3), and number of pathology slides examined in two groups of patients who underwent bcs with or without four or five additional margins (bcs + m). resection of four to five additional margins during bcs for early-stage invasive breast cancer results in a higher rate of negative microscopic margins, lower volume of breast excised, and subsequently, a lower reoperation rate. preoperative breast mri does not decrease re-excision rates in patients who undergo lumpectomy. of those undergoing re-excision, 35 per cent (16/46) were re-excised  for ductal carcinoma in situ (dcis) at the lumpectomy margin. this retrospective study investigated the impact of the resection volume on locoregional recurrence after breast-conserving therapy in patients with early-stage invasive breast cancer. limited and conflicting data exist on an association between mammographic density (md) and re-excision rates after breast-conserving surgery (bcs). the women with denser breasts (bi-rads 3 or 4) underwent initial mastectomy more frequently than the women with less dense breasts (40.0 vs. 30.5%, respectively; p = 0.0118). in the bivariable analysis, the patients with denser breasts according to bi-rads classification and volumetric density showed a trend toward requiring more frequent re-excision, but this association was not seen in the multivariable analysis. mammographic density is not associated with an increased need for re-excision or resection of unnecessary margins at initial bcs. 
Are women who are treated for hypothyroidism at risk for pregnancy complications? [SEP] optimizing treatment in pregnant women with overt hypothyroidism can reduce adverse fetal and maternal outcomes. women with compensated early thyroid failure, or those from areas of reduced iodine intake, may first be found to be hypothyroid during pregnancy. in women with previously diagnosed hypothyroidism already on thyroxine (t4) replacement therapy, pregnancy is often associated with an increased dose requirement. the care of pregnant women affected by thyroid disease is an important clinical challenge for endocrinologists. hypothyroidism is the commonest problem, and maternal hypothyroxinemia has been linked to adverse feto-maternal outcomes. women with hyper-and hypothyroidism are at increased risk for infertility and adverse pregnancy outcomes. adverse pregnancy and neonatal outcomes are increased by maternal thyroid disease and adequate treatment is thought to reduce these risks. hypothyroidism is commonly treated with levothyroxine, with pregnancy increasing levothyroxine requirements in most women treated for hypothyroidism. hyperthyroidism is often treated with antithyroid drugs in pregnancy. autoimmune thyroiditis and isolated maternal hypothyroxinemia do not currently warrant treatment during pregnancy, unless hypothyroidism ensues. 
Internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint: is there still a place for ultrasound? [SEP] ultrasonography is an effective, low-cost, low-threshold and convenient diagnostic tool in childhood arthritis, but its value in temporomandibular joint (tmj) involvement is not clear. the purpose of this study was to determine whether 12.5 mhz ultrasonography (us) could be used to assess the presence or absence of temporomandibular joint (tmj) internal derangement (id). ultrasound is extensively being used for imaging of temporomandibular joint as it is non-invasive and relatively inexpensive. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the use of ultrasound in identifying tmj with internal derangement and to access its usefulness as a diagnostic tool in patients with tmj clicking. ultrasonography, which has shown high specificity, can supplement clinical evaluation in patients with tmj disorders and can be used as a potential diagnostic tool for identifying internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint with reduction. to present an advanced ultrasound (us) technique and propose its use as a screening diagnostic tool for temporomandibular joint (tmj) internal derangement. this study was conducted to determine the effectiveness of ultrasonographic imaging for diagnosing temporomandibular joint internal derangements. ultrasonographic and magnetic resonance imaging scans of temporomandibular joints were obtained bilaterally in 55 patients who had temporomandibular joint disorders and who were diagnosed with temporomandibular joint internal derangements following a clinical examination. the aim of this study was to determine the value of dynamic high-resolution ultrasonography (hr-us) in the evaluation of internal derangements of a temporomandibular joint (tmj) in the open and closed mouth position. the present study's aim was to compare temporomandibular joint (tmj) images for individuals with and without temporomandibular disorder (tmd) using high-resolution ultrasonography (hrus). 
Laparoscopic myomectomy: do size, number, and location of the myomas form limiting factors for laparoscopic myomectomy? [SEP] it has become evident that laparoscopic myomectomy is limited by size, number and location of fibroids. myomectomy performed by laparotomy can be technically challenging and the surgical benefits have to be weighed against associated risks and impairing fertile potential, especially in multiple and large fibroids that may be positioned close to the cavity. laparotomic myomectomy is often the only realistic solution for symptomatic women with multiple or large myomas who wish to retain their fertility. as more women with symptomatic uterine myomas undergo laparoscopic management without hysterectomy, we increasingly encounter many difficult situations, such as of the need to extract large intramural myomas. laparoscopic myomectomy rather than abdominal myomectomy has been well documented as a treatment option for uterine myomas. the authors introduce a simple but highly effective technique for excision of myoma and suturing using standard instrumentation in laparoscopic myomectomy. methods:   a retrospective study was carried out in 30 infertile women with intramural myomas measuring ≥50 mm in diameter and treated using laparoscopy. conclusions:   on the basis of these results, laparoscopic surgery for myomas appears to offer comparable results to laparotomy. the objective of this article is to review the different techniques that have been adopted for removal of large myomas laparoscopically. this comprehensive review describes all possibilities of laparoscopic myomectomy irrespective of size, site and number. 
Is intensive chemotherapy safe for rural cancer patients? [SEP] to provide equality of cancer care to rural patients, townsville cancer centre administers intensive chemotherapy regimens to rural patients with node-positive breast and metastatic colorectal cancers at the same doses as urban patients. the aim is to determine the safety of this practice by comparing the profile of serious adverse events and dose intensities between urban and rural patients at the townsville cancer centre. it appears safe to administer intensive chemotherapy regimens at standard doses to rural patients without increased morbidity or mortality. a growing number of rural cancer patients are receiving chemotherapy in hometown clinics and hospitals. local access to cancer care offers many advantages to patients and providers, but is it safe to give intravenous chemotherapy? the current study examines whether rural patients with cancer are less likely than urban patients with cancer to receive recommended radiation therapy, and identifies factors influencing rural versus urban differences in radiation therapy receipt. the current study included 14,692 rural and 107,834 urban patients with 5 cancer types and stages for which radiation therapy was recommended. adjusted radiation therapy receipt rates were calculated by rural versus urban residence overall, for different sociodemographic and cancer characteristics, and for different states based on logistic regression analyses using general estimating equation methods to account for patient clustering by county. adjusted rates of radiation therapy receipt were similar for rural and urban patients with other cancer types overall (66.1% vs 68.2%; difference not significant), although there were differences between urban and rural patients with regard to radiation therapy receipt for patients with stage iiia nonsmall cell lung cancer (66.2% vs 60.7%; p ≤ .01). sociodemographics, cancer types and stages, and state of residence appear to have a greater influence over receipt of radiation therapy than rural versus urban residence location, suggesting that factors such as social support, receipt of other cancer treatments, and regional practice patterns are important determinants of radiation therapy receipt. 
Does sex affect the outcome of laparoscopic cholecystectomy? [SEP] the relationship between sex and outcome after laparoscopic surgery for symptomatic cholelithiasis remains unclear. the purpose of this study was to determine the influence of sex on the clinical presentation of patients with symptomatic gallstone disease and the clinical outcomes of laparoscopic cholecystectomy. the role of gender as a risk factor for laparoscopic cholecystectomy is controversial. to evaluate the role of the gender on the operative findings and outcome of laparoscopic cholecystectomy. whether sex truly influences outcomes of patients with acute cholecystitis in the current era of early laparoscopic cholecystectomy for acute cholecystitis is unknown. this paper was designed to investigate the gender dependent risk of complication in patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy for acute cholecystitis. the role of gender as an independent risk factor for complicated laparoscopic cholecystectomy remains unclear. the male gender could be an independent risk factor for complicated or challenging surgery in patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy for acute cholecystitis. the aim of our study was to determine the effect of sex on the outcome of laparoscopic cholecystectomy in terms of operative time, conversion to open cholecystectomy, postoperative complications and mean hospital stay. in this study, we attempted to clarify whether male sex carries an increased risk for conversion to open surgery during laparoscopic cholecystectomy. 
Is atropine needed with ketamine sedation? [SEP] ketamine is an anesthetic agent with sedative and analgesic properties frequently used in surgery. can ketamine be used in all operations and in all patients with an additional disease? atropine and glycopyrrolate given intravenously before the induction of a ketamine anaesthesia to diminish salivary secretion were compared for their effect on psychotomimetic side-effects, awakening time and heart rate. ketamine is an anaesthetic interacting with several neurotransmitters. atropine slightly increased the time of immobility produced by ketamine injections in rats. a ketamine-propofol (ketofol) mixture provides effective sedation and has minimal adverse effects. after premedication, sedation induction was performed with 0.5 mg/kg ketamine +1 mg/kg propofol in group kp, and 10 mg/kg alfentanil +1 mg/kg propofol in group ap. this study sought to investigate the impact of adjunctive continuous infusion ketamine on concomitant analgesic and sedative dosing while providing goal comfort in mechanically ventilated patients. this retrospective two-center intrapatient comparison study included mechanically ventilated adult icu patients who received continuous infusion ketamine with at least one other analgesic or sedative infusion. adjunctive continuous infusion ketamine promotes analgesic and sedative dose-sparing effects in mechanically ventilated patients while improving time spent within goal sedation range. 
Does implant coating with antibacterial-loaded hydrogel reduce bacterial colonization and biofilm formation in vitro? [SEP] preclinical reports have suggested that antibacterial coatings of implants may prevent bacterial adhesion and biofilm formation. a fast-resorbable, antibacterial-loaded hydrogel may reduce or prevent bacterial colonization and biofilm formation of implanted biomaterials. (2) can a hydrogel (alone or antibacterial-loaded) coating on implants reduce bacterial colonization? implant coating with an antibacterial-loaded hydrogel reduces bacterial colonization and biofilm formation in vitro. a fast-resorbable, antibacterial-loaded hydrogel coating may help prevent implant-related infections in orthopaedics. current implant-based antimicrobial strategies largely utilize coating-based approaches in order to reduce biofilm formation and bacterial adhesion. antibacterial coating of implants may prevent bacterial adhesion and biofilm formation. colonization of implant surfaces with bacteria should ideally be prevented right from implantation, as bacteria attaching to the surface will form a biofilm, being then well protected against antibiotic treatment. bacterial adhesion leading to biofilm formation on the surface of implants is responsible for pathogenesis infections. prevention of bacterial colonization and formation of a bacterial biofilm on implant surfaces has been a challenge in orthopaedic surgery. 
Do family physicians know the costs of medical care? [SEP] practicing physicians, faced with pressure to control health care costs, are increasingly being asked to incorporate considerations of cost into their decisions regarding the care they offer their patients. we evaluated physicians' perceptions about relevant costs for prescription drugs and the importance of communication about these costs. little is known about how physicians perceive their patients' health-related financial burden in the context of primary care. the purpose of this study was to describe physician experiences with patients' financial burden while managing chronic disease and the communication of these issues. coded transcripts were analyzed for themes regarding physicians' experiences with identifying, managing, and communicating financial burden with their patients in the context of primary care. awareness of physician perspectives in identifying and addressing their patients' disease-related financial burden may better equip researchers and medical educators to develop interventions that aid care teams in better understanding these patient concerns to promote compliance with treatment recommendations. this study describes billing practices of family physicians. there is evidence suggesting that physicians have a limited foundation of knowledge on health care finances and limited awareness of hospital costs and charges. the objective was to analyze general pediatric attending physicians' and residents' knowledge of costs, charges, and reimbursements for care rendered in the inpatient setting. attending physicians and residents demonstrated limited knowledge of costs, charges, and reimbursements as shown by a low accuracy of estimates and a high percent error, compared with the actual values. 
Combining process indicators to evaluate quality of care for surgical patients with colorectal cancer: are scores consistent with short-term outcome? [SEP] we propose a surgical audit evaluating long-term outcome following colorectal cancer surgery. future studies are necessary to further evaluate this score and help improving the prediction of long-term survival following colorectal cancer surgery. in colorectal cancer care, many indicators for assessment and improvement of quality of care are being used. therefore, the aim of this systematic review is to examine reported quality indicators used in multidisciplinary colorectal cancer care and categorise these indicators based on scientific evidence. there is an abundance of reported colorectal cancer quality indicators, of which the majority are surgical, consensus-based process measures, which have not been validated in cohort studies. short-term outcomes (unplanned readmission, post-surgical complication rates, 30-day and 90-day post-surgical mortality) are often used as indicators of quality of surgical care for colorectal cancer (crc). we evaluated the association between surgeon volume and quality and cost of surgical care in patients with colon cancer. we performed a review of the literature on quality-of-care indicators for oesophageal cancer surgery. since there is considerable variation in the evaluation of quality of care, the uniform use of well-defined quality-of-care indicators to measure and document practice performance holds the promise of improving outcome in patients who undergo oesophageal cancer surgery. to evaluate the risk-adjusted perioperative outcome of colorectal cancer surgery, applying the colorectal physiological and operative severity score for the enumeration of mortality and morbidity (cr-possum). 
Can APC mutation analysis contribute to therapeutic decisions in familial adenomatous polyposis? [SEP] a correlation between the location of mutation in the adenomatous polyposis coli (apc) gene and clinical manifestations of familial adenomatous polyposis (fap) has repeatedly been reported. disease severity, familial adenomatous polyposis, genetic tests, genotype-phenotype correlations, surgical management. several studies have shown that the clinical phenotype of patients with familial adenomatous polyposis is influenced by the position of the associated germline mutation in the apc gene. the aim of this work was to assess whether the site of the apc mutation may also predict the survival of familial adenomatous polyposis patients with a confirmed diagnosis of colorectal cancer. a total of 387 familial adenomatous polyposis patients with colorectal cancer were examined. this study was performed to examine the relation between phenotypic expression in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis (fap) and the site of mutations in the apc (adenomatous polyposis coli) gene. adenomatous polyposis coli (apc) germline mutations are responsible for the occurrence of familial adenomatous polyposis (fap). in familial adenomatous polyposis (fap), correlations between site of mutation in the adenomatous polyposis coli (apc) gene and severity of colonic polyposis or extracolonic manifestations are well known. germline mutations in the apc gene cause of most cases of familial adenomatous polyposis (fap) and a lesser proportion of attenuated fap (afap). germ-line mutations in the adenomatous polyposis coli (apc) gene are responsible for familial adenomatous polyposis (fap). 
Do emergency medical services professionals think they should participate in disease prevention? [SEP] emergency medical services (ems) personnel may be called upon to deliver primary injury prevention (pip) by educating both patients and peers about how to avoid future similar injury. the primary objective of the study was to determine emergency medical services (ems) professionals' opinions regarding participation in disease and injury prevention programs. a secondary objective was to determine the proportion of ems professionals who had participated in disease prevention programs. of these responders, 82.7% (99% ci: 82.1-83.3) felt that ems professionals should participate in disease prevention, with those working 20 to 29 hours per week being the least likely to think they should participate (67.4%, p < 0.001). about a third, 33.8% (99% ci: 33.1-34.6), of the respondents reported having provided prevention services, with those having a graduate degree (43.5%, p < 0.001), those working in ems for more than 21 years (44%, p < 0.001), those working for the military (57%, p < 0.001), those working 60 to 69 hours per week (41%, p < 0.001), and those responding to zero emergency calls in a typical week (43%, p < 0.001) being the most likely to report having provided prevention services. those who had participated in prevention programs were more likely to respond that ems professionals should participate in prevention (92% vs. 82%, p < 0.001). further, those who had provided prevention services during emergency calls were more likely to think ems professionals should provide prevention services during emergency calls (81% vs. 51%, p < 0.001). the majority of ems professionals thought that they should participate in disease and injury prevention programs. the respondents were mixed as to whether prevention services should be provided while on emergency calls, but those with experience providing these services were more likely to agree with providing them during emergency calls. this article ends with a discussion of the importance of a system approach to prevention and suggests a role for a preventionist as a new member of the emergency medicine team. 
Is the ability to perform transurethral resection of the prostate influenced by the surgeon's previous experience? [SEP] to determine whether previous transurethral resection of the prostate (turp) compromises the surgical outcome and pathologic findings in patient who underwent either radical robot-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy (ralp) or open retropubic radical prostatectomy (rrp) after turp, because turp is reported to complicate radical prostatectomy and there are conflicting data. to evaluate how surgeon heterogeneity - the variation in outcomes between individual surgeons - influences functional and oncological outcomes after robot-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy (ralp) and retropubic radical prostatectomy (rrp), and to assess whether surgeon heterogeneity affects the comparison between ralp and rrp. to evaluate the effect of previous robot-assisted radical prostatectomy (rarp) case volume on the outcomes of robot-assisted radical cystectomy. surgical specimens from men with clinical t1-t2 disease who underwent radical prostatectomy (rp) between 2004 and 2010 were re-reviewed by a single uropathologist, examining all sections from the prostate apex and base for the presence of benign glandular tissue and tumor at the margin. to evaluate retrospectively whether or not previous treatment to the prostate alters the perioperative outcomes from robot-assisted radical prostatectomy (rarp) after the initial 'learning curve', as there are conflicting data on outcomes of rp in patients with previous treatment to the prostate. in all, 510 patient charts were reviewed, identifying 24 patients with a history of previous treatment to the prostate including transurethral resection or incision of the prostate, transurethral microwave therapy, transurethral needle ablation, photoselective vaporization, simple prostatectomy, external beam radiotherapy, brachytherapy, and open bladder neck reconstruction (group 1) and 486 with no previous treatment (group 2). robot-assisted radical prostatectomy (rarp) is a procedure thought to require experience with a significant number of cases before mastering. we review a single surgeon's experience during the transition from open radical retropubic prostatectomy (rrp) to rarp using a matched case-control model. to compare the perioperative and functional outcomes of laparoscopic radical prostatectomy (lrp) and robotic-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy (ralp) in a single-surgeon series. robotic assistance aids the laparoscopically naive surgeon in performing minimally invasive prostate surgery by offering superior visualization and dexterity. 
Is there a differential in the dental health of new recruits to the British Armed Forces? [SEP] figures from the british defence dental services reveal that serving personnel in the british army have a persistently lower level of dental fitness than those in the royal navy or the royal air force. recruits in the army sample had a significantly greater prevalence of dental decay and greater treatment resource need than either of the other two services. army recruits had a mean number of 2.59 (2.08, 3.09) decayed teeth per recruit, compared to 1.93 (1.49, 2.39 p <0.01) in royal navy recruits and 1.26 (0.98, 1.53 p <0.001) in royal air force recruits. a significant difference in dental health between recruits to each service does exist and is a likely to be a reflection of the sociodemographic background from which they are drawn. army recruits have high levels of dental disease, and traditionally the dental needs of soldiers have not been addressed until the soldiers arrive at their first permanent duty station. to assess factors influencing access to dental care and to determine the true level of dental morbidity experienced by uk military personnel serving on operation herrick. there is a substantial component of 'hidden' dental morbidity in deployed personnel. the united kingdom defence dental agency assesses united kingdom servicemen as being at low, moderate, or high risk of developing morbidity during the next year, based on the examining dental officer's assessment of their dental status. oral health is essential for combat readiness. the purpose of this study was to determine the caries status and derived treatment needs of young israeli army recruits based on clinical and radiographic examination. 
Is laparoscopic reoperation for failed antireflux surgery feasible? [SEP] antireflux operations for gastroesophageal reflux disease whether performed open or laparoscopically can fail and may require reoperation to control new, recurrent symptoms or operation-related complications. we report our experience with the laparoscopic reoperation for failed antireflux procedures. between 1995 and 2000, 37 patients underwent laparoscopic reoperative antireflux procedures. laparoscopic reoperative antireflux procedures are technically feasible with acceptable preliminary results. since laparoscopy has become a common surgical approach for antireflux surgery, little is known regarding reoperation for failed antireflux surgery. we conclude that reoperation for failed antireflux surgery is safe and effective. laparoscopic reoperation for failed antireflux operations is a complex procedure, but it is safe and effective in selected patients. both laparoscopic antireflux surgery and open surgery cause failures which lead to repeat surgery in 3-6% of cases. we evaluated prospectively quality of life and surgical outcome following laparoscopic refundoplication for failed initial antireflux surgery. we prospectively studied 51 patients undergoing laparoscopic refundoplication for primary failed antireflux surgery, with complete follow-up 1 year after surgery. 
Does exercise during pregnancy prevent postnatal depression? [SEP] we hypothesize that physiotherapist-supervised group exercise for pregnant women at risk of antenatal depression increases their psychological well-being. previous literature supports exercise as a preventative agent for prenatal depression; however, treatment effects for women at risk for prenatal depression remain unexplored. the purpose of the study was to examine whether exercise can lower depressive symptoms among women who began pregnancy at risk for depression using both a statistical significance and reliable and clinically significant change criteria. a structured exercise program might be a useful treatment option for women at risk for prenatal depression. we aimed to investigate whether physical activity during pregnancy was inversely associated with postpartum depressive symptoms, ppds in a multiethnic sample. exercise may be a useful intervention to prevent and treat antenatal depression. this systematic review aims to establish whether there is sufficient evidence to conclude that exercise is an effective intervention for preventing and treating antenatal depression. we found some evidence that exercise may be effective in treating depression during pregnancy but this conclusion is based on a small number of low-moderate quality trials with significant heterogeneity and wide confidence intervals. although physical activity has been found to reduce the risk of depression in the general population, little is known regarding its link with postnatal depression. one longitudinal study found that occupational physical activity was positively associated with postnatal depressive symptoms. 
Is endometrial polyp formation associated with increased expression of vascular endothelial growth factor and transforming growth factor-beta1? [SEP] vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) is angiogenic, related to thick walled vessels and transforming growth factor-beta1 (tgf-β1) is related to fibrotic tissue, which are characteristics of endometrial polyps. the primary objective of this study was to find out if endometrial polyp formation is associated with increased expression of vegf or tgf-β1, or both. this prospective study compared vegf and tgf-β1 expression of endometrial polyps and adjacent endometrial tissue in 70 premenopausal women. the score of tgf-β1 in glandular cells of endometrial polyps was significantly higher than the score in adjacent endometrium in proliferative phase (p=0.02); whereas the score of tgf-β1 in stromal cells of endometrial polyps was significantly higher than the score in adjacent endometrium, both in the proliferative phase (p=0.006) and the secretory phase (p=0.008). there was increased expression of tgf-β1 and vegf in polyps compared to adjacent normal endometrial tissue. it suggested that these cytokines might play a role in endometrial polyp formation. do estrogen and wnt/β-catenin signaling promote vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) expression in endometriosis and how? vegf, erα and β-catenin expression was increased in endometriotic lesions compared with normal endometrium. we proposed that estrogen promotes endometrial angiogenesis by regulating vegf expression by glandular epithelial and stromal cells. we propose that estrogen, by regulating expression and secretion of angiogenic factors such as vegf by glandular epithelial cells of the endometrium, regulates endometrial angiogenesis. 
Is human cytomegalovirus infection associated with hypertension? [SEP] human cytomegalovirus (cmv) infection is associated with hypertension and has been linked with the pathogenesis of increased arterial blood pressure (bp). we aimed to examine the relationship between cmv infection and the progression of hypertension and hypertensive tod, which could provide clues on the possible mediating mechanisms, in the han chinese population. recent studies suggest an association between cytomegalovirus (cmv) infection and hypertension. the human cytomegalovirus plays a causal role in atherosclerosis etiology, but it is discussed as controversial. human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) has been reported to be highly expressed in essential hypertension (eh), and it has been proposed that hcmv infection may contribute to eh development. chronic infection with cytomegalovirus (cmv), chlamydia pneumoniae, herpes simplex virus 1 (hsv-1), and helicobacter pylori may contribute to essential hypertension. this study aimed to investigate if cytomegalovirus infection contributes to the development of vte in immunocompetent individuals. recent studies have implicated the human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) as a possible pathogen for causing hypertension. we aimed to study the association between hcmv infection and hypertension in the united states national health and nutrition examination survey (nhanes). human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) infection is known to modulate host gene expression and has been linked to the pathogenesis of vasculopathies; however, relevant pathomechanisms are still unclear. 
Is it possible to stop treatment with nucleos(t)ide analogs in patients with e-antigen negative chronic hepatitis B? [SEP] most of the current guidelines and the existing data suggest that long-term therapy with nucleos(t)ide analogue(s) [na(s)] may be stopped in carefully selected chronic hepatitis b patients who remain hbsag positive. the safe discontinuation of nucleos(t)ide analogue therapy remains challenging in chronic hepatitis b. nucleos(t)ide analogues (na) are effective in suppressing hepatitis b virus (hbv) replication, but most patients require long-term treatment. nucleos(t)ide analogue (nuc) treatment was discontinued in non-cirrhotic patients with chronic hbv with serum hbsag <200 iu/ml and fulfilling internationally recommended criteria for treatment cessation. little is known about the biochemical and virological effects of stopping long-term nucleos(t)ide analogue therapy for hepatitis b e antigen (hbeag)-negative patients with chronic hepatitis b (chb). stopping nucleos(t)ide analogues (na) after hepatitis b e antigen (hbeag) seroconversion is associated with high relapse rates in asian patients, but data in caucasian cohorts are scarce. the aim of this study was to determine relapse rates, factors predicting relapse and clinical outcomes after nucleos(t)ide analogue cessation in a large, predominantly caucasian cohort of chronic hepatitis b patients with nucleos(t)ide analogue-induced hbeag seroconversion. treatment withdrawal in caucasian chronic hepatitis b patients after nucleos(t)ide analogue-induced hbeag seroconversion results in viral relapses in more than half of patients with potential fatal outcomes. there is currently no virological cure for chronic hepatitis b but successful nucleos(t)ide analogue (na) therapy can suppress hepatitis b virus (hbv) dna replication and, in some cases, result in hbsag loss. hepatitis b e antigen (hbeag)-negative hepatitis b commonly requires long-term treatment with nucleos(t)ide analogues aiming at persistently suppressing hepatitis b virus (hbv) replication to halt progression of liver disease and prevent complications. 
Does radiotherapy around the time of pregnancy for Hodgkin's disease modify the risk of breast cancer? [SEP] to determine whether the risk of secondary breast cancer after radiotherapy (rt) for hodgkin's disease is greater among women who underwent rt around time of pregnancy. the risk was dependent on the length of time from pregnancy to rt, with women receiving rt during pregnancy and within 1 month of pregnancy having an increased risk of breast cancer compared with nonpregnant women and women irradiated later than 1 month after pregnancy (hazard ratio, 22.49; 95% confidence interval, 5.56-90.88; p <0.001). the results of this study indicate that the risk of breast cancer after rt is greater with irradiation around the time of pregnancy. limited information exists on the possibility of pregnant women undergoing radiotherapy for hodgkin's disease in early pregnancy. women treated with supradiaphragmatic radiotherapy (srt) for hodgkin lymphoma (hl) at young ages have a substantially increased breast cancer risk. a patient with hodgkin's disease during pregnancy treated with radiotherapy is presented. women treated at young ages with supradiaphragmatic radiotherapy for hodgkin lymphoma (hl) have a highly increased risk of breast cancer. radiotherapy for breast cancer, hodgkin's disease and cervical cancer in pregnant women is reviewed. although the potential carcinogenic risk of radiotherapy is well known, it has become clear that there is a particularly high risk of radiation-induced breast cancer in women treated for hodgkin's disease at young ages. in this article we review breast development, mechanisms of radiation-induced carcinogenesis, and findings from retrospective studies on hodgkin's disease and breast cancer. 
Should displaced midshaft clavicular fractures be treated surgically? [SEP] there is an increasing trend towards operative treatment for displaced midshaft clavicle fractures. this retrospective study was performed to assess the outcome of delayed fixation of displaced midshaft clavicle fractures and test the null hypothesis that there is no difference in results between early and delayed surgical treatment for displaced midshaft clavicle fractures. although most acute midshaft clavicular fractures can be successfully treated nonsurgically, surgery is more appropriate for cases with severe displaced fractures, skin tenting, initial shortening of fracture ends, and associated with multiple injuries. this study discusses a closed reduction and internal fixation technique for midshaft clavicular fracture. the treatment of completely displaced midshaft clavicle fractures is still controversial, but surgical treatment provides a shorter recovery period and higher union rates than nonoperative treatment with a sling1-5. closed completely displaced midshaft clavicle fractures can be treated operatively or nonoperatively with a sling. patients with displaced midshaft clavicular fractures were randomized either to nonoperative treatment with a sling or to operative treatment with a stainless steel 3.5-mm reconstruction plate. an increasing number of studies suggest that displaced midshaft clavicle fractures have improved outcomes after surgical management, and equivalent outcomes can be achieved with both plating and intramedullary techniques. fourteen cases were considered with a displaced midshaft clavicle fracture, initially treated non-surgically, but which developed symptomatic non-union and required surgical treatment. the control group was a cohort of 18 patients with a displaced midshaft clavicle fracture, who had surgical treatment in an acute setting (<3 weeks). 
Is laparoscopic cholecystectomy safe and acceptable as a day case procedure? [SEP] the aim of our study was to report on our experience with day surgery laparoscopic cholecystectomy and to assess its feasibility and safety. day surgery laparoscopic cholecystectomy is both safe and feasible in local settings. to assess the safety and benefits of day-case surgery compared to overnight stay in patients undergoing elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy. day-case elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy seems to be a safe and effective intervention in selected patients (with no or minimal systemic disease and within easy reach of the hospital) with symptomatic gallstones. to assess the safety and benefits of day-case surgery compared to overnight stay in patients undergoing elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy. day-case elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy seems to be a safe and effective intervention in selected patients (with no or minimal systemic disease and within easy reach of the hospital) with symptomatic gallstones. elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy as same-day surgery is safe and cost effective. to systematically assess the safety and efficacy of laparoscopic cholecystectomy as a day surgery procedure compared to overnight stay. currently available evidence demonstrates that laparoscopic cholecystectomy can be performed safely in selected patients as a day surgery procedure, though further studies are needed. laparascopic cholecystectomy has been safely performed as a day-case procedure and has lowered the morbidity of cholecystectomy in the setting of acute cholecystitis. 
Is etoricoxib effective in preventing heterotopic ossification after primary total hip arthroplasty? [SEP] this study investigated whether etoricoxib (cox-ii blocker) has a superior efficacy of preventing heterotopic ossification (ho) after total hip arthroplasty (tha) compared to diclofenac (non-selective nsaid). heterotopic ossification is a common complication after total hip arthroplasty. in this study, we investigated whether etoricoxib, a selective cyclo-oxygenase-2 (cox-2) inhibitor that produces fewer gastrointestinal side effects, is an effective alternative for the prevention of heterotopic ossification. etoricoxib seems effective in preventing heterotopic ossification after total hip arthroplasty. this finding further supports the use of cox-2 inhibitors for the prevention of heterotopic ossification following total hip arthroplasty. heterotopic ossification can impair the functional results of total hip arthroplasty. heterotopic ossification (ho) may occur after total hip arthroplasty, but fortunately most patients are asymptomatic. celecoxib, a selective cox-2 inhibitor, has been shown to prevent the heterotopic ossification following total hip arthroplasty. recent studies have determined that celecoxib is effective in heterotopic ossification prophylaxis after total hip arthroplasty. celecoxib administration is associated with decreased incidence and severity of heterotopic ossification after hip resurfacing performed using the direct lateral approach in male patients. 
Should serum pancreatic lipase replace serum amylase as a biomarker of acute pancreatitis? [SEP] lipase is one of the diagnostic criteria for acute pancreatitis; however, the value of serum lipase in the early prediction and diagnosis for post-endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ercp) pancreatitis remains controversial. we evaluate the 3-h post-ercp serum amylase and lipase activities for early prediction of postoperative pancreatitis (pep) and compare the 24-h post-ercp serum amylase and lipase activities in the diagnosis of pep. studies have shown lipase to be as sensitive and more specific than amylase in diagnosing pancreatitis and that amylase plus lipase does not improve accuracy over lipase alone. the present study was designed to evaluate whether serum lip and pancreatic pamy tests could replace total amylase test to improve diagnostic efficiency in the evaluation of acute pancreatitis in patients with hyperamylasemia. currently, serum amylase and lipase are the most popular laboratory markers for early diagnosis of acute pancreatitis with reasonable sensitivity and specificity. a serum lipase level > 3 normal has a better diagnostic accuracy than serum amylase in differentiating nonpancreatic abdominal pain from acute pancreatitis. serum lipase and amylase are commonly requested in individuals presenting with abdominal pain for investigation of acute pancreatitis. because of observations that patients with acute episodes of alcoholic pancreatitis had high serum lipase levels whereas patients with gall stone pancreatitis had high serum amylase levels, a prospective study was undertaken to determine whether the ratio of serum lipase to serum amylase, a newly computed ratio, would discriminate between acute episodes of alcoholic and nonalcoholic pancreatitis. the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis (ap) is usually confirmed by a significant increase of the serum amylase and/or lipase level. the value of amylase and lipase levels in serum and peritoneal fluid might be of value in predicting the course of acute pancreatitis. 
Rectal cancer threatening or affecting the prostatic plane: is partial prostatectomy oncologically adequate? [SEP] the management of rectal cancer threatening or affecting the prostatic plane is still under debate. a multicentre, retrospective study was conducted of patients with rectal cancer threatening or affecting the prostatic plane, but not the bladder, judged by magnetic resonance imaging (mri). a consecutive series of 126 men with rectal cancer threatening (44) or affecting (82) the prostatic plane on preoperative staging and operated with local curative intent between 1998 and 2010 was analysed. in this group of patients partial prostatectomy seems to be oncologically safe. but adequate distal margin in patients with locally advanced rectal cancer requiring preoperative crt is unclear. this study suggests that for patients with locally advanced rectal cancer undergoing resection and preoperative crt, distal margins ≥1 cm from reduced tumor by preoperative crt seem to compromise pathological outcome. there is minimal published data evaluating the oncological outcome of rectal resection with prostatectomy alone versus rectal resection with cystoprostatectomy in patients undergoing pelvic exenteration for locally advanced or recurrent pelvic cancer. this study aims to evaluate the oncological and functional outcomes of performing rectal resection with prostatectomy alone compared with rectal resection with cystoprostatectomy in patients undergoing pelvic exenteration. patients undergoing rectal resection with prostatectomy alone were compared with a control group who underwent rectal resection with cystoprostatectomy and urostomy formation. in appropriately selected patients with invasive pelvic tumours, rectal resection with prostatectomy alone provides adequate oncological outcomes. 
Does bone anchor fixation improve the outcome of percutaneous bladder neck suspension in female stress urinary incontinence? [SEP] bone anchors were initially used in transvaginal needle suspension procedures to improve stabilization of the bladder neck. in this article, the application of bone anchors in female urology is reviewed. surgeons performing procedures for the treatment of stress incontinence should be aware of the benefits and potential risks of bone anchor implantation. different principles for providing stable and durable suspension of the bladder neck and proximal urethral tissue are employed in endoscopic bladder neck suspension for female stress urinary incontinence. we evaluated the long-term results of percutaneous needle suspension using bone anchor devices for treating stress urinary incontinence in women. percutaneous needle suspension is associated with poor long-term results in women with stress urinary incontinence. this study evaluates the results of a minimally invasive technique for correcting female stress urinary incontinence by transvaginal implantation of pubic bone anchors. from march 1996, 37 patients with stress urinary incontinence (> 2 years) were treated using a bone anchor system. fifteen women with type i or type ii urinary stress incontinence were treated with a new per vaginal bone anchor device designed to fix periurethral tissues to the pubic bone. to report our preliminary experience with transurethral incision of the bladder neck in the treatment of female voiding dysfunction due to bladder neck obstruction. 
Are intraoperative precursor events associated with postoperative major adverse events? [SEP] precursor events are undesirable events that can lead to a subsequent adverse event and have been associated with postoperative mortality. patients undergoing cardiac surgery who are exposed to intraoperative precursor events were more likely to experience a postoperative mace. we sought to examine the relationship between intraoperative precursor events (those events that precede and are requisite for the occurrence of an adverse event) and adverse outcomes themselves. when categories of precursor events were analyzed, major severity events and those most affecting the surgeon were independent predictors of dnm. adverse events after surgery are common. this pilot study aimed to identify simple preoperative factors associated with postoperative adverse events. patients with adverse events in the post-anaesthesia care unit appeared to have a higher risk of intervention in postoperative wards from a medical emergency or intensive care unit team. adverse events in surgery occur frequently, increase likelihood of postoperative morbidity, and mostly take place in the operating rooms. a wide range of problematic precursor events occurs during the majority of cardiac surgery procedures. intra-operative adverse events (iaes) recently were shown to correlate independently with an increased risk of post-operative death, morbidity, re-admissions, and length of hospital stay. 
Does a family meetings intervention prevent depression and anxiety in family caregivers of dementia patients? [SEP] family caregivers of dementia patients are at increased risk of developing depression or anxiety. this study examines the preventive effects of family meetings for primary caregivers of community-dwelling dementia patients. studies including family caregivers of patients with dementia have shown that psychoeducative programmes reduce distress and postpone institutionalisation. this review aimed to examine the quality and effectiveness of interventions to reduce depressive symptoms reported by caregivers of people with dementia. cognitive-behavioral therapy interventions, which focus on diminishing negative thoughts and increasing positive activities, can effectively decrease depressive symptoms for caregivers of individuals with dementia. to assess the effectiveness of psychoeducational interventions with respect to burden, anxiety and depression in family caregivers of people with dementia living at home. people caring for family members who have dementia often experience considerable levels of anxiety and depression. family carers of older persons with dementia (>65 years). the findings offer a potential avenue of intervention by providing a low-cost, safe and effective treatment for depression among dementia caregivers, which may in turn also benefit the care recipients. a range of studies have shown that psychosocial interventions are effective and can improve caregivers' quality of life, reduce their care burden, and ease their anxiety or depressive symptoms. 
HIF1A as a major vascular endothelial growth factor regulator: do its polymorphisms have an association with age-related macular degeneration? [SEP] to investigate the association between age-related macular degeneration (amd) and the polymorphisms of hif1a, a major vascular epithelial growth factor regulator under hypoxic conditions. genetic factors influence an individual's risk for developing neovascular age-related macular degeneration (amd), a leading cause of irreversible blindness. the vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) gene has been suggested to play an important role in the pathogenesis of age-related macular degeneration (amd). the purpose of this study is to investigate whether gene polymorphisms of the vascular endothelial growth factor a (vegf-a) and its receptor (vegfr-2) have a pharmacogenetics effect on the anti-vegf treatment for neovascular age-related macular degeneration (namd). age-related macular degeneration (amd) is a multifactorial disease due to interaction between genetic and environmental factors. recently, a large number of epidemiological studies have investigated the relationship between hif-1α c1772t/g1790a polymorphisms and cancer susceptibility. this meta-analysis demonstrates that both the c1772t and g1790a polymorphisms in the hif-1α gene likely contribute to increased cancer susceptibility, especially in the asian population and in breast cancer, lung cancer, pancreatic cancer and oral cancer. genetic factors are known to influence the response to anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) treatment in exudative age-related macular degeneration (amd). vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) is an important regulator of angiogenesis and a target for inhibition therapy in wet age-related macular degeneration (amd). major genetic factors for age-related macular degeneration (amd) have recently been identified as susceptibility risk factors, including polymorphisms of htra1 and cfh genes. 
Is combined therapy more effective than growth hormone or hyperbaric oxygen alone in the healing of left ischemic and non-ischemic colonic anastomoses? [SEP] growth hormone (gh) has been shown to improve wound healing. in animal models gh has been demonstrated to increase strength of large bowel anastomoses in nonirradiated bowel. the purpose of this study was to evaluate, in a rat model, the effect of gh on the bursting pressure of radiation-injured terminal ileal anastomoses in a rat model. gh treatment resulted in an 18% greater strength of radiation-injured terminal ileal anastomotic segments, as measured by bursting pressure. these findings suggest a possible role for gh in decreasing the morbidity in patients who undergo intestinal surgery after radiation treatment. electrical field stimulation has been shown to improve repair in ischemic tissue, but its influence in hypoperfused colon has not been investigated. the hypothesis of this experimental animal study was that electrical field stimulation improves anastomotic healing in ischemic bowel. local application of growth factors promote wound healing and may find clinical application for use in high-risk intestinal anastomoses such as that following anterior resection. perioperative supplemental oxygen therapy may have beneficial effects on wound healing following colorectal surgery. this study demonstrates that the greater speed and ease of the stapled anastomosis is offset by the greater strength, reduced tendency to stricture, and more complete healing of the handsewn anastomosis. 
Does oxybutynin hydrochloride cause arrhythmia in children with bladder dysfunction? [SEP] to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of both oxybutynin and its active metabolite, n-desethyl oxybutynin (ndo), when the drug is instilled directly into the bladder in children with myelodysplasia and neurogenic bladder disturbance, in whom it may improve continence and decrease the risk of upper urinary tract deterioration. we evaluated the effectiveness and tolerability of intravesical oxybutynin in children with poorly compliant neurogenic bladder. adjunctive intravesical oxybutynin therapy increased mean maximum bladder capacity and decreased bladder pressure in children with neurogenic bladder. to test the safety and efficacy of extended-release oxybutynin in children with bladder dysfunction. to assess whether conservative treatment of pediatric patients with neurogenic detrusor overactivity (ndo) results in lower bladder pressure and increased expected bladder volume (ebv), we investigated the clinical and urodynamic effects of long-term intravesical oxybutynin instillation compared with a standard treatment of oral anticholinergic medication in patients with clean intermittent catheterization (cic). intravesically applied oxybutynin has been reported to have no significant systemic anticholinergic side effects, with excellent efficacy in the treatment of neurogenic bladder dysfunction. currently, the morphologic effects of intravesical oxybutynin on the local bladder tissue are not well established. in this study we report 39 children with myelodysplasia, neurogenic bladder disturbance with detrusor hyperreflexia and/or high bladder pressure treated with cic to which intravesical oxybutynin 0.1 mg/kg twice daily was added and administered as a sterile pharmacy-produced solution. we evaluated the clinical use of long-term intravesical oxybutynin chloride in the treatment of neurogenic bladder dysfunction in children with myelodysplasia who could not tolerate oral anticholinergics. oxybutynin chloride (5 mg.) was instilled 2 times daily and pretreatment cystograms were compared to followup urodynamic studies. 
Do "America's Best Hospitals" perform better for acute myocardial infarction? [SEP] it is not known whether patients admitted to hospitals ranked at the top in cardiology have lower short-term mortality from acute myocardial infarction than those admitted to other hospitals or whether differences in mortality are explained by differential use of recommended therapies. using data from the cooperative cardiovascular project on 149,177 elderly medicare beneficiaries with acute myocardial infarction in 1994 or 1995, we examined the care and outcomes of patients admitted to three types of hospitals: those ranked high in cardiology (top-ranked hospitals); hospitals not in the top rank that had on-site facilities for cardiac catheterization, coronary angioplasty, and bypass surgery (similarly equipped hospitals); and the remaining hospitals (non-similarly equipped hospitals). admission to a top-ranked hospital was associated with lower adjusted 30-day mortality (odds ratio, 0.87; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.76 to 1.00; p=0.05 for top-ranked hospitals vs. the others). admission to a hospital ranked high on the list of "america's best hospitals" was associated with lower 30-day mortality among elderly patients with acute myocardial infarction. many studies have found that patients with acute myocardial infarction (ami) who are admitted to hospitals with on-site revascularization facilities have higher rates of invasive cardiac procedures and better outcomes than patients in hospitals without such facilities. we examine whether medicare patients with acute myocardial infarction (ami) admitted to one of hcia-mercer's "100 top hospitals" received better care or had better outcomes than patients treated in other hospitals. our findings suggest that the 100 top hospitals study may be better suited for identifying hospitals with higher performance on financial and operating measures than superior clinical performance in treating elderly ami patients. whether academic hospitals provide better quality of care for patients with acute myocardial infarction is widely debated. the aim of this study was to compare processes of care and mortality between academic and nonacademic hospitals in the contemporary era of acute myocardial infarction management. quality of care for acute myocardial infarction (ami) and heart failure (hf) varies across hospitals, but the factors driving variation are incompletely understood. 
Does preoperative anemia adversely affect colon and rectal surgery outcomes? [SEP] the aim of this study was to analyze the association between preoperative anemia and postoperative complications and the survival of patients undergoing surgery for rectal cancer in the era of laparoscopic surgery and modern perioperative care. preoperative anemia appeared to have only limited association with postoperative and disease-specific outcome after rectal cancer surgery in contrast to published meta-analysis of small historical series. preoperative anemia did not predict worsened short-term outcomes, but increased the chances of red blood cell transfusion, which were significantly associated with higher overall complications and increased risk of surgical site infections. to evaluate the long-term prognostic factor of preoperative anemia in colorectal cancer patients. in a fixed-effects meta-analysis of eight studies, including both colon and rectal cancer, preoperative anemia was significantly associated with poor os (hr 1.56; 95% ci 1.30 to 1.88; p < 0.001). the present meta-analysis reveals that preoperative anemia is significantly associated with decreased long-term os and dfs in rectal cancer, but not in colon cancer patients, although this meta-analysis is mainly based on retrospective studies with high heterogeneity. this study aimed to evaluate the prevalence of preoperative anemia and impacts of anemia and transfusion on survival in patients undergoing surgery for colorectal cancer. the primary outcome was the prevalence of preoperative anemia in patients with colorectal cancer. preoperative anemia and postoperative transfusion were associated with worse survival in patients undergoing surgery for colorectal cancer. preoperative anaemia is a risk factor for poorer postoperative outcomes and many colorectal cancer patients have iron-deficiency anaemia. 
Can early second-look tympanoplasty reduce the rate of conversion to modified radical mastoidectomy? [SEP] combined approach tympanoplasty (cat) allows for successful treatment of cholesteatoma with rates of recurrent and residual disease comparable to open mastoid surgery. early timing of second-look procedures allows easier removal of any recurrent or residual disease, which reduces the conversion rate to open mastoidectomy. only four cases were converted to a modified radical mastoidectomy (3%) and three cases required a third-look procedure. one of the main disadvantages of intact canal wall mastoid surgery for cholesteatoma is the necessity of the "second look". to discover whether removal of the canal wall would reduce the incidence of postoperative cholesteatoma in tympanoplasty, the findings in staged, intact canal wall tympanoplasties were compared with those in staged, modified radical mastoidectomies with cavity obliteration and tympanoplasty. this report examines the outcome of this management paradigm applied to small cavity mastoid surgery for children. the small cavity mastoidectomy approach allows meticulous removal of disease from the middle ear and for certain indications second look tympanotomy is recommended. planned second look tympanotomy has demonstrated excellent early disease control as well as allowing timely management of any pathology affecting the middle ear sound transformation mechanism. this study compares the clinical outcomes in type i tympanoplasty performed simultaneously and sequentially. patients undergoing bilateral simultaneous tympanoplasty had significantly lesser mean duration of surgery and number of hospital visits than the patients undergoing sequential tympanoplasty. 
Is serum total bilirubin useful to differentiate cardioembolic stroke from other stroke subtypes? [SEP] circulating total bilirubin is a biomarker of ischemic stroke and may serve as a potential prognostic factor. this systematic review and meta-analysis investigated the relationship between total serum bilirubin and risk for stroke. in four studies with 83,380 subjects, the relationship between circulating total bilirubin and ischemic stroke was investigated, ischemic stroke was found in 2,496 patients, and the total odds ratio (or) of the highest bilirubin and the lowest bilirubin for the occurrence of ischemic stroke was 0.66 (95% ci: 0.58-0.74). eleven studies with 131,450 subjects explored the correlation between bilirubin and stroke, stroke was reported in 5,060 patients, and the total or of the highest bilirubin and the lowest bilirubin for the occurrence of stroke was 0.73 (95% ci: 0.68-0.79). we assessed the relation of serum bilirubin levels with clinical presentation and outcomes among patients hospitalized with ischemic stroke. serum bilirubin is considered a natural antioxidant that may affect the prognosis of stroke. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the prognostic significance of bilirubin in stroke patients. this study suggests that higher serum bilirubin levels were associated with increased stroke severity, longer hospitalisation and poor prognosis. our previous study demonstrated that the level of serum bilirubin after acute ischemic stroke (ais) was correlated to the severity of stroke, also there has the evidence of hyperbilirubinemia prevalent in ais. we aimed to identify the exact change of bilirubin in the early phase of ais, and study if this kind of change linked to the severity of stroke. 
Delayed imaging in routine CT examinations of the abdomen and pelvis: is it worth the additional cost of radiation and time? [SEP] the role of computed tomography (ct) in the evaluation of abdominal pain is well established. to evaluate whether nct, including low-dose computed tomography (ldct, using 50 mas), provides more diagnostic information than apf in patients presenting with acute non-traumatic abdominal pain and if the use of ct can reduce the total number of additional radiograms. abdominal ct studies, from all consecutive patients who had an abdominal ct within 12 months prior to a lumbar spine mri obtained between 11/1/15 and 5/30/16, were retrospectively reviewed in a blinded fashion for the presence of any significant lumbar spine abnormalities. recent abdominal ct studies should be reviewed for lumbar spine pathology prior to a patient undergoing lumbar spine mri. abdominal computed tomography (ct) provides great benefits for the differential diagnosis in patients complaining of acute abdominal pain. we suggest that enhanced, but not noncontrast, ct should be primarily performed for diagnosing acute appendicitis in all patients to minimize the radiation exposure unless intravenous administration of contrast material is contraindicated. to determine if administering iv contrast for ct abdomen and pelvis improves detection of urgent and clinically important non-urgent pathology in patients with urgent clinical symptoms compared to patients not receiving iv contrast, and in turn to determine whether repeat ct exams on the same patient within 72 h were of low diagnostic benefit if the first ct was performed with iv contrast. we evaluated 400 consecutive patients who had ct abdomen and pelvis (ct ap) examinations repeated within 72 h. for each patient, demographic data, reason for examination, examination time stamps, and examination technique were documented. over the last decade the usage of computed tomography (ct) imaging has risen dramatically in emergency department (ed) patients with abdominal pain. background patients with acute non-traumatic abdominal pain often undergo abdominal computed tomography (ct). 
Suturing of the nasal septum after septoplasty, is it an effective alternative to nasal packing? [SEP] suturing of the nasal septum after septal surgery is a commonly performed procedure designed to prevent complications such as septal haematoma and bleeding. surgeons have debated since decades on the efficacy or inefficacy of nasal packing yet it is considered routine after septal surgery. various types of septal splints have been tried as an alternative to nasal packs but most of them need to be sutured around the septum which requires a meticulous approach and expertise. septal suturing following nasal septoplasty, a valid alternative for nasal packing? after septal surgery most surgeons still routinely perform nasal packing since this is generally recommended. a similar technique of septal suturing after nasal septoplasty without nasal packing was used in 226 consecutive surgical procedures and reviewed retrospectively. based on these observations the septal suturing technique is a valid alternative to intranasal packing following septal surgery. septoplasty or septal reconstruction is a corrective surgical procedure performed to straighten the nasal septum. septoplasty is one of the most common operations performed in otolaryngology and anterior nasal packing is done routinely to prevent postoperative bleeding, septal hematoma or nasal synechia. as any complication was not observed due to not using nasal packing, it is thought that nasal packing usage following septoplasty is not a necessity. 
Have antiepileptic drug prescription claims changed following the FDA suicidality warning? [SEP] a few years ago the food and drug administration, based on a meta-analysis, issued a warning stating that antiepileptic drugs (aeds) are associated with an increased risk of suicidal ideation, suicide attempts, and completed suicide. in 2008, the us food and drug administration mandated warning labeling for anticonvulsant medications regarding the increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors. the us food and drug administration (fda) released an alert in 2008 regarding an increased risk of suicidality in patients taking antiepileptic drugs (aeds). to critically assess current evidence regarding the risk of suicidality in adult patients with epilepsy taking commonly prescribed aeds as monotherapy. on 16 december 2008, fda issued a class warning for antiepileptic drugs and suicidal thoughts and behavior. in january 2008, the food and drug administration (fda) communicated concerns and, in may 2009, issued a warning about an increased risk of suicidality for all antiepileptic drugs (aeds). this research evaluated the association between the fda suicidality communications and the aed prescription claims among members with epilepsy and/or psychiatric disorder. during the time period considered, the fda aed-related suicidality warning does not appear to have significantly affected prescription claims of aed medications for the study population. the us food and drug administration issued separate warnings for suicidality with antidepressants and antiepileptic drugs in the past 5 years. in 2008, the food and drug administration (fda) issued a warning that any and all antiepileptic drugs (aeds) might increase the risk of suicidal ideation, suicide attempt, and completed suicide. 
Does ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament affect the neurological outcome after traumatic cervical cord injury? [SEP] ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (opll) may increase the risk of spinal cord injury (sci) with various neurological deficits after minor trauma. we examined whether severe spinal canal stenosis caused by opll affects neurological outcome after sci based on intramedullary signal intensity (si) changes on magnetic resonance imaging (mri). ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (opll) is a pathological ectopic ossification of this ligament that usually occurs in the cervical spine. patients with cervical ossification of posterior longitudinal ligament (opll) are susceptible to cord injury, which often develops into myelopathic symptoms. to identify risk factors for traumatic cervical spinal cord injury (sci) associated with ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (opll) by comparing patients with sci and those with cervical myelopathy (cm) associated with opll. ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament often causes compressive myelopathy. this study was performed to clarify the relationship between the progression of ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament and the clinical results following en bloc cervical laminoplasty. to review the clinical characteristics of traumatic cervical spinal cord injury (sci) associated with ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (opll). ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament of the cervical spine (cervical opll) is associated with the lesions at the thoracic and/or lumbar spine. the integrity of the posterior ligamentous complex is important for the stability of the cervical spine. 
Can distal ureteral diameter predict reflux resolution after endoscopic injection? [SEP] along with grade, early vesicoureteral reflux on voiding cystourethrogram provides prognostic information regarding spontaneous resolution of reflux. we hypothesized that reflux timing is predictive of endoscopic hydrodistention grade. there was a significant relationship between reflux timing and hydrodistention grade (p <0.001), with a high percentage of ureters with grade 3 hydrodistention displaying early reflux compared to those with grade 1 disease. temporal pattern of vesicoureteral reflux on voiding cystourethrogram may be used to predict ureteral orifice competency and thus aid in predicting resolution of reflux. ureteral obstruction after transurethral injection therapy for primary vesicoureteral reflux is known to occur in less than 1% of cases. to evaluate whether the polymer microsphere diameter affects the success rate in the endoscopic treatment of vesicoureteral reflux. the diameter of dextranomer microsphere does not affect the short-term success rate in endoscopic treatment of vesicoureteral reflux. recently, several studies have suggested that distal ureteral dilatation is an important factor influencing the spontaneous resolution of primary vesicoureteral reflux (vur). we evaluated the relationship between distal ureteral dilatation and the spontaneous resolution of primary vur. the degree of distal ureteral dilatation is expected to be another important factor in determining therapeutic course and predicting the spontaneous resolution of vur. 
Is leptin involved in phagocytic NADPH oxidase overactivity in obesity? [SEP] this study aimed to investigate whether there is a relationship between plasma levels of leptin and phagocytic nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (nadph) oxidase activity, and its potential relevance in the vascular remodeling in obese patients. phagocytic nadph oxidase activity and leptin levels were enhanced (p < 0.05) in obese patients compared with controls. nadph oxidase activity positively correlated with leptin in obese patients. in-vitro studies showed that leptin induced nadph oxidase activation. these findings show that phagocytic nadph oxidase activity is increased in obesity and is related to preclinical atherosclerosis in this condition. we also suggest that hyperleptinemia may contribute to phagocytic nadph oxidase overactivity in obesity. dysregulation of leptin, a neurohormone essential to energy homeostasis, is implicated in the pathogenesis of obesity. leptin is an adipose tissue-derived hormone that has been involved in hypothalamic and systemic inflammation, altered food-intake patterns, and metabolic dysfunction in obese mice. the adipocyte-released hormone-like cytokine/adipokine leptin behaves differently in obesity compared to its functions in the normal healthy state. leptin, produced primarily by the adipose tissue, acts as a pro-inflammatory modulator, thereby contributing to the development of obesity-related disease. 
Canada's Compassionate Care Benefit: is it an adequate public health response to addressing the issue of caregiver burden in end-of-life care? [SEP] recognising their valuable role as key informants, this study examines the perspectives of front-line palliative care providers (flpcp) regarding a social benefit programme in canada designed to support family caregivers at end-of-life, namely the compassionate care benefit (ccb). this article reviews some of the successes of palliative care policy and research in canada and outlines several lessons to be learned for other jurisdictions developing public policy for palliative care. implemented in 2004 by the canadian government, the compassionate care benefit (ccb) program aims to provide income assistance and job security to caregivers who decide to take temporary leave from their employment to care for a terminally ill family member at risk of dying. care provided by family is the backbone of palliative care in canada. policy to support informal caregivers is a critical health policy issue in canada. palliative care is a heavy burden to many canadians who have dying relatives or friends. this article explores whether a program designed as part of employment insurance can provide comprehensive support to those informal end-of-life care-givers, and whether it is equally accessible to all canadians. an increasingly significant public health issue in canada, and elsewhere throughout the developed world, pertains to the provision of adequate palliative/end-of-life (p/eol) care. in this article, we specifically examine how canada's compassionate care benefit (ccb)--a contributory benefits social program aimed at informal p/eol caregivers--operates as a public health response in sustaining informal caregivers providing p/eol care, and whether or not it adequately addresses known aspects of caregiver burden that are addressed within the population health promotion (php) model. as part of a national evaluation of canada's compassionate care benefit, 57 telephone interviews were conducted with canadian informal p/eol caregivers in 5 different provinces, pertaining to the strengths and weaknesses of the ccb and the general caregiving experience. 
Fatigue in primary Sjögren's syndrome: is there a link with the fibromyalgia syndrome? [SEP] clinical features of fibromyalgia were evaluated in 100 consecutive outpatients with primary sjögren's syndrome and, as controls, in 90 patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, in 75 patients with primary fibromyalgia and in 30 healthy subjects. to determine whether fibromyalgia (fm) is more common in patients with primary sjögren's syndrome (pss) who complain of fatigue. the association and prevalence of fatigue and fm was recorded in a group of patients with pss and a control group of lupus patients, a subset of whom had secondary sjögren's syndrome (sss). more than two third of patients with primary sjögren's syndrome (ss) report fatigue. fatigue is prevalent in primary sjögren's syndrome (pss), and contributes to the considerably reduced health related quality of life in this disease. fatigue, of unknown etiology, is also frequently reported by patients with primary sjögren's syndrome. fatigue is a frequent symptom in patients with primary sjögren's syndrome (pss) and can be a cause of or be associated with sleep disorders. fatigue is a prevalent and debilitating problem in sjögren's syndrome. in 300 patients with primary sjögren's syndrome and 100 demographically matched people from the general population (mean age 57 years, 93% female), fatigue (five dimensions of the multidimensional fatigue inventory) and physical activity (three dimensions of the international physical activity questionnaire) were assessed. fatigue is a prominent symptom in primary sjögren's syndrome (pss). 
Is laparoscopic sonography a reliable and sensitive procedure for staging colorectal cancer? [SEP] although there has been growing interest in laparoscopic surgical therapy for colorectal cancer, the ability of this technique to adequately evaluate the liver for small metastases has been unknown. this study was undertaken to compare laparoscopic liver ultrasound to the gold standard of open palpation and intraoperative ultrasound in detecting hepatic metastases from colorectal cancer. in a second study, 15 patients undergoing laparotomy for colorectal cancer underwent preliminary laparoscopic liver ultrasound followed by open palpation and intraoperative ultrasound to compare these methods of liver evaluation. with several technical modifications guided by our initial experience, we believe laparoscopic liver ultrasound can be an effective way of evaluating the liver for metastases during laparoscopic colorectal resection for cancer. laparoscopy with laparoscopic ultrasound (l-lus) has proved to be superior to conventional ct imaging in the staging of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc). to investigate the value of colonoscopic miniprobe ultrasonography for preoperative staging of colorectal neoplasms. endoscopic ultrasonography is the most accurate technique for staging colorectal cancer. accurate localization of small colorectal cancers and polyps during laparoscopic resection may be difficult and requires precise and reliable localization techniques. this study aimed to assess the usefulness of intraoperative ultrasonography (ious) combined with retrograde saline instillation in locating small colorectal cancers and polyps during laparoscopically assisted colectomy. intraoperative laparoscopic ultrasonography in conjunction with saline instillation can serve as a useful tool that allows the surgeon to locate small nonpalpable tumors during laparoscopically assisted resection of colorectal cancer. 
Is alexithymia a risk factor for unexplained physical symptoms in general medical outpatients? [SEP] alexithymia is presumed to play an important predisposing role in the pathogenesis of medically unexplained physical symptoms. this study investigated whether patients with medically unexplained physical symptoms are more alexithymic than those with explained symptoms and whether, in patients with unexplained symptoms, alexithymia is associated with subjective health experience and use of medical services. in the majority of patients with medically unexplained physical symptoms, alexithymia does not play a role of clinical significance. alexithymia is postulated as an important factor in the development of medically unexplained physical symptoms. while alexithymia is related to psychopathology in general, it has been associated with increased reporting of medically unexplained symptoms and depression in particular. alexithymia may be overrepresented among clinical samples because of a proclivity to seek care, or alexithymia may prompt delay or avoidance of care, perhaps exacerbating illness. alexithymia is thought to be associated with the development of medically unexplained physical symptoms (ups). this study investigated the prevalence of alexithymia and its relationship with somatic complaints in a sample of 118 general psychiatric out-patients. the relationship of depression and the severity of medical illness to alexithymia was investigated in 75 medically ill patients seen in psychiatric consultation. the aim of the present study was to find out whether alexithymia is common in frequently attending primary health care patients and whether alexithymia and psychological distress are associated in these patients. 
Alcohol consumption and acute myocardial infarction: a benefit of alcohol consumed with meals? [SEP] the apparent favorable effect of alcohol on the risk of acute myocardial infarction (mi) may be related to its hypoinsulinemic effect when consumed with meals. this study tested the hypothesis that heavy drinking (binge drinking) increases the risk of subsequent acute myocardial infarctions (ami), whereas light to moderate drinking occasions decrease the risk. epidemiologic studies indicate that long-term alcohol consumption decreases the incidence of coronary disease and may improve outcome after myocardial infarction. this study investigates the possibility that alcohol consumption can improve survival after myocardial infarction by reducing ischemia-reperfusion injury. the aim of this study was to investigate a possible association between the risk for acute myocardial infarction occurrence and alcohol consumption. our results suggest that binge drinking is associated with twice the risk for myocardial infarction compared to not drinking. we sought to determine whether recent alcohol consumption alters the course or complications of acute myocardial infarction. moderate alcohol consumption protects against ischemic heart disease, possibly through an antiinflammatory effect. to assess the relationship between myocardial infarction (mi) and consumption of different types of alcoholic beverages, both low doses (1-4 drinks a day), and high doses (> 4 drinks a day). moderate alcohol consumption has a cardioprotective effect on coronary artery disease. 
Do mossy fibers release GABA? [SEP] the functional consequence of γ-aminobutyric acid (gaba) release at mossy fiber terminals is still a debated topic. it has been hypothesized that, in the developing rodent hippocampus, mossy fiber terminals release gaba together with glutamate. thus, our results do not support the hypothesis that gaba is released as a neurotransmitter from mossy fiber terminals during development. here we demonstrate that at the mossy fiber synapses, glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (gaba) act as autaptic and heterosynaptic presynaptic inhibitory transmitters through metabotropic glutamate receptors (mglurs) and gabab receptors, respectively. the activation of gabab receptors increased the threshold for mossy fiber long-term potentiation (ltp), whereas activation of mglurs did not have such an effect. mossy fibers are the sole excitatory projection from dentate gyrus granule cells to the hippocampus, where they release glutamate, dynorphin, and zinc. in addition, mossy fiber terminals show intense immunoreactivity for the inhibitory neurotransmitter gaba. these data suggest that mossy cells excite granule cells monosynaptically. however, when gabaa-receptor-mediated inhibition is blocked, monosynaptic excitation of granule cells by mossy cells can be detected. transporter-mediated gaba release can also occur. 
The clinical significance of bile duct sludge: is it different from bile duct stones? [SEP] some patients with suspected common bile duct (cbd) stones are found to have sludge and no stones. although sludge in the gallbladder is a precursor of gallbladder stones, the significance of bile duct sludge (bds) is poorly defined. bile duct sludge occurred in 14% (31/228) of patients and was more common in females. bile duct sludge seems to be an early stage of choledocholithiasis. biliary sludge is a mixture of particulate matter which has precipitated from bile. although biliary sludge has been considered to be a benign condition associated with factors promoting bile stasis, its clinical significance and whether it contributes to biliary tract symptoms are uncertain. of the 87 patients with gallbladder sludge alone, 11 (13%) had definite clinical findings and evolving laboratory abnormalities consistent with acute biliary tract disease. four of these 11 patients proved to have gallstones at the time of surgery, while three had sludge alone as the apparent cause of their biliary tract symptoms. we conclude that gallbladder sludge, as defined by ultrasound, may be associated with acute biliary tract disease. we therefore studied the origin of biliary sludge ultrasonic echoes, using an ex vivo liver-gallbladder preparation, and determined the outcome of a group of patients identified to have gallbladder sludge by ultrasonography. 
Can Ambu self-inflating bag and Neopuff infant resuscitator provide adequate and safe manual inflations for infants up to 10 kg weight? [SEP] the self-inflating bag (sib) is the most common device used to resuscitate newborn infants worldwide. three experienced neonatal medical staff provided positive pressure ventilation each using different disposable and reusable ambu sibs, targeting peak inflation pressure of 30-35 cm h2o at three different set peep levels of 5, 7.5 and 10 cm h2o on test lungs of compliance of 0.5 and 3.0 ml/cm h2o. in addition, the use of prolonged inflation may be of benefit for infants who require bag and mask ventilation, and there has been no evaluation of the ability of a variety of operators to reliably deliver such breaths using currently available equipment. we studied a latex-free disposable anesthesia type bag (model 5126 vital signs, totawa, nj), a jackson-rees (jr) type anesthesia bag (model e191 anesthesia associates, san marcos, ca) fitted with a norman elbow and a flow-control tail-piece (dupaco, oceanside, ca), and the neopuff (fisher and paykel, auckland, new zealand), an fda approved mechanical device that is flow-controlled and pressure-limited, specifically designed to facilitate neonatal resuscitation. our experience suggests that the neopuff, a purpose-built neonatal resuscitator ventilator, facilitates the delivery of the desired airway pressures while maximizing the operators ability to obtain and maintain a patent airway, and facilitates the delivery of prolonged inflations. further research is required to determine the clinical benefit of end-expiratory pressure and prolonged inflations in neonatal resuscitation. manual resuscitation devices for infants and newborns must be able to provide adequate ventilation in a safe and consistent manner across a wide range of patient sizes (0.5-10 kg) and differing clinical states. we aimed to compare performance of the ambu self-inflating bag (sib) with the neopuff t-piece resuscitator in three resuscitation models. to assess the effects of manual hyperinflation, performed with a manual resuscitator with and without the positive end-expiratory pressure valve, on the respiratory function of preterm newborns under mechanical ventilation. aim of our study was to test the reliability of self-inflating bags (sib) with single-use peep valves regarding peep delivery and the effect of different peak inflation pressures (pip) and ventilation rates (vr) on the delivered peep. 
Are IgM-enriched immunoglobulins an effective adjuvant in septic VLBW infants? [SEP] the aim of this study was to determine the effects of adjuvant immunoglobulin m (igm)-enriched intravenous immunoglobulin (ivig) therapy on mortality rate, hematological variables and length of hospital stay in newborn infants with blood culture-proven sepsis. we evaluated a polyclonal igm and iga enriched immunoglobulin (igmeivig) preparation in reducing the short term mortality in extremely low birth weight neonates (elbw) with proven infection. this study shows that igmeivig may have a role as adjuvant therapy in elbw infants with proven sepsis. to investigate the effectiveness of igm-enriched immunoglobulins (igm-eivig) in reducing short-term mortality of neonates with proven late-onset sepsis. this hypothesis-generator study shows that igm-eivig is an effective adjuvant therapy in vlbw infants with proven sepsis. polyclonal or igm-enriched immunoglobulins may be beneficial during sepsis as an adjuvant immunomodulatory therapy. igm-enriched immunoglobulins (e-igm) may be useful in patients with severe acute bacterial infections. because the use of igm and iga enriched polyclonal intravenous immunoglobulins (eig) is a standard of care in critically ill patients admitted to our intensive care unit (icu) with the diagnosis of severe sepsis or septic shock, we investigated if the delay from the onset of severe sepsis and septic shock and their administration could influence the outcome. igm-enriched immunoglobulins have been proposed as a potential adjuvant therapy for septic shock. in this prospective randomised controlled pilot study we investigated the effects of igm-enriched immunoglobulin treatment in patients with early septic shock accompanied by severe respiratory failure. 
Is resected stomach volume related to weight loss after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy? [SEP] laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (lsg) has become a popular procedure for treatment of obesity, but it is still undecided whether resected gastric volume (rgv) is related to weight loss after lsg. pre- and post-operative stomach volumes can be important determinants for effectiveness of laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (lsg) in causing weight loss. among the bariatric surgery community, it has recently emerged the idea of a possible association between resected gastric volume (rgv) and weight loss after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (lsg). the present study aimed to evaluate the impact of the preoperative gastric volume, volume of the remaining gastric pouch, and volume of the resected stomach on weight loss after lsg. the percentage of excess weight loss (ewl) and decrease in body mass index (bmi) at 6 months postoperatively were measured and correlated with preoperative and postoperative gastric volumes. weight loss after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (lsg) has been mainly attributed to the restriction of gastric volume; however; other factors may contribute to weight loss after lsg. the relation between the resected gastric volume and the weight loss after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy appears conflicting in the literature. the aim is to investigate the influence of the resected gastric volume on the weight loss after surgery. the size of the remnant stomach with respect to weight loss failure after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (lsg) remains controversial. the objective of this study was to evaluate the volume of the resected stomach (vrs) as a predictor of the percentage of excess weight loss (%ewl) 1 year after lsg. 
Resection of colorectal liver metastases after second-line chemotherapy: is it worthwhile? [SEP] liver resection is a possibly curative treatment for colorectal cancer (crc) liver metastases. liver resection is the goal of treatment strategies for liver-confined metastatic colorectal cancer. we reviewed the data of the role of adjuvant chemotherapy after resection of liver- confined metastatic colorectal cancer. we aim to evaluate the role of neoadjuvant chemotherapy on the outcome of patients with colorectal cancer metachronous liver metastases undergoing potentially curative liver resection. further studies are needed to better delineate innovative therapeutic strategies that may lead to an improved outcome for colorectal cancer patients with surgically resectable liver metastases. surgical resection alone is regarded as the standard of care for patients with liver metastases from colorectal cancer, but relapse is common. although the survival benefit of hepatic resection for colorectal metastasis has been established, some controversy remains regarding the significance of adjuvant chemotherapy after hepatic resection. adjuvant chemotherapy significantly improved survival and disease-free survival after hepatic resection for colorectal metastases. recent reports have shown that liver resection following systemic chemotherapy in patients with initially unresectable metastases from colorectal cancer may also result in a good long-term survival, and rescue surgery after chemotherapy has become a strategy of choice. a 29-year-old male and a 35-year-old female with unresectable liver metastases from colorectal cancer underwent complete resection after administration of third-line combination therapy of cetuximab and irinotecan. 
Do ART patients face higher C-section rates during their stage of delivery? [SEP] to quantify the effect of medical and obstetrical factors on the odds of cesarean delivery, comparing assisted reproductive technology (art)-treated women and women with subfertility not treated with art versus fertile women. overall rates of cesarean delivery were 45.7%, 43.3%, and 31.1% for art-treated, subfertile, and fertile women and 41.7% and 45.9% for mar and unassisted infertile deliveries. art and unassisted infertility were associated with greater odds of cesarean compared with fertile women. after assisted reproductive technology (art), previous studies have shown elevated c-section rates but few studies differentiated between elective and emergency operations and different protocols of cryopreservation. moreover, all groups of art show enhanced risk of significant perinatal bleeding. patients after art treatment suffer from higher c-section rates during their stage of delivery. recent data suggest that women who deliver in hospitals with high attempted vaginal birth after cesarean rates are more likely to experience successful vaginal birth after cesarean, as well as uterine ruptures. when compared with vaginal delivery, is cesarean delivery associated with reduced childbearing, a prolonged inter-birth interval or infertility? is out-of-hospital vaginal birth at a birth center safe for women with a previous cesarean section? do their maternal or neonatal outcomes vary significantly from those of a "non-cesarean" control group? 
Does a preoperative medically supervised weight loss program improve bariatric surgery outcomes? [SEP] this paper reviews studies that have investigated the relationship between preoperative weight loss and bariatric surgical outcomes, both with respect to postoperative weight loss and complications. studies on the impact of presurgery weight loss and lifestyle preparation on outcomes following bariatric surgery are needed. to evaluate whether a presurgery behavioral lifestyle intervention improves weight loss through a 24-month postsurgery period. most patients pursuing bariatric surgery undergo mandated preoperative weight management programs. the purpose of this study was to assess whether preoperative mandated weight loss goals lead to improved perioperative morbidity, postoperative weight loss, and resolution of comorbidities. preoperative weight loss may be associated with improved postoperative weight loss and resolution of co-morbidities. the aim of this study is to investigate the success of a preoperative weight loss program at a single institution and the variables associated with success in weight loss. we enrolled patients in a once monthly multidisciplinary preoperative weight loss program and evaluated % total weight lost over the 6-month program for primary and for revisional bariatric surgical patients. to investigate the relationship between preoperative eating behavior, postoperative dietary adherence and weight loss after gastric bypass surgery in a major, urban medical center with a comprehensive bariatric surgery program. the potential benefit of preoperative weight loss in patients undergoing bariatric surgery has led many bariatric surgeons to recommend an aggressive weight reduction regimen to their patients. 
Is solitary kidney really more resistant to ischemia? [SEP] should it be treated before the removal of the kidney or in ex-vivo after nephrectomy and in cold ischemia ? remote ischemic preconditioning has controversial results of its benefit to the kidney and may perform better in high-risk patients of acute kidney injury. significantly fewer patients developed postoperative acute kidney injury with remote ischemic preconditioning compared with sham (55.4% vs 73.8%; absolute risk reduction, 18.5%; 95% ci, 2.3%-34.6%; p = .028). in addition to the functional resilience, the morphology of the kidney was better preserved in stn. taken together, these data suggest that fewer functioning nephrons in a diseased kidney do not increase the susceptibility to injury, but rather, hemodynamic and molecular adaptations in the remnant nephrons precondition them against ischemic injury. kidneys previously exposed to ischemia and reperfusion (i/r), pre-conditioned by i/r, are less susceptible to subsequent i/r injury. thirty minutes of bilateral renal ischemia in non-sirpc mice induced a dramatic increase in plasma creatinine (pcr) levels, but this was not observed in the sirpc mouse. upon exposure to a transient ischemia, the distal tubule of the kidney often escapes the severe damage which afflicts the proximal tubule. the perfusion (t1 value) was significantly enhanced in the medulla of the post-ischemic kidney following unx. col1a1, fn1 and tgfb1 in the post-ischemic kidney. 
Neck pain treatment with acupuncture: does the number of needles matter? [SEP] however, the number of needles used, that is, the dose of acupuncture stimulation, to obtain the best antinociceptive efficacy is still a matter of debate. the question was addressed comparing the clinical efficacy of two different therapeutic schemes, characterized by a different number of needles used on 36 patients between 29-60 years of age with by a painful cervical myofascial syndrome. in this paper, we debate the possibility of using the self-report of the overall intensity of needle sensation as a predictor of analgesic outcome to acupuncture. we argue that the intensity of the overall experience of needle sensation may prove useful as a gross marker of the adequacy of acupuncture. however, the number of needles used, i.e. the question was addressed comparing the clinical efficacy of 3 different therapeutic schemes, mainly characterized by different numbers of needles used on 90 patients affected by a painful cervical myofascial syndrome. for this pathology and patients of this kind, the number of needles, 3 or 5 or 11, seems not to be an important variable in determining the therapeutic effect. recent clinical trial studies have demonstrated that the effects of acupuncture on pain improvement are small and no difference between acupoints and non-points. bi-directional rotation of a needle inserted into deep soft tissue produced higher acupuncture needle sensation intensities when compared to superficial needle insertion with mock deep penetration and bi-directional rotation. neck pain (np) is a common condition that can be effectively treated by acupuncture. 
Does fluoridation reduce the use of dental services among adults? [SEP] while there is good evidence of caries-preventive benefits of fluoride in drinking water among children and adolescents, there is little information about effectiveness of water fluoridation among adults. to determine whether exposure to fluoride in drinking water is associated with caries experience in australian defence force (adf) personnel. we used a random-effects model to estimate the effect size of fluoride (absolute difference in annual caries increment or relative risk ratio) for all adults aged 20+ years and for adults aged 40+ years. these findings suggest that fluoride prevents caries among adults of all ages. this double-blind clinical study of 810 healthy adults, aged 54 and older, demonstrated decided cariostatic effects of a fluoridated dentifrice containing 1,100 ppm f as sodium fluoride. in spite of decades of research on fluoride and the recognition of its role as the cornerstone of dental caries reduction in the last fifty years, questions still arise on its use at community, self-applied and professional application levels. the aim of this study was to describe knowledge, attitudes and behaviour concerning toothbrushing and use of fluoride toothpaste in three age groups in a swedish population. although the informants showed little knowledge about the reasons for and techniques of using fluoride toothpaste effectively, they described toothbrushing as important and the habit as a priority, giving the theme of this study: toothbrushing with fluoride toothpaste was a priority, despite the lack of knowledge about how to use toothpaste effectively and its positive effects on oral health. over the past 2 decades, it has been suggested that with the generalized availability of fluoridated dentifrices, and coupled with a possible increased likelihood of fluorosis, the benefits of community-based fluoridation have receded. because young children tend to swallow dentifrices, the findings of this study suggest the need for educational programs targeted to parents and health care providers regarding the appropriate use of fluorides and the risk of fluorosis when they are used inappropriately. 
Pertrochanteric fractures: is there an advantage to an intramedullary nail? [SEP] several biomechanical studies on subtrochanteric femur fractures have reported that use of an intramedullary nail is superior to extramedullary implant. however, the optimal choice of intramedullary nail for the treatment of comminuted subtrochanteric femur fracture remains unclear. in this study we performed a retrospective analysis comparing fixation method of intertrochanteric fractures with either a long unlocked cephalomedullary nail versus a long locked cephalomedullary nail. both intramedullary nails and sliding hip screws are used with good results in the treatment of intertrochanteric and subtrochanteric fractures. the use of intramedullary nailing to treat proximal femoral fractures has increased in recent years. presently, unstable intertrochanteric femur fractures are treated commonly with intramedullary nailing devices. although intramedullary nailing is an ideal treatment for subtrochanteric femoral fractures, it is technically challenging in fractures extending into the nail entry area and/or involving the lesser trochanter. in the present study, we evaluated complex subtrochanteric fractures treated by percutaneous cerclage wiring followed by intramedullary (im) nailing for anatomical fracture reduction and union. indications of percutaneous cerclage wiring followed by im nailing were a fracture extending proximally into the nail entry area deemed difficult to treat by anatomical reconstruction by im nailing or a fracture with long oblique or spiral component. temporary reduction by percutaneous wiring offers a means of satisfactory nailing in difficult subtrochanteric femoral fractures, and affords anatomical reconstruction and favorable bony union. 
SPECT study with I-123-Ioflupane (DaTSCAN) in patients with essential tremor. Is there any correlation with Parkinson's disease? [SEP] (123)i-ioflupane spect (datscan) is an examination that detects presynaptic dopamine neuronal dysfunction, and has been used as a diagnostic tool to identify degenerative parkinsonism. we aimed to investigate the accuracy of transcranial brain parenchyma sonography (tcs) for differentiation between idiopathic parkinson's disease (pd) and essential tremor (et) in comparison to (123)i-fp-cit spect (fp-cit spect). single photon emission computed tomography (spect) imaging with (123)i-fp-cit is of great value in differentiating patients suffering from parkinson's disease (pd) from those suffering from essential tremor (et). the clinical differentiation between early parkinson's disease (pd) and essential tremor (et) could be difficult, therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate 99mtc-trodat-1 spect as an applicable tool in this field. to evaluate whether visual assessment of [123i]-fp-cit (datscan, nycomed amersham, plc) single photon emission computerized tomography (spect) images can differentiate between parkinsonism and essential tremor (et). we present clinical features and tremor characterization in a patient with parkinson's disease (pd) as well as in two cases of essential tremor (et) with some parkinsonian features but no evidence of dopaminergic terminal loss on (123)i-fp-cit single photon emission computed tomography (spect). spect was performed using datscan ([(123)i]ioflupane). brain single-photon-emission-computerized tomography (spect) with i-ioflupane (i-fp-cit) is useful to diagnose parkinson disease (pd). iodine-123-beta-cit has been used as a probe of dopamine transporters in parkinson's disease patients using spect. seven parkinson's disease patients and seven healthy control subjects participated in two [123i]beta-cit spect scans separated by 7-21 days. 
Are the GFRUP's recommendations for withholding or withdrawing treatments in critically ill children applicable? [SEP] withdrawal of treatment for children in the pediatric intensive care unit (picu) of a regional children's hospital in eastern china from 2006 to 2017 was studied retrospectively. among the reasons given by guardians of children whose treatment was withdrawn in 2011-2017, "illness is too severe" ranked first, accounting for 66.3%, followed by "condition has been improved" (20.9%). withholding and withdrawing life-sustaining medical treatment are common in paediatric practice, especially in intensive care units. these or like terms should form the basis of ethical decisions in discussions with parents when contemplating withholding or withdrawing life-sustaining treatment. most deaths in the pediatric intensive care unit occur after a decision to withhold or withdraw life-sustaining treatments. life-sustaining treatment is sometimes withdrawn or withheld from critically ill newborn infants with poor prognosis. a sampling of the foundational and current evidence related to the withdrawal of life-sustaining therapies in the context of childhood critical illness and injury was accessed. most children die in neonatal and pediatric intensive care units after decisions are made to withhold or withdraw life-sustaining treatments. to understand how neonatal and pediatric critical care physicians balance and integrate the interests of the child and family in decisions about life-sustaining treatments. 1) to comment on the medical literature on decision making regarding end-of-life therapy, 2) to analyze the data on disagreement about such therapy, including palliative care, and withholding and withdrawal practices for critically ill children in the pediatric intensive care unit (picu), and 3) to make some general recommendations. 
Is inhaled prophylactic heparin useful for prevention and Management of Pneumonia in ventilated ICU patients? [SEP] the efficacy and safety of physiotherapeutic prophylaxis for venous thromboembolism in critically ill patients with heparin contraindication remains unclear. to determine whether prophylactic inhaled heparin is effective for the prevention and treatment of pneumonia patients receiving mechanical ventilation (mv) in the intensive care unit. patients aged ≥18years and requiring invasive mv for more than 48hours were randomized to usual care, nebulization of unfractionated sodium heparin (5000 units in 2ml) or placebo nebulization with 0.9% sodium chloride (2ml) four times daily with the main outcome measures of the development of ventilator associated pneumonia (vap), ventilator associated complication (vac) and sequential organ failure assessment scores in patients with pneumonia on admission or who developed vap. nebulized heparin cannot be recommended for prophylaxis against vap or to hasten recovery from pneumonia in patients receiving mv. guidelines for prevention of venous thromboembolism recognize pneumonia and changes in respiratory status as risk factors. there is little information on the preventive use of low-molecular-weight heparin (lmwh) in hospitalized patients with pneumonia. we assessed the efficacy and safety of low-dose heparin in the prevention of hospital-acquired, clinically relevant, fatal pulmonary embolism in patients with infectious diseases. necropsy-verified pulmonary embolism occurred in 15 heparin-treated and 16 control-group patients. there was a significant difference between heparin and control groups in median time from randomisation to fatal pulmonary embolism (28 [24-36] vs 12.5 [10-20] days, p = 0.007). further studies are needed to investigate whether heparin prophylaxis of longer duration may prevent fatal pulmonary embolism. 
Is the h-index predictive of greater NIH funding success among academic radiologists? [SEP] the aims of this study were to determine whether h-indices were associated with greater national institutes of health (nih) funding success among academic radiologists. we tested the hypothesis that h-index is an indicator of not only publication record, but also grant funding and mentoring in highly productive us academic anaesthesiologists. bibliometric indices are higher for those with nih funding compared to those without, but only the contemporary h-index was shown to be predictive of nih funding. we evaluated the relationship between national institutes of health (nih) funding, academic rank and research productivity, as measured by the h-index, an objective indicator of research impact on a field. there is an association among the h-index, nih funding and academic rank. the authors' objectives were to determine whether there is an association between scholarly impact, as measured by the h index, and successful national institutes of health (nih) grant funding awarded to faculty in neurological surgery departments. the purpose of this investigation was to determine the association between scholarly impact, as measured by the h-index, and the procurement of national institutes of health (nih) grant funding among academic plastic surgeons. nih-funded faculty had higher h-indices than nonnih-funded faculty (23.9 versus 9.9, p < 0.001), an effect that persisted when controlling for academic rank. higher rank correlated with higher h-indices and predicted greater nih funding (p < 0.05). higher h-indices correlated with greater nih funding (r = 0.481, p < 0.001). 
Is minimally invasive mitral valve repair with artificial chords reproducible and applicable in routine surgery? [SEP] minimally invasive mitral valve repair using neochords provided a high rate of repair, reproducible results in a routine cardiac surgery setting and stable repair during follow-up. this has become our preferred technique for mitral valve surgery. minimally invasive mitral valve repair with placement of artificial chordae for mitral valve regurgitation has become the standard of care. robotic-assisted mitral valve repair represents the least invasive surgical approach currently available for anatomical mitral valve repair in patients with myxomatous mitral valve disease. the use of artificial chords for the replacement of diseased mitral valve chordae and the correction of anterior and posterior leaflet prolapse is well described, although it is infrequently applied because of technical challenges. a simplified approach to attaching the new chords to a single papillary muscle base within the left ventricle has been reported, and we present a series of 13 patients with moderate-severe mitral regurgitation (mr) who underwent chordal replacement using this improved technique. chordal replacement for both anterior and posterior leaflet prolapse is an effective treatment for mr when combined with standard mitral valve repair techniques. this study compares the quality of valve replacement and repair performed through minimally invasive incisions as compared to the standard operation for aortic and mitral valve replacement. minimally invasive aortic and mitral valve surgery in patients without coronary disease can be done safely and accurately through small incisions. there is high demand for minimally invasive mitral valve repair; however, it is unclear whether the minimally invasive approach provides the same performance as conventional sternotomy in a context of complex mitral valve disease. 
Does obesity predict knee pain over fourteen years in women, independently of radiographic changes? [SEP] to explore whether the risk of incident tibiofemoral (tf) osteoarthritis (oa) in the radiographically normal contralateral knee of overweight/obese women with unilateral knee oa is mediated by malalignment and/or preceded by increased turnover of subchondral bone. to evaluate the effects of weight change on progression of knee osteoarthritis (oa) structural features by magnetic resonance imaging (mri) in overweight and obese women without clinical knee oa. 347 participants from the prevention of knee osteoarthritis in overweight females (proof) study were classified with latent class growth analysis into a subgroup with steady weight (n = 260; +0.1 ± 4.0 kg, +0.2 ± 4.4%), weight gain (n = 43; +8.6 ± 4.0 kg, +9.8 ± 4.1%) or weight loss (n = 44; -9.0 ± 7.2 kg, -9.8 ± 7.5%) over 2.5 years. 687 knees from 347 women (median age 55.2 years, interquartile range (iqr) 5.5, median body mass index (bmi) 31.2 kg/m2, iqr 5.3) were analyzed. two hundred seventy-one participants (169 women) aged between 50 and 79 years with no clinical history of knee pain or pathology were examined using magnetic resonance imaging at baseline and 2.3 years later. the present study aims to investigate the associations between malalignment and incident knee oa after 2.5 years in a high-risk group of 333 middle-aged overweight women (bmi ≥ 27 kg/m(2)) free of clinical and radiological knee oa at baseline. logistic regression analyses, adjusted for age and sex, were conducted to determine the association of baseline body mass index and change in body mass index to patellofemoral osteoarthritis incidence 8 years later. obesity was associated with greater odds of radiographic patellofemoral osteoarthritis incident (odds ratio: 1.8 [95% ci 1.1, 3.1]) 8 years later. there were no significant associations observed between body mass index change over 8 years and incidence of radiographic patellofemoral osteoarthritis in overweight and obese individuals. obesity is associated with increased odds of developing radiographic patellofemoral osteoarthritis 8 years later. 
Do liquid-based preparations of urinary cytology perform differently than classically prepared cases? [SEP] the cytomorphology of liquid-based preparations in urine cytology is different than classic slide preparations. to compare the performance of liquid-based preparation specimens to classically prepared urine specimens with a malignant diagnosis in the college of american pathologists interlaboratory comparison program in nongynecologic cytology. liquid-based preparations performed significantly better in urinary cytology challenges when evaluating malignant categories in the college of american pathologists interlaboratory comparison program. these results suggest that liquid-based preparations facilitate a more accurate diagnosis than conventional preparations. the cytological features and performance of liquid-based cytology for various cytology specimens, including body cavity fluids, urine, brushing specimens and fine-needle aspiration of various lesions, were reviewed and compared with the experience of our laboratory and the literature published in pubmed. liquid-based cytology (lbc) has recently become the preferred method for urine cytology analysis, but differences with conventional cytology (cc) have been observed. liquid-based cytology (lbc) testing induces morphologic changes due to the use of specific fixatives and preparation techniques, and the cytologies of effusions determined in this manner differ morphologically from those of conventional cytopreparation (ccp) smear methods. in recent years liquid-based cytology has emerged as an alternative to conventional cytopreparatory methods. two methods of preparation of urine for cytology were compared retrospectively. the aim of the study was to assess the value of liquid-based urinary cytology as a tool to perform ucyt+ and multicolour-fish in patients under follow-up after urothelial cancer. 
Outcomes of severely injured adult trauma patients in an Australian health service: does trauma center level make a difference? [SEP] all patients aged 15 years and over with major trauma (injury severity score>15) admitted to a single inner city major trauma centre between 1992 and 2012 were studied. to investigate the admission characteristics and hospital outcomes for indigenous and non-indigenous patients admitted to intensive units (icus) after major trauma. injury is a leading cause of preventable mortality and morbidity in australia and the world. to compare the characteristics of adults admitted to the icu in australia and new zealand after trauma with nonelective, nontrauma admissions. illness severity increased for trauma but fell for nonelective, nontrauma patients (mean australia and new zealand risk of death: 0.10% ± 0.02%/yr vs -0.21% ± 0.01%/yr; p < 0.0001). the age and illness severity of adult icu trauma patients in australia and new zealand has increased over time. the primary aim of this study was to examine the impact of the introduction of an integrated adult critical care patient retrieval system in victoria, australia, on early clinical outcomes for major trauma patients who undergo interhospital transfer. to determine the incidence and characteristics of major traumatic injury treated in the australian capital territory (act) over a 5-year period. the present study seeks to estimate the use of trauma teams in australian hospitals and describe their medical composition, leadership and criteria for activation. trauma has been identified as a major public health problem in australia. 
Does a well developed collateral circulation predispose to restenosis after percutaneous coronary intervention? [SEP] the purpose of the present study was to evaluate whether severe restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) promotes collateral development and whether successful dilation regresses collateral vessels. the purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that the incidence of restenosis after primary percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction is largely influenced by the preexistent coronary collateral circulation to the infarct-related coronary artery. severe preexistent stenosis of the infarct-related coronary artery causing the development of collateral circulation may result in a high frequency of restenosis. restenosis occurred in 26 (38%) of 69 patients with poor or no collateral circulation (group a) in contrast to 35 (64%) of 55 patients with good angiographic collateral circulation (group b, p < 0.005). these findings indicate that the presence of well developed collateral circulation to the infarct-related coronary artery predicts a higher frequency of restenosis after primary coronary angioplasty. the difference in restenosis rates observed between the patients with and without good collateral circulation probably reflects the impact of underlying severity of stenosis on the long-term outcome after coronary angioplasty. the aim of the study was to assess the influence of recruitable collateral blood flow on restenosis in patients undergoing pci with bare metal stents and using optimal antithrombotic treatment. coronary collateral circulation is beneficial in patients with coronary artery disease, but controversy still exists regarding the association between angiographic collaterals and outcome after percutaneous coronary intervention (pci). patients with restenosis had a significantly higher collateral flow index at the initial coronary angiography than patients without restenosis (0.26 +/- 0.14 vs 0.12 +/- 0.09; p<0.0001). clinically, restenosis is seen in approximately one-third of patients undergoing percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. 
Are home sampling kits for sexually transmitted infections acceptable among men who have sex with men? [SEP] individuals also can use the kits to perform a test on a potential sexual partner prior to intercourse. males from men who have sex with men population are encouraged to send a rectal swab to the laboratory for sexually transmitted infection screening at their visit to the genitourinary medicine clinic. viability of self-collected samples was examined as a potential method to increase sti screening for msm without access to sti testing clinics. this study also demonstrates the viability of including self-collected samples for sti testing in an ehealth program. the aim of the present study is to evaluate the home screening approach as a tool for recruitment of asymptomatic men for screening of genital c. trachomatis infections. men aged 19-24 years old (n = 1936) were invited to participate in home-based testing for genital c. trachomatis infection. the aim of this qualitative study was to explore whether home sampling kits (hsk) for multiple bacterial stis are potentially acceptable among msm and to identify any concerns regarding their use. men who have sex with men (msm) recruited in sex venues have been shown to be interested in accessing hiv home-tests if reliable and authorised tests were available. submission of self-collected penile samples collected at home could remove barriers that men face in getting tested for sexually transmitted infections (stis). the authors sought to describe the acceptability of providing at-home dried blood spot specimen collection kits for hiv testing among msm. 
Does route of delivery affect maternal and perinatal outcome in women with eclampsia? [SEP] the aim of this study was to analyze the success rate of attempted vaginal delivery and the maternal and neonatal outcome according to the mode of delivery in women with preeclampsia and an indicated delivery before 28 weeks' gestation. to assess the effects of a policy of planned caesarean section versus planned vaginal birth for women with severe pre-eclampsia on mortality and morbidity for mother and baby. quasi-randomised and non-randomised studies are not eligible for inclusion in this review.the focus of this review is severe pre-eclampsia; studies of planned caesarean section versus planned vaginal birth in pregnant women with eclampsia are not eligible for inclusion. eclampsia is a well-recognized major cause of maternal and perinatal morbidity and mortality. the study was conducted in eclampsia unit of department of gynaecology and obstetrics, dhaka medical college hospital, dhaka, bangladesh from 21 november 2011 to 20 may 2012. to evaluate the association between deferred delivery in early-onset pre-eclampsia and offspring outcome and maternal cardiovascular, renal and metabolic function in the postpartum period. pregnancy prolongation in early-onset pre-eclampsia is associated with improved offspring outcome and survival. even though vaginal delivery is a feasible option in patients with preeclampsia, the cesarean section rate in those patients is high. the aim of this study was to evaluate the influence of preeclampsia on induction of labor at term. the cesarean section rate was higher in the preeclampsia group for both nulliparous and multiparous women after induction of labor but failed to reach statistical significane. 
Surgical management of the atherosclerotic ascending aorta: is endoaortic balloon occlusion safe? [SEP] occlusion of the atherosclerotic ascending aorta by an endoaortic inflatable balloon has been proposed as an alternative to conventional cross-clamping to prevent injury to the vessel and distal embolization of debris. balloon aortoplasty with or without stenting is a less invasive alternative to open surgery for the management of recurrent isthmic coarctation. endovascular repair of the ascending aorta is currently limited to patients at high surgical risk with aortic diseases originating above the sinotubular junction. to better understand real-world endovascular approaches to the ascending aorta, we performed a comprehensive review of the types of endovascular aortic stents and associated vascular access used in repair of the ascending aorta. despite the absence of a dedicated aortic stent graft for the ascending aorta, patients with a range of ascending aortic diseases are being successfully treated by endovascular technologies. endovascular aortic repair is a relatively new surgical technique used to treat a variety of aortic pathologies. recent advances in minimally invasive aortic surgery have allowed for repair of the diseased section with an endovascular stent placed percutaneously through the groin under intraoperative fluoroscopic guidance. surgical aortobifemoral bypass procedure for aortoiliac occlusive disease remains the gold standard treatment despite rapidly expanding range of indications for endovascular repair. balloon dilatation for coarctation of the aorta is an established alternative to surgery in older children and young adults with a high success rate and a low incidence of restenosis.1ð4 however, balloon dilatation has to be performed with extreme caution when the coarct segment involves the major branches of the aortic arch or when the coarct has an atypical anatomy. in view of the persistent perioperative mobidity and mortality, endovascular stent-graft placement as a minimally invasive and potentially safer treatment for aneurysm of the descending aorta was introduced in 1992. 
Estradiol and Antagonist Pretreatment Prior to Microdose Leuprolide in in Vitro Fertilization. Does It Improve IVF Outcomes in Poor Responders as Compared to Oral Contraceptive Pill? [SEP] to compare in vitro fertilization (ivf) outcomes in low responders stimulated with microdose leuprolide protocol (ml) following pretreatment with either oral contraceptive pill (ocp) or luteal estradiol (e2) + gnrh antagonist (e2 + antag) for follicular synchronization prior to controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (coh). this was a retrospective study of 130 women, who were poor responders, undergoing ivf with either ocp/ml or e2+ antag/ml protocols. e2+antag pretreatment does not appear to improve ivf outcomes in ml protocol when compared to the standard ocp in poor responders. to evaluate in vitro fertilization (ivf) cycle outcomes in young poor responders treated with a luteal estradiol/gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist (e(2)/ant) protocol versus an oral contraceptive pill microdose leuprolide protocol (ocp-mdl). to provide results of the use of estradiol pretreatment in a combination of an ultrashort gonadotropin-releasing hormone (gnrh) agonist and antagonist protocol, in an attempt to improve the clinical outcomes in "poor responders", according to the bologna criteria, undergoing in vitro fertilization (ivf). to evaluate the effectiveness of low doses of gonadotropins and gonadotropins combined with oral compounds compared with high doses of gonadotropins in ovarian stimulation regimens in terms of ongoing pregnancy per fresh ivf attempt in women with poor ovarian reserve undergoing ivf/intracytoplasmic sperm injection (icsi) treatment. a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled studies that evaluate the effectiveness of low dosing of gonadotropins alone or combined with oral compounds compared with high doses of gonadotropins in women with poor ovarian reserve undergoing ivf/icsi treatment. we investigated whether luteal estrogen administration and an early follicular gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist (e/g-ant) priming protocol improves clinical outcomes in poor responders to controlled ovarian stimulation for in vitro fertilization (ivf)-embryo transfer, and identified underlying mechanisms. the combined oral contraceptive pill (ocp) given prior to the hormone therapy in an ivf cycle may result in better pregnancy outcomes of art. randomised controlled trials of pre-treatment with combined ocp, progestogen or estrogen in subfertile women undergoing ivf/icsi. 
Are opioid dependence and methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) documented in the medical record? [SEP] despite evidence that methadone maintenance treatment (mmt) is effective for opioid dependence, it remains a controversial therapy because of its indefinite provision of a dependence-producing medication. to compare outcomes of patients with opioid dependence treated with mmt vs an alternative treatment, psychosocially enriched 180-day methadone-assisted detoxification. data were extracted from the clinic charts of opioid-dependent mmt patients (n = 290; n = 115 injectors) enrolled in a university-affiliated, urban mmt clinic. concomitant opioid abuse is a serious problem among patients receiving methadone maintenance treatment (mmt) for opioid use disorder. methadone maintenance treatment (mmt) is typically provided separately from medical care. to identify potential safety risks among mmt patients engaged in medical care by evaluating the frequency that opioid dependence and mmt documentation are missing in medical records and characterizing potential medication-methadone interactions. among patients from a methadone clinic who received primary care from an affiliated, but separate, medical center, we reviewed electronic medical records for documentation of methadone, opioid dependence, and potential drug-methadone interactions. the proportions of medical records without opioid dependence and methadone documentation were estimated and potential medication-methadone interactions were identified. among the study subjects (n = 84), opioid dependence documentation was missing from the medical record in 30% (95% ci, 20%-41%) and mmt documentation was missing from either the last primary care note or the last hospital discharge summary in 11% (95% ci, 5%-19%). among patients receiving mmt and medical care at different sites, documentation of opioid dependence and mmt in the medical record occurs for the majority, but is missing in a substantial number of patients. 
Can teaching medical students to investigate medication errors change their attitudes towards patient safety? [SEP] medical student error reporting can potentially be increased through patient safety education, culture change and by teaching students how to report errors. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of a patient-safety curriculum administered during a paediatric clerkship on medical students' attitudes towards patient safety. medication errors are a patient safety and quality of care issue. we designed and developed a suite of teaching strategies that raise students' awareness of medication error producing situations and their prevention. to improve patient safety, medical students should be taught about human error and the factors influencing adverse events. the aim of the study was to design and evaluate a questionnaire for measuring the attitudes of year 1 medical students to patient safety and medical error. a questionnaire entitled 'medical students' patient safety questionnaire (year 1)' was designed to assess year 1 medical students' attitudes and anticipated behaviours relating to medical error and patient safety. medical students' attitudes to good patient safety practices were generally positive, but the students had little knowledge of how to report errors and were unsure about what to do if a colleague made an error or if a patient indicated that an error had been made. organizations and leaders advocate teaching medical students about patient safety and medical error, yet few feasible examples demonstrate how this teaching should occur. to provide students with familiarity in identifying, reporting, and analyzing medical errors, the authors developed the interactive patient safety reporting curriculum (psrc), requiring clinical students to engage intellectually and emotionally with personally experienced events in which the safety of one of their patients was compromised. 
Has the prevalence of health care services use increased over the last decade (2001-2009) in elderly people? [SEP] research has typically supported the concern that health services utilization increases with aging. our findings on diagnosis and services utilization characteristics of those elderly who do use city-supported primary health care services indicate that the elderly are likely to place demands on the existing system for a substantial amount of resources. the demands for such services are likely to increase especially as the size of the elderly population increases. in view of the rapid ageing of the population any changes in the use of mental health services by the elderly became increasingly important for policy development. this study aimed at the supply of information about trends in the numbers of elderly clients, the services they used and the volume and pattern of service utilisation. this study aims to confirm whether an increase in the number of elderly people and a worsening in the auto-evaluation of the general health state and in the limitation of daily activities result in increases in the offered services (beds in residential ltc facilities), in the social and healthcare expenditure and, consequently, in the percentage of ltc users. due to the demographic changes, unmet health care needs are expected to increase in the elderly population. this population-based cohort study demonstrates considerable increase in utilization rates and variability of ambulatory services as age increases. there is increasing utilization and variability in ambulatory service utilization with increase in age. to examine what role demographic factors and increases in physician fees and utilization played in the rise in costs of physician services provided for elderly people in quebec between 1982 and 1992, and to investigate changes in patterns of care (type and amount of services) related to utilization. 
Does high-dose radiotherapy benefit palliative lung cancer patients? [SEP] choosing the optimal palliative lung radiotherapy regimen is challenging. a retrospective univariable (n = 925) and multivariable (n = 422) survival analysis of the prognostic significance of baseline patient characteristics and treatment prescription was carried out on patients with non-small cell and small cell lung cancer treated with palliative lung radiotherapy. in this retrospective single-centre analysis of palliative lung radiotherapy, increased total dose (up to and including 30 gy/10 fractions) was associated with better survival regardless of performance status. in the present study, we sought to investigate whether aggressive palliative thoracic radiotherapy (rt) can enhance local control and improve the survival for this subgroup of patients. radiotherapy has had important role in the palliation of nsclc. a large proportion of patients with carcinoma of the lung may benefit from the use of radiation therapy. despite an increasing use of chemotherapy in the palliative setting for lung cancer, the role of palliative thoracic radiotherapy should not be disregarded. high-dose radiotherapy or concurrent chemo-radiation in the treatment of lung cancer seems to be a well-tolerated treatment option with preservation of qol. people with lung cancer (lca) and symptomatic metastatic disease deserve palliative radiotherapy to promote a better quality of remaining life. although radiation therapy (rt) can palliate symptoms and may prolong life, it is not curative for patients with metastatic lung cancer. 
Is endothelin-1 an aggravating factor in the development of acute pancreatitis? [SEP] pancreatic and neutrophil elastase can aggravate or induce acute pancreatitis. although increased elastase levels in the plasma of pancreatitis patients and animal models have been reported, the mechanism by which elastase is involved in the pathogenesis of acute pancreatitis has not yet been elucidated. because vasoactive substances, including endothelin, seem to contribute to early mortality in acute pancreatitis, we tested the hypothesis that the inhibition of endothelin action could alter the outcome after severe experimental pancreatitis. therapy with the mixed endothelin a and endothelin b receptor antagonist bosentan does not influence the outcome after severe experimental pancreatitis. therefore, blockade of endothelin a and b receptor subtypes may not be of major importance as a therapeutic principle in this model of experimental pancreatitis. increased release and turnover of endogenous endothelin-1 is known to be a major determinant in the pathophysiology of pulmonary arterial hypertension of various etiologies. these results suggest the following: et-1 is produced in and around the pancreas, mainly by endothelial cells, in severe acute pancreatitis; in the inflammatory setting, cytokines, activated thrombin and trypsin, may stimulate et-1 production in a paracrine fashion; produced et-1 may exaggerate the splanchnic microcirculation; and progressive ischemia may lead to necrosis of the pancreas and intestine. substance p and its receptor neurokinin-1 receptor (nk-1r) are involved in the development of local as well as systemic inflammation in acute pancreatitis. this editorial focuses on the role of substance p and its receptors in the development of acute pancreatitis. because endothelin-1 (et-1) is a potent vasoconstrictor that enhances gastric mucosal injury, we examined et-1 expression in the portal hypertensive (pht) gastric mucosa and its possible role in increased mucosal susceptibility to damage. 
Malnutrition, a new inducer for arterial calcification in hemodialysis patients? [SEP] arterial calcification is a significant cardiovascular risk factor in hemodialysis patients. a series of factors are involved in the process of arterial calcification; however, the relationship between malnutrition and arterial calcification is still unclear. malnutrition is prevalent in hemodialysis patients and is associated with arterial calcification and the expressions of bmp2 and mgp in calcified radial arteries. malnutrition may be a new inducer candidate for arterial calcification in hemodialysis patients. malnutrition-inflammation-atherosclerosis syndrome is very frequent in patients with chronic kidney disease on haemodialysis. to analyse the relationship between malnutrition-inflammation-atherosclerosis syndrome and anthropometric and biochemical parameters of patients on haemodialysis. the aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between malnutrition and aortic calcification progression in patients on hd. our results suggest that poor nutritional status is an independent risk factor for the progression of aortic calcification. objective: hemodialysis patients may be at risk for malnutrition due to catabolic effects caused by dialysis, loss of amino acids, inadequate nutrient intake, acidosis, and inflammation. malnutrition is highly prevalent in chronic hemodialysis patients and is an important determinant of their morbidity and mortality. 
Does glomerular hyperfiltration in pregnancy damage the kidney in women with more parities? [SEP] hyperfiltration is a cause of podocyturia and occurs physiologically in the kidney of pregnant women. pregnancy in healthy women is associated with increments in glomerular filtration rate (gfr) and effective renal plasma flow (erpf). we hypothesized that the hyperfiltration of normal pregnancy attenuates or exhausts renal reserve. women with renal disease and near normal function have a moderate risk for encountering a rise in blood pressure and decline in renal function during pregnancy, complications that are usually manageable and reversible after delivery. published reports indicate that severe hypertension is a major complicating factor during pregnancy in many of these women and, on theoretical grounds, may play an important role in aggravating the renal lesion. women with renal disease who conceive and continue a pregnancy are at significant risk for adverse maternal and fetal outcomes. common complications of pregnancy--such as hypertension and hypovolemia--can be associated with acute renal injury or aggravation of pre-existing disease. women with kidney disorders face several challenges in pregnancy due to increased physiologic demands on the kidney and risk for disease progression, the potential teratogenicity of medications, and the increased risk for complications such as preeclampsia and preterm delivery. in this review, we review physiologic changes in pregnancy, causes and management of acute kidney injury in pregnancy, hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, and how to care for women with chronic kidney disease of various causes, including the use of antihypertensives and immunosuppressants. glomerular hyperfiltration is a physiological response to pregnancy, correlated with outcomes in hypertension or collagen diseases. 
Subclavian steal syndrome: can the blood pressure difference between arms predict the severity of steal? [SEP] patiehts complaining of numbness of the upper arm and isolated neurotological symptoms should be thoroughly examined for subclavian steal syndrome. recent literature indicates that subclavian steal syndrome is often asymptomatic, but may be associated with a wide variety of signs and symptoms of vertebro-basilar, carotid, or upper extremity ischemia, and that the manifestation of the condition is probably dependent on the patency of the other cranial arteries. subclavian steal syndrome is a systemic condition that may manifest ocular signs and symptoms that optometrists should recognize, and which merits referral for systemic evaluation and treatment as necessary patients who manifest signs and symptoms of vertebro-basilar insufficiency, carotid territory ischemia, or ocular symptoms of atherosclerosis may be diagnosed with subclavian steal syndrome as evaluation of the extracranial arteries is pursued. angioplasty; phase-contrast magnetic resonance imaging; subclavian steal syndrome. subclavian steal syndrome results from hemodynamic impairment due to stenosis or occlusion of subclavian artery. eleven subclavian steal syndrome patients undergoing endovascular therapy attended this study. the measurement of hemodynamic status by pressure wire is very useful to guide endovascular therapy in subclavian steal syndrome patients. increased blood flow velocity in the contralateral vertebral artery (va) is a common finding in subclavian steal syndrome, but its clinical relevance is not known. in a retrospective study of 62 patients with subclavian steal phenomenon and 62 sex- and age-matched controls, we analyzed the peak systolic velocity (psv), end diastolic velocity (edv), mean velocity (mv), resistance index (ri), and pulsatility index (pi) of the doppler spectrum of the va contralateral to the subclavian steal phenomenon. the degree of flow velocity increase in the contralateral va artery correlates well with the severity of subclavian steal phenomenon. 
Can the Internet be used to improve sexual health awareness in web-wise young people? [SEP] with the advent of the internet, web-based interventions have potential as an attractive new tool for sexual health promotion by peers. the internet offers an invaluable opportunity to re-imagine ideas, constructs and disciplines to create innovative sexual health promotion interventions. the internet has opened pathways for youth to find sexual health information which was not easily available to them in the past. studies have shown that seeking sexual health information online may potentially influence an individuals' decision-making to change their sexual health behaviours. providing accurate sti information online from reliable sources may equip young people who have internet access with awareness of sexual health protective behaviours such as condom use. the internet is now the primary source of information that young people use to get information on issues related to sex, contraception, and sexually transmitted infections. the internet has become a widely used resource for sexual health information, especially among adolescents. the internet is a useful tool to spread health information and prevention campaigns, especially to target young adults. the internet can provide a confidential and convenient medium for sexual health promotion for young people. the popularity of the internet for health information and the growing availability of online access make the internet a compelling medium for health promotion and hiv/sti prevention efforts for adolescents. 
Is eligibility for a chemotherapy protocol a good prognostic factor for invasive bladder cancer after radical cystectomy? [SEP] selected patients with bladder cancer with pelvic lymphadenopathy (cn1-3) are treated with induction chemotherapy followed by radical cystectomy. although radical cystectomy is the standard therapy for invasive bladder cancer, cisplatin based multi-drug chemotherapy has proved to be effective for advanced transitional cell urothelial carcinoma. this study presented the pathological response and oncological outcomes of male patients with ct4a urothelial bladder cancer managed with preoperative chemotherapy followed by radical cystectomy. materials and methods: data were collected retrospectively from male patients with ct4a urothelial bladder cancer, who underwent radical cystectomy with or without preoperative chemotherapy. results: from 1989 to 2016, 90 male patients with primary ct4a urothelial bladder cancer underwent radical cystectomy at the institution, 55 (61%) did not have preoperative chemotherapy and 35 (39%) had preoperative chemotherapy. radical cystectomy represents the treatment of choice for muscle infiltrative bladder carcinoma. contemporary guidelines recommend cystectomy with neoadjuvant or adjuvant cisplatin-based chemotherapy given with curative intent for patients with resectable muscle-invasive bladder cancer (mibc). randomized clinical trials of neo-adjuvant cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy for locally advanced muscle invasive bladder cancer has shown a survival benefit over cystectomy alone. to evaluate the potential significance of cystoscopy findings following neoadjuvant chemotherapy (nac) as prognostic indicator in patients undergoing radical cystectomy for muscle-invasive bladder cancer (mibc). level i evidence indicates that neoadjuvant cisplatin-based chemotherapy, in combination with radical cystectomy (rc), is associated with a significant survival advantage for patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer. 
Does a geriatric oncology consultation modify the cancer treatment plan for elderly patients? [SEP] our aim was to study the value of a geriatric consultation in oncological decision-making. data on cancer patients referred for geriatric consultation for clinical optimisation or due to uncertainty regarding their optimal treatment strategy were prospectively analysed. outcome of geriatric evaluations, non-oncological interventions and suggested adaptations of oncological treatment proposals were evaluated. the results demonstrate that a geriatric consultation can aid in complex treatment decisions and may allow for a reduction in over- and undertreatment of elderly cancer patients. this treatment decision making can be guided by geriatric consultation. our aim was to assess the effect of a geriatric evaluation on treatment decisions for older patients with colorectal cancer. the reason for geriatric consultation was uncertainty regarding the optimal oncologic treatment in 139 patients (83%). geriatric consultation can be useful in treatment decision making in elderly patients with colorectal cancer. this study evaluates the impact of geriatrician-delivered comprehensive geriatric assessment (cga) interventions on chemotherapy toxicity and tolerance for older people with cancer. the increasingly older population confronts oncologists with an imposing challenge: older cancer patients have specific healthcare needs both independent of and associated with the diagnosis of cancer. 
Does left atrial appendage (LAA) occlusion device alter the echocardiography and electrocardiogram parameters in patients with atrial fibrillation? [SEP] the alterations of echocardiography and electrocardiogram (ecg) in patients received left atrial appendage laa occlusion therapy are still unclear. the present study was to evaluate the influence of laa occlusion device on echocardiography and ecg changes in patients with atrial fibrillation (af). laa occlusion device resulted in a slightly movement in qrs axis, reduced hr and increased the mean-mean qt interval duration. we investigated the relation between left ventricular diastolic dysfunction and left atrial appendage (laa) thrombus in patients with atrial fibrillation (af). the aim of the study was to investigate whether the deformation of left atrium (la) measured by speckle-tracking analysis (ste) is associated with the presence of la appendage thrombus (laat) during non-valvular atrial fibrillation (af). we hypothesized that the surface ecg may not always reflect left atrial appendage (laa) mechanical function. left ventricular diastolic impairment and consequently elevated filling pressure may contribute to stasis leading to left atrial appendage thrombus (laat) in nonvalvular atrial fibrillation (af). left atrium (la) dilatation has been associated with adverse cardiovascular outcomes in patients with sinus rhythm and atrial fibrillation (af). we aimed to evaluate the accuracy of left atrial (la) size to predict transesophageal echocardiographic (tee) markers of increased thromboembolic risk left atrial appendage (laa) thrombus, low laa velocities and dense spontaneous echocardiographic contrast (sec), and also to assess the best method to evaluate la size. prior to ablation, exclusion of left atrial appendage (laa) thrombus is important. 
Can ki-67 play a role in prediction of breast cancer patients' response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy? [SEP] the current study analyses the predictive value of ki-67 in foreseeing breast cancer patients' responses to neoadjuvant chemotherapy. our data shows that the ki-67 value predicts the response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy as a function of the molecular subtype, reflecting the daily routine concerning ki-67 and its impressing potential and limitation as a predictive marker for neoadjuvant chemotherapy response. studies mentioned association of ki-67 expression with chemotherapy response. the study aims are to evaluate whether ki-67 expression detected by immunohistochemistry (ihc) and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qrt-pcr) may predict clinical response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in breast cancer. these results suggest that ki-67 expression detected by both ihc and qrt-pcr is considered to be a predictor of clinical response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in locally advanced breast cancer. to investigate whether ki-67 labeling index predicts response to adjuvant chemoendocrine therapy, we assessed ki-67 expression in tumor tissue from 1924 (70%) of 2732 patients who were enrolled in two randomized international breast cancer study group trials of adjuvant chemoendocrine therapy vs endocrine therapy alone for node-negative breast cancer. the objectives of this study were to assess the potential value of ki-67 in predicting response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in breast cancer patients and to suggest a reasonable cutoff value for classifying ki-67 expression. in subgroup analysis, a higher ki-67 value (≥25%) was a significant predictive factor for the response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy, especially in er-negative and her2-positive breast cancer patients. ki-67 expression in breast cancer tissue may be an effective factor for predicting the response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy. ki67 has been identified as a prognostic and predictive marker for breast cancer and it was suggested that it may contribute to pathologic complete response (pcr) after neoadjuvant chemotherapy. 
Intravenous administration of metoclopramide by 2 min bolus vs 15 min infusion: does it affect the improvement of headache while reducing the side effects? [SEP] to determine the therapeutic effect (alleviation of vascular type headache) and side effects of a slow intravenous metoclopramide infusion over 15 min compared with those effects of a bolus intravenous metoclopramide infusion over 2 min in the treatment of patients with recent onset vascular type headache. this study compared the effects of two different rates of intravenous infusion of metoclopramide over a period of 13 months at a university hospital emergency department. slowing the infusion rate of metoclopramide is an effective strategy for the improvement of headache and reducing the incidence of akathisia in patients with vascular type headache. to provide evidence about whether intravenous metoclopramide continuous infusion is associated with fewer extrapyramidal side effects than bolus infusion. compared with bolus administration, continuous intravenous infusion of metoclopramide reduces the appearance of extrapyramidal side effects. we compared the antiemetic efficacy of metoclopramide in a bolus low-dose infusion schedule to that of metoclopramide given in a conventional high-dose bolus schedule in a randomized crossover trial. metoclopramide is efficacious in the treatment of both the pain and nausea of migraine headache. the objective of this study was to determine the analgesic efficacy and safety of intravenous, single-dose metoclopramide versus dexketoprofen trometamol versus metoclopramide+ dexketoprofen trometamol in patients presenting with acute migraine attack to the emergency department (ed). to investigate the effect of the rate of metoclopramide infusion on akathisia incidence, severity, onset of symptoms, and duration in patients with headache, and/or nausea/vomiting in the emergency department (ed) setting. prospective, double blind, randomised clinical study comparing two rates of intravenous infusion of metoclopramide over a period of six months at a tertiary university hospital ed. 
Is the breast best for children with a family history of atopy? [SEP] conventional wisdom posits that breastfeeding during the first 4 months of life generally reduces the incidence of atopic dermatitis in the child. breastfeeding is widely recommended to reduce risk of sensitization, eczema and asthma. breastfeeding was associated with a decreased risk of atopic sensitization in children with ct/cc genotype (aor 0.667, 95% ci: 0.463-0.960). for boys, breast-feeding (odds ratio [or], 1.63; 95% ci, 0.93-2.87; p = .09) and maternal atopy (or, 1.95; 95% ci, 0.93-4.08; p = .08) were each associated with atopy at age 13 years. breast-feeding increased the risk for atopy among boys with paternal atopy (or, 7.39; 95% ci, 2.21-24.66) compared with non-breast-fed boys with paternal atopy, but did not significantly further increase risk among subjects with maternal atopy. however, breast-feeding increased the risk for atopy in girls with maternal atopy (or, 3.13; 95% ci, 1.20-8.14) compared with non-breast-fed girls with maternal atopy. the influence of breast-feeding on development of atopy and asthma differs by sex and by maternal and paternal atopy, and is most significant among subjects at lower baseline risk. early signs of atopic disease or sensitization were independently associated with an approximately 28% reduction in risk of ceasing exclusive breast-feeding (adjusted hazard ratio, 0.72; 95% ci, 0.53-0.97); p=.029), but there was no evidence for a relationship with risk of ceasing breast-feeding completely (adjusted hazard ratio, 1.12; 95% ci, 0.92-1.37; p=.262). early signs of atopic disease might prolong the duration of exclusive breast-feeding. future investigation of the relationship between breast-feeding and atopic diseases should consider this possibility. 
Does escalation of the apical dose change treatment outcome in beta-radiation of posterior choroidal melanomas with 106Ru plaques? [SEP] beta emitting 106ru applicators are widely used to treat choroidal melanoma. we review the results of treatment of small to medium-sized choroidal malignant melanomas after high-dose-rate brachytherapy with a strontium-90 applicator. strontium-90 brachytherapy is a valuable and safe treatment technique for small to medium-sized choroidal malignant melanomas. brachytherapy with 106ru eye plaques is the most common treatment modality for small to medium-sized uveal melanomas in europe. to study the feasibility of using cherenkov luminescence imaging (cli) to evaluate and document ruthenium-106 plaque position during brachytherapy of uveal melanoma. to evaluate the effect of palladium 103(103pd) ophthalmic plaque brachytherapy on patients with uveal melanoma. radioactive 103pd seeds have become available for plaque brachytherapy, and computer-aided simulations have compared the intraocular dose distribution of 103pd versus iodine 125 (125i) plaques in patients with uveal melanoma. ruthenium-106 brachytherapy is an effective method for treating small to medium uveal melanomas. ruthenium-106 brachytherapy is an alternative to enucleation in some thick posterior uveal melanomas. in view of the importance of clinical applications of ruthenium-106 beta-ray sources for the treatment of choroidal melanoma, experimental, and theoretical approaches are presented for the dosimetry of such sources. 
Does septoplasty change the dimensions of compensatory hypertrophy of the middle turbinate? [SEP] to measure the dimensions of compensatory hypertrophy of the middle turbinate in patients with nasal septal deviation, before and after septoplasty. the dimensions of bony and mucosal components of the middle turbinate on concave and convex sides of the septum were not significantly changed by septoplasty. the present study findings suggest that compensatory hypertrophy of the middle turbinate is not affected by septoplasty, even after one year. in patients with septal deviation, compensatory inferior turbinate hypertrophy in the side of the nose opposite the major septal deviation is often found. previous studies have described inferior turbinate hypertrophy compensatory to a septal deviation. septal body hypertrophy, like inferior turbinate hypertrophy, can result in changes to the nasal cross-sectional area and resistance to airflow. the aim of this study was to define the effectiveness of submucous resection of a hypertrophied turbinate together with simultaneous septoplasty for the treatment of nasal obstruction. forty-two patients with septum deviation and compensatory contralateral inferior turbinate hypertrophy were recruited in this study. in group a, a submucous resection was performed to treat a hypertrophied inferior turbinate, together with a septoplasty. a turbinate reduction surgery should be conducted along with septoplasty to achieve better results in cases suffering from deviated nasal septum with concomitant hypertrophied inferior turbinate. 
Can patient coaching reduce racial/ethnic disparities in cancer pain control? [SEP] minority patients with cancer experience worse control of their pain than do their white counterparts. therefore, we examined whether patient coaching could reduce disparities in pain control in a secondary analysis of a randomized controlled trial. patient coaching offers promise as a means of reducing racial/ethnic disparities in pain control. the power over pain-coaching (pop-c) intervention was developed to improve functional status and decrease pain and pain-related distress among ambulatory african american patients with cancer. racial disparities in cancer treatment-related symptom burden are well documented and linked to worse treatment outcomes. as part of the cancer health accountability for managing pain and symptoms (champs) study, we examined racial differences in symptom management experiences among black and white breast cancer survivors (bcs). developing interventions to address racial/ethnic cancer pain disparities requires exploration of the role of socioeconomic status, health status, and pain severity from the time of diagnosis. to examine patterns of disparities in cancer pain by evaluating differences by race/ethnicity in the odds of reporting pain and in pain severity, controlling for key patient-level covariates. to examine the effect of perception of control over pain on disparities in pain, symptom distress, and functional status in white and black patients with cancer. increasing a patient's perception of control over pain may decrease disparities and increase functional status. 
Does prior benign prostate biopsy predict outcome for patients treated with radical perineal prostatectomy? [SEP] a cox regression multivariable analysis was used to determine whether percent-positive prostate biopsies provided clinically relevant information about psa outcome after rp in 960 men, while accounting for the previously established risk groups based on the pretreatment psa concentration biopsy gleason score, and the 1992 american joint commission on cancer clinical t stage. to test the accuracy of preoperative clinical variables in predicting the presence of residual disease and biochemical recurrence in patients with incidental prostate cancer treated with radical retropubic prostatectomy. psa before and after surgery for bph and gleason score at surgery for bph were the only independent predictors of residual cancer at radical retropubic prostatectomy (all p<0.04). we determine the incidence of biopsy detectable prostate cancer in men with clinical benign prostatic hyperplasia (bph) and prostate specific antigen (psa) elevation who are candidates for open prostatectomy, and the histology of prostatic tissue of men who underwent surgery. we investigated the correlation between finding a single positive biopsy core and the pathological outcome after radical prostatectomy (rp). to investigate the influence of biopsy perineural invasion (pni) on long-term prostate-specific antigen recurrence rates, final pathologic stage, and surgical margin status of men treated with radical prostatectomy. to investigate whether presence, location, and extent of benign prostatic tissue at radical prostatectomy surgical margins influence patient outcome. thus, we compared functional outcomes between patients who underwent single biopsy versus repeat biopsies before radical prostatectomy. repeat biopsy before radical prostatectomy impairs early continence after surgery. this retrospective analysis included patients who were diagnosed as prostate cancer by standard 12-core transrectal ultrasonography guided prostate biopsy, and who have psm after radical prostatectomy. 
Does patient position during liver surgery influence the risk of venous air embolism? [SEP] systemic venous air embolism is a serious complication in patients with chronic liver disease having liver surgery. the risk of venous gas embolism is increased during liver parenchymal transection. the incidence of venous thromboembolism (vte) among patients undergoing hepatic surgery is poorly defined, leading to varied use of vte prophylaxis among surgeons. intrahepatic air embolism can occur during liver transplantation, jeopardizing the posttransplant outcome. it is generally believed that positioning of the patient in a head-down tilt (trendelenberg position) decreases the likelihood of a venous air embolism during liver resection. the physiological effect of variation in horizontal attitude on central and hepatic venous pressure was measured in 10 patients during liver surgery. the effect on venous pressures caused by the change in patient positioning alone during liver surgery does not affect the risk of venous air embolism. the common practice of maintaining central venous pressure (cvp) below 5 mm hg to reduce blood loss during hepatic resection increases the risk of venous air embolism (vae). in order to assess the occurrence of blood congestion in the liver during liver resection, we aimed to evaluate the influence of a positive-end-expiratory-pressure (peep) and positioning of patients on central venous pressure (cvp) and venous hepatic blood flow parameters. the placement of the left liver from the spontaneous position to the anatomical position resulted in a significant increase in left hepatic venous outflow (20.1 +/- 5.7 versus 8.5 +/- 4.4 cm/s; p < 0.0001). 
Do Indigenous Australians age prematurely? [SEP] to assess whether indigenous australians age prematurely compared with other australians, as implied by australian government aged care policy, which uses age 50 years and over for population-based planning for indigenous people compared with 70 years for non-indigenous people. the idea that indigenous people age prematurely is not well supported by this study of a series of discrete conditions. the poor health status of indigenous australians as demonstrated by high rates of morbidity and mortality compared with non-indigenous australians has been of concern to health providers for decades. largely because of low life expectancy, indigenous australians are considered to be ageing from the age of 45 years. the aim of the study was to explore perspectives of older indigenous australians about their health and wellbeing. indigenous australians are born smaller than non-indigenous australians and are at an increased risk of early onset of frailty. australian indigenous young people have a 10-fold excess of deaths from ischaemic heart disease compared with non-indigenous australians, yet the reasons behind this remain understudied. despite australia's adolescents having one of the best health profiles globally, indigenous adolescents have largely been left behind. fourteen percent of australian indigenous infants are born preterm (under 37 weeks gestation) and, therefore, at risk. aboriginal and torres strait islander australians are more likely than non-indigenous australians to be obese and experience chronic disease in adulthood--conditions linked to being overweight in childhood. 
Are tuberculosis patients adherent to prescribed treatments in China? [SEP] to examine treatment outcomes and factors associated with poor outcome of multidrug-resistant (mdr) tuberculosis (tb) in china. to summarise data on the implementation of the dots strategy in china in terms of actual observation and treatment adherence, and to review the effectiveness of quality improvement interventions for tuberculosis (tb) control in china. medication adherence is crucial for decreasing the burden of tuberculosis, but few relevant studies have been conducted in northeast china. this study aimed to explore the level of medication adherence among pulmonary tuberculosis outpatients and the predictive factors based on the bio-psycho-social medical model. tuberculosis patients' medication adherence was not very high and it was influenced by diverse and complex factors involving sociodemographic characteristics, treatment factors, knowledge about tb, mental health, and behavioral characteristics. in china, it is known that extended treatment is given to patients with pulmonary tb after they have successfully completed 6 months of first-line treatment. this study aimed to provide information, from a single tb dispensary in beijing, china, on the prevalence of extended anti-tb treatment and its relationship with recurrent tb. this study shows that extended treatment is common in one tb dispensary in beijing. poor compliance with existing guidelines for tuberculosis (tb) care and treatment is an issue of concern in china. this study aims to study china's production capacity and sales situation of anti-tb drugs, and to further discuss the potential for china to contribute to global tb control. 
Ultrasound in squamous cell carcinoma of the penis; a useful addition to clinical staging? [SEP] as part of the staging procedure in squamous cell carcinoma of the penis, we assessed the role of ultrasound examination, in particular its role in assessing the extent and the invasion into the corpora. while ultrasound examination is inexpensive and easily done, it is not accurate enough for staging small penile cancers located at the glans penis. however, for larger tumors ultrasound can be a useful addition to physical examination by delineating reliably the anatomic relations of the tumor to structures such as the tunica albuginea, corpus cavernosum, and urethra. traditionally, staging of prostate cancer has relied on the digital rectal examination, but ultrasonography, which provides an unprecedented picture of the gland, has become a valuable adjunct. comparison of sonograms with corresponding sections of radical prostatectomy specimens demonstrates that ultrasound complements the digital examination in determining by clinical tests the pathologic extent of a cancer. applications include tumour staging, assisted biopsy and assessment of prostate size. this report describes the transrectal ultrasound appearance of squamous cell carcinoma of the prostate. one case of squamous cell carcinoma involving the prostate by extension from a primary urethral carcinoma and a second case of radiation-induced primary prostatic squamous cell carcinoma are presented and the ultrasound findings discussed. we performed a retrospective analysis of 84 patients who underwent preoperative staging and transrectal ultrasound-guided systematic sextant (n=60) or octant (n=24) biopsy. transrectal ultrasonic imaging of the prostate gland has proved a valuable tool in determining the stage of carcinoma of the prostate and in monitoring the effectiveness of endocrine and radiation therapies. 
Do oblique views add value in the diagnosis of spondylolysis in adolescents? [SEP] anteroposterior, lateral, and right and left oblique lumbar spine radiographs are often a standard part of the evaluation of children who are clinically suspected of having spondylolysis. the purpose of the present study was to determine the diagnostic value of oblique views in the diagnosis of spondylolysis. radiographs of fifty adolescents with l5 spondylolysis without spondylolisthesis and fifty controls were retrospectively reviewed. there was no significant difference in sensitivity and specificity between four-view and two-view radiographs in the diagnosis of spondylolysis. morphometric analysis of vertebrae from normal patients and patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. to use magnetic resonance imaging to assess pedicle asymmetry in normal patients and patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis in the early stages of scoliosis development and to determine if patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis exhibited a consistent vertebral morphology. magnetic resonance images of 76 pedicles from 8 normal patients and 80 pedicles from 10 patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis were examined retrospectively. the extent and direction of asymmetry in vertebrae from normal patients and patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis were determined and compared. although this method is widely accepted as the benchmark in scoliosis assessment, it has some limitations and restrictions in practical applications because it is measured on a pa (posterior-anterior or back to front) x-ray image, such as potential harmfulness from radiation exposure and high cost.in this paper, a novel evaluation index for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis measurement and diagnosis is introduced to complement the existing assessment index, such as the cobb's angle, the differences of shoulder height, etc. early diagnosis of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis is essential to prevent severe deformity. 
Are many colorectal cancers due to missed adenomas? [SEP] however, multiple studies have reported a significant percentage of adenomas are missed during standard, forward-viewing colonoscopy. missed adenomas can lead to interval colorectal cancers. we calculated the proportion of individuals with tumors missed at the baseline colonoscopy and tumors that arose from missed adenomas during a 5-year follow-up period. we found that 0.7 per 1000 persons undergoing a screening colonoscopy had a cancer that was missed at the baseline colonoscopy and an additional 1.1 per 1000 subsequently developed cancer from a missed adenoma. although colonoscopy is the accepted standard for detection of colorectal adenomas and cancers, many adenomas and some cancers are missed. however, up to a third of adenomas may be missed at colonoscopy, and the majority of post-colonoscopy colorectal cancers are thought to arise from these. in patients undergoing colonoscopy, 22 % - 28 % of polyps and 20 % - 24 % of adenomas are missed. most post-colonoscopy colorectal cancers (pc-crcs) are thought to develop from missed or incompletely resected adenomas. whereas high recurrence rates of colorectal adenomas after polypectomy are widely recognised, little is known of the natural incidence in those with no neoplastic lesions initially. however, many studies have reported that up to 20% of adenomas can be missed during colonoscopy. 
Does desflurane alter left ventricular function when used to control surgical stimulation during aortic surgery? [SEP] although desflurane is commonly used to control surgically induced hypertension, its effects on left ventricular (lv) function have not been investigated in this clinical situation. the purpose of the present study was to evaluate the lv function response to desflurane, when used to control intraoperative hypertension. no change in heart rate, cardiac index, mean pulmonary arterial pressure, stroke volume, end-diastolic and end-systolic cross-sectional areas, fractional area change and left ventricular circumferential fiber shortening was noted when desflurane was added to restore blood pressure. this study demonstrates that in patients at risk for cardiac morbidity undergoing vascular surgery, desflurane is effective to control intraoperative hypertension without fear of major cardiac depressant effect. isoflurane, a common anesthetic for cardiac surgery, reduced myocardial contractility in many experimental studies, few studies have determined isoflurane's direct impact on the left ventricular (lv) contractile function during cardiac surgery. the direct impact of sevoflurane on intraoperative left ventricular (lv) systolic performance during cardiac surgery has not been fully elucidated. desflurane, a coronary vasodilator, may induce myocardial ischemia in patients with coronary artery disease. during anesthetic induction, 9% (9/99) of patients who received desflurane developed ecg ischemia, compared with 0% (0/98) who received sufentanil (p = 0.007). the aim of the present study was to explore the modulatory effects of desflurane (des) on these responses. our study hypothesis was that desflurane-fentanyl anaesthesia could decrease myocardial injury markers and improve haemodynamics compared to propofol-fentanyl in patients undergoing off-pump coronary surgery. 
Does gestational age misclassification explain the difference in birthweights for Australian aborigines and whites? [SEP] gestational age misclassification is an unlikely explanation for the reported divergence in average birth-weights for aborigines and whites. births to aborigines and teenagers are known to be at a higher risk of low birth-weight (lbw) than those to non-aboriginal and older women. are most births of aboriginal babies with low birthweight preterm or full term? implausibly large misclassification proportions were required to make preterm low birthweight an insignificant contributor to the low birthweight excess in aborigines. to compare birthweight for gestational age of aboriginal with caucasian infants and investigate the origins of their differences. data pertaining to birthweight, gestational age at delivery and pathological factors were abstracted from birth records of 1301 western australian singleton aboriginal pregnancies dated before 24 weeks by ultrasound fetometry and compared with routinely collected data pertaining to caucasian births of the same period. this article describes the distributions of birthweight and gestational age of all singleton aboriginal and white live-born infants in western australia for the period 1980-1986. at early gestational ages, the mean birthweight was greater for aboriginal infants. more aboriginal infants were of low birthweight--male aboriginal infants, 9.8%; male white infants, 4.0%; female aboriginal infants, 12.4%; and female white infants, 4.6%, this excess only occurred in term (37- to 41-weeks' gestation) and post-term (42- to 52-weeks' gestation) infants. thus, it seems that the distributions of both birthweight and gestational age in aboriginal infants are shifted downward compared with those for white infants. 
Is there any interest to perform ultrasonography in boys with undescended testis? [SEP] the use of ultrasonography to localize the testis in children with undescended testis is still controversial. this study was designed to determine the value of ultrasound in the preoperative assessment of children with undescended testis in a resource-limited setting. the results of ultrasonography in boys with a nonpalpable testis were analyzed. sonography is unnecessary in boys with a nonpalpable testis, because it rarely if ever localizes a true nonpalpable testis, and it does not alter the surgical approach in these patients. many primary care physicians order an ultrasound (us) before referral to specialist care for suspected undescended testis; however, the value of this practice is questionable. ultrasound is frequently obtained during the presurgical evaluation of boys with nonpalpable undescended testes, but its clinical utility is uncertain. abdominoscrotal sonogram is often used in boys with a nonpalpable testis to determine the presence of the testis. we describe our experience with the use of ultrasonography in boys with a nonpalpable testis. we retrospectively reviewed the medical records of boys aged less than 14 years, who underwent preoperative ultrasonography for an impalpable undescended testis (iudt) between 2006 and 2010 in our institution. a large proportion of boys referred for undescended testis (udt) is not managed optimally prior to the referral, with the majority seen at >1 year of age and many having unnecessary ultrasound (us). 
Is peak concentration needed in therapeutic drug monitoring of vancomycin? [SEP] optimising vancomycin therapy with therapeutic drug monitoring is widely recommended. the aim of therapeutic drug monitoring is to help the clinician to achieve target pharmacodynamic parameters in the case of vancomycin, an area under the concentration time curve/minimum inhibitory concentration ratio of ≥400. vancomycin is commonly used to treat staphylococcal infections, but there has not been a definitive analysis of the pharmacokinetics of this antibacterial in relation to minimum inhibitory concentration (mic) that could be used to determine a target pharmacodynamic index for treatment optimisation. to clarify relationships between vancomycin dosage, serum concentration, mic and antimicrobial activity by using data gathered from a therapeutic monitoring environment that observes failures in some cases. recent publications recommend attaining higher vancomycin trough concentrations of 15 to 20 mg/l for target infections, yet limited research is available assessing the correlation of vancomycin serum concentrations with toxicity. we analyzed the pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic relationship of vancomycin to determine the drug exposure parameters that correlate with the efficacy and nephrotoxicity of vancomycin in patients with methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus pneumonia and evaluated the need to use peak concentration in therapeutic drug monitoring (tdm). serum drug concentrations of 31 hospitalized patients treated with vancomycin for methicillin-resistant s. aureus pneumonia were collected. therapeutic monitoring of the antibiotic vancomycin is important to achieve specific plasma concentration and prevent toxic effects. in this study, we developed a new and rapid high-performance liquid chromatography method requiring 50 μl of plasma for the quantification of vancomycin. the measurement range was 1-100 μg/ml, analysis time was 8 min, and intermediate precision was <12%, supporting the present method as a fast, simple, and effective alternative for therapeutic monitoring of vancomycin. 
Can autologous platelet-rich plasma gel enhance healing after surgical extraction of mandibular third molars? [SEP] the aim of this study is to compare the efficacy of autologous platelet-rich plasma (prp) in the third molar impactions, with respect to: pain, swelling, healing, and periodontal status distal to the second molar in patients who need surgical removal of bilateral impacted mandibular third molars. platelet-rich plasma (prp) is a material containing autologous growth factors, which may be used in repairing and preventing periodontal complications at the distal root of the second molar adjacent to the extracted third molar. platelet-rich plasma (prp) is a material containing many autologous growth factors that may be used in repairing and preventing periodontal complications at the distal root of the second molar adjacent to the extracted third molar. we showed that prp is effective in inducing and accelerating bone regeneration for the treatment of periodontal defects at the distal root of the mandibular second molar after surgical extraction of a mesioangular, deeply impacted mandibular third molar. platelet-rich plasma (prp) is a material containing many autologous growth factors that may be used in repairing and preventing periodontal complications at the distal root of the second molar adjacent to the extracted third molar. we showed that prp is effective in inducing and accelerating bone regeneration for the treatment of periodontal defects at the distal root of the mandibular second molar after surgical extraction of a mesioangular, deeply impacted mandibular third molar. this study was undertaken to evaluate the role of prp in postoperative socket healing, pain, swelling and bone regeneration following surgical removal of impacted mandibular third molars. this article, the third in a series dealing with implant dentistry, describes the role of platelet rich plasma as an adjunct to help with the healing process following tooth extraction, socket preservation, and, ultimately, replacement with implant supported restorations. to evaluate the efficacy of autologous platelet-rich plasma in soft tissue healing & bone regeneration in mandibular third molar extraction socket. the aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of alloplastic bone graft with absorbable gelatin sponge in prevention of periodontal defects distal to mandibular second molar after the surgical removal of impacted mandibular third molars. 
Are sugars-free medicines more erosive than sugars-containing medicines? [SEP] because use of sugar-containing paediatric medicines is an aetiological factor in dental caries, sugar-free alternatives are slowly becoming more readily available. this investigation was undertaken to determine whether problems exist in the formulation, production and availability of sugar-free medicines. the findings indicated that the only obstacle to producing sugar-free medicines is slightly higher cost, and that manufacturers are influenced to change mainly by consumer pressure. oral adverse events such as cariogenicity are often overlooked as drug-associated effects because the sugar content of many medications may be negligible compared with the patients' overall dietary intake of sugar. we reviewed the literature regarding the sugar content of oral liquid medications commonly prescribed by oral health care providers, with consideration to their caries potential. over 50 commonly used oral liquid medications prescribed for patients with swallowing difficulties were reviewed and found to contain sugar in varying amounts up to 4 grams per dose (usually 1 teaspoon or 5 milliliters). recognition and avoidance of sugar-containing oral liquid medications can help clinicians optimize patient treatment, decreasing the risk for potential drug-induced caries while emphasizing patient safety and improved oral health. sugars are used by the industry to enhance the attractiveness of foods and drinks. this review considers the potential problems that free sugars represent in relation to health risks, and the recent proposals that free sugars are a more appropriate focus than added or total as far as public health initiatives are concerned. utilization of sugars (e.g. 
