['Can masks reduce corona infections when worn by a large proportion of the population? [SEP] cloth masks have been used in healthcare and community settings to protect the wearer from respiratory infections. in community settings, however, cloth masks may be used to prevent community spread of infections by sick or asymptomatically infected persons, and the public should be educated about their correct use. we assessed the effect of community-wide mask usage to control coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) in hong kong special administrative region (hksar). community-wide mask wearing may contribute to the control of covid-19 by reducing the amount of emission of infected saliva and respiratory droplets from individuals with subclinical or mild covid-19. the current evidence suggests that masks are efficacious in limiting the transmission of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov2). since the start of the covid-19 pandemic there has been much debate in the media on whether masks should be worn to stop the spread of the virus. they shall protect the wearer of the mask from particles, droplets, and aerosols, but they also can prevent the spread of aerosol-transmitted viruses if the wearer becomes infected. although the benefit of population-level public facial masking to protect others during the covid-19 pandemic has received a great deal of attention, we discuss for one of the first times the hypothesis that universal masking reduces the "inoculum" or dose of the virus for the mask-wearer, leading to more mild and asymptomatic infection manifestations. wearing face masks is one of the essential means to prevent the transmission of certain respiratory diseases such as coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19). importantly, the mask appears to be highly efficient for filtration of pathogens, including influenza and rhinoviruses, as well as the fine particulates (pm2.5) present in aerosols that represent a greater challenge for many types of dental and surgical masks. ',
 'Can homeopathic preparations with Anamirta cocculus help against dizziness? [SEP] the aim of this study was to investigate effects of homeopathic anax imperator (dragonfly) (anax-i 30c and anax-i 200c) in the forced swim test (fst), elevated plus-maze (epm) test, hot plate (hp) test and open field test and examined npy1 receptor expression, in naive mice. these results suggest that the homeopathic anax-i exerts antidepressant, anxiolytic and analgesic-like effects and causes hyperlocomotion and weight loss. this product is composed of homeopathic dilutions of aconitum napellus, arsenicum album (arsenic trioxide), bryonia alba, lachesis muta venom and thuya occidentalis. the marshland plant cyperus articulatus (cyperaceae) is commonly used in traditional medicine in africa and latin america to treat a wide variety of human diseases ranging from headache to epilepsy. an herbal mixture prepared with cinnamomi ramulus, anemarrhenae rhizoma and alpiniae officinari rhizoma (caa) is used in oriental medicine for treating several ailments. the root of angelica dahurica bentham et hooker (umbelliferae) has been used as a traditional medicine for colds, headache, dizziness, toothache, supraorbital pain, nasal congestion, acne, ulcer, carbuncle, and rheumatism in china, japan, and korea. the aim of this study was to provide pharmacological evidence for the anti-hypertensive effect of a. dahurica by investigating the mechanism underlying its vasorelaxant effect. the vasorelaxant effects of a 70% methanol extract of the a. dahurica root (ade) on rat thoracic aorta and its underlying mechanisms were assessed. alismatis rhizoma decoction (ard) is a classical traditional chinese medicine (tcm) formula for treatment of vertigo with its long history of successful clinical effect. we report 12 such successive cases where the patients developed vague feelings of discomfort, dizziness, chest discomfort and ventricular arrhythmias following herbal drug ingestion which warranted the immediate discontinuation of the drug. ',
 'Can zeolite alleviate or prevent health problems? [SEP] activated and micronized zeolites are used as detoxifying agents in humans. to evaluate activated and micronized zeolites as modulators of cellular oxidative stress in mexican smokers without lung diseases. subjects administered activated and micronized zeolites had equivalent antioxidant activities as subjects administered vitamin e. activated and micronized zeolites may be useful as a modulator of oxidative stress in smokers. this study evaluated whether zeolite supplementation affects biomarkers of intestinal wall permeability and parameters of oxidation and inflammation in aerobically trained individuals, and whether it could improve their performance. after 12\xa0weeks with zeolite zonulin was significantly (p\u2009<\u20090.05) decreased in the supplemented group. twelve\xa0weeks of zeolite supplementation exerted beneficial effects on intestinal wall integrity as indicated via decreased concentrations of the tight junction modulator zonulin. the zeolite was therefore promising for practical water purification and industrialization. zeolite 4a, synthetic silicate, has been shown to exhibit diverse biological activities such as anti-cancer and anti-oxidant activity. in the present study, we report that the zeolite 4a may improve skin-whitening. we found that zeolite 4a inhibited melanin production in a dose-dependent manner, which has not cytotoxicity. ',
 'Does paxlovid protect unvaccinated people with risk factors from severe or even fatal covid 19 disease? [SEP] a significant portion of the u.s. population may experience vaccine hesitancy of a new covid-19 vaccine, which poses dangers to both the individual and their community, since exposure to a contagious disease places the person at risk, and individuals are far more likely to spread the disease to others if they do not get vaccinated. vaccines against covid-19 have the potential to protect people before they are exposed to the infective form of the virus. however, because of the involvement of pathogenic immune processes in many severe presentations of covid-19, eliciting an immune response with a vaccine must strike a delicate balance to achieve viral clearance without also inducing immune-mediated harm. the impact of how innate immunity, humoral immunity, and cell-mediated immunity play a role in a harmful versus helpful response is discussed, establishing principles to guide the development and evaluation of a safe but effective covid-19 vaccine. these principles can not only guide efforts toward a safe and effective covid-19 vaccine, but also the development of effective vaccines for viral pandemics to come. when we have a vaccine against covid-19, who should be vaccinated first? coronavirus (covid-19) is highly infectious agent that causes fatal respiratory illnesses, which is of great global public health concern. currently, there is no effective vaccine for tackling this covid19 pandemic where disease countermeasures rely upon preventing or slowing person-to-person transmission. about one in five individuals worldwide could be at increased risk of severe covid-19, should they become infected, due to underlying health conditions, but this risk varies considerably by age. globally, the current coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) pandemic is resulting in high fatality rates. ',
 "Does starting school later improve health, learning success, and quality of life in adolescents? [SEP] our study investigates the relationship between adolescents' health and their subsequent school career, taking into account their parents' socioeconomic position. school-based health education can help young people develop the knowledge, skills, motivation, and support they need to choose health-enhancing behaviors and resist engaging in behaviors that put them at risk for health and social problems and school failure. the health of school-age youth is significantly associated with their school achievement. adolescence is an important period as poor health might prevent students from making the best educational choices. we test if health in adolescence is associated with educational aspirations and whether these associations persist over and above sociodemographic background and academic achievement. yet there is increasing concern that health in adolescence may also influence educational attainments and future life chances. we examined associations between health in early adolescence and subsequent academic and employment outcomes, exploring potential mediators of these relationships to inform intervention strategies. we study if a late start of upper secondary education is related to health-related selection, namely health-compromising behaviours in adolescence. previous research finds adolescents expecting to attend university are more likely to demonstrate health-promoting behaviour than those not expecting university attendance. encouraging adolescents to consider an academic future may achieve public health benefits, despite social factors that might otherwise precipitate poor health via an accelerated life history trajectory. ",
 'Does the F.X. Mayr cure have health benefits? Can it prevent diseases or treat them? [SEP] ficus hispida l.f. (moraceae) has been used as alternative for traditional medicine in the treatment of various ailments including cancer-cure. cures offer one-time resolution of symptoms; that is, with the benefit of a cure, there is no longer a medical problem in need of treatment. remedies offer temporary, situational relief of symptoms. conclusion the findings of this study provided strong scientific evidence for the traditional use of f. racemosa and postulate protective effects against diabetes and its complications such as dc and dn. ficus pandurata h. (moraceae) is widely used in traditional chinese medicine as a healthy food condiment or a medicine for treatment of various diseases including inflammation. the fpe treatment significantly inhibited the paw edema and the production of tnf- α and pge2 in msu crystal-induced rats. the fpe exerted stronger antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities which may be attributed to its high phenolic content. is being used traditionally in persian folk medicine to cure various ailments and has been supposed to have fertility-enhancing properties. the water extract of forsythiae fructus (wff) is an herbal remedy that is prescribed to treat various inflammatory diseases in traditional chinese medicine. far-infrared ray (fir) is an electromagnetic wave that produces various health benefits against pathophysiological conditions, such as diabetes mellitus, renocardiovascular disorders, stress, and depression etc. ',
 'Does the consumption of soy foods or soy isoflavones affect the appearance of acne skin? [SEP] it has been hypothesized that isoflavones reduce the risk of many chronic diseases, but there are no data on the effects of dietary soy and isoflavone consumption on allergic disorders. this cross-sectional study examined the relationship between dietary soy products and isoflavone intake and the prevalence of allergic rhinitis. a high intake of soy and isoflavones may be associated with a reduced prevalence of allergic rhinitis. soy foods possess both antiestrogenic and estrogen-like properties. the association of dietary intake of isoflavone, the major phytoestrogen in soy, with all-cause mortality was examined in 6235 women with breast cancer enrolled in the breast cancer family registry. although soy isoflavone has been suggested to have both immune-enhancing and immune-suppressive effects, the effects of soy isoflavone intake on allergic disorders are unclear. a cross-sectional study indicated that a high intake of soy isoflavone is associated with a decreased risk of allergic rhinitis. soy isoflavone is an attractive source of functional cosmetic materials with anti-wrinkle, whitening and skin hydration effects. similar results were also found for intakes of soy protein and isoflavones. soybean may be a promising ingredient for regulating uvb-induced inflammatory damage to the skin. ',
 'Does extract from the Damiana plant (Turnera diffusa) help with erectile dysfunction? [SEP] in folk medicine, turnera diffusa wild (turnera diffusa, turneraceae) is considered as an aphrodisiac, but its ability to restore copulation in sexually inhibited subjects has not been reported. to determine whether turnera diffusa recovers sexual behavior in sexually exhausted (sexh) male rats and to identify the main components in an aqueous extract. yohimbine and turnera diffusa (80 mg/kg) significantly increased the percentage of males achieving one ejaculatory series and resuming a second one. the results support the use of turnera diffusa as an aphrodisiac in traditional medicine and suggest possible therapeutic properties of turnera diffusa on sexual dysfunction. this study further supports the traditional use of extracts from aspidosperma species in erectile dysfunction. previously we experimentally showed the aphrodisiac effect of a chemically characterized aqueous extract of turnera diffusa in male rats. as part of our systematic studies of pharmacological properties of turnera diffusa, we aimed to analyze whether the increased sexual motivation and the augmented sexual performance of sexually sluggish (sl) male rats treated with turnera diffusa involves the no pathway. turnera diffusa and sildenafil (both at 10 mg/kg) facilitated expression of male sexual behavior by shortening mainly ejaculation latency. findings from the present work support the notion that pro-sexual effect of the aqueous extract of turnera diffusa in rats involves the participation of no pathway, mainly at central level. the anxiolytic-like effect of turnera diffusa is an advantage to its use for improving sexual performance. ',
 'Is the homeopathic remedy Neradin effective for erectile dysfunction? [SEP] a large aquatic herb, nelumbo nucifera gaertn, has psychopharmacological effects similar to minor tranquillizers and antistress agents. in addition, the administration of nre significantly restored the scopolamine-induced reduction of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in dg homogenates. nelumbo nucifera semen (nns) is a traditional herb with anti-diarrheal, anti-ganacratia, and tranquilizer-like pharmacological activities. these results suggest that nns extract improves scopolamine-induced dementia by inhibiting ache activity and inducing chat expression. neferine, a kind of isoquinoline alkaloid, extracted from the seed embryo of nelumbo nucifera gaertn, has long been recognized in traditional medicine as a medicinal plant with various usages. nepeta deflersiana (lamiaceae) is a perennial herb used in the saudi and yemeni folk medicine as an anti-inflammatory, carminative, and antirheumatic agent. nepenthes plants are regarded as a kind of traditional chinese medicine for several diseases but its anticancer activity remain unclear. nasturtium officinale (watercress) is used popularly as an anti-inflammatory. neem plant (azadirachta indica) has been extensively used in ayurvedic system of medicine for female fertility regulation for a long time, but its mechanism of action remains poorly understood. the above findings indicate the antiurolithic activity of adiantum capillus veneris linn, and thus, validate the claims of unani physicians for its medicinal use in urolithiasis. ',
 'Does regular HPV testing in addition to the recommended Pap smear detect more precancerous lesions than just the Pap smear alone? [SEP] pap testing is considered to be the best screening tool for cervical cancer but there is currently great interest in the possible application of human papilloma virus (hpv) testing to supplement pap screening for cervical cancer. incorporation of hpv testing into the present pap screening program has the potential of making screening for cervical cancer more effective, and a necessary prelude to assessing this is by determining the prevalence of the high-risk types. testing for human papillomavirus (hpv) has been shown to increase the sensitivity and negative predictive value for detection of high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin2+), either when used in conjunction with pap cytology testing or alone. testing for high-risk human papillomavirus (hpv) in primary screening for cervical cancer is considered more sensitive, but less specific, in comparison with pap-smear cytology. testing for human papilloma virus (hpv) has been shown to be more sensitive than cervical cytology in detecting both high-grade and low-grade dysplasia. human papillomavirus (hpv) is recommended as the primary test in cervical cancer screening, with co-testing by cytology for hpv-positive women to identify cervical lesions. primary hpv-testing has been shown to provide a superior detection of women at risk of cervical (pre)cancer compared to cytology-based screening. however, as most high-risk hpv infections are harmless, additional triage testing of hpv-positive women is necessary to identify those with cervical (pre)cancer. given the importance of high-risk hpv (hrhpv) infection in the development of cervical cancer, some studies are now suggesting the use of primary hrhpv testing as a possible screening modality. to gain further insight into the role of both pap testing and hrhpv testing, the authors examined prior screening results in a population of chinese patients with invasive cervical carcinoma. ',
 "Can monk's pepper reduce PMS symptoms? PMS is the abbreviation for premenstrual syndrome. This refers to complaints that occur in the days before menstruation. [SEP] premenstrual syndrome (pms) is the title applied to a broad range of physical and psychological symptoms that occur cyclically, usually seven to 14 days prior to the onset of a woman's menstruation, and disappear during menstruation. background: premenstrual syndrome (pms) is a menstrual cycle-related disorder which causes physical and mood changes prior to menstruation and is associated with the functional dysregulation of the brain. premenstrual syndrome (pms) is used to describe physical, cognitive, affective, and behavioral symptoms that occur cyclically during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle and resolve quickly at or within a few days of the onset of menstruation. the diagnosis and pharmacologic management of premenstrual syndrome (pms) are reviewed. pms refers to physical or affective symptoms that appear during the latter half of the menstrual cycle, remit during menses, and affect the woman's relationships or ability to function. premenstrual syndrome (pms), a common disorder in women, refers to physical and/or mood symptoms that appear predictably during the latter half of the menstrual cycle, last until menses begin, and are absent during the early part of the menstrual cycle. the premenstrual syndrome (pms) is a complex of symptoms that usually occurs seven to ten days before menses in large numbers of women. introduction the constellation of the physical and psychological symptoms that appear several days before menstrual period is regarded as the premenstrual syndrome (pms). premenstrual syndrome (pms) is characterized by physical, cognitive, and behavioral symptoms that occur cyclically, from several days to 2 weeks before menses, which resolve either quickly or during the early days of menstruation. pms is probably a group of entities which include various symptoms that occur during the 7 to 10 days before menstruation and disappear a few hours after the onset of menstruation. ",
 'Can olive leaf extract reduce high blood pressure? [SEP] olive leaf extract (ole), prepared from the fresh or dried leaves of olea europaea l., is generating interest as a cardiovascular and metabolic disease risk modifier. olive oil and its derivatives have been described to exert beneficial effects on hypertensive states and cardiovascular disease prevention. we studied the effects of chronic consumption of extra virgin olive oil (evoo), enriched in bioactive compounds from olive fruit and leaves, on blood pressure, endothelial function, oxidative and inflammatory status, and circulating cholesterol levels, in spontaneously hypertensive rats (shr). in conclusion, sustained treatment with evoo, enriched in bioactive compounds from the olive fruit and leaves, may be an effective tool for reducing blood pressure and cholesterol levels alone or in combination with pharmacological anti-hypertensive treatment. the olive (olea europaea) leaf is considered an important traditional herbal medicine utilized against infectious diseases, and for the treatment of diabetes and hypertension. in this review article, we summarize the current knowledge on the role of the olive leaf constituents in the prevention of cardiac dysfunction and highlight future perspectives in their use as cardioprotective agents in therapeutics. evidence from previous studies has shown that extracts from olive leaves rich in olive phenolics are able to positively affect cvd risk factors, such as high blood pressure and dyslipidemia. the aim of this study was to investigate the effect of 8-week olive leaf extract (ole) administration on blood lipid profiles in overweight/obese subjects with mildly elevated cholesterol levels. recently, the effect of olive leaf extract in obesity has been studied. olive tree (olea europeaea) leaves are well known for their effect on metabolism in particular as a traditional anti-diabetic and anti-hypertensive herbal drug. ',
 'Do green-lipped mussel preparations improve the symptoms of osteoarthritis? [SEP] freeze-dried extracts of the new zealand green lipped mussel, perna canaliculus, have been promoted extensively as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis for some years though there have been few published trials of its effectiveness. our study was designed to test the ability of the mussel extract to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis as both a supplement and an alternative to orthodox anti-inflammatory medication. searches for all published controlled trials on the clinical effectiveness of green-lipped mussel, as a nutritional supplement with potential health benefits for arthritis, were carried out from four independent databases. reports of clinical studies, using freeze-dried mussel powder, show mixed outcome measures and are not conclusive, with only two of five randomized controlled trials attesting benefits for rheumatoid and osteoarthritis patients. there is little consistent and compelling evidence, to date, in the therapeutic use of freeze-dried green-lipped mussel powder products for rheumatoid or osteoarthritis treatment, particularly in comparison to other cheaper alternative nutriceutical supplements of proven efficacy. however, further investigations are necessary to determine whether green-lipped mussel supplements, such as seatone, are therapeutic options in the management of arthritis. new zealand green lipped mussel (nzglm), abalone (ab), and shark cartilage (sc) are extensively used for treatment of and/or as preventatives for arthritis, despite a relative paucity of scientific evidence for efficacy. the therapeutic benefits of greenshell™ mussel (gsm; perna canaliculus) preparations have been studied using in vitro test systems, animal models, and human clinical trials focusing mainly on anti-inflammatory and anti-arthritic effects. studies have suggested a lipid extract from hard-shelled mussel (mytilus coruscus) (hmle) possessed strong anti-inflammatory activity in arthritis model of rats. lyprinol (pharmalink international), the stabilised lipid extract of the new zealand green-lipped mussel, is currently used to relieve symptoms of arthritis. ',
 "Can probiotics lower blood sugar in type 2 diabetes? [SEP] type 2 diabetes has been associated with dysbiosis and one of the possible routes to restore a healthy gut microbiota is by the regular ingestion of probiotics. background: although many studies have shown that consumption of probiotics is relevant to diabetes, the effects of probiotics improves clinical outcomes in type 2 diabetes have yielded conflicting results. this study investigated the effect of multi-strain microbial cell preparation-also refers to multi-strain probiotics-on glycemic control and other diabetes-related outcomes in people with type 2 diabetes. probiotics modestly improved hba1c and fasting insulin in people with type 2 diabetes. following the recent observation that the gut microbiota is altered in diabetic patients, researchers investigated the effect of probiotics in patients with diabetes. the aim of this systematic review was to assess the effects of probiotic consumption on glycemic control in diabetic patients. pooling data from eligible clinical trials revealed that probiotic supplementation significantly (p\u2009<\u20090.05) decreased fasting blood glucose and hemoglobin a1c in diabetic patients, although the participants' characteristics (eg, body mass index) and the number and type of probiotic microorganisms affected the clinical response. administration of probiotics appears to have a beneficial role in the management of type 2 diabetes; however, more clinical studies with adequate sample sizes and sound methodology are required to inform the development of evidence-based treatment guidelines. in this study, we aim to explore the efficacy and safety of probiotics intervention in preventing type 2 diabetes in chinese patients with impaired glucose tolerance. probiotics have been proposed as an option for the prevention of type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm). ",
 'Can the so-called Tupler technique help against rectus diastasis? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to determine whether surgical correction of tr results in improved rv geometry and function. that makes the case for a prophylactic tricuspid annuloplasty even in the absence of significant tricuspid regurgitation. interventional treatments of tricuspid regurgitation have been emerging as minimally invasive alternatives. it is occasionally desirable for patients with a tracheostomy tube to breathe through their native airway. we hypothesized that capped tracheostomy tubes with cuffs deflated would create substantial additional resistance to airflow without fenestration but would provide minimal resistance to airflow when the tube had a fenestration. our findings confirm the benefits from mild residual rvoto support a policy of conservative rvoto relief at repair. the purpose of the present review was to investigate, even in the light of such problems, the usefulness of pulsed tissue doppler (td) during the assessment of rv transverse and longitudinal function on the basis of the regional velocities and time intervals. on the grounds of these studies, the clinical use of pulsed td merits consideration. longitudinal follow-up of td rv patterns will be useful to evaluate the progression from early rv wall dysfunction until the development of global rv failure and the possible beneficial effect of cardiac drugs on rv function as determined by td evaluation. this retrospective, observational study examines two techniques: blue rhino and percutwist. ',
 'Can CBD (cannabidiol) help with migraines or other headaches? [SEP] cannabidiol (cbd), the major non-psychoactive constituent of cannabis sativa l., has gained traction as a potential treatment for intractable chronic pain in many conditions. clinical evidence suggests that cbd provides therapeutic benefit in certain forms of epilepsy and imparts analgesia in certain conditions, and improves quality of life. however, use of cbd does not always resolve pain. in this mini-review, we present balanced and unbiased pre-clinical and clinical findings for the beneficial effects of cbd treatment on chronic pain and its deleterious effects on prenatal development. beneficial effects of cannabidiol (cbd) have been described for a wide range of psychiatric disorders, including anxiety, psychosis, and depression. a growing number of studies suggest therapeutic applications of cannabidiol (cbd), a recently u.s. food and drug administration (fda)-approved medication for epilepsy, in treatment of many other neuropsychological disorders. cannabidiol (cbd) exhibits significant efficacy in mental and inflammatory diseases. cannabidiol (cbd) is a natural compound with psychoactive therapeutic properties well described. cannabidiol (cbd) is a component of cannabis sativa that has a broad spectrum of potential therapeutic effects in neuropsychiatric and other disorders. cannabidiol (cbd), the main non-psychotomimetic component of the plant cannabis sativa, exerts therapeutically promising effects on human mental health such as inhibition of psychosis, anxiety and depression. ',
 'Can laser irradiation of blood by infusion needle (hemolaser treatment) relieve discomfort or help with diseases? [SEP] endovascular laser therapy for varicose veins as described in an experimental study is a method that could be used in the treatment of hemorrhoids, but there are few clinical trials described in the literature. the purpose of this study was to investigate the in vitro effects of he-ne laser irradiation on some rheological factors of human blood, such as blood viscosity, erythrocyte deformability, and sedimentation rate. the intravascular irradiation of low power laser has been applied in pre-clinical and clinical to treat various pathological processes. the blood viscosity, erythrocyte deformability, and sedimentation rate were measured after laser irradiation and compared with un-irradiated control. the positive effects of laser irradiation on improving the rheological properties of blood were demonstrated in vitro. low-power, near-infra-red laser irradiation has been used to relieve patients from various kinds of pain, though the precise mechanisms of such biological actions of the laser have not yet been resolved. various clinical studies indicate that laser therapy is a valuable method for pain treatment and the acceleration of wound healing. therefore, the use of this kind of laser treatment might improve the outcome of other therapeutic modalities such as tumour ionizing radiation therapy and local chemotherapy. laser is an effective, simple and harmless clinical procedure used for the treatment of hemorrhoids, as an alternative to medical therapy or surgery. the results lead us to conclude that the laser treatment of hemorrhoids is effective in pain alleviation from the first session and that patients so treated have a much more comfortable postoperative course. ',
 'In everyday life, when breathing with an FFP2 mask or ordinary mouth-nose protection, do you get as much oxygen as without a mask? [SEP] effective oxygenation during acute respiratory insufficiency depends on the inspiratory oxygen fraction (fio(2)) and the oxygen face mask used. at a low oxygen flow up to 1 l/min, the hi-ox80 mask was not superior to the basic mask (fio(2) at 1 l/min 24% +/- 3% vs. 27% +/- 5% and partial pressure of arterial oxygen [pao(2)] 164 +/- 68 vs. 193 +/- 53 mmhg; ns). using a flow of 2 l/min or more, a significant difference for the fio(2) and pao(2) in both masks was found (p <or= .05). using the hi-ox80 face mask in a rescue helicopter with standard oxygen flows, it demonstrated 3.24 times longer oxygen availability because of a reduced required oxygen flow and therefore a potential calculated weight reduction. efficiency of the new mask is greater; hence, similar flow adjustment produces a significantly higher fio(2). we aim to measure the efficacy of supplemental nasal cannula oxygen delivery to conventional bag-valve-mask and nonrebreather face mask preoxygenation both with and without a simulated face mask leak. in nonrebreather face mask scenarios with a mask leak, eto2 was higher for nonrebreather face mask+nasal cannula than nonrebreather face mask (mean 65% versus 48%; difference 17%; 95% ci 13% to 20%). we seek to compare the nonrebreather mask with flush rate oxygen to a bag-valve mask with flush rate oxygen (with and without inspiratory assistance) and determine whether the efficacy of bag-valve mask with flush rate oxygen is compromised by a simulated mask leak. feo2 was higher for the nonrebreather mask compared with the bag-valve mask with a simulated mask leak (difference 51%; 95% ci 46% to 55%). feo2 for the nonrebreather mask was noninferior to the bag-valve mask with assistance at flush rate (difference 6%; 95% ci 3% to 10%). ',
 'Can CBD help with period pain? [SEP] cognitive-behavioral therapy (cbt) is effective in patients with chronic pain. we investigated the effect of cbt on empathy in patients with chronic pain. cbt improved empathy in patients with chronic pain independent of its effect on pain, suggesting that cbt is useful for improving interpersonal relationships in patients with chronic pain. this pilot study compared the effect of a 13-weeks cognitive behavioural therapy program with integrated mindfulness meditation (cbtm) in patients with chronic non-malignant pain with a control condition. it was hypothesised that the cbtm program would reduce pain intensity and psychological distress compared to the control condition and that level of mindfulness and acceptance both would be associated with the reduction in pain intensity and psychological distress. cognitive-behavioral therapy (cbt) has been shown to be an effective treatment for chronic pain. we describe components of a tailored cbt treatment for chronic pain in the context of ongoing research and illustrate the process of tailoring cbt with a case study. cb interventions have been shown to reduce pain and improve psychosocial functioning in patients who have chronic illnesses, particularly chronically painful rheumatologic syndromes. cognitive behavioural therapy (cbt) has been useful in the treatment of chronic pain conditions for many years. cognitive behavioural therapy (cbt) has been shown to be effective in assisting people to cope with chronic pain. ',
 'Can a bioresonance device like "Bioscan" or "Vieva Vital Analyser" measure mineral and vitamin deficiencies or detect health problems? [SEP] in recent years, new biochemical and histological methodologies have been developed for assessing vitamin a nutritional status in humans at subclinical levels of nutriture. alternatively, a biomarker may give clues regarding the underlying pathology of the condition and be a useful research or specialist tool. deficiencies in vitamins and minerals (micronutrients) are a critical global health concern, in part due to logistical difficulties in assessing population micronutrient status. this work provides proof of principle for the development of low-cost, minimal-equipment, field-deployable biosensors for nutritional epidemiology applications. biomarkers have been used in health and disease for diagnostic purposes, as tools to assess effectiveness of nutritional or drug intervention, or as risk markers to predict the development of certain diseases. in nutrition studies, selecting appropriate biomarkers is important to assess compliance, or incidence of a particular dietary component in the biochemistry of the organism, and in the diagnosis and prognosis of nutrition-related diseases. unfortunately for many diseases, low abundance of biomarkers in human samples and low sample volumes render standard benchtop platforms like 96-well plates ineffective for reliable detection and screening. even more importantly, detection of the biomarker should provide clinical benefits to the patient (i.e., improved survival and/or quality of life). in health and disease, biomarkers have been used not only for clinical diagnosis purposes but also as tools to assess effectiveness of a nutrition or drug intervention. when considering nutrition studies, evaluating the appropriate biomarker is a useful tool to assess compliance and incidence of a particular dietary component in the biochemistry of the organism. ',
 'Does arthroscopy (joint endoscopy) help with osteoarthritis of the knee joint? [SEP] despite the lack of consensus guidelines and randomized control trials, the use of arthroscopy for the treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee has increased over the last decade. we found limited evidence-based research to support the use of arthroscopy as a treatment method for osteoarthritis of the knee. many patients report symptomatic relief after undergoing arthroscopy of the knee for osteoarthritis, but it is unclear how the procedure achieves this result. we conducted a randomized, placebo-controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy of arthroscopy for osteoarthritis of the knee. at present arthroscopy can serve to aid differential diagnostic efforts in five clinical situations involving knee oa: painful swollen knee with normal radiographs and noninflammatory fluid, clinical and radiographic oa with pain out of proportion to radiographic findings and refractory to conventional medical therapy, chronic stable (radiographic) oa with profound worsening of symptoms, oa with predominate "mechanical" symptoms, and oa with unexpected synovial fluid characteristics. patients with knee pain as a result of osteoarthritis or degenerative meniscal injury may seek treatment through arthroscopic surgery. arthroscopic management of degenerative arthritis is an attractive alternative to osteotomy or total knee arthroplasty if predictable improvement and durable results can be achieved. the place of knee arthroscopy as a therapeutic option for osteoarthritis (oa) has been the subject of some debate. these pilot data suggest that in knee oa, needle arthroscopy can 1) accurately detect meniscal abnormalities, 2) detect cartilage abnormalities, but may underestimate the severity, and 3) detect most synovial abnormalities, but often underestimates the severity. needle arthroscopy is a potentially valuable rheumatologic tool for the assessment of oa of the knee. ',
 'Do dietary supplements containing silicon (e.g. as "organic silicon" or silica) have health benefits? [SEP] silicon in nutritional amounts provides benefits for bone health and cognitive function. these results may help establish dietary silicon recommendations and formulate practical advice on dietary choices to ensure an appropriate supply of silicon. biological incorporation of silicon (si) into sp increases its bioavailability for potential food supplement applications. bioavailable silicon (si) may be an essential nutrient for higher animals, including humans. for example, silicon has been suggested to exhibit roles in the structural integrity of nails, hair, and skin, overall collagen synthesis, bone mineralization, and bone health and reduced metal accumulation in alzheimer\'s disease, immune system health, and reduction of the risk for atherosclerosis. it has been proposed that relatively insoluble forms of silica can also release small but meaningful quantities of silicon into biological compartments. collectively, the food supply contributes enough silicon in the forms aforementioned that could be absorbed and significantly improve overall human health despite the negative perception of silica as a health hazard. the results of a number of studies suggest that dietary silicon supplementation might have a protective effect both for limiting aluminium absorption across the gut and for the removal of systemic aluminium via the urine, hence, preventing potential accumulation of aluminium in the brain. silicon is an essential element for healthy bone development and supplementation with its bioavailable form (silicic acid) leads to enhancement of osteogenesis both in vivo and in vitro. previous studies have reported that dietary silicon (si) intake is positively associated with bone health including bone mineral density. ',
 'Can regular intake of cranberry juice or cranberry extract prevent recurrent cystitis in women? [SEP] food supplements based on cranberries are said to prevent recurrent urinary tract infections. (2) two randomised controlled trials involving a total of about 300 young women showed that daily use of cranberry juice or tablets reduced the relapse rate for acute cystitis: on average, treating 100 women for one year prevented at least 1 urinary tract infection in 15 to 33 women. drinking of cranberry fruit juice and application of commercial preparations containing the cranberry extracts are recommended in the prevention and treatment of urinary tract infections (utis), especially in women with recurrent utis. the antibacterial activities of the studied cranberry extract confirm that it could be successfully used in prevention of utis caused by e. faecalis. the results show that cranberry fruit powder (peel, seeds, pulp) may reduce the risk of symptomatic uti in women with a history of recurrent utis. cranberry products, especially cranberry juice, have been posited to prevent or treat urinary tract infections (utis) in females. this review of the literature evaluated research in which cranberry-based products are used to prevent or treat utis. women have a 50% risk of uti over their lifetime, and ∼20-30% experience a subsequent uti recurrence.objective: we conducted this meta-analysis to assess the effect of cranberry on the risk of uti recurrence in otherwise healthy women.methods: literature published before january 2011 was obtained from 2 published systematic reviews, and we conducted updated searches in embase and medline (through july 2017). overall, the studies were relatively small, with only 2 having >300 participants.conclusion: these results suggest that cranberry may be effective in preventing uti recurrence in generally healthy women; however, larger high-quality studies are needed to confirm these findings. a first head-to-head trial in older females has been published comparing effectiveness of a low-dose antibiotic versus cranberry in which investigators suggest that cranberry products may have a role in older females with recurrent uti. ',
 'Will women who have recurrent bladder infections get rid of them faster if they take cranberry products only after the disease is already there??? [SEP] food supplements based on cranberries are said to prevent recurrent urinary tract infections. (2) two randomised controlled trials involving a total of about 300 young women showed that daily use of cranberry juice or tablets reduced the relapse rate for acute cystitis: on average, treating 100 women for one year prevented at least 1 urinary tract infection in 15 to 33 women. cranberry products, especially cranberry juice, have been posited to prevent or treat urinary tract infections (utis) in females. this review of the literature evaluated research in which cranberry-based products are used to prevent or treat utis. although antibiotics are the treatment of choice for uti, cranberry derived products have been used for many years to prevent utis, with limited evidence as to their efficacy. the antibacterial activities of the studied cranberry extract confirm that it could be successfully used in prevention of utis caused by e. faecalis. to compare the time to urinary tract infection (uti) and the rates of asymptomatic bacteriuria and urinary p-fimbriated escherichia coli during a 6-month period in women ingesting cranberry vs placebo juice daily. cranberry juice did not significantly reduce uti risk compared with placebo. the increasing prevalence of uropathogens resistant to antimicrobial agents has stimulated interest in cranberries to prevent recurrent urinary tract infections (utis). the present study was aimed at determining the prophylactic efficacy of american cranberry (ac) extract (cysticlean®) in women with recurrent symptomatic postcoital urinary tract infections (pcuti), non-consumer of ac extract in the past 3\xa0months before inclusion, and to determine changes in their quality of life (qol). ',
 "Can extract from St. John's wort relieve the symptoms of depression? Is it similarly effective as drugs against depression (antidepressants)? [SEP] st. john's wort is widely used as an herbal remedy for depression. overall, these findings indicate that the mode of action of st. john's wort is different from that of conventional antidepressant drugs, which elevate brain serotonin and evoke negative feedback control of serotonergic neurons. a number of clinical studies conducted over the past few years have indicated that whole extract of st john's wort (hypericum perforatum l.) has antidepressant effects. the herbal antidepressant st john's wort offers promising results in the treatment of patients with mild and moderate depression (response rate of 60-70% estimated by analysis of pooled data). preparations from st. john's wort extracts are used in the treatment of depression in many countries and represent an accepted alternative to synthetic antidepressants or behavioural therapy. over the past year a number of good clinical studies have been carried out which confirm the efficacy and tolerability of st. john's wort extracts in mild depressive disorders, even if the therapeutic efficacy has recently been questioned by an american study. in summary, pharmacological activity and therapeutic efficacy of st. john's wort extract as an antidepressant are supported by a large number of scientific publications. st. john's wort (hypericum perforatum l.) is widely used for the treatment of mild to moderately severe depression. published meta-analyses show that st john's wort extracts are more effective than placebo in patients with mild and moderate depression. (2) trials show that st john's wort is about as effective as tricyclic and serotonin reuptake inhibitor antidepressants. ",
 'Does the Zisano bracelet strengthen the immune system, increase endurance and performance or reduce fatigue? [SEP] zinc is essential for the functions of the immune system, and sodium diethyldithiocarbamate (imuthiol) restores and regulates the numbers and activities of cells of the t-cell lineage. zinc is known to be greatly involved in the regulation of immune functions. pharmacological zinc supplementation, leading to serum zinc concentrations of more than 0.025 mm, has often been suggested to improve immune responses. zinc is an essential mineral of which its functions have potential implications on exercise performance and beneficial adaptations of physical activity. the present review aims to determine the effects of exercise training on markers of zinc status in an apparently healthy adult population. zinc supports, it even enhances, humoral and cell-mediated immunity by facilitating proliferative reactions to stimulus by different mitogens. zinc is an essential trace element that has been implicated in numerous biological functions, including immunity, energy metabolism and antioxidative processes. zinc is essential for immunologic function; therefore, it has been postulated that elevated serum levels of zinc might lead to improved immune responses. these efforts either aimed at supporting immunity by zinc administration or at correcting a loss of zinc secondary to the disease to restore the zinc-dependent functions of the immune system. the results showed that the wrist-worn analgesic bracelet is significantly effective in alleviating pain in various parts of the human body. ',
 'Does microimmunotherapy improve symptoms of allergies, cancer, joint inflammation, autoimmune diseases, dementia or various viral infections? [SEP] if successful, topical immunotherapy may represent an important improvement in the therapy of inflammatory dermatoses, viral infections, and cancers of the skin and genital mucosa. the locally generated immune milieu leads to a th1-dominance and cell-mediated immunity that have been clinically used to treat viral infections such as human papillomavirus, herpes simplex virus, and mollusca. immunotherapy has the potential to modify or re-balance the immune system and hence useful in the management of autoimmune conditions. this article aims to review clinically useful immunotherapies available for treatment of autoimmune conditions, with particular emphasis on type i diabetes mellitus, multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus. the use of anti-cytokine therapy (anti-tnf alpha and il-1ra) in rheumatoid arthritis has improved the quality of life of patients with refractory disease. better understanding of autoimmune conditions and advances in the production of humanized monoclonal antibodies, promises better immunotherapy in the near future. these results suggest that the improvement of nasal epithelial cells and reduction of mast cell accumulation in nasal mucosa may be one of the mechanisms that could explain the improvement of nasal allergy symptoms following immunotherapy. this review highlights current knowledge of immunomodulatory therapies for the manipulation of immune tolerance and highlights recent approaches to improve allergen-specific immunotherapy for the treatment of allergic diseases. previous in vivo studies have shown that mesenchymal stem cell (msc) transplantation significantly improves the condition of a number of autoimmune diseases including autoimmune cerebrospinal meningitis, multiple sclerosis, glomerulonephritis and systemic lupus erythematosus. therapies directed against specific effector molecules, such as immunoglobulin e and prostaglandin d2, hold promise in immune modulation of allergic disease, as do targeting the il-4/il-13 receptor and augmenting th1/th2 balance with toll-like receptor agonists. ',
 "Can ginkgo extract improve mental performance in dementia patients? [SEP] gingko biloba has cognitive benefits both in populations suffering from dementia and after acute treatment in healthy volunteers, with some evidence indicating that those with poorer cognitive performance show greater benefit. we have previously found that 1 week of treatment with ginkgo improved attention, memory and mental flexibility in post-menopausal women, but the evidence for any beneficial effects of longer treatment is less well-established. extracts from the leaves of ginkgo biloba have been suggested to be useful in the treatment of various symptoms of impaired brain functions in advanced age. ginkgo biloba is reported to enhance cognitive function in patients with selected neural disorders. clinical trials report that ginkgo biloba extracts (e.g., egb761) reduce cognitive symptoms in age-associated memory impairment and dementia, including alzheimer disease (ad). the herbal product ginkgo biloba is taken frequently with the intention of improving cognitive health in aging. ginkgo leaf is the most used form of supplement for cognitive ailments. based on compelling experimental and clinical evidence, ginkgo biloba l. exerts a beneficial effect in ameliorating mild to moderate dementia in patients with alzheimer&rsquo;s disease (ad) and other neurological disorders, although the pharmacological mechanisms remain unknown. although previous studies have demonstrated that ginkgo biloba extract has modest effects in the improvement of memory and cognitive function of the alzheimer's disease patients, the mechanism(s) underlying its beneficial effects remain(s) unclear. previous studies of ginkgo biloba extract (gbe) in patients with various forms of cognitive impairment or dementia have shown promising results. ",
 'Does pine wood improve sleep? [SEP] scots pine (pinus sylvestris l.) wood is desired in woodworking industries due to its favorable timber characteristics and natural durability that is contributed by heartwood extractives. the wood of the cembran pine (pinus cembra l.), also known as swiss pine, arolla pine or stone pine, has a prominent and long-lasting odor which has been reported to relieve stress in humans. several compounds including germacrene d, thymol, carvacrol, rotundone, β-caryophyllene, α-humulene, cinnamaldehyde, and ethyl cinnamate are reported here for the first time as odorous constituents of pinewood. trees of scots pine (pinus sylvestris l.) are known for their effective phytoextraction capabilities. scots pine (pinus sylvestris) is a very common tree in polish forests, and therefore was widely used as timber. correlation coefficients in the calibration and validation procedure gave promising results for temperature reconstruction from the pine chronology. being one of the most common trees in forests, pinus sylvestris l. is a frequently used raw material for wood products. accordingly, we investigated scots pine wood samples grown in germany for their main odorant composition. lodgepole pine from forest thinnings is a potential feedstock for ethanol production. siberian pine (pinus sibirica), also known as siberian cedar pine and siberian cedar, is an important plant that has been long used as a source of natural compounds and materials (wood, needles, soft resin, turpentine, colophony). ',
 "Do spermidine supplements or a spermidine-rich diet reduce the risk of Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia? Do they help with existing dementia? [SEP] previous research has demonstrated beneficial impact of spermidine intake on memory functions in both animal models and humans, suggesting that spermidine may be a preventive approach to delay age-related cognitive decline and possibly even alzheimer's disease (ad). in this study, we aimed to determine the association between dietary spermidine intake and structural brain measures in older individuals with subjective cognitive decline (scd) and healthy controls (hc). moreover, a substantial mediating effect of dietary spermidine intake on the associations between adherence to medi and structural brain measures was observed. higher dietary spermidine intake was positively associated with several structural brain measures, irrespective of the presence of scd, and substantially mediated the relationship of adherence to medi and structural brain measures. our data suggest that higher spermidine intake might be a promising dietary approach to preserve brain health in older adults, a hypothesis currently tested in an interventional trial. this is the first human study to evaluate the impact of spermidine supplementation on memory performance in older adults at risk for the development of alzheimer's disease. cognitively intact participants with subjective cognitive decline (n\xa0=\xa030, 60-80 years of age) were included in this three-months, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind phase iia pilot trial with a spermidine-rich plant extract supplement. in this pilot trial, nutritional spermidine was associated with a positive impact on memory performance in older adults with subject cognitive decline. in humans, spermidine levels decline with aging, and a possible connection between reduced endogenous spermidine concentrations and age-related deterioration has been suggested. here, we discuss nutritional and other possible routes to counteract the age-mediated decline of spermidine levels. ",
 'Do green-lipped mussel preparations improve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis? [SEP] freeze-dried extracts of the new zealand green lipped mussel, perna canaliculus, have been promoted extensively as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis for some years though there have been few published trials of its effectiveness. our study was designed to test the ability of the mussel extract to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis as both a supplement and an alternative to orthodox anti-inflammatory medication. studies have suggested a lipid extract from hard-shelled mussel (mytilus coruscus) (hmle) possessed strong anti-inflammatory activity in arthritis model of rats. this study investigated whether hmle could improve clinical conditions of rheumatoid arthritis patients. lyprinol (pharmalink international), the stabilised lipid extract of the new zealand green-lipped mussel, is currently used to relieve symptoms of arthritis. searches for all published controlled trials on the clinical effectiveness of green-lipped mussel, as a nutritional supplement with potential health benefits for arthritis, were carried out from four independent databases. reports of clinical studies, using freeze-dried mussel powder, show mixed outcome measures and are not conclusive, with only two of five randomized controlled trials attesting benefits for rheumatoid and osteoarthritis patients. there is little consistent and compelling evidence, to date, in the therapeutic use of freeze-dried green-lipped mussel powder products for rheumatoid or osteoarthritis treatment, particularly in comparison to other cheaper alternative nutriceutical supplements of proven efficacy. however, further investigations are necessary to determine whether green-lipped mussel supplements, such as seatone, are therapeutic options in the management of arthritis. the therapeutic benefits of greenshell™ mussel (gsm; perna canaliculus) preparations have been studied using in vitro test systems, animal models, and human clinical trials focusing mainly on anti-inflammatory and anti-arthritic effects. ',
 'Does covid vaccination reduce the likelihood of getting long-lasting symptoms (long covid) in case of corona infection? [SEP] the incidence and clinical impact of coronavirus (cov) infection in elderly persons and those with underlying cardiopulmonary disease over a long duration is not well described. coronaviruses (cov) are viruses widely known to cause severe respiratory distress due to the prominent clinical symptoms presented. high-dose vaccine augments immune response in cardiac patients, suggesting that a high-dose influenza vaccination strategy may further reduce morbidity and mortality. the primary hypothesis is that high-dose influenza vaccine will reduce the composite outcome of all-cause mortality and hospitalization from a cardiovascular or pulmonary cause compared with standard-dose influenza vaccine within each enrolling season. public health risks associated to infection by human coronaviruses remain considerable and vaccination is a key option for preventing the resurgence of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (sars-cov). although the severe acute respiratory syndrome-associated coronavirus (sars-cov) epidemic was controlled by nonvaccine measures, coronaviruses remain a major threat to human health. such vaccines present major challenges: coronavirus immunity often wanes rapidly, individuals needing to be protected include the elderly, and vaccines may exacerbate rather than prevent coronavirus lung immunopathology. coronaviruses such as sars-cov and middle east respiratory syndrome-associated coronavirus (mers-cov) cause high case fatality rates and remain major human public health threats, creating a need for effective vaccines. while coronavirus antigens that induce protective neutralizing antibodies have been identified, coronavirus vaccines present a unique problem in that immunized individuals when infected by virus can develop lung eosinophilic pathology, a problem that is further exacerbated by the formulation of sars-cov vaccines with alum adjuvants. effective vaccines should confer long-term protection against future outbreaks of severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars) caused by a novel zoonotic coronavirus (sars-cov) with unknown animal reservoirs. ',
 'Can the preventive intake of lysine prevent cold sores (lip herpes) and genital herpes? Can lysine help when the blisters are already there? [SEP] l-lysine, an essential amino acid, inhibits normal replication of herpes simplex virus (hsv), shortening the normal course and duration of the disease. this study was conducted to determine the effectiveness of a combination of l-lysine with botanicals and other nutrients in relieving the symptoms of facial and circumoral herpes. the amino acid lysine is an agent that has been proposed for treating the clinical symptoms of recurrent herpes simplex labialis. these results suggest that prophylactic lysine may be useful in managing selected cases of recurrent herpes simplex labialis if serum lysine levels can be maintained at adequate concentrations. lysine appears to suppress the clinical manifestations of herpesvirus infection. the clinical results demonstrated a beneficial effect from supplementary lysine in accelerating recovery from herpes simplex infection and suppressing recurrence. l-lysine supplementation appears to be ineffective for prophylaxis or treatment of herpes simplex lesions with doses of less than 1 g/d without low-arginine diets. l-lysine has an inhibitory effect on the multiplication of herpes simplex virus in cell cultures. we have evaluated the prophylactic effect of l-lysine monohydrochloride 1000 mg daily on recurrent herpes simplex labialis in 65 patients in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study. on the whole, lysine prophylaxis had no effect on the recurrence rate of herpes simplex. ',
 'Do hormonal contraceptives to swallow (the "pill") affect endurance performance in women? [SEP] these results indicate that oral contraceptive use attenuates soreness following an exhaustive stepping activity but cannot support a relationship between estrogen ingestion and other indices of exercise-induced muscle damage. twelve exercising women were randomly allocated to groups of either oral contraceptive users or non-oral contraceptive users. low-dose oral contraceptive usage is associated with a decrease in functional aerobic capacity, but it does not impinge on the hemostatic mechanism or lipid-lipoprotein metabolism. to determine the effects of the oral contraceptive pill (ocp) on skeletal health, soft tissue injury, and performance in female athletes. oral contraceptives are commonly used by women athletes. to examine the effects of a moderate dose, triphasic oral contraceptive on measures of athletic performance in highly trained women athletes. the decrease in vo(2)max that occurs when oral contraceptive is taken may influence elite sporting performance in some women. because of their hormonal content, oral contraceptives may alter lipolytic activity under resting or exercise conditions in women. overall, oral contraceptives increased lipid mobilization in the postprandial state, but this effect was blunted when lipolytic activity was stimulated by exercise per se. these data suggest that oral contraceptive use does not significantly affect muscle strength. ',
 "Does the pill affect the muscle strength of women?? [SEP] to examine the effects of oral contraceptive use on maximum force production in young women. there were no significant changes in the concentration of endogenous oestradiol or progesterone or any measure of muscle strength between pill phases (p<0.05). these data suggest that oral contraceptive use does not significantly affect muscle strength. the present study examined the effects of regularly ingesting estrogen, in the form of oral contraceptives, on postexercise muscle damage following a bench-stepping regimen. these results indicate that oral contraceptive use attenuates soreness following an exhaustive stepping activity but cannot support a relationship between estrogen ingestion and other indices of exercise-induced muscle damage. between two sessions, initiation of pill use significantly decreased women's preferences for male facial masculinity but did not influence preferences for same-sex faces. hormonal variations during the menstrual cycle (mc) may influence trainability of strength. this study was conducted to examine androgenicity of the progestin in oral contraceptive pills and its effect on maximal leg strength in females. in this small study, the androgenicity of the progestin in the contraceptive pill had no significant association with maximal strength in these female athletes. therefore, the purpose of this study was to determine whether estrogen use is associated with enhanced muscle composition and, if so, whether this translates into improved strength and physical function. ",
 "Does whole-body cryotherapy in the cold chamber improve health? [SEP] whole body cryotherapy, a relatively new form of cold therapy, consists of short whole-body exposure to extremely cold air (-110°c to -140°c). whole-body cryotherapy (wbc) is one mode of cold therapy, during which rheumatic patients are exposed to very cold air (-110 degrees c) in minimal clothing. in whole body cryotherapy the whole human body is exposed to low temperature below -100 degrees c in a special room called cryogenic chamber for a very short period of time (2-3 minutes). cryotherapy is used in the early treatment of acute injuries (sprains, strains, fractures) yet only a few papers discuss the possible influence of whole-body cryostimulation on inflammation mechanisms or immunology. the aim of this study was to examine the effect of different sequences of whole-body cryostimulations on the level of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines in healthy individuals. this review focuses primarily on two methods of cold therapy that have received recent attention: whole-body cryotherapy and partial-body cryotherapy. the aim of this review is to compare whole- and partial-body cryotherapy effects (especially on skin temperature) and to classify the protocols for exposure according to the desired effects. cryotherapy is commonly used as a procedure to relieve pain symptoms, particularly in inflammatory diseases, injuries and overuse symptoms. the therapy consists in the exposure to very cold air in special cryochambers. whole-body cryotherapy (wbc) is an increasing applied cryotherapeutic method, that involves application of a cryotherapeutic factor to stimulate the body by the means of intense hypothermia of virtually the body's entire area. ",
 "Does transcranial pulse stimulation (TPS) improve mental performance in people with Alzheimer's dementia? Can the treatment improve the quality of life of those affected? [SEP] several studies have reported that transcranial direct current stimulation (tdcs), a non-invasive method of neuromodulation, enhances some aspects of working memory in healthy and parkinson disease subjects. recent studies have attested that noninvasive repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rtms) may help improve cognitive function in patients with ad. transcranial magnetic stimulation (tms) can be used to probe cortical function and treat neuropsychiatric illnesses. transcranial direct current stimulation (tdcs) is a potential tool for alleviating various forms of cognitive decline, including memory loss, in older adults. in previous studies, transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (tens) was shown to have a positive effect on memory in alzheimer's disease (ad) patients. assess the effects of high-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rtms), applied over the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlpfc), on bpsd and cognitive function in persons with ad. transcranial direct current stimulation (tdcs) has been put forward as a non-pharmacological alternative for alleviating cognitive decline in old age. in previous studies beneficial effects of peripheral electrical or tactile nerve stimulation were observed on memory and affective behaviour in patients with probable alzheimer's disease. background: transcranial direct-current stimulation (tdcs) facilitates cognitive improvement in healthy and pathological populations. our research question is: can tdcs serve as a clinical intervention for improving the cognitive functions of persons with mci (pwmci) and dementia (pwd)? ",
 'Can low-level laser therapy reduce pain from knee or hip osteoarthritis? [SEP] low-level laser therapy (lllt) is thought to have an analgesic effect as well as a biomodulatory effect on microcirculation. although some studies show that low level laser therapy (lllt) has the ability to modulate inflammatory processes and relieve acute pain condition, the laser therapy dose protocol has not been yet completely established. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of low-level laser on patients with lbp. low-level laser therapy (lllt) treatment for pain caused by temporomandibular joint disorders (tmd) was investigated in a controlled study comparing applied energy density, subgroups of tmd, and duration of disorders. introduction: low-level laser therapy (lllt) was introduced as an alternative non-invasive treatment for osteoarthritis, but its effectiveness is still controversial. high-intensity laser therapy (hilt) has recently been used to control pain and symptom improvement in knee osteoarthritis. recently, low-intensity laser irradiation of corresponding acupoints was demonstrated to alleviate pain. objective: the aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of 10.6\u2009μm laser moxibustion on a monosodium iodoacetate (mia)-induced knee osteoarthritis pain model. conclusions: 10.6\u2009μm laser moxibustion may have long-lasting analgesic, anti-inflammatory, and chondroprotection effects, suggesting that it may emerge as a potential therapeutic strategy for the chronic pain treatment of osteoarthritis. in recent decades, low-level laser therapy (lllt) has been widely used to relieve pain caused by different musculoskeletal disorders. ',
 'Can low-level laser therapy reduce wrist osteoarthritis pain? [SEP] the objective of this study is to investigate the effect of low-power gallium-arsenide laser treatment on the patients with shoulder pain. low-energy laser therapy has recently been popularized in the treatment of various rheumatologic, neurologic, and musculoskeletal disorders such as osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, fibromyalgia, carpal tunnel syndrome, rotator cuff tendinitis, and chronic back pain syndromes. low level laser therapy (lllt) offers promising symptomatic relief of osteoarthritic (oa) pain. although recent clinical studies have shown that laser therapy acts as an anti-inflammatory effector in the treatment of some diseases, little is known about the mechanism by which it acts in rheumatoid arthritis (ra) patients. low-level laser therapy (lllt) is thought to have an analgesic effect as well as a biomodulatory effect on microcirculation. low level laser therapy (lllt) has been developed for non-invasive treatment of joint diseases. the aim of this study was to assess the effects of laser irradiation on osteoarthritic (oa) synovial protein expression. a single diode laser irradiation of the synovial samples of patients with osteoarthritis can statistically significantly alter the expression of some proteins in vitro. low-level laser therapy (lllt) treatment for pain caused by temporomandibular joint disorders (tmd) was investigated in a controlled study comparing applied energy density, subgroups of tmd, and duration of disorders. low-power laser therapy has been used for the non-surgical treatment of mild to moderate carpal tunnel syndrome, although its efficacy has been a long-standing controversy. ',
 'Does blood type affect the likelihood that Covid 19 disease will take a severe course or lead to death? [SEP] haematology patients receiving chemo- or immunotherapy are considered to be at greater risk of covid-19-related morbidity and mortality. we aimed to identify risk factors for covid-19 severity and assess outcomes in patients where covid-19 complicated the treatment of their haematological disorder. patients with cardiovascular comorbidities are at high risk of poor outcome from covid-19. our aim was to investigate the association of severe covid-19 illness with vascular risk factor burden. kaplan-meier curves showed a gradual increase in the risk of severe covid-19 illness (log-rank p\u2009<\u20090.001) stratified by the number of vascular risk factors. covid-19, a disease initially thought to be prominently an interstitial pneumonia with varying degrees of severity, can be considered a vascular disease with regards to serious complications and causes of mortality. understanding how hla polymorphisms may affect both susceptibility, course and severity of covid-19 infection could help both at the clinical level to identify individuals at higher risk from the disease and at the epidemiological one to explain the differences in the epidemic trend among countries or even within a specific country. although some patients with covid-19 develop only mild symptoms, fatal complications have been observed among those with comorbidities. covid-19 is a systemic infection with a significant impact on coagulation which manifests in thromboembolism. critically ill patients diagnosed with covid-19 may develop a pro-thrombotic state that places them at a dramatically increased lethal risk. ',
 'Do mouth rinses with hydroxyapatite, for example the products "Linola sept mouth rinse" and "Karex Abwehr", protect against SARS-CoV-2 infection? [SEP] toothpastes containing hydroxyapatite (ha-toothpaste) have demonstrated efficacy in preventing caries, treating hypersensitivity and curing periodontal diseases, however, their effects on whitening teeth have not been investigated. sars-cov-2 is detectable in saliva from asymptomatic individuals, suggesting a potential benefit from the use of mouth rinses to suppress viral load and reduce virus spread. here, we determined the effect of commercially available mouth rinses and antiseptic povidone-iodine on the infectivity of sars-cov-2 virus and of a non-pathogenic, recombinant, sars-cov-2 infection vector (pseudotyped sars-cov-2 virus). our results indicate that mouth rinses can significantly reduce virus infectivity, suggesting a potential benefit for reducing sars-cov-2 spread. sars-cov-2 is detectable in saliva from asymptomatic individuals, suggesting the potential necessity for the use of mouth rinses to suppress viral load to reduce virus spread. we found that all mouth rinses tested inactivated sars-cov-2 viruses. our results suggest that assessing anti-viral candidates including mouth rinses with minimal potential disruption of cells may help identify active agents that can reduce sars-cov-2 spread. the aim of this study was to investigate the protective effects of sodium fluoride solutions and commercial mouthrinses on hydroxyapatite (ha) dissolution in citric acid in vitro, with and without a salivary pellicle. some new generations of mouth rinses currently on the market have ingredients that could contribute to lower the sars-cov-2 viral load, and thus facilitate the fight against oral transmission. if chlorhexidine, a usual component of mouth rinse, is not efficient to kill sars-cov-2, the use of a mouth rinses and/or with local nasal applications that contain β-cyclodextrins combined with flavonoids agents, such as citrox, could provide valuable adjunctive treatment to reduce the viral load of saliva and nasopharyngeal microbiota, including potential sars-cov-2 carriage. ',
 'Does CBD (cannabidiol) relieve symptoms of mild to moderate covid-19 disease? [SEP] preliminary evidence suggests that cannabidiol (cbd) may be effective in the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders; however, cbd has never been evaluated for the treatment of cognitive impairments associated with schizophrenia (cias). cannabidiol (cbd) is a natural compound with psychoactive therapeutic properties well described. background: the possibility of cannabidiol (cbd) to be used as an antiviral or to treat viral diseases has received limited attention so far, despite the growing number of claims that cbd could be used for the treatment of viral infection-related conditions. cannabidiol (cbd), the main non-psychotomimetic component of the plant cannabis sativa, exerts therapeutically promising effects on human mental health such as inhibition of psychosis, anxiety and depression. beneficial effects of cannabidiol (cbd) have been described for a wide range of psychiatric disorders, including anxiety, psychosis, and depression. cannabidiol (cbd) is an anti-inflammatory cannabinoid shown to be beneficial in a mouse model of ibd. lacking any central effect, cannabidiol is an attractive option for treating inflammatory diseases. cannabidiol (cbd), a non-psychotomimetic component of cannabis sativa plant, shows therapeutic potential in psychiatric disorders, including depression. with treatment benefits in both the central nervous system and the peripheral system, the medical use of cannabidiol (cbd) has gained increasing popularity. recent evidence suggests that cannabidiol (cbd), a non-intoxicating ingredient present in cannabis extract, has an antipsychotic effect in people with established psychosis. ',
 'Does CBD or cannabis use protect against covid-19 disease??? [SEP] validating the utility of cannabis consumption measures for predicting later cannabis related symptomatology or progression to cannabis use disorder (cud) is crucial for prevention and intervention work that may use consumption measures for quick screening. this study examined whether cannabis use quantity and frequency predicted cud symptom counts, progression to onset of cud, and persistence of cud. higher frequency of cannabis use predicted lower likelihood of being symptom-free but it did not predict the severity of cud symptomatology. higher frequency of cannabis use also predicted higher likelihood of progression to onset of cud and persistence of cud. preliminary evidence suggests that cannabidiol (cbd) may be effective in the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders; however, cbd has never been evaluated for the treatment of cognitive impairments associated with schizophrenia (cias). at the dose studied, cbd augmentation was not associated with an improvement in mccb or panss scores in stable antipsychotic-treated outpatients with schizophrenia. overall, cbd was well tolerated with no worsening of mood, suicidality, or movement side effects. in healthy individuals cannabis is associated with cognitive impairments. cannabis user patients had better attention and executive functions than non-cannabis user patients at baseline and after 1 year of treatment. cannabis use is prevalent but only a minority of regular users develop cannabis use disorder (cud); thus, cud risk identification among current cannabis users is vital for targeted intervention development. ',
 "Do sedatives and sleeping pills such as benzodiazepines and related substances increase the risk of Alzheimer's disease or other forms of dementia? [SEP] knowledge regarding whether benzodiazepines and similarly acting non-benzodiazepines (z-drugs) are associated with an increased risk of pneumonia among older adults is lacking. among 49 484 eligible participants with alzheimer disease, 5232 taking benzodiazepines and 3269 taking z-drugs were matched 1:1 with those not taking these drugs. collectively, use of benzodiazepines and z-drugs was associated with an increased risk of pneumonia (adjusted hazard ratio [hr] 1.22, 95% confidence interval [ci] 1.05-1.42). benzodiazepine use was associated with an increased risk of pneumonia among patients with alzheimer disease. purpose: some studies have suggested that the use of benzodiazepines in the elderly is associated with an increased risk of dementia. to examine the association between benzodiazepine anxiolytic drug use and the risk of dementia, we conducted data mining of a spontaneous reporting database and a large organized database of prescriptions. results: benzodiazepine use was found to be associated with dementia in analyses using the faers database (ror: 1.63, 95% ci: 1.61-1.64; ic: 0.66, 95% ci: 0.65-0.67) and the canada vigilance adverse reaction online database (ror: 1.88, 95% ci: 1.83-1.94; ic: 0.85, 95% ci: 0.80-0.89). conclusion: multi-methodological approaches using different methods, algorithms, and databases suggest that long-term use of benzodiazepines and long-acting benzodiazepines are strongly associated with an increased risk of dementia. benzodiazepines and sedative-hypnotic drugs (bzd/shds), such as zopiclone and the antidepressant trazodone, pose risks such as falls, fractures, and confusion, especially for older adults. changes in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of benzodiazepines (bzds) during ageing may increase their potential to cause adverse outcomes. ",
 "Does taking polyunsaturated fatty acids, such as omega-3 and omega-6, reduce ADHD symptoms in children? [SEP] to determine whether supplementation with the long-chain omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids eicosapentaenoic (epa) and docosahexaenoic acid (dha) affects behavioral symptoms and cognitive impairments in children 6-12 years of age diagnosed with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (adhd). supplementation with the omega-3 fatty acid mix increased epa and dha concentrations in erythrocyte membranes and improved working memory function, but had no effect on other cognitive measures and parent- and teacher-rated behavior in the study population. cognitive effects of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (ω-3 pufas) might make them helpful in attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (adhd). we aimed to investigate the serum fatty acid profile, attention scores and the tolerability in a group of adhd children after receiving methylphenidate (mph) and ω-3 pufas for 1 month. therefore, our study suggests that ω-3 pufas may represent a feasible and a safe adjuvant therapy in children with adhd and might enhance the effects of mph. in children, omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (pufas) may elicit a suite of health benefits including enhancement of cognitive development. low blood omega-3 lc-pufa have been reported in children with adhd and related behavior/learning difficulties, as have benefits from dietary supplementation. to investigate effects of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 pufa) docosahexaenoic acid (dha) and eicosapentaenoic acid (epa) on attention, literacy, and behavior in children with adhd. increasing erythrocyte dha and epa via dietary supplementation may improve behavior, attention, and literacy in children with adhd. findings from epidemiological and observational studies have indicated that diets high in omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (pufas) such as docosahexaenoic acid (dha) and eicosapentaenoic acid (epa) may reduce the risk of cognitive decline and alzheimer's disease (ad). ",
 'Do infusions of vitamin C relieve symptoms of chronic fatigue or long covid? [SEP] vitamins have been shown to reduce chemotherapy-related fatigue (crf) by conserving energy loss both during and after cancer treatment. the severity of colds was also reduced by regular vitamin c administration.seven comparisons examined the effect of therapeutic vitamin c (3249 episodes). the failure of vitamin c supplementation to reduce the incidence of colds in the general population indicates that routine vitamin c supplementation is not justified, yet vitamin c may be useful for people exposed to brief periods of severe physical exercise. nevertheless, given the consistent effect of vitamin c on the duration and severity of colds in the regular supplementation studies, and the low cost and safety, it may be worthwhile for common cold patients to test on an individual basis whether therapeutic vitamin c is beneficial for them. pharmacologic vitamin c has been used as an alternative treatment for the disease itself but its effects on fatigue have not often been documented. vitamin c (50 g/session) was administered twice weekly and quality of life and multidimensional fatigue symptomology questionnaires were undertaken. the group which received vitamin c, showed improvement in vas score at the end of second and sixth week of follow up, reduced analgesia requirements and improved functional outcome as compared to the placebo group. the effect of vitamin c on the common cold has been the subject of several studies. these studies do not support a considerable decrease in the incidence of the common cold with supplemental vitamin c. however, vitamin c has consistently decreased the duration of cold episodes and the severity of symptoms. the combination of a regular daily supplement of vitamin c with extra dosage at the time of illness has been shown to reduce the disability due to common colds and other winter illness, but we have seen little effect on frequency of infections, sense of (well-being), or levels of serum cholesterol. ',
 "Does taking probiotics shorten the duration of acute infectious diarrhea? [SEP] beneficial effects of probiotics in acute infectious diarrhoea in children are mainly seen in watery diarrhoea and viral gastroenteritis. probiotics may offer a safe intervention in acute infectious diarrhoea to reduce the duration and severity of the illness. to assess the effects of probiotics in proven or presumed infectious diarrhoea. probiotics reduced the risk of diarrhoea at 3 days (relative risk 0.66, 95% confidence interval 0.55 to 0.77, random effects model; 15 studies) and the mean duration of diarrhoea by 30.48 hours (95% confidence interval 18.51 to 42.46 hours, random effects model, 12 studies). probiotics appear to be a useful adjunct to rehydration therapy in treating acute, infectious diarrhoea in adults and children. several studies have shown that probiotics are of benefit in gastrointestinal infections, including viral diarrhea, clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea, traveler's diarrhea, and antibiotic-associated diarrhea. some studies indicate that the risk of antibiotic-associated diarrhea can be reduced by administration of certain probiotic microorganisms. probiotics may be of benefit in treating acute infectious diarrhea and reducing antibiotic-associated diarrhea. a clinical trial conducted by our group demonstrated that cdi patients undergoing adjunctive treatment with lactobacillus and bifidobacterium probiotics had a reduction in diarrheal duration and compositional changes in their stool microbiomes. the role of probiotics in the prevention and treatment of antibiotic-associated diarrhea, clostridium difficile diarrhea, and recurrent c. difficile diarrhea is reviewed. ",
 'Does high-dose vitamin D slow down the course of disease in multiple sclerosis (MS)? [SEP] a protective association between higher vitamin d levels and the onset of multiple sclerosis (ms) has been demonstrated; however, its role in modulating ms clinical course has been little studied. low vitamin d status has been associated with multiple sclerosis (ms) prevalence and risk, but the therapeutic potential of vitamin d in established ms has not been explored. high-dose vitamin d (approximately 10,000 iu/day) in multiple sclerosis is safe, with evidence of immunomodulatory effects. this trial provides class ii evidence that high-dose vitamin d use for 52 weeks in patients with multiple sclerosis does not significantly increase serum calcium levels when compared to patients not on high-dose supplementation. vitamin d has been related to the prevention of ms and to modulating its course. recent studies have shown the safety of high-dose vitamin d in ms. the association of vitamin d deficiency with higher prevalence, relapse rate and progression of multiple sclerosis (ms) has stimulated great interest in using vitamin d supplementation as a preventative measure and even a therapy for established ms. observational studies have suggested that vitamin d may reduce inflammation in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (rrms), but this has not been clearly confirmed in randomized controlled trials. vitamin d sufficiency has been associated with lower risk of multiple sclerosis and may also have a favorable effect on the course of the disease. vitamin d deficiency increases the risk of developing multiple sclerosis (ms) but it is unclear whether vitamin d supplementation improves the clinical course of ms, and there is uncertainty about the dose and form of vitamin d (d2 or d3) to be used. ',
 'Does taking taiga root extract strengthen the immune system? Can it make vaccinations more effective or tolerable? [SEP] immune responses to vaccination can be enhanced by inclusion of adjuvant in a vaccine. different use cases demonstrate how different vaccine formulations and routes of vaccine administration affect the protection efficacy, general immune responses, and adverse events following vaccination. the european food safety authority (efsa) has indicated that stimulation of protective antibody titers from vaccination could be used to substantiate a supplement or food health claim on the function of the immune system related to defense against pathogens in healthy individuals. vaccination allows exposure of the immune system to controlled quantities of antigen and also for assessment of median antibody responses and percentage of responders/non-responders, which provides indication of an integrated immune response to challenge. these results indicate that probiotics are a good candidate to stimulate responses to vaccines and thus, according to efsa, enhance the function of the immune system related to defense against infection. many probiotics exert anti-inflammatory influence on the immune system and induce t-regs. vaccination is the administration of antigenic material to stimulate the immune system to develop adaptive immunity to a disease. as the most successful prophylactic in medical history, there is now an emerging interest as to whether vaccination can be applied in autoimmune and inflammatory conditions. these are diseases of failed immune regulation; vaccination in this context aims to exploit the power of antigenic material to stimulate immune homeostasis in the form of active, adaptive, regulatory immune responses. when used appropriately, immunization can effectively prevent many infections and diseases. ',
 "Can ozone therapy, in which autologous blood is treated with ozone and recycled, favorably influence the course of COVID-19 disease? [SEP] except that, the possibility of using ozone to sterilize blood supplies is under promising investigation. ozone major autohemotherapy (the return of a small amount of a patient's blood to the circulation after ex vivo exposure to ozone) has been reported to have a therapeutic effect in various pathological conditions, including ischemic, infectious, autoimmune and neoplastic disorders. the purpose of the present study was to investigate the effect of ozone administration ex vivo, at a concentration commonly used in major autohemotherapy, on peripheral blood neutrophil function in vitro. to evaluate the susceptibilities of human blood constituents to the low levels of ozone used in ozonated autohemotherapy (40 microgo3/ml), we quantified plasma antioxidants and erythrocyte constituents after rapid mixing of human whole blood with ozone at 20, 40, 60, and 100 microg/ml blood. ozone is used intensively worldwide in treatment and research of various pathologies due to its healing effects. the aim of this study is to investigate the effect of major ozone autohemotherapy on erythrocyte deformability and aggregation. 50μg/ml ozone increased red blood cell (rbc) deformability measured at 0.53 pa. our results demonstrate that although 10μg/ml ozone has no effect on hemorheology, 50μg/ml ozone concentration has positive effects on rbc deformability, thus circulation at 0.53 pa corresponding to the shear stress encountered during venous circulation. we are proposing to evaluate whether a complementary approach based on cycles of oxygen-ozone autohemotherapy (o3-aht) already performed in millions of patients, can abate the chronic oxidative stress and improve the quality of life of serious hemoglobinopathic patients. autohaemotherapy, involving bland treatment ex vivo of blood with ozone and prompt reinfusion into the donor, is a procedure mainly performed in central europe, which is claimed to have therapeutic value in circulatory disorders, viral diseases and cancer. ",
 'Does dimenhydrinate relieve travel nausea better than a placebo? [SEP] dimenhydrinate is an inexpensive antihistaminic drug, that is frequently used as an anti-emetic during anaesthesia. thus, dimenhydrinate was compared with placebo in this prospective, randomized, double-blind study. in the dimenhydrinate group, more patients remained completely free from post-operative nausea and vomiting compared with placebo (dimenhydrinate: 38.8%; placebo: 15.1%; p = 0.004). intra-operative dimenhydrinate, followed by three further administrations after surgery, reduces the incidence and the severity of post-operative nausea and vomiting without side effects. however, so far the quantitative effect of dimenhydrinate in the prophylaxis of postoperative nausea and vomiting (ponv) has not been evaluated systematically. dimenhydrinate is a traditional and inexpensive antiemetic with an efficacy that might be considered as clinically relevant. complete protection from nausea during the first 24 hours was achieved in 80% by the metoclopramide cocktail and in 50% by the dixyrazine combination. to evaluate the effectiveness of diclectin (doxylamine succinate 10 mg-pyridoxine hydrochloride 10 mg, delayed-release preparation) as compared with placebo for nausea and vomiting of pregnancy. diclectin use resulted in a significantly larger improvement in symptoms of nausea and vomiting of pregnancy compared with placebo based on both the pregnancy unique quantification of emesis score (-4.8 ± 2.7 vs -3.9 ± 2.6; p = .006) and quality of life. diclectin delayed release formulation of doxylamine succinate and pyridoxine hydrochloride is effective and well tolerated in treating nausea and vomiting of pregnancy. ',
 'Does dimenhydrinate relieve travel nausea as well as the proven drug scopolamine??? [SEP] however, so far the quantitative effect of dimenhydrinate in the prophylaxis of postoperative nausea and vomiting (ponv) has not been evaluated systematically. dimenhydrinate is a traditional and inexpensive antiemetic with an efficacy that might be considered as clinically relevant. dimenhydrinate is an inexpensive antihistaminic drug, that is frequently used as an anti-emetic during anaesthesia. thus, dimenhydrinate was compared with placebo in this prospective, randomized, double-blind study. in the dimenhydrinate group, more patients remained completely free from post-operative nausea and vomiting compared with placebo (dimenhydrinate: 38.8%; placebo: 15.1%; p = 0.004). intra-operative dimenhydrinate, followed by three further administrations after surgery, reduces the incidence and the severity of post-operative nausea and vomiting without side effects. dimenhydrinate (dim) is an over-the-counter antihistamine consisting of diphenhydramine (dip) and 8-chlorotheophylline (ctp). medical use of dim is for prevention of nausea and motion sickness. although diphenhydramine is frequently used to treat pruritus and nausea in patients who have received neuraxial opioids, there are no data regarding its effect on ventilatory control. scopolamine can be used before travel to prevent this illness. ',
 "Does short-term fasting improve quality of life in cancer? [SEP] fasting potentially improves the response of tumor cells to chemotherapy by (1) repairing dna damage in normal tissues (but not tumor cells); (2) upregulating autophagy flux as a protection against damage to organelles and some cancer cells; (3) altering apoptosis and increasing tumor cells' sensitivity to the apoptotic stimuli, and preventing apoptosis-mediated damage to normal cells; (4) depleting regulatory t cells and improving the stimulation of cd8 cells; and (5) accumulating unfolded proteins and protecting cancer cells from immune surveillance. this review suggests the potential benefits of fasting in combination with chemotherapy to reduce tumor progression and increase the effectiveness of chemotherapy. preclinical data and a small number of clinical studies suggest that repeated short-term fasting may reduce the side effects of chemotherapy, enhance quality of life, and eventually slow down tumor progression. this study is the first confirmatory, randomized controlled, clinical study, comparing the effects of short-term fasting to a short-term, plant-based, low-sugar diet during chemotherapy on quality of life and histological tumor remission. research reported in this issue of science translational medicine illustrates the benefits of short-term food withdrawal (fasting) in the treatment of cancer. fasting may also sensitize cancer cells to chemotherapy. we sought to investigate the feasibility and effect of short-term fasting in patients receiving chemotherapy for gynecologic malignancy. fasting diet in cancer treatment has become an important topic since raffaghello et\xa0al. short-term fasting (48 hours) was shown to be effective in protecting normal cells and mice but not cancer cells against high dose chemotherapy, termed differential stress resistance (dsr), but the feasibility and effect of fasting in cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy is unknown. the six patients who underwent chemotherapy with or without fasting reported a reduction in fatigue, weakness, and gastrointestinal side effects while fasting. ",
 'Does short-term fasting reduce the side effects of chemotherapy for cancer??? [SEP] preclinical data and a small number of clinical studies suggest that repeated short-term fasting may reduce the side effects of chemotherapy, enhance quality of life, and eventually slow down tumor progression. preclinical studies suggest that fasting prior to chemotherapy may be an effective strategy to protect patients against the adverse effects of chemo-toxicity. fasting may also sensitize cancer cells to chemotherapy. studies suggest that fasting before or during chemotherapy may induce differential stress resistance, reducing the adverse effects of chemotherapy and enhancing the efficacy of drugs. this review suggests the potential benefits of fasting in combination with chemotherapy to reduce tumor progression and increase the effectiveness of chemotherapy. we sought to investigate the feasibility and effect of short-term fasting in patients receiving chemotherapy for gynecologic malignancy. fasting patients maintaining a water-only fast for 24\xa0h before and 24\xa0h following each chemotherapy cycle were compared to nonfasting patients. short-term fasting (48 hours) was shown to be effective in protecting normal cells and mice but not cancer cells against high dose chemotherapy, termed differential stress resistance (dsr), but the feasibility and effect of fasting in cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy is unknown. the six patients who underwent chemotherapy with or without fasting reported a reduction in fatigue, weakness, and gastrointestinal side effects while fasting. fasting was previously shown to differentially sensitize tumors to chemotherapy while protecting normal cells, including hematopoietic stem and immune cells, from its toxic side effects. ',
 'Are extracts of Artemisa annua (annual mugwort) or the active ingredient artemisinin obtained from it effective against coronavirus? [SEP] currently, the most effective antimalarial is artemisinin, which is extracted from the leaves of medicinal herb artemisia annua l. (a.\xa0annua). these findings imply that specific components in a.\xa0annua might offer a possibility to develop new artemisinin-based natural combination therapy for malaria treatment. an extract of an artemisinin-deficient artemisia annua herbal preparation exhibits potent anticancer activity against triple negative human breast cancer. new active ingredients of artemisia annua extract with potential anticancer activity have been identified. artemisinin is a herb derived from artemesia annua\xa0(also known as sweet wormwood) and is known for its use as effective antimalarial pharmacotherapy. artemisinin is a substance extracted from the chinese plant artemisia annua l. widely used in natural medicine for the treatment of various diseases. the antimalarial drug artemisinin is a natural product produced by the plant artemisia annua. following the re-discovery of a. annua extract as an effective antimalarial, and the isolation and structural elucidation of artemisinin as the active agent, it was recommended as the first-line treatment for uncomplicated malaria in combination with another effective antimalarial drug (artemisinin combination therapy) by the world health organization (who) in 2002. as a traditional chinese herb, artemisia annua is a major source of artemisinin, an antimalarial drug. the medicinal plant artemisia annua l. is well known for its antimalarial compound artemisinin and the antioxidant capacity of its active ingredients. ',
 "Can zinc mitigate the progression of Covid-19? [SEP] zinc is a trace element with potent immunoregulatory and antiviral properties, and is utilized in the treatment of coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19). the aim of this study was to determine the clinical significance of serum zinc in covid-19 patients and to establish a correlation with disease severity. covid-19 patients with zinc deficiency were compared to those with normal zinc levels. as a result of in vitro evidence suggesting zinc sulphate may be efficacious against covid-19, our hospitals began using zinc sulphate as add-on therapy to hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin.aim. this study provides the first in vivo evidence that zinc sulphate may play a role in therapeutic management for covid-19. through several mechanisms zinc may prevent, reduce severity and duration of symptoms. currently, indirect evidence suggests zinc may potentially reduce the risk, duration and severity of sars-cov-2 infections, particularly for populations at risk of zinc deficiency including people with chronic disease co-morbidities and older adults. direct evidence to determine if zinc is effective for either prevention or treatment of sars-cov-2 is pending. more randomized studies are needed to evaluate the value of adding zinc to other therapies for covid 19. because most severely ill patients with covid-19 in our hospital showed zinc deficiency, we aimed to examine the relationship between the patient's serum zinc level and severe cases of covid-19. ",
 'Does zinc preventively protect against covid-19 disease??? [SEP] through several mechanisms zinc may prevent, reduce severity and duration of symptoms. currently, indirect evidence suggests zinc may potentially reduce the risk, duration and severity of sars-cov-2 infections, particularly for populations at risk of zinc deficiency including people with chronic disease co-morbidities and older adults. direct evidence to determine if zinc is effective for either prevention or treatment of sars-cov-2 is pending. as a result of in vitro evidence suggesting zinc sulphate may be efficacious against covid-19, our hospitals began using zinc sulphate as add-on therapy to hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin.aim. this study provides the first in vivo evidence that zinc sulphate may play a role in therapeutic management for covid-19. zinc is a trace element with potent immunoregulatory and antiviral properties, and is utilized in the treatment of coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19). however, we do not know the clinical significance of serum zinc levels in covid-19 patients. the aim of this study was to determine the clinical significance of serum zinc in covid-19 patients and to establish a correlation with disease severity. covid-19 patients with zinc deficiency were compared to those with normal zinc levels. the study data clearly show that a significant number of covid-19 patients were zinc deficient. ',
 'Does a cold spray with trypsin protect against colds or covid-19? Does the spray reduce symptoms and duration of illness? [SEP] cold therapy is used to relieve pain and inflammatory symptoms. vapocoolant spray, commonly known as cold spray (cs), is a cryotherapy modality used in sports medicine, athletic training, and rehabilitation settings. the information may prove useful in planning measures to reduce cold-related adverse health effects. desensitization to cold resulted in protection from cold-induced symptoms and lower temperature thresholds in six out of nine patients. cold therapy is used to relieve pain and inflammatory symptoms. the theoretical basis is that steam may help congested mucus drain better and heat may destroy the cold virus as it does in vitro. to assess the effects of inhaling heated water vapour (steam) in the treatment of the common cold by comparing symptoms, viral shedding and nasal resistance. three trials in which patient data could be pooled found benefits of steam for symptom relief for the common cold (odds ratio (or) 0.31; 95% confidence interval (ci) 0.16 to 0.60). the theoretical basis is that steam may help congested mucus drain better and heat may destroy the cold virus as it does in vitro. to assess the effects of inhaling heated water vapour (steam) in the treatment of the common cold by comparing symptoms, viral shedding and nasal resistance. ',
 'Does injecting low-dose Corona vaccine into the skin (mesotherapy vaccination, microvaccination) protect against Covid-19 as well as proven full-dose vaccination into muscle? [SEP] the measles-mumps-rubella (mmr) vaccine has been theorized to provide protection against coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19). an ideal vaccine against mucosal pathogens such as middle east respiratory syndrome coronavirus (mers-cov) should confer sustained, protective immunity at both systemic and mucosal levels. here, we evaluated the in\xa0vivo systemic and mucosal antigen-specific immune responses induced by a single intramuscular or intragastric administration of recombinant adenoviral type 5 (ad5) or type 41 (ad41) -based vaccines expressing the mers-cov spike (s) protein. traditional smallpox vaccines, essentially vaccinia virus strains, that were used in the eradication of smallpox were administered by percutaneous inoculation (skin scarification). vaccine inoculation via the intramuscular, intradermal or subcutaneous routes requires the use of injection needles, and an estimated 10 to 20% of the population of the united states has needle phobia. our data suggest that mva administered by percutaneous inoculation, elicited vaccinia-specific antibody responses, and protected mice from lethal vaccinia virus challenge, at levels comparable to or better than subcutaneous or intramuscular inoculation. taken together, our data suggest that mva and mva-vectored vaccines inoculated by scarification can elicit protective immune responses that are comparable to subcutaneous vaccination, and may allow for antigen sparing when vaccine supply is limited. to determine, whether or not intramuscular injection of diphtheria, pertussis and tetanus (dwpt) vaccine should be given first and subcutaneous injection of measles, mumps and rubella (mmr) thereafter or vice versa and can this cause less pain of dwpt vaccine injection. but, overall pain score of vaccination was lower when subcutaneous injection of mmr vaccine was given before intramuscular injection of dwpt vaccine. overall pain score of vaccination in multiple vaccine injection at the same visit might be reduced if subcutaneous vaccine is injected before intramuscular one. ',
 "Do herbal remedies with nasturtium and horseradish (Kren) prevent recurrent cystitis? [SEP] hypericum perforatum (st. john's wort) is an alternative remedy used primarily for depression but also is used for rheumatism, gastroenteritis, headache and neuralgias. the use of this homeopathic preparation relieved completely the tn pain. hypericum perforatum may be a promising therapeutic option for tn that deserves to be explored further to solidly support its use in the clinical setting. these compounds are found in a licensed native preparation of nasturtium (tropaeoli majoris herba) and horseradish (armoraciae rusticanae radix) which is used for treatment of upper respiratory and urinary tract infections. urinary tract infections (uti), acute and chronic, can be effectively treated with herbal medicine. the choice of herbs, through their herbal actions, along with appropriate therapeutic dosing strategies, will determine the effectiveness of herbal treatment and prevent the need to intervene with antibiotics. this paper will discuss urinary tract infections and botanical therapeutics through a case-study presentation. herbs can be used preventatively, to aid treatment and to ease the symptoms of urinary tract infections (utis). this study examined which of the herbal infusions used in treatment and reduction of symptoms of utis have the greatest efficacy, and at which concentration levels (5.85 mg/ml; 0.59 mg/ml; 0.29 mg/ml). the results of the experiments carried out using the microtox test show that both in preventative medicine, as well as in aiding treatment of utis, the biggest benefit is brought by herbal infusions of wild thyme extract and birch leaf (at all concentrations), and also by infusions at higher concentrations (approx. ",
 'Do herbal remedies with nasturtium and horseradish alleviate the symptoms of cystitis as well as an antibiotic??? [SEP] these compounds are found in a licensed native preparation of nasturtium (tropaeoli majoris herba) and horseradish (armoraciae rusticanae radix) which is used for treatment of upper respiratory and urinary tract infections. holarrhena antidysenterica has a traditional use in the treatment of urolithiasis, therefore, its crude extract has been investigated for possible antiurolithic effect. they also exert anti-inflammatory, anti-viral, and anti-microbial activity. hypericum species have been used as herbal remedies for the therapy of various diseases since ancient times. according to the results obtained, it was found that the extracts prepared from hypericum perforatum and hypericum calycinum are as effective as antidepressant drugs, desipramine and trimipramine, which were used for the comparison of their effects with these two plant extracts in animal models. herbs can be used preventatively, to aid treatment and to ease the symptoms of urinary tract infections (utis). this study examined which of the herbal infusions used in treatment and reduction of symptoms of utis have the greatest efficacy, and at which concentration levels (5.85 mg/ml; 0.59 mg/ml; 0.29 mg/ml). the results of the experiments carried out using the microtox test show that both in preventative medicine, as well as in aiding treatment of utis, the biggest benefit is brought by herbal infusions of wild thyme extract and birch leaf (at all concentrations), and also by infusions at higher concentrations (approx. materials and methods: chronic non-bacterial prostatitis (cnbp) was induced by injecting 20\u2009μl of 1% carrageenan into the rat prostate. the above findings indicate the antiurolithic activity of adiantum capillus veneris linn, and thus, validate the claims of unani physicians for its medicinal use in urolithiasis. ',
 "Does mistletoe therapy help against cancer or can it improve the quality of life of cancer patients? [SEP] the aim of this systematic review is to give an extensive overview about the current state of evidence concerning mistletoe therapy of oncologic patients regarding quality of life and side effects of cancer treatments. mistletoe preparations are frequently used by cancer patients because of their ability to stimulate the immunity and to improve the quality of life. although several clinical studies have shown that mistletoe therapy (mt, viscum album) may improve cancer patients' quality-of-life (qol), qualitative information on the improvement's nature is still lacking. mistletoe extracts are commonly used in cancer patients. tumor growth inhibition, stimulation of host immune response and improvement of the quality of life are the positive effects of mistletoe therapy described in several preclinical and clinical studies. systematic reviews of mistletoe therapy (mt) trials in cancer show promising results in improvement of patients' quality of life during chemotherapy and reduction of fatigue. patients report a better quality of life when additionally treated with mistletoe products during chemotherapy. the treatment of cancer patients with mistletoe extract is said to prolong their survival and, above all, improve their quality of life. we studied whether the quality of life of patients with advanced pancreatic cancer could be improved by mistletoe extract. in patients with locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic carcinoma, mistletoe treatment significantly improves the quality of life in comparison to best supportive care alone. ",
 'Can homeopathic remedies prevent colds in children? [SEP] there is little evidence that the decongestant, antihistamine, or cough suppressant medications commonly used to treat cold symptoms in preschool children are effective. one option for treating cold symptoms in young children is with homeopathy. this study was conducted to determine if a homeopathic syrup was effective in treating cold symptoms in preschool children. children 2-5 years old diagnosed with an upper respiratory tract infection were randomized to receive a commercial homeopathic cold syrup or placebo. the homeopathic syrup appeared to be effective in reducing the severity of cold symptoms in the first day after beginning treatment. our aim was to study the attitude of family physicians and pediatricians toward the use of cold remedies in infants and children. despite that cold remedies are not proven to be effective and some safety issues are associated with their use in the pediatric age group, physicians still recommend them. frequently used methods of treating the common cold (eg, heated vapor, over-the-counter antihistamines and decongestants) have not been proven objectively to be beneficial in young children. this review summarizes recent developments in the supportive treatment of common cold symptoms in children. these data suggest that the use of probiotics may have promise for the prevention of common cold illnesses in children. ',
 'Can homeopathic remedies relieve colds in children?? [SEP] one option for treating cold symptoms in young children is with homeopathy. this study was conducted to determine if a homeopathic syrup was effective in treating cold symptoms in preschool children. children 2-5 years old diagnosed with an upper respiratory tract infection were randomized to receive a commercial homeopathic cold syrup or placebo. the homeopathic syrup appeared to be effective in reducing the severity of cold symptoms in the first day after beginning treatment. our aim was to study the attitude of family physicians and pediatricians toward the use of cold remedies in infants and children. despite that cold remedies are not proven to be effective and some safety issues are associated with their use in the pediatric age group, physicians still recommend them. frequently used methods of treating the common cold (eg, heated vapor, over-the-counter antihistamines and decongestants) have not been proven objectively to be beneficial in young children. homeopathy is frequently used to treat asthma in children. the care of childhood asthma may prove to benefit from clinical trials in homeopathy. this review summarizes recent developments in the supportive treatment of common cold symptoms in children. ',
 'Do agents containing uridine and/or cytidine improve the symptoms of polyneuropathy? [SEP] administration of two nucleotides, cytosine monophosphate (cmp) and uridine monophosphate (ump), has been prescribed for the treatment of neuromuscular affections in humans. there are many disorders of pyrimidine metabolism and those that involve an alteration in uridine metabolism have neurological and systemic effects, which provide insights into the biological activity of uridine and its analogues. this paper reports on the results of treatment of compressive neuralgia using a combination of nucleotides (uridine triphosphate trisodium [utp] and cytidine monophosphate disodium [cmp]) and vitamin b12. to assess the safety and efficacy of the combination of nucleotides (utp and cmp) and vitamin b12 in patients presenting with neuralgia arising from neural compression associated with degenerative orthopedic alterations and trauma, and to compare these effects with isolated administration of vitamin b12. the combination of uridine, cytidine, and vitamin b12 was safe and effective in the treatment of neuralgias arising from neural compression associated with degenerative orthopedic alterations and trauma. the pyrimidine nucleoside, uridine, has been proposed as a potential supplement in the treatment of psychosis based on its ability to reduce haloperidol-induced dopamine release. these experiments investigated the effect of uridine (32 mg/kg, i.p.) chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy is an autoimmune peripheral neuropathy and would be expected to benefit from corticosteroids. to evaluate the efficacy of corticosteroids for treating chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy. search of the cochrane neuromuscular disease group register for randomised trials of corticosteroids treatment for chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy and enquiry from subject experts. ',
 'Can treatments with ultrasound relieve the pain of osteoarthritis? [SEP] therapeutic ultrasound is one of several physical therapy modalities suggested for the management of pain and loss of function due to osteoarthritis (oa). in contrast to the previous version of this review, our results suggest that therapeutic ultrasound may be beneficial for patients with osteoarthritis of the knee. therapeutic ultrasound is widely used for its potential benefits on both knee pain and function, which may be clinically relevant. therapeutic ultrasound has been used in the treatment of osteoarthritis for the relief of symptom and improvement of functional status. in recent study, we found that ultrasound enhances cartilage repair in experimental early stage osteoarthritis, and prevents deteriorative changes in later stages. pain and range of motion appear to improve following ultrasound treatment in acute periarticular inflammatory conditions and osteoarthritis, but not in chronic periarticular inflammatory conditions. ultrasound is often used, by rehabilitation specialists, as an adjunct therapy for the symptomatic treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (ra). ultrasound is commonly used to treat knee osteoarthritis (koa), which has unique advantages with regard to relieving pain and inflammation as well as delaying cartilage degeneration, but the underlying mechanisms are less clear. ultrasound can relieve synovitis and delay cartilage degradation, and the mechanisms of ultrasound for the treatment of koa may involve inhibition of the expression of vegf in the synovium, sf, and cartilage. the objective of this review was to evaluate the effectiveness of ultrasound therapy in the treatment of musculoskeletal disorders. ',
 'Does regular exercise reduce the severity and duration of colds and other respiratory infections? [SEP] regular moderate exercise reduces the risk of infection compared with a sedentary lifestyle, but very prolonged bouts of exercise and periods of intensified training are associated with increased infection risk. moderate exercise may reduce the risk of upper respiratory tract infections, but intense training can increase that risk. there were some studies reporting that regular, moderate-intensity exercise increases immunity and prevents the common cold. we conducted a meta-analysis to determine the effects of exercise on prevention of the common cold. the effect of exercise on the prevention of the common cold had a relative risk (rr) of 0.73 (95% confidence interval [ci], 0.56 to 0.95; i(2) = 7%). in this meta-analysis, regular, moderate-intensity exercise may have an effect on the prevention of the common cold. exercise has been shown to improve health generally and may be effective in reducing the occurrence, severity and duration of acute respiratory infections. generally however, your patients can safely exercise with colds-and may even feel better-if some commonsense rules are followed. regular moderate exercise has been suggested to exert anti-inflammatory effects and improve immune effector functions, resulting in reduced disease incidence and viral infection susceptibility. our study showed that regular exercise resulted in a higher sickness severity score and bacterial (p. aeruginosa) loads in the lungs. ',
 "Can regular exercise prevent you from getting a cold or other respiratory infections??? [SEP] regular moderate exercise reduces the risk of infection compared with a sedentary lifestyle, but very prolonged bouts of exercise and periods of intensified training are associated with increased infection risk. in athletes, a common observation is that symptoms of respiratory infection cluster around competitions, and even minor illnesses such as colds can impair exercise performance. intense exercise may reduce healthy athletes' immunity or open the door to serious illness in athletes who already have a cold. generally however, your patients can safely exercise with colds-and may even feel better-if some commonsense rules are followed. contrary to previous suggestions, moderate physical activity is not associated with lower risk of common cold in middle-aged male smokers. moderate exercise may reduce the risk of upper respiratory tract infections, but intense training can increase that risk. there were some studies reporting that regular, moderate-intensity exercise increases immunity and prevents the common cold. we conducted a meta-analysis to determine the effects of exercise on prevention of the common cold. the effect of exercise on the prevention of the common cold had a relative risk (rr) of 0.73 (95% confidence interval [ci], 0.56 to 0.95; i(2) = 7%). in this meta-analysis, regular, moderate-intensity exercise may have an effect on the prevention of the common cold. ",
 'Can cold showers, cold baths or cold water treading according to Kneipp prevent colds and respiratory infections in adults? [SEP] human health and wellbeing require simple and effective strategies for prevention and alleviation of harmful effects of cold exposure. after exercising at an ambient temperature of 40.0°c for 38.5 ± 9.4 minutes, until t(re) reached 39.5°c, participants were immersed in a 2.0°c circulated water bath until t(re) decreased to either 37.5°c or 38.6°c. to present recommendations for the prevention, recognition, and treatment of environmental cold injuries. these recommendations are intended to provide certified athletic trainers and others participating in athletic health care with the specific knowledge and problem-solving skills needed to address environmental cold injuries. colds are a common clinical condition, caused by a variety of pathogens. this article reviews the etiology of the cold, proposed cures, symptomatic relief, method of transmission, and advice for patients. many methods exist to cool the body, but current evidence strongly supports the use of cold water. preferably, the athlete should be immersed in cold water. if lack of equipment or staff prevents immersion, a continual dousing with cold water provides an effective cooling modality. we refute the many criticisms of this treatment and provide scientific evidence supporting cold water immersion for exertional heatstroke. ',
 'Can the Wim Hof method - consisting of breathing training, meditation and acclimatization to cold - strengthen the immune system of healthy people and thus prevent infectious diseases? [SEP] whole-body cryotherapy (wbc) is one mode of cold therapy, during which rheumatic patients are exposed to very cold air (-110 degrees c) in minimal clothing. heat acclimation (ha) in humans promotes thermoregulatory adaptations that support management of core temperature in hot environments and reduces the likelihood of heat related illness. there was a significant effect of heat acclimation on hsp70 induction in humans. it has been proposed that moderate regular aerobic training may enhance immunocompetence, whereas excessive training may cause immunosuppression. contrary to previous suggestions, moderate physical activity is not associated with lower risk of common cold in middle-aged male smokers. human health and wellbeing require simple and effective strategies for prevention and alleviation of harmful effects of cold exposure. this requires careful examination of relevant assessment criteria, as well as the development of simple and efficient strategies for prevention of cold stress. although clear evidence is still missing, it has been hypothesized that an activation of the immune system might contribute to the therapeutic effect of wbh. while infusion of cold normal saline is a simple and inexpensive method for reducing core temperature, human cold-defense mechanisms potentially make this route stressful or ineffective. whole-body cryotherapy (wbc) involves short exposures to air temperatures below -100°c and is purported to enhance recovery after exercise and accelerate rehabilitation after injury. ',
 'Do saw palmetto preparations improve the symptoms of benign enlarged prostate (benign prostatic hyperplasia) in the longer term compared to placebo? [SEP] saw palmetto supplements are one of the most commonly consumed supplements by men with prostate cancer and/or benign prostatic hyperplasia (bph). saw palmetto is an herbal product used in the treatment of symptoms related to benign prostatic hyperplasia. studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of saw palmetto in reducing symptoms associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia. saw palmetto fruit extracts are widely used for treating lower urinary tract symptoms attributed to benign prostatic hyperplasia (bph); however, recent clinical trials have questioned their efficacy, at least at standard doses (320 mg/d). saw palmetto is the most popular herbal supplement used to treat symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (bph). saw palmetto is an herb used to treat the symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia. to evaluate whether saw palmetto supplements are associated with a reduced risk of prostate cancer, we conducted a prospective cohort study of 35,171 men aged 50-76 yr in western washington state. a literature search of studies that have assessed the mechanism of action and clinical results of saw palmetto in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia was performed. placebo controlled trials and meta-analyses have suggested that saw palmetto leads to subjective and objective improvement in men with lower urinary tract symptoms. evidence suggests that saw palmetto may have a significant effect on urinary flow rates and symptom scores compared to placebo in men with lower urinary tract symptoms. ',
 'Does honey help against acute cough in children? [SEP] to compare effectiveness of honey, salbutamol and placebo in the treatment of cough in children with acute onset cough. several remedies, including honey, have been used to alleviate cough symptoms. to evaluate the effectiveness of honey for acute cough in children in ambulatory settings. honey is recommended for non-specific acute paediatric cough by the australian guidelines. several remedies, including honey, have been used to alleviate cough symptoms. to evaluate the effectiveness of honey for acute cough in children in ambulatory settings. several remedies, including honey, have been used to alleviate cough symptoms. to evaluate the effectiveness of honey for acute cough in children in ambulatory settings. several remedies, including honey, have been used to alleviate cough symptoms. to evaluate the effectiveness of honey for acute cough in children in ambulatory settings. ',
 'Can Artemisia tea cure malaria as well as drugs? [SEP] in african countries a tea infusion prepared from artemisia annua has been used for the treatment of malaria only for the past 10-20 years. several informal claims in africa exist that the artemisia annua tea infusions are also able to inhibit hiv. artemisia annua tea has been proven to be a very effective treatment for malaria in various clinical trials, but to date its efficacy has not been investigated in vitro. in parts of africa and asia, self-medication with a hot water infusion of artemisia annua (artemisia tea) is a common practice for a number of ailments including malaria and cancer. artemisinin from the plant artemisia annua (a. annua) l, and used as artemisinin combination therapy (act), is the current best therapeutic for treating malaria, a disease that hits children and adults especially in developing countries. artemisia annua l. is a chinese medicinal plant, which is used throughout asia and africa as tea or press juice to treat malaria. the efficacy of artemisinin (ar) against malaria has prompted its use as a tea drink in endemic communities. artemisia annua tea is a popular dosage form used to treat and prevent malaria in some developing countries. artemisia annua l. is used throughout asia and africa as tea and press juice to treat malaria and related symptomes (fever, chills). artemisia annua hot water infusion (tea) has been used in in vitro experiments against p. falciparum malaria parasites to test potency relative to equivalent pure artemisinin. ',
 "Does thyme help against cough? [SEP] cough was attributed to thyroiditis only after extensive diagnostic evaluations failed to uncover another cause and only after cough and thyroiditis disappeared simultaneously with suppressive therapy for the latter. thymoquinone (tq), the main active constituent of the volatile oil extracted from nigella sativa's seeds, has been reported to have an anti-inflammatory and immune stimulatory effect on bronchial asthma and inflammation. histological examination of lung tissue demonstrated that tq significantly inhibited allergen-induced lung eosinophilic inflammation and mucus-producing goblet cells. these data suggest that tq attenuates allergic airway inflammation by inhibiting th2 cytokines and eosinophil infiltration into the airways; thus demonstrating its potential anti-inflammatory role during the allergic response in the lung. thymol, a naturally occurring phenolic compound, has been known for its antioxidant, anti microbial, and anti inflammatory activity. however, at times, the cough is refractory to conventional treatment. antimicrobial activity of the components of bronchosol, especially thyme and thymol, has frequently been reported in the literature. cough is a complex defensive reflex whose purpose is protection of the respiratory tract. coughs may be useful, useless, or harmful. treatment based on etiology and type of cough requires only a few medications whose efficiency has been demonstrated. ",
 'Does coenzyme Q10 relieve muscle discomfort during treatment with statins? [SEP] coenzyme q10 (coq10) supplementation is the most popular therapy for statin myalgia among both physicians and patients despite limited and conflicting evidence of its efficacy. this study examined the effect of coenzyme q10 (coq10) supplementation on simvastatin-associated muscle pain, muscle strength and aerobic performance in patients with confirmed statin myalgia. coenzyme q10 supplementation has yielded conflicting results in decreasing statin myopathy. herein, we tested whether coenzyme q10 supplementation could decrease statin-associated muscular pain in a specific group of patients with mild-to-moderate muscle symptoms. coenzyme q10 supplementation decreased statin-related muscle symptoms in 75% of patients. the present results show that coenzyme q10 supplementation (50 mg twice daily) effectively reduced statin-related mild-to-moderate muscular symptoms, causing lower interference of statin-related muscular symptoms with daily activities. the objective of this study was to assess whether patients with statin-associated myalgia can be successfully treated with coenzyme q10 (coq10) to improve symptoms and maintain them on statin therapy. the aim of this study was to demonstrate the effect of coenzyme q10 in patients with statin myopathy. after a six-month administration of coenzyme q10, muscle pain and sensitivity statistically significantly decreased. some small clinical trials seem to show that coenzyme q10 supplements can be used to lower blood pressure and to treat or prevent myalgia caused by hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme a reductase inhibitors (statins). ',
 'Does Chaga mushroom help against cancer or other diseases? [SEP] chaga mushroom (inonotus obliquus) has continued to receive attention as a folk medicine with indications for the treatment of cancers and digestive diseases. the cells were pre-incubated with chaga mushroom extracts (5, 10, 20 microg/ml) for 24 h and this was followed by co-treatment with chaga mushroom extracts and tpa (12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate, 10 ng/ml) for 1 h. the inhibition of gjic by tpa (12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate), promoter of cancer, was prevented with treatment of chaga mushroom extracts. thus chaga mushroom may act as a natural anticancer product by preventing the inhibition of gjic through the inactivation of erk1/2 and p38 map kinase. the chaga mushroom (inonotus obliquus) is claimed to have beneficial properties for human health, such as anti-bacterial, anti-allergic, anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities. chaga (inonotus obliquus (persoon) pilat) is a mushroom traditionally used as a folk medicine for tumors and stomach ulcers in russia. chaga mushroom (inonotus obliquus) has been used in folk medicine to treat several disorders through its various biological functions. the fruiting body of inonotus obliquus, a medicinal mushroom called chaga, has been used as a traditional medicine for cancer treatment. chaga mushroom (inonotus obliquus) has long been used as a folk medicine due to its numerous biological functions such as antibacterial, antiallergic, antiinflammatory and antioxidative activities. chaga (inonotus obliquus) mushroom is considered as one of the most powerful antioxidants\xa0across the world. the chaga mushroom (inonotus obliquus) has been used in folk medicine to treat cancers. ',
 "Can filtering out blue light using blue filter glasses or night mode settings on smartphone, tablet or laptop screens have a beneficial effect on sleep? [SEP] exposure to blue-wavelength light in particular from these devices may affect sleep by suppressing melatonin and causing neurophysiologic arousal. we aimed to determine if wearing amber-tinted blue light-blocking lenses before bedtime improves sleep in individuals with insomnia. the use of blue light-emitting devices (smartphones, tablets, and laptops) at bedtime has negative effects on sleep due to light stimulation and/or problematic excessive use. evidence points to the role of nocturnal light exposure in disrupted sleep patterns, particularly blue light emitted through smartphones and computers used before bedtime. this study aimed to test whether blocking nocturnal blue light improves neuropsychological function in individuals with insomnia symptoms. using a randomized, placebo-controlled crossover design, we demonstrated improvement in processing speed and working memory with a nocturnal blue light blocking intervention among individuals with insomnia symptoms. our results could therefore suggest that exposure to bright light during the day - as in the present study - may help combat sleep disturbances associated with the evening use of electronic devices emitting blue light. altogether, these findings lead us to this conclusion that blocking the short-wavelength component of the light emitted by smartphones' screens improves human sleep. among the 22 participants who were each admitted twice, use of blue light smartphones was associated with significantly decreased sleepiness (cohen's d\xa0=\xa00.49, z\xa0=\xa043.50, p\xa0=\xa00.04) and confusion-bewilderment (cohen's d\xa0=\xa00.53, z\xa0=\xa039.00, p\xa0=\xa00.02), and increased commission error (cohen's d\xa0=\xa0-0.59, t\xa0=\xa0-2.64, p\xa0=\xa00.02). our data suggest that exposure to blue-enriched polychromatic light at relatively low room light levels impacts upon homeostatic sleep regulation, as indexed by reduction in frontal slow wave activity during the first non-rapid eye movement episode. ",
 'Is strophanthin an effective cardiovascular drug? [SEP] strophalloside is a cardenolide we recently isolated from antiaris toxicaria obtained from hainan, china. our results indicate that strophalloside is a potential anticancer drug. strophanthidin has no demonstrable effect on membrane conductance apart from that due to the observed depolarization. statins have recently been shown to produce anti-cardiac hypertrophic effects via the regulation of small gtpases. sildenafil citrate has shown to display beneficial cardiovascular effects, suggesting that it may have other systemic benefits involving the endothelium. thus, we our data suggest that syringin possesses therapeutic potential to attenuate the progression of cardiac hypertrophy. the purpose of this study is to investigate the effects of bay41-2272, an orally available sgc stimulator, on cardiovascular remodeling in hypertensive rats. bay41-2272-h partially suppressed the rise in blood pressure and reduced the heart weight (4.20+/-0.34 versus 3.68+/-0.20 mg/g; p<0.01), whereas bay41-2272-l had no effect. these findings suggest that scoparone may be used a novel therapeutic agent against cardiac fibrosis. the diterpene sclareol showed in vivo hypotensive and in-vitro vasodilator effects; the chemiluminescence plasmatic no analysis showed no significant difference between groups and the sclareol exhibit better effect on normotensive than hypertensive animals to reduce blood pressure. ',
 'Can regular intake of vitamin C prevent colds? [SEP] five trials involving a total of 598 marathon runners, skiers and soldiers on subarctic exercises yielded a pooled rr of 0.48 (95% ci 0.35 to 0.64).thirty-one comparisons examined the effect of regular vitamin c on common cold duration (9745 episodes). in children, 1 to 2 g/day vitamin c shortened colds by 18%. the severity of colds was also reduced by regular vitamin c administration.seven comparisons examined the effect of therapeutic vitamin c (3249 episodes). the failure of vitamin c supplementation to reduce the incidence of colds in the general population indicates that routine vitamin c supplementation is not justified, yet vitamin c may be useful for people exposed to brief periods of severe physical exercise. nevertheless, given the consistent effect of vitamin c on the duration and severity of colds in the regular supplementation studies, and the low cost and safety, it may be worthwhile for common cold patients to test on an individual basis whether therapeutic vitamin c is beneficial for them. the role of vitamin c (ascorbic acid) in the prevention and treatment of the common cold has been a subject of controversy for 60 years, but is widely sold and used as both a preventive and therapeutic agent. the effect of vitamin c on the common cold has been the subject of several studies. these studies do not support a considerable decrease in the incidence of the common cold with supplemental vitamin c. however, vitamin c has consistently decreased the duration of cold episodes and the severity of symptoms. doses of between four and six grams of vitamin c for the first three days of a cold may reduce its symptoms, but as long as vitamin c intake is adequate, long-term prophylaxis is not indicated. the combination of a regular daily supplement of vitamin c with extra dosage at the time of illness has been shown to reduce the disability due to common colds and other winter illness, but we have seen little effect on frequency of infections, sense of (well-being), or levels of serum cholesterol. ',
 'Can taking vitamin C after the onset of a cold relieve symptoms or shorten the illness? [SEP] in children, 1 to 2 g/day vitamin c shortened colds by 18%. the severity of colds was also reduced by regular vitamin c administration.seven comparisons examined the effect of therapeutic vitamin c (3249 episodes). the failure of vitamin c supplementation to reduce the incidence of colds in the general population indicates that routine vitamin c supplementation is not justified, yet vitamin c may be useful for people exposed to brief periods of severe physical exercise. nevertheless, given the consistent effect of vitamin c on the duration and severity of colds in the regular supplementation studies, and the low cost and safety, it may be worthwhile for common cold patients to test on an individual basis whether therapeutic vitamin c is beneficial for them. the effect of vitamin c on the common cold has been the subject of several studies. these studies do not support a considerable decrease in the incidence of the common cold with supplemental vitamin c. however, vitamin c has consistently decreased the duration of cold episodes and the severity of symptoms. the combination of a regular daily supplement of vitamin c with extra dosage at the time of illness has been shown to reduce the disability due to common colds and other winter illness, but we have seen little effect on frequency of infections, sense of (well-being), or levels of serum cholesterol. current evidence from published systematic reviews indicate that oral intake of vitamin c may assist with symptoms of acute viral respiratory infections (ari) by reducing fever and chills, relieving chest pain and assist in reducing symptoms of common cold-induced asthma. placebo-controlled trials have shown that vitamin c supplementation decreases the duration and severity of common cold infections. the trials analyzed in this work used regular vitamin c supplementation, but it is conceivable that therapeutic supplementation starting early at the onset of the cold episode could produce comparable benefits. ',
 'Do saline nasal rinses and nasal sprays or inhaling with steam from saline solution help with colds? [SEP] inhaled heated vapor treatments and simple saline solution nasal irrigation were investigated for their effect on inflammatory mediator production in nasal secretions. this study demonstrated the usefulness of large particle vapor treatment and saline solution irrigation in reducing inflammatory mediators in nasal secretions and indirectly supports the clinical efficacy of these treatments for chronic rhinitis. nasal irrigation with liquid saline is used to manage symptoms associated with chronic rhinosinusitis. the theoretical basis is that steam may help congested mucus drain better and heat may destroy the cold virus as it does in vitro. to assess the effects of inhaling heated water vapour (steam) in the treatment of the common cold by comparing symptoms, viral shedding and nasal resistance. the theoretical basis is that steam may help congested mucus drain better and heat may destroy the cold virus as it does in vitro. to assess the effects of inhaling heated water vapour (steam) in the treatment of the common cold by comparing symptoms, viral shedding and nasal resistance. the theoretical basis is that steam may help congested mucus drain better and heat may destroy cold virus as it does in vitro. to assess the effects of inhaling heated water vapour (steam), in the treatment of the common cold by comparing symptoms, viral shedding and nasal resistance. local hyperthermia or inhalation of heated water vapor is often recommended as a home remedy for various nasal disorders such as the common cold and allergic rhinitis. ',
 'Do remedies with ginseng help with erectile dysfunction? [SEP] korean ginseng and mountain ginseng (panax ginseng ca meyer) are important traditional herbal plants whose ginsenosides are generally accepted as serving to improve sexual functions, such as penile erection. we investigated the effects of tissue-cultured mountain ginseng extract (tmge) on male patients with erectile dysfunction (ed). ginseng is beneficial for many aspects of human physiology, including sexual function. in this study, we have evaluated the efficacy and safety of an extract of ginseng berry, which has a ginsenoside profile distinct from other parts of the plant, on sexual function in men with erectile dysfunction. several reports have promoted the root-derived korean red ginseng (krg; panax ginseng) as alternative treatment for erectile dysfunction (ed), and ginsenosides are known to be the principal active ingredients of ginseng. recent studies showed that ginseng berries produce more ginsenosides than krg; thus, we investigated the ability of the korean ginseng berry extract gb0710 to relax the penile corpus cavernosum smooth muscle (ccsm) in this study. in asia, ginseng is commonly included in herbals used for the treatment of sexual dysfunction. recent studies in laboratory animals have shown that both asian and american forms of ginseng enhance libido and copulatory performance. indeed, there is good evidence that ginsenosides can facilitate penile erection by directly inducing the vasodilatation and relaxation of penile corpus cavernosum. thus, animal studies lend growing support for the use of ginseng in the treatment of sexual dysfunction and provide increasing evidence for a role of nitric oxide in the mechanism of ginsenoside action. ',
 "Can taking spermidine prolong life? Can it prevent diseases? [SEP] external supplementation of spermidine extends lifespan and health span across species, including in yeast, nematodes, flies and mice. recent epidemiological data support this notion, showing that an increased uptake of this polyamine with spermidine-rich food diminishes overall mortality associated with cardiovascular diseases and cancer. here, we discuss nutritional and other possible routes to counteract the age-mediated decline of spermidine levels. the supplementation of spermidine can extend health and lifespan across species. the exogenous administration of spermidine promotes longevity in many model organisms. spermidine is a natural polyamine involved in many important cellular functions, whose supplementation in food or water increases life span and stress resistance in several model organisms. previous research has demonstrated beneficial impact of spermidine intake on memory functions in both animal models and humans, suggesting that spermidine may be a preventive approach to delay age-related cognitive decline and possibly even alzheimer's disease (ad). our data suggest that higher spermidine intake might be a promising dietary approach to preserve brain health in older adults, a hypothesis currently tested in an interventional trial. exogenous supply of spermidine prolongs the life span of several model organisms including yeast (saccharomyces cerevisiae), nematodes (caenorhabditis elegans) and flies (drosophila melanogaster) and significantly reduces age-related oxidative protein damage in mice, indicating that this agent may act as a universal anti-aging drug. however, recent research shows that spermidine can act via other mechanisms, namely inflammation reduction, lipid metabolism and regulation of cell growth, proliferation and death. ",
 'Can capsules or tablets with lactase improve the symptoms of lactose intolerance and make dairy products more tolerable? [SEP] the replacement of milk with low-lactose and probiotic-enriched dairy products is an effective strategy of mitigating the symptoms of lactose intolerance. our results demonstrate that it is feasible to develop a low-lactose yogurt to which hn001 has been added for lactose-intolerant persons who wish to strengthen their immune system. lactose digestion can be improved in subjects with impaired or completely absent intestinal lactase activity by administration of lactase preparations and particularly of acid lactase, which is active in the stomach, or by yogurt containing live lactic acid bacteria. we investigated in a randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blind, 5-arm crossover study on 24 lactose malabsorbers with variable degrees of lactase deficiency if different lactase preparations and freeze-dried yogurt culture affect gastrointestinal lactose digestion after consuming moderate amounts of lactose (12.5 g) by assessing hydrogen exhalation over 6 h. furthermore, symptoms of lactose intolerance (excess gas production, abdominal pain, diarrhoea or nausea) were assessed using validated questionnaires. the combined administration of freeze-dried yogurt cultures and acid lactase increases lactose digestion more than either freeze-dried yogurt cultures or acid lactase alone, and more lactose malabsorbers benefited from this effect. when lactose-malabsorbing individuals use dairy products decreased lactase activity and the subsequent reduction in hydrolysis of ingested lactose can result in gastrointestinal and gaseous symptoms (lactose intolerance). a gradation of lactase activity in the intolerant population may result in sufficient lactose hydrolysis to obviate symptoms and lead to continued milk consumption. lactose intolerance resulting in gastrointestinal symptoms is a common health concern. evidence was insufficient that lactose-reduced solution or milk with a lactose content of 0 to 2 g, compared with greater than 12 g, is effective in reducing symptoms of lactose intolerance. although ingestion of high energy milk delayed the gastric emptying of lactose for significantly longer than the ingestion of half-skimmed milk (p < 0.01), it did not lead to significant improvement in symptoms and reflected only a trend toward improved lactose digestion (p = 0.07), as measured by the area under the breath h2 excretion curve. ',
 "Can weighted blankets help with sleep disorders? [SEP] to identify, evaluate, and synthesize the current literature to help develop the impetus needed to launch a research study into the effectiveness of using weighted blankets to decrease anxiety and insomnia. articles were included if the study used weighted blankets as the modality of deep pressure stimulation. the outcomes of these studies suggest that weighted blankets have the potential to be beneficial in limited settings and populations. weighted blankets may be an appropriate therapeutic tool in reducing anxiety; however, there is not enough evidence to suggest they are helpful with insomnia. evidence-based research on the effectiveness of weighted blankets in reducing anxiety and insomnia is sparse. this study aimed to evaluate the effect of weighted chain blankets on insomnia and sleep-related daytime symptoms for patients with major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. at 4 weeks, there was a significant advantage in insomnia severity index ratings of the weighted blanket intervention over the light blanket (p < .001) with a large effect size (cohen's d 1.90). the intervention by the weighted blanket resulted in a significantly better sleep-maintenance, a higher daytime activity level, and reduced daytime symptoms of fatigue, depression, and anxiety. during a 12-month open follow-up phase of the study, participants continuing to use weighted blankets maintained the effect on sleep, while patients switching from a light to a weighted blanket experienced an effect on insomnia severity index ratings similar to that of participants using the weighted blanket from the beginning. weighted chain blankets are an effective and safe intervention for insomnia in patients with major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, also improving daytime symptoms and levels of activity. ",
 'Does the drug remdesivir prevent COVID-19 deaths? [SEP] currently, the fda has approved remdesivir, an inhibitor of sars-cov-2 replication, to treat covid-19, though very recent data from who showed little if any covid19 protective effect. preliminary clinical trial results suggest that there may be a favourable benefit-risk profile for remdesivir compared with placebo in severe covid-19 infection and further data on benefits would strengthen this evaluation. to evaluate the effectiveness and harms of remdesivir for covid-19. english-language, randomized trials of remdesivir treatments for adults with suspected or confirmed covid-19. in hospitalized adults with covid-19, remdesivir probably improves recovery and reduces serious adverse events and may reduce mortality and time to clinical improvement. remdesivir is a nucleotide prodrug with in vitro and in vivo efficacy against coronaviruses. remdesivir has been associated with accelerated recovery of severe coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19). this scoping review maps the evidence on the efficacy, effectiveness, and safety of remdesivir for patients with covid-19, up to september 14th , 2020. observational studies report an association between remdesivir treatment and decreased mortality, as well as increased survival. remdesivir might shorten the time to clinical improvement among hospitalized adults with severe covid-19. ',
 'Does magnetic resonance therapy improve complaints of knee osteoarthritis or herniated discs (e.g. pain)? [SEP] although magnetic resonance imaging (mri) of the knee is known to be an accurate technique for diagnosing soft tissue disorders of the knee, the value of mri in improving patient outcome is controversial. the purpose of this project was to study the value of mri in a subgroup of patients with knee pain and disability whose diagnosis was uncertain after standard orthopaedic evaluation. the study shows that mri of the knee is a valuable tool for augmenting the diagnostic process. we investigated whether radiographic severity and treatment type were associated with improvements in pain after nonoperative treatment of patients with knee oa. due to the recent development of arthroscopic techniques in meniscal surgery and anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction, an increasing number of postoperative patients are referred for a magnetic resonance examination of the knee because of recurrent injury. recent developments in articular cartilage defect repair and the possible role of magnetic resonance imaging in the follow-up are discussed. meniscal tears are commonly found on mri and increase the risk for radiographic knee osteoarthritis (oa). this article focuses on the role of mri in the evaluation of disorders of the knee. magnetic resonance imaging and plain radiography of the knee were performed in a group of 154 patients with clinical symptoms of knee osteoarthritis and a group of forty-nine age-matched asymptomatic controls. these data do not support the routine use of magnetic resonance imaging for the evaluation and management of meniscal tears in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee. ',
 'Are oral zinc supplements effective for treating a cold (chill)? [SEP] clinical studies have shown that ionic zinc (zn2+) dissolved in the mouth shortened manifestations of the common cold significantly, by an unknown mechanism. zinc (zn) has long been touted as a panacea for common cold. is oral zinc associated with a shorter duration, decreased severity, and reduced incidence of the common cold compared with placebo? when initiated within 24 hours of symptom onset, oral zinc is associated with a shorter duration of the common cold in healthy people. used prophylactically, oral zinc is associated with a reduced cold incidence in children. this review summarizes the current basic and clinical knowledge of zinc for the common cold, and suggests the present role of zinc therapy and future research needs. oral zinc has been studied as a possible means of preventing or alleviating symptoms, with mixed results. we studied a new approach to zinc therapy--an over-the-counter nasal gel formulation (zicam)--to independently evaluate its efficacy as a treatment for the common cold. these results provide evidence that zinc nasal gel is effective in shortening the duration of common cold symptoms off when taken within 24 hours of their onset. biochemical evidence suggests that zinc may be an effective treatment, and zinc gluconate glycine (zgg) lozenges have been shown to reduce the duration of cold symptoms in adults. ',
 'Do oral zinc supplements prevent a cold??? [SEP] is oral zinc associated with a shorter duration, decreased severity, and reduced incidence of the common cold compared with placebo? when initiated within 24 hours of symptom onset, oral zinc is associated with a shorter duration of the common cold in healthy people. used prophylactically, oral zinc is associated with a reduced cold incidence in children. clinical studies have shown that ionic zinc (zn2+) dissolved in the mouth shortened manifestations of the common cold significantly, by an unknown mechanism. this review summarizes the current basic and clinical knowledge of zinc for the common cold, and suggests the present role of zinc therapy and future research needs. zinc (zn) has long been touted as a panacea for common cold. previous studies have suggested that oral zinc supplementation can help reduce the duration of the common cold; however, the use of intranasal (in) zinc is strongly associated with anosmia, or the loss of the sense of smell, in humans. after an overview of the literature on the effects of the separate administration of either vitamin c or zinc against the common cold, this article presents data from two preliminary, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trials, conducted with a combination of 1000 mg vitamin c plus 10 mg zinc in patients with the common cold. in view of the burden associated with the common cold, supplementation with vitamin c plus zinc may represent an efficacious measure, with a good safety profile, against this infectious viral disease. preventive zinc supplementation in the form of tablets or syrup reduces the incidence of diarrhoea and acute lower respiratory tract infections (rti), but its effect on malaria is inconsistent. ',
 'Is colloidal gold good for health? [SEP] nowadays, gold is used in (nano-)medicine, usually in the form of nanoparticles, due to the solid proofs given of its therapeutic effects on several diseases. gold also plays an important role in the vaccine field as an adjuvant and a carrier, reducing toxicity, enhancing immunogenic activity, and providing stability in storage. despite increasing sales of gold supplements, and claims of benefits for neurological and glandular conditions, gold has received little attention in modern medical literature except as a drug for rheumatoid arthritis. one small recent study demonstrated a possible positive effect of gold on cognitive ability. nanoscale particles of gold now command a great deal of attention for biomedical applications. however, au(cn) (2) (-) produced locally may facilitate the cellular uptake and hence the therapeutic and toxic effects of gold drugs. gold is a multifunctional material that has been utilized in medicinal applications for centuries because it has been recognized for its bacteriostatic, anticorrosive, and antioxidative properties. modern medicine makes routine, conventional use of gold and has even developed more advanced applications by taking advantage of its ability to be manufactured at the nanoscale and functionalized because of the presence of thiol and amine groups, allowing for the conjugation of various functional groups such as targeted antibodies or drug products. it has been shown that colloidal gold exhibits localized plasmon surface resonance (lpsr), meaning that gold nanoparticles can absorb light at specific wavelengths, resulting in photoacoustic and photothermal properties, making them potentially useful for hyperthermic cancer treatments and medical imaging applications. by manufacturing gold in a nanoscale format, it is possible to passively distribute the material through the body, where it can localize in tumors (which are characterized by leaky blood vessels) and be safely excreted through the urinary system. ',
 'Do probiotics alleviate the symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome? [SEP] this study aimed to investigate whether a mixture of lactobacilli probiotics could improve abdominal symptoms in patients with unconstipated ibs. probiotics have been used with apparent success for several gut disorders, so it is not surprising they have been tried in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome (ibs). to review the rationale and current evidence for the efficacy of probiotics in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome (ibs), the following specific questions are addressed from a review of the published literature: are bacterial flora altered in ibs? what is the efficacy of probiotics in ibs? scientific bases for possible benefits of selected probiotics on irritable bowel symptoms have been identified. recent studies provide increasing support for the concept that disturbances in gut flora occur in patients with irritable bowel syndrome and that such abnormalities may contribute to irritable bowel syndrome-type symptoms. the use of lactobacilli as probiotics during irritable bowel syndrome is based on their interesting mechanisms of action and their excellent safety profile but little is known about their clinical efficacy due to the lack of adequately designed clinical trials. although probiotics are increasingly used in irritable bowel syndrome (ibs), their mechanism of action has not been elucidated sufficiently. there have been many studies suggesting that probiotics are effective in patients with diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (ibs-d). the aim of this systematic review was to assess the latest randomized controlled trials (rcts) evaluating the effect of probiotic supplementation on symptoms in ibs patients. ',
 'Do you get a stomach ache if you eat cherries or other stone fruit and then drink water? [SEP] some patients complain of abdominal distention and excessive flatus after ingesting certain fruits such as mango, persimmon, and grapes but not after eating apricots and melon. we recorded breath hydrogen, flatus passage and bloating after 20 g fructose in 8 patients with history of fruit intolerance and 4 healthy controls. a correlation may be found between gastrointestinal symptoms and the ingestion of coffee, milk, or sugars such as sorbitol and fructose. acidic fruits are commonly cited in the lay press as potential bladder irritants that may promote urinary incontinence (ui), but no epidemiologic studies have examined this issue. we found no relation between acidic fruit intake and risk of developing ui, including urgency, mixed, and stress ui. ingestion of fruit juices in which there is an imbalance between glucose and fructose (apple, pear nectar) and the presence of sorbitol is one of the major causes of the syndrome of chronic, nonspecific diarrhea of infancy and childhood. three cases are presented documenting the variability of symptoms including one adolescent who became symptomatic while on a fruit and juice diet. this may give rise to symptoms of heartburn, epigastric pain and occasionally oral regurgitation of the gastric contents. the objectives of this study were to (1) establish whether a solute efflux occurs when a sweet cherry fruit is incubated in water; (2) identify the solutes involved; (3) identify the mechanism(s) of efflux; and (4) quantify any changes in solute efflux occurring during development and storage. it has been reported that star fruit can lead to a fatal outcome in uremic patients. ',
 'Can acoustic CR ® neuromodulation according to Tass help with tinnitus? [SEP] transient distortion of this activation (repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation, rtms) may improve tinnitus. repeated transcranial magnetic stimulation (rtms) of auditory cortex has been proposed to treat refractory chronic tinnitus, but the involved mechanisms of action remain largely unknown. repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rtms) may alleviate tinnitus. this method is based on cr neuromodulation, which has been demonstrated to be an effective treatment for chronic tonal tinnitus. our results suggest that hta-cr neuromodulation might be at least comparable to standard cr neuromodulation providing another effective therapeutic option for the treatment of chronic tonal tinnitus. though no cure currently exists, repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rtms) has been shown to reduce tinnitus in some patients, possibly via induction of cortical plasticity involving brain derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf). to evaluate the current evidence on acoustic cr neuromodulation as a method for the treatment of tinnitus and to assess whether the method can be implemented in daily clinical practice. studies regarding acoustic cr neuromodulation as a treatment method for tinnitus were included in the present review. the main findings in the included studies were that acoustic cr neuromodulation was safe and well tolerated and most patients reported reduction of tinnitus symptoms. the limited level of evidence suggests that acoustic cr neuromodulation may have positive effects on tinnitus symptoms. ',
 'Is ivermectin an effective drug for treating covid 19 disease? [SEP] ivermectin was shown to inhibit severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 replication in\xa0vitro, which has led to off-label use, but clinical efficacy has not been described previously. does ivermectin benefit hospitalized coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) patients? ivermectin treatment was associated with lower mortality during treatment of covid-19, especially in patients with severe pulmonary involvement. hence, we conducted this systematic review and meta-analysis to assess the currently available data on the therapeutic potential of ivermectin for the treatment of covid-19 as add on therapy. similarly, the random effect model revealed that adding ivermectin led to significant clinical improvement compared to usual therapy (or=1.98, 95% ci: 1.11 to 3.53, p=0.02). ivermectin, an anti-helminthic drug is also being proposed for treatment and prevention of covid-19. ivermectin has demonstrated broad spectrum antiviral activity against both dna and rna viruses. it is hypothesised that inhaled formulation of ivermectin may be effective against sars-cov-2. therefore, ivermectin administered via inhalational route needs to be explored for potential beneficial role in covid-19 in preclinical and clinical studies. we report here that ivermectin, an fda-approved anti-parasitic previously shown to have broad-spectrum anti-viral activity in vitro, is an inhibitor of the causative virus (sars-cov-2), with a single addition to vero-hslam cells 2\xa0h post infection with sars-cov-2 able to effect ~5000-fold reduction in viral rna at 48\xa0h. ivermectin therefore warrants further investigation for possible benefits in humans. ',
 'Does ivermectin lower the risk of death in covid-19? [SEP] ivermectin was shown to inhibit severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 replication in\xa0vitro, which has led to off-label use, but clinical efficacy has not been described previously. does ivermectin benefit hospitalized coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) patients? mortality also was lower among ivermectin-treated patients with severe pulmonary involvement (38.8%\xa0vs\xa080.7%; or, 0.15; 95%\xa0ci, 0.05-0.47; p\xa0= .001). mortality was significantly lower in the ivermectin group (13.3%\xa0vs\xa024.5%; or, 0.47; 95%\xa0ci, 0.22-0.99; p\xa0< .05), an 11.2%\xa0(95%\xa0ci, 0.38%-22.1%) absolute risk reduction, with a number needed to treat of 8.9 (95%\xa0ci, 4.5-263). ivermectin treatment was associated with lower mortality during treatment of covid-19, especially in patients with severe pulmonary involvement. we report here that ivermectin, an fda-approved anti-parasitic previously shown to have broad-spectrum anti-viral activity in vitro, is an inhibitor of the causative virus (sars-cov-2), with a single addition to vero-hslam cells 2\xa0h post infection with sars-cov-2 able to effect ~5000-fold reduction in viral rna at 48\xa0h. ivermectin therefore warrants further investigation for possible benefits in humans. ivermectin, an anti-helminthic drug is also being proposed for treatment and prevention of covid-19. it is hypothesised that inhaled formulation of ivermectin may be effective against sars-cov-2. therefore, ivermectin administered via inhalational route needs to be explored for potential beneficial role in covid-19 in preclinical and clinical studies. hence, we conducted this systematic review and meta-analysis to assess the currently available data on the therapeutic potential of ivermectin for the treatment of covid-19 as add on therapy. ',
 'Can green tea protect against coronavirus infection or help treat covid-19? [SEP] green tea catechins have been reported to inhibit proteases involved in cancer metastasis and infection by influenza virus and hiv. consumption of green tea (camellia sinensis) may provide protection against chronic diseases, including cancer. recent studies suggested that green tea has the potential to protect against diet-induced obesity. studies have suggested a benefit of consuming green tea in promoting general health and reducing the risk of certain diseases. however, little is known about the effect of green tea on immune function. green tea drinking has been proven to lower lipid and exert cardiovascular protection, while the potential mechanism has not been fully determined. daily green tea drinking showed preventive effects on the progression of atherosclerosis. although a potential benefit of drinking green tea has been suggested to reduce the development of cardiovascular disease, no study has investigated the relationship between plasma tea catechin and risk of cardiovascular disease. studies have indicated that the consumption of green tea is associated with a reduced risk of developing certain forms of cancer and angiogenesis. studies have suggested that the consumption of green tea reduces the risk of cardiovascular diseases. ',
 'Does vitamin D alleviate autism symptoms in children? [SEP] children with autism spectrum disorder have been found to have lower levels of vitamin d than their peers. our case report supports the hypothesis that vitamin d may be an effective treatment for developmental delay in autism. in addition, we review the literature surrounding vitamin d deficiency as a potential cause of autism spectrum disorder and the role that vitamin d may play in treatment. high prevalence of vitamin d deficiency was previously reported in children with autism spectrum disorder (asd), but little is known about the efficacy of vitamin d3 treatment in asd, although data from pilot studies seem promising. recent literature focused on vitamin d status in children and adolescents with autism spectrum disorder (asd), but with inconsistent results. objective: the effect of vitamin d supplementation on the risk of autism spectrum disorder (asd) is conflicting. the aim of this study was to estimate the efficacy of vitamin d supplementation on asd in children. the role of vitamin d and omega-3 long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (omega-3 lcpufa) in improving core symptoms of autism spectrum disorder (asd) in children has been investigated by a few randomised controlled trials and the results are mixed and inconclusive. to further investigate the relationship between vitamin d and asd symptoms in vitamin d-responsive autistic children, changes in symptoms were assessed in three children with asd who were given vitamin d3 supplementation followed by a long interruption. introduction: data suggest a potential role for vitamin d in autism spectrum disorder (asd) prevention and treatment. ',
 'Does glutathione improve the tolerability of chemotherapy for cancer? [SEP] based on experimental and clinical studies indicating that reduced glutathione (gsh) is a protective agent against cisplatin-induced toxicity, a new high-dose regimen including gsh as a chemoprotector was designed in an attempt to improve the efficacy and therapeutic index of cisplatin. glutathione, the most important intracellular thiol, has been implicated in modulating tumor cell sensitivity to alkylating agents and cisplatin. glutathione content and related enzyme activities were assessed in a series of human tumor xenografts representative of responsive (i.e., small-cell lung cancer and ovarian carcinoma) and resistant tumor types (i.e., non-small-cell lung cancer and colorectal carcinoma), in an attempt to establish a correlation with response to cisplatin treatment. although glutathione may have a role in modulating cisplatin cell sensitivity, it is unlikely that alteration in glutathione level and metabolism is a primary mechanism of cisplatin resistance in human tumors, since: a) no significant correlations were found between glutathione level and response to cisplatin treatment in a series of chemosensitive and chemoresistant human tumor xenografts; b) a marked increase in glutathione level might be responsible for cisplatin resistance but, in contrast to findings on cell systems selected in vitro for resistance, it is not a frequent event in human tumors. glutathione has been shown to be an effective chemoprotector against cisplatin-induced side effects in patients with ovarian cancer. the intensity of hematologic toxicity was significantly less pronounced in patients treated with glutathione than in the control group (hemoglobin: 10.7 vs 9.5 mg% respectively, p = 0.039; white blood cell count 3.3 vs 2.2 x 103/microliter respectively, p = 0.004; platelets 167 vs 95 x 103/microliter respectively, p = 0.02), whereas in terms of non-hematologic toxicity no difference was observed. glutathione (gsh) is known to play a role in cellular sensitivity to some chemotherapeutic agents and to radiation. the fact that some drug-resistant cell lines have increased glutathione levels, and that enhancing gsh concentrations in animal tissues protects against a variety of xenobiotic agents, suggest a different potential approach to improving anti-cancer therapy. the purpose of this study was to find out whether the glutathione (gsh), in red blood cells could predict the response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy cisplatin/5-fluorouracil (cddp/5-fu) in patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (hnscc). cellular glutathione (gsh) levels are related to the resistance of tumor cells to platinum and alkylating agents, and depletion of gsh may enhance the activity of these drugs. ',
 'Does carnosine relieve autism symptoms in children? [SEP] there is a paucity of data about the effectiveness of l-carnosine in the management of autism spectrum disorder (asd) in children. this study aimed at investigating the effectiveness of l-carnosine as adjunctive therapy in the management of asd. supplementation of l-carnosine did not improve the total score of cars2-st, atec, bears sleep screening tool and 6-gsi scores of children with asd. further investigations are needed with more objective assessments to critically validate the effectiveness of l-carnosine on asd children for more decisive results. some open-label studies suggest that risperidone can be useful in the treatment of certain target symptoms in children with autism. we aimed to study whether the use of risperidone in comparison with placebo improved functioning in children with autism with regard to behavior (aggressiveness, hyperactivity, irritability), social and emotional responsiveness, and communication skills. l-carnosine, a dipeptide, can enhance frontal lobe function or be neuroprotective. we investigated 31 children with autistic spectrum disorders in an 8-week, double-blinded study to determine if 800 mg l-carnosine daily would result in observable changes versus placebo. after 8 weeks on l-carnosine, children showed statistically significant improvements on the gilliam autism rating scale (total score and the behavior, socialization, and communication subscales) and the receptive one-word picture vocabulary test (all p < .05). although the mechanism of action of l-carnosine is not well understood, it may enhance neurologic function, perhaps in the enterorhinal or temporal cortex. ',
 'Can echinacea protect against Sars-CoV-2 infection or help treat covid-19? [SEP] current evidence suggests that echinacea supplementation may decrease the duration and severity of acute respiratory tract infections; however, no studies using echinacea in the prevention or treatment of conditions similar to covid-19 have been identified. because echinacea can increase immune function, there is a concern that it could worsen over-activation of the immune system in cytokine storm; however, clinical trials show that echinacea decreases levels of immune molecules involved in cytokine storm. echinacea supplementation may assist with the symptoms of acute respiratory infections (ari) and the common cold, particularly when administered at the first sign of infection; however, no studies using echinacea in the prevention or treatment of conditions similar to covid-19 have been identified. previous studies have reported that echinacea may decrease the severity and/or duration of ari when taken at the onset of symptoms. no human trials could be located reporting evidence of cytokine storm when echinacea was used for up to 4 months.when assessing all human trials which reported changes in cytokine levels in response to echinacea supplementation, the results were largely consistent with a decrease in the pro-inflammatory cytokines that play a role in the progression of cytokine storm and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards), factors that play a significant role in the death of covid-19 patients. while there is currently no research on the therapeutic effects of echinacea in the management of cytokine storm, this evidence suggests that further research is warranted. severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov-2) is a rapidly emerging virus causing the ongoing covid-19 pandemic with no known effective prophylaxis. we investigated whether hydroxychloroquine could prevent sars cov-2 in healthcare workers at high-risk of exposure. severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov-2) is a rapidly emerging virus causing the ongoing covid-19 pandemic with no known effective prophylaxis. we investigated whether hydroxychloroquine could prevent sars-cov-2 in healthcare workers at high risk of exposure. ',
 'Does amygdalin, the toxin from the seeds of apricots and other stone fruits, help against cancer? [SEP] apricot seeds due to the presence of cyanogenic glycoside amygdalin belong to the popular "alternative cancer cures", although anticancer effect of amygdalin remains controversial. derived from rosaceous plant seed, amygdalin belongs to aromatic cyanogenic glycoside group, and its anticancer effects have been supported by mounting evidence. our findings suggest that amygdalin might have an anticancer effect due to the various gene expressions in a549, mcf7, and ags human cancer cells, showing it\'s potential as a natural therapeutic anticancer drug. therefore, present study was intended with the aim to investigate the alleged anti-cancerous effects of amygdalin specifically on pi3k-akt-mtor and ras pathways of cancer in human body. the results suggest a potential application of amygdalin as a chemopreventive agent to prevent or alleviate progression of breast cancer, especially tnbc. amygdalin (vitamin b-17) is a naturally occurring vitamin found in the seeds of the fruits of prunus rosacea family including apricot, bitter almond, cherry, and peach. the cyanogenic diglucoside amygdalin, derived from rosaceae kernels, is employed by many patients as an alternative anti-cancer treatment. however, studies confirm that amygdalin has antitumor properties, including the ability to inhibit the proliferation of cancer cells and to induce their apoptosis. amygdalin is a cyanogenic glycoside, mainly present in the seeds of the rosaceae family such as apricots, peaches, and bitter almond. amygdalin is a major component of the seeds of rosaceae family of plants such as apricots, peaches, cherry, nectarines, apples, plums, and so on, as well as almonds. ',
 'Can ginkgo extract relieve the symptoms of tinnitus? [SEP] there are a number of reports in the literature suggesting that ginkgo biloba may be effective in the management of tinnitus. to assess the effect of ginkgo biloba in patients who are troubled by tinnitus. there was no evidence that ginkgo biloba was effective for the primary complaint of tinnitus. the limited evidence did not demonstrate that ginkgo biloba was effective for tinnitus which is a primary complaint. there was no reliable evidence to address the question of ginkgo biloba for tinnitus associated with cerebral insufficiency. ginkgo biloba is a plant extract used to alleviate symptoms associated with cognitive deficits, e.g., decreased memory performance, lack of concentration, decreased alertness, tinnitus, and dizziness. pharmacologic studies have shown that the therapeutic effect of ginkgo is based on several active constituents with vasoactive and free radical-scavenging properties. one of the frequently prescribed treatments is ginkgo biloba extract. in conclusion, egb 761(®), a standardized ginkgo biloba extract, is an evidence-based treatment option in tinnitus. in earlier clinical trials, ginkgo biloba extract egb 761® was found to alleviate tinnitus and dizziness in elderly patients. ',
 "Do remedies with ginkgo help against tinnitus in people with dementia? [SEP] in earlier clinical trials, ginkgo biloba extract egb 761® was found to alleviate tinnitus and dizziness in elderly patients. ginkgo biloba is a plant extract used to alleviate symptoms associated with cognitive deficits, e.g., decreased memory performance, lack of concentration, decreased alertness, tinnitus, and dizziness. ginkgo biloba is commonly used in the treatment of early-stage alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia, peripheral claudication, and tinnitus of vascular origin. multiple trials investigating the efficacy of ginkgo for treating cerebrovascular disease and dementia have been performed, and systematic reviews suggest the herb can improve the symptoms of dementia. ginkgo biloba leaf extracts (gles) are popular herbal remedies for the treatment of alzheimer's dementia, tinnitus, vertigo and peripheral arterial disease. extract of ginkgo biloba egb 761 has been used in the treatment of various common geriatric complaints including vertigo, short-term memory loss, hearing loss, lack of attention, vigilance and cerebral vascular disorder. there are a number of reports in the literature suggesting that ginkgo biloba may be effective in the management of tinnitus. to assess the effect of ginkgo biloba in patients who are troubled by tinnitus. there was no evidence that ginkgo biloba was effective for the primary complaint of tinnitus. the limited evidence did not demonstrate that ginkgo biloba was effective for tinnitus which is a primary complaint. ",
 'Does garlic protect against corona infections? [SEP] garlic has been used as a traditional medicine for prevention and treatment of cardiovascular diseases. using direct pre-infection incubation assays, we determined the in vitro virucidal effects of fresh garlic extract, its polar fraction, and the following garlic associated compounds: diallyl thiosulfinate (allicin), allyl methyl thiosulfinate, methyl allyl thiosulfinate, ajoene, alliin, deoxyalliin, diallyl disulfide, and diallyl trisulfide. it is now known that garlic contains chemical constituents with antibiotic, lipid-lowering, detoxification, and other medicinal effects in the body. we have recently shown that garlic exhibits antibacterial activity against bifidobacteria. the results indicate that garlic affects these beneficial bacteria in a manner similar to that exhibited in pathogens. epidemiologic studies suggest that garlic may have beneficial effects on risk factors associated with cardiovascular disease (cvd). garlic is a plant has been used as a flavor, and anti-microbial and anti-diarrheal agent. this study evaluated the inhibitory effects of garlic extract on ibv. although numerous studies supporting the alleged garlic effects on pathogens are available, there are limited studies to prove this claim for beneficial bacteria. we have recently shown that garlic exhibits antibacterial activity against probiotic bifidobacteria. ',
 'Does garlic protect against a cold (chill)?? [SEP] garlic (allium sativum l.) is an economically important vegetable crop which is used worldwide for culinary and medicinal purposes. garlic is a folk medicine known for its multiple physiological activities, but the neuro-modulatory effect of garlic against psychological stress has rarely been explored. the current study was conducted to determine the potential antipsychological stress effect of low temperature-aged garlic (ltag). garlic has long been used for medicinal purposes. it has been shown that different forms of garlic have significant antioxidant effects. garlic has a variety of biologic activities, including anti-inflammatory properties. in this study, we investigated whether short-term heating affects the anti-inflammatory properties of garlic. garlic has been used as a traditional medicine for prevention and treatment of cardiovascular diseases. the benefits of garlic to health have been proclaimed for centuries; however, only recently have allium sativum and its derivatives been proposed as promising candidates for maintaining the homeostasis of the immune system. in this review, we assess the most recent experimental results, which indicate that garlic appears to enhance the functioning of the immune system by stimulating certain cell types, such as macrophages, lymphocytes, natural killer (nk) cells, dendritic cells, and eosinophils, by mechanisms including modulation of cytokine secretion, immunoglobulin production, phagocytosis, and macrophage activation. ',
 "Do dietary supplements with magnesium and/or zinc improve symptoms in children with ADHD? [SEP] the aim of this study was to explore the relationship of zinc nutrition to the severity of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (adhd) symptoms in a middle-class american sample with well-diagnosed adhd. previous reports of zinc in adhd, including two positive clinical trials of supplementation, have come mainly from countries and cultures with different diets and/or socioeconomic realities. children 5-10 years of age with disc- and clinician-diagnosed adhd had serum zinc determinations and parent and teacher ratings of adhd symptoms. zinc levels were correlated (pearson's and multiple regression) with adhd symptom ratings. these findings add to accumulating evidence for a possible role of zinc in adhd, even for middle-class americans, and, for the first time, suggest a special relationship to inattentive symptoms. a positive influence of magnesium in the prevention and treatment of hyperactivity in children is more and more frequently raised in the literature. the aim of our work was to estimate magnesium contents in children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, (adhd). the conclusion from the investigations is that magnesium deficiency in children with adhd occurs more frequently than in healthy children. this study aimed to investigate the trace element status of zinc (zn), copper (cu), iron (fe), magnesium (mg), and lead (pb) in children with adhd, and to compare them with normal controls. the present results indicated that there were alterations in blood levels of zinc, which was associated with the symptom scores of adhd. ",
 'Does a nasal spray with carrageenan from red algae relieve discomfort from a cold ("chill")? [SEP] iota-carrageenan has previously shown antiviral effectiveness against cold viruses in clinical trials. this study investigated the efficacy of a carrageenan-containing nasal spray on the duration of the common cold and nasal fluid viral load in adult patients. application was performed three times daily with either a carrageenan-supplemented nasal spray or saline solution as placebo with an overall observation period of 21\xa0days. in adults with common cold virus infections, direct local administration of carrageenan with nasal sprays reduced the duration of cold symptoms. carrageenans have shown to reduce the viral load in nasal secretions and lower the incidence of secondary infections in children with common cold. we investigate the effect of different carrageenans on the sinonasal epithelial barrier and inflammatory response in vitro. this study investigated the efficacy and safety of an iota-carrageenan nasal spray in patients with common cold symptoms. in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled exploratory trial, 35 human subjects suffering from early symptoms of common cold received iota-carrageenan (0.12%) in a saline solution three times daily for 4 days, compared to placebo. administration of iota-carrageenan nasal spray reduced the symptoms of common cold (p = 0.046) and the viral load in nasal lavages (p = 0.009) in patients with early symptoms of common cold. iota-carrageenan nasal spray appears to be a promising treatment for safe and effective treatment of early symptoms of common cold. ',
 'Does a nasal spray with carrageenan from red algae prevent colds? [SEP] carrageenans have shown to reduce the viral load in nasal secretions and lower the incidence of secondary infections in children with common cold. this study investigated the efficacy of a carrageenan-containing nasal spray on the duration of the common cold and nasal fluid viral load in adult patients. in adults with common cold virus infections, direct local administration of carrageenan with nasal sprays reduced the duration of cold symptoms. this study investigated the efficacy and safety of an iota-carrageenan nasal spray in patients with common cold symptoms. in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled exploratory trial, 35 human subjects suffering from early symptoms of common cold received iota-carrageenan (0.12%) in a saline solution three times daily for 4 days, compared to placebo. administration of iota-carrageenan nasal spray reduced the symptoms of common cold (p = 0.046) and the viral load in nasal lavages (p = 0.009) in patients with early symptoms of common cold. iota-carrageenan nasal spray appears to be a promising treatment for safe and effective treatment of early symptoms of common cold. clinical trials applying iota-carrageenan nasal spray have previously shown to reduce duration of virus-confirmed common cold. administration of carrageenan nasal spray in children as well as in adults suffering from virus-confirmed common cold reduced duration of disease, increased viral clearance and reduced relapses of symptoms. carrageenan nasal spray appeared as an effective treatment of common cold in children and adults. ',
 'Can the "Miracle Mineral Supplement" MMS (sodium chlorite) cure diseases or alleviate ailments? [SEP] the present scientific opinion deals with the assessment of the bioavailability of magnesium, from the proposed nutrient source, magnesium citrate malate (mgcm), when added for nutritional purposes to food supplements. mgcm is a mixed salt consisting of magnesium cations and citrate and malate anions, and with a magnesium content of 12-15%. one publication provided in the dossier reported that supplementation with mgcm decreases calcium absorption, but this finding was not supported by publications on different magnesium salts and therefore the panel\xa0could not draw conclusions from this finding. the sulfur-containing compound methylsulfonylmethane (msm) has been used as a dietary supplement for a variety of reported health benefits. mg and vc supplementation synergistically reduced the apoptosis of osteocytes and osteoclast number, and increased osteoblast surface. mg and vc supplementation could synergistically alleviate saon in rats, indicating great translational potentials of metallic minerals for preventing saon. methylsulfonylmethane (msm) is a naturally occurring sulfur containing substance that has been shown to have anti-inflammatory and antioxidative properties. previous studies using msm as an oral supplement to improve pain in those patients with knee osteoarthritis have shown superiority compared to placebo. magnesium (mg) supplements have been shown to significantly improve functional recovery in various neurological disorders. in addition, mg supplementation improved neurobehavioral, electrophysiological functions, enhanced regeneration marker, and reduced deposits of inflammatory cells as well as expression of inflammatory cytokines. ',
 'Does MMS help with an infection with the coronavirus (Covid-19)? [SEP] the novel coronavirus is formally named sars-cov-2 and the clinical disease state resulting from an infection is known as covid-19. control of the covid-19 pandemic requires clinicians, epidemiologists, and public health officials to utilise the most comprehensive, accurate and timely information available to manage the rapidly evolving covid-19 environment. health care personnel (hcp) caring for patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) might be at high risk for contracting sars-cov-2, the virus that causes covid-19. coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) caused by the novel coronavirus has become a public health emergency of international concern. among the various treatment proposals for covid-19 infection, passive immunotherapy using plasma from recovering patients - "convalescent plasma" (cp)- could be a promising option in the treatment of sars-cov-2 infections. several clinical trials are underway to test the effectiveness of hyperimmune plasma at various stages of sars-cov2.the food and drug administration (fda), the u.s. regulatory authority, has approved the use of cp for compassionate use in the treatment of patients with a critical covid-19 infection. since, the mpro enzyme plays key roles in mediating viral replication and transcription; therefore, it is considered as an attractive drug target to control sars-cov-2 infection. coronavirus disease 19 (covid-19) poses a huge threat to health systems and economies worldwide. coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) is a major public health emergency with obvious characteristics of human-to-human transmission, and there are infective asymptomatic carriers. early identification and proper management of patients with covid-19 are important. ',
 'Does colloidal silver ("silver water") work against infection with the coronavirus or other pathogens? Does it have any other health benefits? [SEP] silver has demonstrated great efficacy against a broad range of microorganisms, but there is very little data about the systemic absorption and toxicity of silver in vivo. it is known that silver has microbicidal qualities; even at a low concentration, silver is active against many kinds of bacteria. the goal of this study was to further evaluate the antimicrobial efficacy of colloidal silver. the study data support ionic colloidal silver as a broad-spectrum antimicrobial agent against aerobic and anaerobic bacteria, while having a more limited and specific spectrum of activity against fungi. colloidal silver has been used as an antimicrobial and disinfectant agent. silver ions have been widely used as an effective water disinfectant or antimicrobial material for many decades. silver nanoparticles are known to have antimicrobial properties and have been used extensively in medicine, although the mechanism(s) of action have not yet been clearly established. the antibacterial action of silver is utilized in numerous consumer products and medical devices. the state of research on the effect of silver on bacteria, cells, and higher organisms is summarized. silver is commonly used as an antibacterial agent, e.g., in various medical applications, and the availability of silver nanoparticles (agnp) has fueled this development. ',
 'Is whole-body vibration therapy effective in preventing bone fractures in osteoporosis sufferers? [SEP] because adequate mechanical stimuli are able to increase bone formation, one therapeutical approach to treat poorly healing fractures could be the application of whole-body vibration, including low-magnitude high-frequency vibration (lmhfv). clinical guidelines for osteoporosis recommend dietary and pharmacologic interventions and weight-bearing exercise to prevent bone fractures. high frequency, low-amplitude whole-body vibration (wbv) has been proposed as a treatment for osteoporosis because it can stimulate new bone formation and prevent trabecular bone loss. whole body vibration is a potential therapy for age-related loss of musculoskeletal competence. vibration has improved bone in animal models, but evidence in humans is limited. our goal was to observe the effect of brief low- and higher intensity whole body vibration on risk factors for hip fracture in postmenopausal women. eight mos of twice-weekly whole body vibration may reduce bone loss at the hip and spine and improve lower limb muscle function. a considerable volume of evidence has accumulated to suggest that whole-body vibration (wbv) may have a therapeutic role to play in the prevention of osteoporotic fracture, particularly for individuals who are unable to tolerate vigorous exercise interventions. in the present study, we examined the effect of whole-body vertical vibration (wbvv) on femoral intertrochanteric bone quality in the rat osteoporosis model. whole-body vibration (wbv) has been recently proposed as a potential alternative to bone stimulation, which combined with therapies, could provide a new treatment for osteoporosis prevention. ',
 'Does regular gargling with antimicrobial mouthwashes protect against contracting coronavirus? Does it help get better faster if you have Covid 19 disease? [SEP] to prevent virus transmission, the centers for disease control and prevention recommends frequent hand washing with soap and water. the coronavirus disease-2019 (covid-19) outbreak is caused by a highly pathogenic novel coronavirus (sars-cov-2). frequent handwashing with soap and the use of alcohol-based hand sanitizers is recommended by who for hand hygiene and to prevent the spread of covid-19. hand hygiene is a very important issue in preventing viral infection; however, there are other entities that can enhance the immune response and help in infection prevention. during the coronavirus disease (covid-19) pandemic, engagement in preventive behaviors and getting tested for the virus play a crucial role in protecting people from contracting the new coronavirus. participants who received more covid-19-related health information online reported more frequent effort to engage in all types of preventive behaviors: wearing a facemask in public (odds ratio [or] 1.55, 95% ci 1.34-1.79, p<.001), washing hands (or 1.58, 95% ci 1.35-1.85, p<.001), covering nose and mouth when sneezing and coughing (or 1.78, 95% ci 1.52-2.10, p<.001), keeping social distance with others (or 1.41, 95% ci 1.21-1.65, p<.001), staying home (or 1.40, 95% ci 1.20-1.62, p<.001), avoiding using public transportation (or 1.57, 95% ci 1.32-1.88, p<.001), and cleaning frequently used surfaces (or 1.55, 95% ci 1.34-1.79, p<.001). during the coronavirus-19 disease (covid-19) pandemic, the basic strategy that is recommended to reduce the spread of the disease is to practice proper hand hygiene and personal protective behaviors, but among adolescents, low adherence is common. results from an online survey (n\u2009=\u2009511) revealed that the vast majority (>90 percent) of respondents had very often or always practiced preventive behaviors against contracting covid-19 such as washing their hands more regularly with soap and water, staying away from crowded places, and wearing face masks out in public. whereas covid-19 information consumption on social media, msns, and slsss during the infectious disease outbreak could elicit intense worry and, in turn, increase preventive behaviors. background: in the absence of an effective vaccine, public health policies are aimed at awareness, and education of the general public in order to contain the quickly spreading covid-19 pandemic. ',
 'Can inhalation with budesonide spray relieve symptoms of covid-19? [SEP] to assess the efficacy of local intranasal treatment with budesonide (nasal irrigation), in addition to olfactory rehabilitation, in the management of loss of smell in covid-19 patients without signs of severity and with persistent hyposmia 30 days after the onset of symptoms. the participants will be recruited from: hôpital fondation adolphe de rothschild and hôpital lariboisière in paris, france intervention and comparator: intervention: experimental group: nasal irrigation with budesonide and physiological saline (budesonide 1mg/2ml diluted in 250ml of physiological saline 9°/00): 3 syringes of 20ml in each nasal cavity, morning and evening, for 30 days, in addition to olfactory rehabilitation twice a day. the aim of this study was to determine the effect of inhaled budesonide on the perception of breathlessness induced by histamine challenge. thirty-five subjects with poorly controlled asthma were randomized to receive budesonide (1,600 or 3,200 microg/d) for 8 wk, followed by 8 wk at 1,600 microg/d and subsequent downtitration according to a clinical algorithm. we conclude that treatment with budesonide enhances the perception of airway narrowing, but the effect is unrelated to budesonide dose, or to changes in circulating eosinophil markers. we tested the hypothesis that inhaled combined long-acting beta2-agonist (salmeterol) and corticosteroid (fluticasone propionate) will reduce inflammation. the aim of this study was to investigate the effect of inhaled budesonide on modifications of the provocative concentration of agonist causing a 20% fall in forced expiratory volume in one second (fev1) (pc20) and maximal response plateau to inhaled methacholine during the pollen season in pollen-sensitive subjects with mild asthma. the effects of inhaled budesonide (800 micrograms.day-1) on the threshold value (pc20) and maximal response plateau to inhaled methacholine were studied in 28 pollen-sensitive subjects with mild asthma during a pollen season in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled parallel fashion. subjects treated with budesonide (n = 13) were protected from the decrease in pc20 seen in the placebo (n = 15) group (geometric mean pc20 placebo group: preseasonal = 8.51, may = 2.19 and june = 1.78 mg.ml-1; budesonide group: preseasonal = 3.71, may = 3.23 and june = 2.40 mg.ml-1; intergroup differences in doubling concentrations, p < 0.05). we conclude that in pollen-sensitive subjects with mild asthma, inhaled budesonide blocks the effects of natural allergen exposure on the methacholine threshold value. ',
 'Can budesonide spray inhalation for covid-19 reduce the risk of hospitalization, severe or even fatal outcome? [SEP] effective therapies for patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) are needed, and clinical trial data have demonstrated that low-dose dexamethasone reduced mortality in hospitalized patients with covid-19 who required respiratory support. early descriptions of patients admitted to hospital during the covid-19 pandemic showed a lower prevalence of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) than would be expected for an acute respiratory disease like covid-19, leading to speculation that inhaled corticosteroids (icss) might protect against infection with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 or the development of serious sequelae. intra-tracheal instillation of budesonide using surfactant as a vehicle significantly decreased the incidence of bronchopulmonary dysplasia or death in preterm infants. both surfactants can act as an effective vehicle for budesonide delivery. in preterm infants on moderately high ventilator support, the addition of budesonide to surfactant lowered bronchopulmonary dysplasia (bpd) rates by 20% without increased morbidity or mortality. in august 2016 we began administering budesonide (0.25\u2009mg/kg) mixed with surfactant (survanta 4\u2009ml/kg) to all infants\u2009≤\u20091250\u2009g who failed cpap and required intubation. budesonide was associated with a decrease in the need for continued mechanical ventilation, severe bpd type ii or death (19-12%), grade iii bpd or death (31-21%), and the median gestational age at discharge was 1 week earlier. budesonide was associated with decreased severity of bpd, decreased mechanical ventilation use, earlier discharge, and similar short-term outcomes. there are no determined treatment agents for the severe coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19); therefore, it is suggested that methylprednisolone, as an immunosuppressive treatment, can reduce the inflammation of the respiratory system. our results suggested that methylprednisolone pulse could be an efficient therapeutic agent for hospitalised severe covid-19 patients at the pulmonary phase. ',
 'Does a nasal spray with carrageenan from red algae prevent infection with coronavirus? Can it alleviate a covid 19 disease that has already broken out? [SEP] iota-carrageenan is broadly active against respiratory viruses in-vitro and has an excellent safety profile. this study investigated the efficacy and safety of an iota-carrageenan nasal spray in patients with common cold symptoms. in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled exploratory trial, 35 human subjects suffering from early symptoms of common cold received iota-carrageenan (0.12%) in a saline solution three times daily for 4 days, compared to placebo. administration of iota-carrageenan nasal spray reduced the symptoms of common cold (p = 0.046) and the viral load in nasal lavages (p = 0.009) in patients with early symptoms of common cold. iota-carrageenan nasal spray appears to be a promising treatment for safe and effective treatment of early symptoms of common cold. iota-carrageenan has previously shown antiviral effectiveness against cold viruses in clinical trials. this study investigated the efficacy of a carrageenan-containing nasal spray on the duration of the common cold and nasal fluid viral load in adult patients. application was performed three times daily with either a carrageenan-supplemented nasal spray or saline solution as placebo with an overall observation period of 21\xa0days. viral titers in nasal fluids showed a significantly greater decrease in carrageenan patients in the intention-to-treat population (p\u2009=\u20090.024) and in the per protocol population (p\u2009=\u20090.018) between days 1 and 3/4. in adults with common cold virus infections, direct local administration of carrageenan with nasal sprays reduced the duration of cold symptoms. ',
 'Does the product "BestProvita Diabetin" improve blood glucose levels in type 2 diabetes or does it prevent secondary diseases? [SEP] improvement in glucose control usually also ameliorates this dyslipoproteinemia. cardiovascular risk reduction is a key priority in patients with diabetes. pioglitazone is used globally for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm) and is one of the most effective therapies for improving glucose homeostasis and insulin resistance in t2dm patients. therapies for type 2 diabetes mellitus that leverage the glucagon-like peptide-1 (glp-1) receptor signaling pathway have been shown to reduce rates of hyperglycemia and have beneficial effects on body weight. this antihyperglycemic treatment for type 2 diabetes mellitus (dm) has attracted increased clinical attention not only for its antihyperglycemic action but also for its potential extrapancreatic effects. we investigated whether liraglutide, a glp-1 analog, could enhance insulin sensitivity as assessed by the hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp in type 2 dm patients. liraglutide may exhibit favorable effects on diabetes control for type 2 dm patients by increasing insulin sensitivity as an extrapancreatic action. to review the current state of diabetes treatment from a clinical and management perspective and explore the role that new biologic pharmaceuticals may offer patients who fail to meet or maintain glycemic goals with existing treatment options. suboptimal blood glucose control among patients with type 2 diabetes continues to support the need for new pharmacologic approaches. published evidence to support the application of novel incretin-based therapies, dipeptidyl peptidase (dpp)-4 inhibitors, sodium-glucose cotransporter (sglt)-2 inhibitors, other oral agents and insulins for managing specific aspects of type 2 diabetes, as well as disadvantages associated with those novel medications, are discussed. ',
 'Do blueberries improve blood sugar levels in type 2 diabetes or do they prevent secondary diseases? [SEP] anthocyanins have been identified as having a strong association with type 2 diabetes risk reduction; however, to date few human clinical trials have evaluated the potential beneficial health effects of blueberries in populations with type 2 diabetes. we investigated the effects of blueberry consumption for 8 wk on cardiometabolic parameters in men with type 2 diabetes. epidemiological evidence indicates that incorporating blueberries into the diet may lower the risk of developing type 2 diabetes (t2dm). additionally, the improvements in glucose tolerance after blueberry consumption were assessed by glucose tolerance tests. in traditional medicine, blueberries have been used to facilitate blood glucose regulation in type 2 diabetes. recent studies in diabetic mice have indicated facilitated glycaemic regulation following dietary supplementation with extracts from european blueberries, also called bilberries, (vaccinium myrtillus). the consumption of blueberries, as well as the phenolic compounds they contain, may alter metabolic processes related to type 2 diabetes. additional research is needed to determine whether blueberries and other flavonoid-rich foods reduce type 2 diabetes risk by modifying gastrointestinal hormones and perceived appetite. blueberries (bb) have been shown to improve insulin sensitivity and endothelial function in obese and pre-diabetic humans, and decrease oxidative stress and inflammation, and ameliorate cardio-renal damage in rodents. blueberry dietary interventions have demonstrated remarkable potential against obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus. ',
 'Do self-performed nasal drill tests in symptom-free individuals detect coronavirus infection as reliably as professionally performed rapid tests using swabs from the nasopharynx? [SEP] we have previously shown that self-collected nasal swabs (ns) are feasible and as sensitive as clinician-collected nasal washes for detection of rv, but the additive benefit of self-collected throat swabs is unknown. our objective was to determine whether sampling with a throat swab provides incremental benefit-when used in conjunction with a nasal swab-to detect respiratory viruses among patients with acute pharyngitis in the outpatient setting. we compared the combined throat/nasal sampling with nasopharyngeal sampling for detection of sars-cov-2 in healthcare workers suspected of covid-19. in 107 healthcare workers with symptoms of covid-19, combined throat/nasal sampling and nasopharyngeal sampling was performed. combined throat/nasal swabs yield a similar sensitivity to detect sars-cov-2 as nasopharyngeal swabs and are a good alternative sampling method, despite a lower ct value for the nasopharyngeal samples. diagnostic tests for respiratory viral infections use traditionally either nasopharyngeal washes or swabs. the aim of this study was to compare the detection rates of respiratory viruses from nasopharyngeal swabs and sputum using a multiplex real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (rt-pcr). to report the efficacy and findings of a large-scale preventive screening program for severe acute respiratory syndrome-associated coronavirus (sars-cov) using amplification of the virus from a nasopharyngeal swab (nps) obtained from the health-care workers (hcws). specimens including nasopharyngeal swabs, oropharyngeal swabs, and sputum from confirmed coronavirus 2019 patients were collected for rt-pcr testing. nasopharyngeal swabs are critical to the diagnosis of respiratory infections including coronavirus disease 2019, but collection techniques vary. ',
 'Are rapid antigen tests as reliable as slower PCR tests? Does a negative (inconspicuous) rapid test result reliably exclude an infection with the coronavirus? [SEP] real-time reverse transcription-pcr (rt-pcr) is currently the most sensitive method to detect severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov-2) that causes coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19). real-time polymerase chain reaction (rt-pcr) remains the gold standard for confirmation of coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) despite having many disadvantages. here, we investigated the diagnostic performance of chest computed tomography (ct) as an alternative to rt-pcr in patients with clinical suspicion of covid-19 infection. low-dose chest ct is a safe, rapid and reliable alternative to rt-pcr for the diagnosis of covid-19 in high-prevalence regions. the sensitivity of reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (rt-pcr) has been questioned due to negative results in some patients who were strongly suspected of having coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19). the aim of our study was to analyze the prognosis of infected patients with initial negative rt-pcr in the emergency department (ed) during the covid-19 outbreak. despite an initially less serious clinical presentation, the mortality of patients infected by sars-cov-2 with a negative rt-pcr did not differ from those with positive rt-pcr. to determine sensitivity of rapid diagnostic tests for detecting influenza a(h7n9) virus, we compared rapid tests with pcr results and tested different types of clinical samples. tests for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov-2) based on reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (rt-pcr) are being used to rule out infection among high-risk persons, such as exposed inpatients and health care workers. currently, diagnosis of influenza is performed either through tedious polymerase chain reaction (pcr) or through rapid antigen detection assays. ',
 'Does CBD help with sleep disorders? [SEP] we examined the effects of cbt-i on sleep-related cognitions, associations between changes in sleep-related cognitions and changes in sleep and symptoms after cbt-i, and the extent to which cognitions mediated the effects of cbt-i. cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (cbt-i) has been shown to improve both sleep and depressive symptoms, but predictors of depression outcome following cbt-i have not been well examined. our findings show that cbt for insomnia might be highly effective for improving sleep in patients with persistent delusions or hallucinations. the results of this study showed that treating pervasive sleep problems in this patient group with cognitive-behavioural therapy (cbt) is very likely to improve patient quality of life in the short term. sleep disturbance is a common problem associated with depression, and cognitive-behavioral therapy (cbt) is a more common behavioral intervention for sleep problems. recent treatment studies with cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia (cbt-i) have demonstrated effects on both sleep problems and depression. two previous studies have indicated that the beneficial effect from cbt-i on depression may come through improved sleep, although insomnia severity during treatment had not previously been investigated as a mediator. cognitive behavioral therapy (cbt) is recommended as the first-line nonpharmacotherapy for sleep complaints. therefore, this study aims to test the effect of cbt on sleep disturbances and qol in patients with t2dm. cbt is effective for sleep disturbances and can also improve sleep quality, increase qol, and decrease glycemic levels in participants with t2dm. ',
 'Are heavy (ex-)smokers less likely to die of lung cancer if they regularly participate in lung cancer screening by computed tomography (CT)? [SEP] lung cancer screening with chest computed tomography (ct) reduces lung cancer death. lung cancer screening with annual low-dose computed tomography (ct) decreases lung cancer mortality in high-risk patients, as defined by smoking history (> 30 pack-years) and age (55-74 years). current and former smokers are currently being screened for lung cancer with computed tomography (ct), although there are limited data on the effect screening has on lung cancer outcomes. screening for lung cancer with low-dose ct may increase the rate of lung cancer diagnosis and treatment, but may not meaningfully reduce the risk of advanced lung cancer or death from lung cancer. lung cancer screening with low dose computed tomography (ct) is the only method ever proven to reduce lung cancer-specific mortality in high-risk current and former cigarette smokers. lung cancer screening with annual chest computed tomography (ct) is recommended for current and former smokers with a ≥30-pack-year smoking history. the relation between undergoing a single computed tomography (ct) screening for lung carcinoma and the potential long-term impact on smoking status has been equivocal. perhaps, recommendations from multiple cancer screenings may promote smoking abstinence among individuals at high risk for lung carcinoma. emphasizing the risk of lung cancer can encourage smoking cessation; however, computerized tomography (ct) scans reduced lung cancer mortality in a recent randomized screening trial. the national lung screening trial demonstrated a lung cancer-specific mortality benefit in high-risk current and former smokers with yearly low-dose chest computed tomography (ct). ',
 'Can lung cancer screening by computed tomography (CT) also do harm??? [SEP] lung cancer screening with low dose computed tomography (ct) is the only method ever proven to reduce lung cancer-specific mortality in high-risk current and former cigarette smokers. as we sit on the brink of widespread adoption of lung cancer screening ct, we aim to explain why the risks associated with radiation exposure from lung cancer screening are very low and should not be used to avoid screening or dissuade individuals who qualify for screening ct to participate in a lung cancer screening program. risks for false-positive results on lung cancer screening tests are substantial after only 2 annual examinations, particularly for low-dose ct. further study of resulting economic, psychosocial, and physical burdens of these methods is warranted. current and former smokers are currently being screened for lung cancer with computed tomography (ct), although there are limited data on the effect screening has on lung cancer outcomes. screening for lung cancer with low-dose ct may increase the rate of lung cancer diagnosis and treatment, but may not meaningfully reduce the risk of advanced lung cancer or death from lung cancer. annual computed tomography (ct) is now widely recommended for lung cancer screening in the united states, although concerns remain regarding the potential harms, including those from overdiagnosis. screening for lung cancer with low-dose computed tomography (ct) is controversial. computed tomography (ct) screening of the chest has shown promise for early detection of lung cancer, but evidence for a reduction in lung cancer mortality by ct screening is not available. evidence regarding lung cancer screening by ct shows that this technology detects earlier-stage and smaller lung cancers with greater frequency than other screening methods. low-dose computed tomography (ct) screening for lung cancer can reduce lung cancer mortality, but overdiagnosis, false positives and invasive procedures for benign nodules are worrying. ',
 'Does hydroxychloroquine reduce the likelihood of dying from covid-19 disease? [SEP] hydroxychloroquine is an antimalarial drug being tested as a potential treatment for the novel coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) pandemic caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2. although the efficacy of hydroxychloroquine for covid-19 remains uncertain, it may serve as a potential prophylactic agent especially in those at high risk, such as healthcare workers, household contacts of infected patients, and the immunocompromised. to describe the association between use of hydroxychloroquine, with or without azithromycin, and clinical outcomes among hospital inpatients diagnosed with covid-19. benefits of chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine for the treatment of covid-19 infection have been proposed and clinical trials are underway. there are potential implications from this review for survivors of covid-19 treated with chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine. (hydroxy)chloroquine ((h)cq) is being investigated as a treatment for covid-19, but studies have so far demonstrated either no or a small benefit. we sought to determine whether hydroxychloroquine (hcq) application may reduce the death risk of critically ill covid-19 patients. hydroxychloroquine, il-6, mortalities, covid-19. data on the efficacy of hydroxychloroquine for the treatment of coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) are needed. to determine whether hydroxychloroquine is an efficacious treatment for adults hospitalized with covid-19. ',
 'Does hydroxychloroquine prevent covid-19 infection??? [SEP] hydroxychloroquine, with or without azithromycin, has been considered as a possible therapeutic agent for patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19). hydroxychloroquine is an antimalarial drug being tested as a potential treatment for the novel coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) pandemic caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2. although the efficacy of hydroxychloroquine for covid-19 remains uncertain, it may serve as a potential prophylactic agent especially in those at high risk, such as healthcare workers, household contacts of infected patients, and the immunocompromised. because of in vitro studies, hydroxychloroquine has been evaluated as a preexposure or postexposure prophylaxis for coronavirus disease (covid-19) and as a possible covid-19 curative treatment. hydroxychloroquine (hcq) has been tried against covid-19 owing to its in vitro virucidal action against sars-cov-2, but the role of hcq as post-exposure prophylaxis (pep) remains inconclusive. data on the efficacy of hydroxychloroquine for the treatment of coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) are needed. to determine whether hydroxychloroquine is an efficacious treatment for adults hospitalized with covid-19. hydroxychloroquine (hcq) has shown efficacy against coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) in some but not all studies. here we assessed the prophylactic/therapeutic efficacy of hydroxychloroquine (hcq), a drug of interest for covid-19 management, in two animal models. (hydroxy)chloroquine ((h)cq) is being investigated as a treatment for covid-19, but studies have so far demonstrated either no or a small benefit. ',
 'Do preparations containing rockrose have a preventive or soothing effect on colds (chills) and other upper respiratory tract infections? Can they protect against infections with the coronavirus? [SEP] doses of between four and six grams of vitamin c for the first three days of a cold may reduce its symptoms, but as long as vitamin c intake is adequate, long-term prophylaxis is not indicated. attempts to relieve the misery of the common cold have been made since long before current understanding of its viral origin. combining an antiviral with selected therapeutic agents that block these inflammatory pathways has been shown to improve the effectiveness of cold treatment. this strategy reduces viral shedding in nasal fluid, provides treatment for the period of maximum symptom burden, and may reduce the frequency and severity of the sinus disease that accompanies colds. extracts of echinacea purpurea are widely used for the prevention and treatment of common colds, coughs, bronchitis and other upper respiratory infections, many of which are caused by rhinoviruses (rvs). to find out whether vitamin c reduces the incidence, the duration or severity of the common cold when used either as a continuous regular supplementation every day or as a therapy at the onset of cold symptoms. the severity of colds was also reduced by regular vitamin c administration.seven comparisons examined the effect of therapeutic vitamin c (3249 episodes). nevertheless, given the consistent effect of vitamin c on the duration and severity of colds in the regular supplementation studies, and the low cost and safety, it may be worthwhile for common cold patients to test on an individual basis whether therapeutic vitamin c is beneficial for them. rhinoviruses (rvs) are picornaviruses that are causative agents of the majority of upper respiratory tract infections, or "common colds," in humans. this article reviews the etiology of the cold, proposed cures, symptomatic relief, method of transmission, and advice for patients. ',
 'Can Medistus Antivirus Lozenges protect against colds, flu, covid-19, or other respiratory infections? [SEP] to assess the safety and immunogenicity of two mmr: vaccines administered by aerosol. infection with seasonal influenza a viruses induces immunity to potentially pandemic influenza a viruses of other subtypes (heterosubtypic immunity). the consequences of these findings are discussed in the light of the development of protective immunity to seasonal and future pandemic influenza viruses. measles vaccination resulted in a 79% drop in measles deaths between 2000 and 2015 worldwide. only for influenza and measles are licensed vaccines available at present. measles vaccines, which are based on attenuated live virus, have been quite effective in controlling the disease in vaccinated populations in the industrialized world. although live attenuated vaccines against some of the serotypes of rhinoviruses have shown promising results, the generation of a multivalent vaccine against this epidemiologically most significant cause of acute respiratory infections will be almost impossible, due to the multiplicity of serotypes involved. infection with wild-type measles virus (mev) induces lifelong protection from reinfection, and parenteral delivery of the live attenuated measles vaccine (lav) also provides protection from measles. the live attenuated measles vaccine (lav) given subcutaneously induces both t cells and neutralizing antibody and provides solid protection from infection. lav delivered to the upper respiratory tract through a nebulizer and mouthpiece induced a t-cell response but no neutralizing antibody. ',
 'Does Spirulina help with obesity? [SEP] two-month supplementation with spirulina resulted in an appreciable lowering of fasting blood glucose and postprandial blood glucose levels. these findings suggest the beneficial effect of spirulina supplementation in controlling blood glucose levels and in improving the lipid profile of subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus. spirulina, a filamentous unicellular alga, reduces serum lipids and blood pressure while exerting antioxidant effects. spirulina reduces dyslipidaemia in our metabolic syndrome model while ameliorating visceral adipose tissue macrophages. here, we summarize the evidence of the effects of spirulina on serum lipid profile, glucose management, bp, and body weight by conducting a meta-analysis. our findings provide substantial evidence that spirulina supplementation has favorable effect on select cardiovascular and metabolic biomarkers in humans, including lipid, glucose, and dbp management. some studies have demonstrated the beneficial effects of spirulina maxima (arthrospira maxima) consumption on glycemic, lipid, and blood pressure parameters. the aim of this study was to investigate the effect of spirulina maxima on body weight, blood pressure, and endothelial function. the patients in the spirulina group showed significant reductions in bmi (26.9 ± 3.1 vs. 25.0 ± 2.7 kg/m(2), p = 0.0032), weight (75.5 ± 11.8 vs. 70.5 ± 10.3 kg, p < 0.001), sbp (149 ± 7 vs. 143 ± 9 mmhg, p = 0.0023), and si (7.2 ± 0.6 vs. 6.9 ± 0.7 m/s, p < 0.001). this study demonstrates that three months of regular consumption of spirulina maxima not only improves bmi and weight but also results in improvements in blood pressure and endothelial function spirulina in overweight patients with hypertension but lacking evidence of cardiovascular disease. ',
 'Does spirulina have a health-promoting effect??? [SEP] spirulina, a planktonic blue green algae from oascillateriaceae family, has anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, antitumor, anti-viral, and antimicrobial effects, rendering it a natural drug of prophylactic and therapeutic properties. spirulina (spirulina platensis) is a dietary supplement valued for its immune-enhancing properties. spirulina was recently reported to elicit beneficial effects such as reducing cholesterol and inducing weight loss; however, its effects on inflammation are unknown. here, we summarize the evidence of the effects of spirulina on serum lipid profile, glucose management, bp, and body weight by conducting a meta-analysis. our findings provide substantial evidence that spirulina supplementation has favorable effect on select cardiovascular and metabolic biomarkers in humans, including lipid, glucose, and dbp management. the potential application of incorporating spirulina into food products and beverages to enhance their antioxidant capacity is worth exploring. studies conducted on spirulina suggest that it is safe in healthy subjects, but attitude to eating probably affects the acceptability of spirulina containing foods. spirulina supplements seem to affect more effectively the innate immunity, promoting the activity of natural killer cells. recent studies suggest that spirulina, a unicellular blue-green alga, may have a variety of health benefits and therapeutic properties and is also capable of acting as an antioxidant and antiinflammatory agent. the results demonstrate that the tested spirulina preparations have a high antioxidant and antiinflammatory potential. ',
 'Does gargling with hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) help against coronavirus or others in throat infections? [SEP] hydrogen peroxide (h2o2) in exhaled air condensate is elevated in inflammatory disorders of the lower respiratory tract. we examined h2o2 in the breath condensate of 20 normal subjects with acute symptoms of a common cold and after recovery 2 weeks later and, similarly, in 10 subjects without infection. the peroxidase-halide-hydrogen peroxide system may contribute to the host defense against certain viral infections. based on a review of the research, the use of hydrogen might reduce the destructive cytokine storm and lung injury caused by sars-cov-2 during covid-19 (corona virus disease 2019) in the early stage, stimulating ropy sputum drainage, and ultimately reducing the incidence of severe disease. rationale: hydrogen peroxide (h2o2) provides an important mechanism for resisting infectious pathogens within the respiratory tract, and accordingly, the in situ analysis of h2o2 generation in real time provides a valuable tool for assessing immune response. we found that nasal epithelial cells by themselves respond to viral infection by generating h2o2, and that the in vivo cumulative h2o2 level in the nasal mucosa peaks at day 3 post-infection. hydrogen peroxide (h2o2) has a major function in host-microbial interactions. here we show that h2o2 released by streptococcus pneumoniae inhibits inflammasomes, key components of the innate immune system, contributing to the pathogen colonization of the host. we also show that the oral commensal h2o2-producing bacteria streptococcus oralis can block inflammasome activation. this study uncovers an unexpected role of h2o2 in immune suppression and demonstrates how, through this mechanism, bacteria might restrain the immune system to co-exist with the host. ',
 "Does gargling with hydrogen peroxide have health risks? [SEP] hydrogen peroxide is a highly reactive substance which can damage oral soft tissues and hard tissues when present in high concentrations and with exposures of prolonged duration. this report provides an overview of health issues relating to the use of hydrogen peroxide, with an emphasis on safety with prolonged exposure to low concentrations of peroxide products. there is good evidence for the safety of hydrogen peroxide when used at low concentrations on a daily basis over extended periods of time, in self-administered oral health care products such as dentifrices and mouthrinses. caution should be exercised with the increasingly higher concentration peroxide products used for 'walking' or 'power' bleaching due to the possibility of chemical irritation of oral soft tissues with injudicious use. hydrogen peroxide is not more effective than other antiseptics; its potentially serious risk should not be unrecognized. a case of fatal oxygen embolism in a child after ingestion of hydrogen peroxide is reported. morbidity and mortality have also been reported with the use of hydrogen peroxide in hospitals. this article discusses the truth behind these concerns and whether it is in fact safe to use hydrogen peroxide solution for wound cleaning in specific situations. ingestion of hydrogen peroxide is not an uncommon source of poisoning, and results in morbidity through three main mechanisms: direct caustic injury, oxygen gas formation and lipid peroxidation. a case of a 39-year-old man who inadvertently ingested 250 ml of unlabelled 35% hydrogen peroxide intended for natural health use is presented. ",
 "Can vitamin C prevent infection with coronavirus or prevent deaths from covid-19? [SEP] vitamin c's antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and immunomodulating effects make it a potential therapeutic candidate, both for the prevention and amelioration of covid-19 infection, and as an adjunctive therapy in the critical care of covid-19. this literature review focuses on vitamin c deficiency in respiratory infections, including covid-19, and the mechanisms of action in infectious disease, including support of the stress response, its role in preventing and treating colds and pneumonia, and its role in treating sepsis and covid-19. the evidence to date indicates that oral vitamin c (2-8 g/day) may reduce the incidence and duration of respiratory infections and intravenous vitamin c (6-24 g/day) has been shown to reduce mortality, intensive care unit (icu) and hospital stays, and time on mechanical ventilation for severe respiratory infections. given the favourable safety profile and low cost of vitamin c, and the frequency of vitamin c deficiency in respiratory infections, it may be worthwhile testing patients' vitamin c status and treating them accordingly with intravenous administration within icus and oral administration in hospitalised persons with covid-19. vitamin d might have beneficial potential in influencing the natural history of the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) due to its immunomodulatory and anti-inflammatory properties. this review discussed the possible roles of vitamin d in reducing the risk of covid-19 and other acute respiratory tract infections and severity. we aim to determine if high dose intravenous vitamin c (hdivc) was effective for covid-19 patients in severe condition. we reviewed the feasibility of using vitamin c in the setting of covid-19 in a series of patients. we identified a total of 17 patients who received iv vitamin c for covid-19. the use of iv vitamin c in patients with moderate to severe covid-19 disease may be feasible. ",
 'Does vitamin D prevent covid-19 disease? Does vitamin D mitigate the course of Covid 19 disease? [SEP] vitamin d might have beneficial potential in influencing the natural history of the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) due to its immunomodulatory and anti-inflammatory properties. whether vitamin d is associated with coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) incidence is unknown. great interest has been raised by the possible protective role of vitamin d in coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19), but objective data on 25(oh)vitamin d deficiency in hospitalized covid-19 patients are not conclusive. while further confirmation is needed, vitamin d supplementation may have prevention or treatment potential for covid-19 disease. to examine whether vitamin d deficiency and treatment are associated with testing positive for covid-19. vitamin d deficiency that is not sufficiently treated is associated with covid-19 risk. evidence suggests that vitamin d supplementation could potentially be effective either in treatment or prevention of coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19). in this review, we focus on the potential mechanisms of vitamin d in the pathogenesis of covid-19. since the outbreak of the coronavirus disease-2019 (covid-19) pandemic, several articles have suggested the potential involvement of vitamin d in reducing the risk and severity of the disease. speculative hypotheses and observational data have suggested a protective role of vitamin d in covid-19. ',
 'Is plasma therapy for covid-19 effective in preventing deaths? [SEP] plasma provided by covid-19 convalescent patients may provide therapeutic relief as the number of covid-19 cases escalates steeply worldwide. prior findings in various viral respiratory diseases including sars-cov-related pneumonia suggest that convalescent plasma can reduce mortality, although formal proof of efficacy is still lacking. convalescent plasma is being considered as a potential therapy for covid-19. the principle of plasma therapy can be used for prophylaxis and treatment purpose. in view of non-availability of suitable vaccine for prevention or no established definitive therapy for sars-cov-2, plasma therapy is gaining importance in a current pandemic as one of the treatment options for the treatment of covid-19. coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 not yet has established its treatment, but convalescent plasma has been expected to increase survival rates as in the case with other emerging viral infections. we describe two cases of covid-19 treated with convalescent plasma infusion. convalescent plasma is emerging as a potentially safe and effective treatment option for patients severely or critically ill with covid-19. among the various treatment proposals for covid-19 infection, passive immunotherapy using plasma from recovering patients - "convalescent plasma" (cp)- could be a promising option in the treatment of sars-cov-2 infections. although convalescent plasma has historically proven beneficial in the treatment of some viral diseases, its use is still explorative in the context of covid-19. ',
 'Does treatment with cortisone-like drugs such as dexamethasone ensure that more critically ill patients survive Covid 19 disease? [SEP] to investigate the effect of corticosteroid on hospital mortality, hospital length of stay, and time of viral clearance in patients with severe and critical covid-19. corticosteroid therapy in patients with severe covid-19 cannot reduce the hospital mortality, and is not associated with delayed viral clearance, but it could relieve the inflammatory storm and improve clinical symptoms in brief. patients with severe covid-19 could benefit from low-dose corticosteroid treatment. in this study of critically ill patients with covid-19 and acute respiratory failure, low-dose hydrocortisone, compared with placebo, did not significantly reduce treatment failure (defined as death or persistent respiratory support) at day 21. in this clinical practice setting, low-dose corticosteroid treatment was associated with reduced risk of in-hospital death within 60\xa0days in covid-19 patients who developed ards. effective therapies for patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) are needed, and clinical trial data have demonstrated that low-dose dexamethasone reduced mortality in hospitalized patients with covid-19 who required respiratory support. prospective meta-analysis that pooled data from 7 randomized clinical trials that evaluated the efficacy of corticosteroids in 1703 critically ill patients with covid-19. in this prospective meta-analysis of clinical trials of critically ill patients with covid-19, administration of systemic corticosteroids, compared with usual care or placebo, was associated with lower 28-day all-cause mortality. to determine whether intravenous dexamethasone increases the number of ventilator-free days among patients with covid-19-associated ards. among patients with covid-19 and moderate or severe ards, use of intravenous dexamethasone plus standard care compared with standard care alone resulted in a statistically significant increase in the number of ventilator-free days (days alive and free of mechanical ventilation) over 28 days. ',
 'Can contact with holy water make you sick? [SEP] use of holy springs and holy water is inherent in religious activities. holy spring water is also used extensively for personal drinking water, although not assessed according to drinking water standards. holy water in churches and chapels may cause infections via wetting of lips and sprinkling on persons. our aim was to assess the microbiological and chemical water quality of holy springs and holy water in churches and hospital chapels. all holy water samples from churches and hospital chapels showed extremely high concentrations of hpc; fecal indicators, pseudomonas aeruginosa and staphylococcus aureus occurred only in the most frequently visited churches. holy water can be another source of infection, especially in hospital chapels and frequently visited churches. the effect of chemical contaminations in drinking water on human being is found to be chronic rather than acute and hence can be defined "consumption of contaminated drinking water could be a silent killer". by an animal trial, we investigated the synergic effect(s) of heavy metals, aluminium, arsenic, fluoride and hardness in drinking water on kidney tissues of mice. our investigation strongly suggests existing of a synergic effect especially among cd, f and hardness of water which could lead to severe kidney damage in mice, even at who maximum recommended levels. levels of fecal contamination on hands of mothers and children were positively correlated to fecal contamination in stored drinking water within households. ',
 'Can Echinacea protect against colds? [SEP] the objective of this review was to assess the effects of preparations containing extracts of echinacea in the prevention and treatment of the common cold. echinacea purpurea stimulates the immune response and is promoted to reduce symptom severity and the duration of upper respiratory tract infections. some studies have concluded that echinacea effectively reduces the symptoms and duration of the common cold. are echinacea products associated with a reduced incidence and a shorter duration of common colds compared with placebo? individual prophylaxis trials show no association with prevention of the common cold, but exploratory meta-analysis suggests that echinacea products may be associated with a small reduction in cold incidence. echinacea purpurea has been widely used for the prevention and treatment of upper respiratory tract infections and the common cold. preparations of echinacea are widely used as alternative remedies to prevent the common cold and infections in the upper respiratory tract. echinacea extracts have traditionally been used in the treatment of many infectious and other diseases (such as rhinovirus colds), and research has revealed the presence of various bioactivities in these extracts, particularly those connected with immune responses. in addition, echinacea extracts tended to neutralize the effects of the rhinovirus. recently, echinacea has regained popularity as one of the treatments chosen most commonly by consumers with the expectation that it will reduce the severity and duration of the common cold. ',
 'Can echinacea relieve the discomfort of colds??? [SEP] recently, echinacea has regained popularity as one of the treatments chosen most commonly by consumers with the expectation that it will reduce the severity and duration of the common cold. some studies have concluded that echinacea effectively reduces the symptoms and duration of the common cold. the objective of this review was to assess the effects of preparations containing extracts of echinacea in the prevention and treatment of the common cold. randomised and quasi-randomised trials comparing preparations containing an extract of echinacea compared with a placebo, no treatment, or another treatment for common colds. echinacea extracts have traditionally been used in the treatment of many infectious and other diseases (such as rhinovirus colds), and research has revealed the presence of various bioactivities in these extracts, particularly those connected with immune responses. in addition to widespread use in reducing the symptoms of colds and flu, echinacea is traditionally employed to treat fungal and bacterial infections. are echinacea products associated with a reduced incidence and a shorter duration of common colds compared with placebo? individual prophylaxis trials show no association with prevention of the common cold, but exploratory meta-analysis suggests that echinacea products may be associated with a small reduction in cold incidence. echinaceae purpureae herba (echinacin, ec31j0) has shown promising results in the relief of common cold symptoms and the time taken to improvement compared to placebo. echinacea is a widely used herbal remedy for the treatment of colds and other infections. ',
 'Does taking LaVita promote health or physical and mental performance? (Reader inquiry) [SEP] to date, few studies have demonstrated the effect of loe supplementation on exercise performance, physical fatigue and biochemical profile. the purpose of this study is to evaluate the potential beneficial effects of loe extract on fatigue and ergogenic functions following physiological challenge. loe supplementation was able to dose-dependently increase endurance swimming time (p<0.0001) and decrease levels of serum lactate (p=0.0022), ammonia (p<0.0001), creatine kinase (p<0.0001), blood urea nitrogen (p<0.0001) and glucose utilization (p<0.0001) after acute exercise challenge. our study shows that 4-week supplementation with loe increases muscle glycogen content storage to enhance exercise performance and anti-fatigue effects. the findings showed that lev promotes an important cognitive enhancement in the executive functions. a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study was conducted, in order to evaluate if lactobacillus helveticus lafti® l10 (lallemand health solutions, montreal, canada) supplementation during three months could influence oxidative markers in the population of elite athletes: triathletes, cyclists and endurance athletes. in conclusion, probiotic strain lafti® l10 exerts certain antioxidant potential, but further research is needed. physical complaints were assessed by the patient health questionnaire-15 and la- or treatment-related qol by the apheresis quality of life form, developed for this study. lycopene is a potent antioxidant found in such diets with evidence suggesting beneficial effects. we wished to investigate the effects of lycopene on the vasculature in cvd patients and separately, in healthy volunteers (hv). ',
 'Do dental care products with nanoparticles of hydroxyapatite help pain-sensitive teeth? And can they prevent caries or repair already affected, decayed tooth enamel? [SEP] toothpastes containing hydroxyapatite (ha-toothpaste) have demonstrated efficacy in preventing caries, treating hypersensitivity and curing periodontal diseases, however, their effects on whitening teeth have not been investigated. in this study, the polishing and whitening properties of hydroxyapatite contained toothpastes were evaluated in a combined experimental and clinical study. the results revealed that the addition of hydroxyapatite to toothpaste did not alter its polishing properties, while it did result in a marked increase in tooth-whiting. it is concluded that toothpaste containing hydroxyapatite are effective at whitening tooth and that whitening was not due to their polishing effect on tooth surface. background: toothpastes containing nano-hydroxyapatite (n-hap) substituted with metal ions provide calcium and phosphate ions to dental hard tissues, reducing demineralization, and promoting remineralization. the aim of this study is to test the efficacy of a hydroxyapatite paste to decrease dentine permeability and resist an erosion challenge. the application of the hydroxyapatite paste to dentine significantly decreased dentine permeability (p < 0.05). hydroxyapatite paste applied with the technique adopted in the current study has a high potential to be a useful aid in the treatment of dentine hypersensitivity. the aim of this study was to compare the effectiveness of nano-hydroxyapatite (nano-hap) paste and fluoride varnish in remineralizing initial enamel lesion in young permanent teeth and their ability to resist secondary caries under dynamic ph cycling quantitatively and qualitatively. this study aimed to compare and evaluate the remineralization potential of commercially available agents containing nano-hydroxyapatite (nano-ha), casein phosphopeptide-amorphous calcium phosphate fluoride (cpp-acpf), and tricalcium phosphate (tcp) on artificially induced white spot lesions in primary teeth. ',
 "Can light therapy with light lamps relieve the symptoms of autumn-winter depression? [SEP] light therapy (lt) has been widely used in the treatment of seasonal affective disorder. light therapy is a well-established treatment option for seasonal affective disorders and is effective in reducing sleep problems and daytime fatigue. the present study, a 1- to 2-week open trial of bright (greater than or equal to 2,000 lux) incandescent light with seasonal (fall/winter) and nonseasonal depressives, produced a therapeutic effect on seasonal depression, as measured by three criteria for recovery: final score on the hamilton rating scale for depression (hrsd) less than 10; final hrsd score less than or equal to 50% of pretreatment hrsd score; no longer meets dsm-iii criteria for major depressive disorder. investigators, in studies demonstrating the usefulness of bright light therapy, also have implicated light's role in non-seasonal depression. manipulations of sleep and light (for winter depression) rapidly improve mood in 60% of depressed patients. previous reports have shown that bright light exposure may benefit patients with seasonal depression. in the present study, the possible therapeutic effect of bright light in nonseasonal major depressive disorder was examined. contrary to the findings in seasonal affective disorder, phototherapy administered over one week for two hr daily is not effective in nonseasonal major depressive disorder. previous studies suggest that light therapy, as used to treat seasonal affective disorder, may be beneficial for pre-menstrual depressive disorders. a highly predictable onset of a recurrent depressive episode with seasonal pattern provides a rationale for testing the efficacy of bright-light treatment as a preventive measure. ",
 'Does vitamin B3 protect against severe covid-19 events? [SEP] we aimed to establish whether blood 25-hydroxyvitamin d (25(oh)d) concentration was associated with covid-19 risk, and whether it explained the higher incidence of covid-19 in black and south asian people. this review discussed the possible roles of vitamin d in reducing the risk of covid-19 and other acute respiratory tract infections and severity. randomised trials are needed to prove a beneficial role for vitamin d in the prevention of severe covid-19 reactions or death. whether vitamin d is associated with coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) incidence is unknown. to examine whether the last vitamin d status before covid-19 testing is associated with covid-19 test results. in this single-center, retrospective cohort study, likely deficient vitamin d status was associated with increased covid-19 risk, a finding that suggests that randomized trials may be needed to determine whether vitamin d affects covid-19 risk. to determine the effect of vitamin d supplementation on disease progression and post-exposure prophylaxis for covid-19 infection. we hypothesize that high-dose vitamin d3 supplementation will reduce risk of hospitalization/death among those with recently diagnosed covid-19 infection and will reduce risk of covid-19 infection among their close household contacts. we report the rationale and design of a planned pragmatic, cluster randomized, double-blinded trial (n\u202f=\u202f2700 in total nationwide), with 1500 newly diagnosed individuals with covid-19 infection, together with up to one close household contact each (~1200 contacts), randomized to either vitamin d3 (loading dose, then 3200\u202fiu/day) or placebo in a 1:1 ratio and a household cluster design. we concluded that the daily supplementation of 2000-5000 iu/day of vitamin d3 in older adults with pd has the potential to slow the progression of pd while also potentially offering additional protection against covid-19. ',
 "Does taking coenzyme Q10 improve movement disorders in Parkinson's disease? [SEP] coenzyme q10 (coq10) is frequently administered in mitochondrial diseases. coenzyme q10 is a vitamin-like substance used in the treatment of a variety of disorders primarily related to suboptimal cellular energy metabolism and oxidative injury. studies supporting the efficacy of coenzyme q10 appear most promising for neurodegenerative disorders such as parkinson's disease and certain encephalomyopathies for which coenzyme q10 has gained orphan drug status. coenzyme q10 appears to be a safe supplement with minimal side effects and low drug interaction potential. the therapeutic value of coenzyme q10 in parkinson's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders is still being tested and the preliminary results are promising. coenzyme q10 (coq10) is an essential cofactor in the mitochondrial respiratory chain, and as a dietary supplement it has recently gained attention for its potential role in the treatment of neurodegenerative disease. therapeutic benefit from coq10 supplementation has also been noted in other neurodegenerative diseases. backgrounds and aims: clinical studies demonstrated that the efficacy of coenzyme q10 (coq10) as an adjuvant therapeutic agent in several neurological diseases such as parkinson disease (pd), huntington disease (hd), and migraine. coenzyme q(10) (coq(10)) exerts neuroprotective effects in several in vivo and in vitro models of neurodegenerative disorders. coenzyme q10 (coq10), an antioxidant that supports mitochondrial function, has been shown in preclinical parkinson disease (pd) models to reduce the loss of dopamine neurons, and was safe and well tolerated in early-phase human studies. ",
 'Does treatment with focused high-intensity ultrasound (HIFU) reduce abdominal girth? [SEP] high-intensity focused ultrasound (hifu) has been proven effective in body sculpting when used noninvasively to reduce subcutaneous fat and improve body contour. twenty-four male subjects (18 to 59\xa0years old) with bmi\xa0≤\xa030\xa0kg/cm² and at least 2\xa0cm of abdominal fat received a single hifu treatment session. high-intensity focused ultrasound was found to be an effective treatment in reducing localized adiposities in the abdominal region. the clinical use of high intensity focused ultrasound (hifu) therapy for noninvasive tissue ablation has been recently gaining momentum. high-intensity focused ultrasound (hifu) is a noninvasive thermodestructive procedure targeting internal organs with concentrated sonification energy that may cause pain. high-intensity focused ultrasound (hifu) is a non-invasive uterine-preserving treatment alternative to hysterectomy for women with fibroids. a device under clinical investigation in the united states (liposonix; medicis technologies corporation, bothell, washington) uses hifu to reduce localized deposits of abdominal adipose tissue. high-intensity focused ultrasound (hifu) has been applied clinically for the noninvasive treatment of pathological conditions in various organs for over 50 years; however, there are little data describing the use of thermal hifu to ablate fat for body contouring and treatment of collagen-rich layers. hifu treatment at different energy levels and multiple tissue depths was well tolerated and effective in reducing waist circumference. high-intensity focussed ultrasound (hifu) is a non-invasive ablative technique utilising the application of high frequency ultrasound (us) pressure waves to cause tissue necrosis. ',
 'Does sugar substitution increase the risk of developing or dying from cancer? [SEP] background: higher sugar consumption may increase cancer risk by promoting insulin-glucose dysregulation, oxidative stress, hormonal imbalances, and excess adiposity. experimental data suggest that sugars could play a role in cancer etiology through obesity but also through inflammatory and oxidative mechanisms and insulin resistance, even in the absence of weight gain. total sugar intake was associated with higher overall cancer risk (n\xa0=\xa02503 cases; hr for quartile 4 compared with quartile 1: 1.17; 95% ci: 1.00, 1.37; ptrend\xa0=\xa00.02). these results suggest that sugars may represent a modifiable risk factor for cancer prevention (breast in particular), contributing to the current debate on the implementation of sugar taxation, marketing regulation, and other sugar-related policies. high sugar intake may increase cancer risk by promoting insulin-glucose dysregulation, oxidative stress, inflammation, and body adiposity, but epidemiologic evidence is unclear. associations between dietary sugars and lifestyle-related cancer risk from longitudinal studies were evaluated. in two of five studies on added sugars, a 60-95% increased cancer risk was observed with higher intakes. we investigated whether higher consumption of sugar-sweetened soft drinks increases the risk of pancreatic cancer. a parallel increase in sugar intake, which may facilitate carcinogenesis by promoting hyperglycaemia, led us to examine sugar/carbohydrate intake in association with ea/gca incidence and survival. although previous studies have linked intake of sugars with incidence of cancer and other chronic diseases, its association with mortality remains unknown. ',
 'Does ozonated vegetable oil help against athlete\'s foot or nail fungus? [SEP] ozonated oils are antiseptics obtained from the chemical reaction between ozone and unsaturated fatty acids of vegetable oils. the aim of this study was to investigate the antimicrobial effectiveness of a commercially available ozonated oil (o3-oil), in comparison with 0.2% chlorhexidine digluconate (chx) and 10% povidone-iodine (pvp-i) through a disk diffusion test. the search for a wide spectrum of antimicrobial agents that can avoid resistance while maintaining reasonable side effects has led to ozonated oils experiencing an increase in scientific interest and clinical applications. interest in the use of ozonated oils has meant that several ozonated-vegetable-oil-containing products have been commercialized as cosmetic and pharmaceutical agents, and in innovative textile products with antibacterial activity. the present review focuses on the current status of delivery agents that use ozonated oils as antimicrobial agents in topical (dermal, skin, and soft tissues) treatments. recently, interest has grown regarding the application of ozonated oil for vascular leg ulcer treatment. the efficacy of an innovative spray formulation of ozonated oil and α-bisabolol combination in the topical treatment of chronic venous leg ulcers was evaluated compared with standard epithelialization cream. the "in vitro" antifungal activity of ozonized sunflower oil (bioperoxoil®) was tested on 101 samples of yeasts originating from onychomycosis using the disk diffusion method. ozone treatment of commercially available vegetable oils gives rise to the formation of chemical species that are responsible for the therapeutic properties of ozonated oil derivatives in dermatological diseases. the o. azureus essential oil alone or in combination with azoles is a promising antifungal agent in the treatment for human dermatomycoses caused by filamentous fungi. ',
 'Does ozonated vegetable oil help against vaginal fungus?? [SEP] ozonated oils are antiseptics obtained from the chemical reaction between ozone and unsaturated fatty acids of vegetable oils. the aim of this study was to investigate the antimicrobial effectiveness of a commercially available ozonated oil (o3-oil), in comparison with 0.2% chlorhexidine digluconate (chx) and 10% povidone-iodine (pvp-i) through a disk diffusion test. our results showed the interesting anti-aspergillus activity of o. vulgare essential oil supporting their possible use as anti-mould compound in food conservation. the treatment of vegetable oils with ozone leads to the creation of a reservoir of ozone that slowly releases into the skin thanks to the fact that ozone can be held as ozonides of unsaturated fatty acids. interest in the use of ozonated oils has meant that several ozonated-vegetable-oil-containing products have been commercialized as cosmetic and pharmaceutical agents, and in innovative textile products with antibacterial activity. the present review focuses on the current status of delivery agents that use ozonated oils as antimicrobial agents in topical (dermal, skin, and soft tissues) treatments. ozone treatment of commercially available vegetable oils gives rise to the formation of chemical species that are responsible for the therapeutic properties of ozonated oil derivatives in dermatological diseases. this study aimed to investigate the application of origanum vulgare l. essential oil (eo) as an alternative antimicrobial agent against vaginal infections. examination of potential of the o. vulgare eo as a main antimicrobial constituent within vaginalettes in gynaecological practice. ozone can react with vegetable oils to produce ozonized oils which have antimicrobial properties and can be used in dermatology. ',
 'Are health checks of symptom-free individuals (screening) effective in containing the pandemic? [SEP] screening for disease control can be defined as a preventive technology that is used to examine asymptomatic people in order to classify them as likely or unlikely to have the disease that is the object of screening. the active check-over for disease among apparently healthy people is a fundamental aspect of prevention. this is perceivable by screening, which is a search of unrecognized disease or condition by means of rapidly applied test, examination or other procedures in apparently healthy individuals. screening asymptomatic individuals to detect early unapparent conditions is an important public health intervention strategy. health screening is defined as the use of a test or a series of tests to detect unrecognized health risks or preclinical disease in apparently healthy populations to permit prevention and timely intervention. the purpose of screening is to identify asymptomatic disease, or risk factors for disease, so that interventions can occur as early as possible in the disease process. for infectious diseases, screening can benefit not only the individual with the disease but also the community, since infectious persons can be identified and treated prior to transmitting the disease to others. patient willingness to undergo screening and recognition of relevance of screening were screening enablers. it is therefore important to assess whether general health checks do more good than harm. screening is a diagnostic activity applied to whole populations, or defined sections of populations, with the aim to detect the signs of disease before there are symptoms. ',
 'Does melatonin help against jet lag? [SEP] the role of the pineal gland hormone, melatonin, in the synchronization of biological rhythms has raised interest in its use to alleviate jet lag. indeed, recent studies support the use of this well-tolerated drug as a remedy for jet lag on long-haul flights. both in field and simulated studies of jet lag and shift work suitably timed melatonin improved sleep and, in some cases, hastened readaptation of the circadian rhythms following the phase shift. it has been suggested that the pineal hormone melatonin can modulate circadian rhythmicity and may have clinical utility in treating biological clock disorders. thus, there is considerable clinical interest in using melatonin to treat disorders, such as jet-lag. we concluded the use of oral melatonin probably reduces symptoms associated with jet lag syndrome. melatonin is being increasingly promoted as a treatment for "jet lag" and insomnia and has been suggested to act as an antioxidant in vivo. pharmacological doses of melatonin were reported to have sleep-inducing effects in insomniacs. it has been suggested that melatonin may have therapeutic potential for alleviating jet lag. the circadian effects of melatonin in humans have led to its use to treat jet lag and circadian-based sleep disorders. ',
 'Does sunscreen reduce the likelihood of skin cancer? [SEP] numerous epidemiological investigations show that sunlight is carcinogenic to humans and that the use of sunscreen may be effective in decreasing the risk of skin cancer. use of sunscreens is widely advocated as a preventive measure against sun-induced skin cancers. approximately 86% of the subjects knew that sunscreen use could prevent sunburn, and 70% reported that sunscreen could prevent skin cancer. in epidemiologic studies, sunscreen use is associated with increased risk of cutaneous melanoma, basal cell skin cancer, and higher numbers of nevi. this review of results of randomized controlled trials shows that the evidence, though limited, supports beneficial effects of sunscreen application on the occurrence of skin cancers and skin photoaging. the most important avoidable cause of skin cancer is ultraviolet radiation from the sun, but sunscreens are often used in a suboptimal manner, compromising their effectiveness. sunscreens are known to protect against sunlight-induced erythema and sunburn, but their efficiency at protecting against skin cancer is still a matter of debate. do the potential risks of sunscreen use outweigh the benefits? sunscreen is used as a primary strategy to prevent sunburn and later skin cancer. however, sunscreen use has paradoxically been associated with the increasing incidence of skin cancer. ',
 'Are international travel restrictions and border health checks effective in curbing the spread of covid-19? [SEP] at the time of writing, in july 2020, the covid-19 pandemic has already inflicted dramatic international restrictions, including airports closing and limiting international travel. in response to the covid-19 pandemic, countries have implemented various strategies to reduce and slow the spread of the disease in the general population. travel restrictions have become a common disease control measure during the 2019 coronavirus disease pandemic (covid-19). vaccine entry requirements have proved effective in controlling the international spread of yellow fever but more can be done to ensure better use of this measure. after officially declared as a pandemic by the world health organization (who), drastic measures to restrict human movements to contain the covid-19 infection are employed by most of the countries. since the world health organization (who) declared covid-19 a global pandemic, several strict measures have been recommended to prevent and control the spread of the virus worldwide. the covid-19 pandemic is impacting national and international public health. traveller screening is being used to limit further spread of covid-19 following its recent emergence, and symptom screening has become a ubiquitous tool in the global response. these findings can support evidence-based policy to combat the spread of covid-19, and prospective planning to mitigate future emerging pathogens. to slow down the spread of covid-19, governments worldwide are trying to identify infected people, and contain the virus by enforcing isolation, and quarantine. ',
 'Does hypnosis help with smoking cessation? [SEP] hypnotherapy is widely promoted as a method for aiding smoking cessation. to evaluate the efficacy of hypnotherapy for smoking cessation. hypnotherapy is widely promoted as a method for aiding smoking cessation. the objective of this review was to evaluate the effects of hypnotherapy for smoking cessation. this study investigated the mechanisms of smoking treatment based on hypnosis from two perspectives: immediate and follow-up effects. the smokers reported decreased craving after hypnosis. hypnosis has been shown to have treatment effects on nicotine addiction. our study found that self-reported smoking craving decreased in both groups following hypnosis. hypnosis has a long-standing reputation in smoking cessation therapy, but its efficacy has not been scientifically proven. this article reviews 59 studies of hypnosis and smoking cessation as to whether the research empirically supports hypnosis as a treatment. ',
 'Does denosumab (Prolia) reduce the risk of vertebral fractures in osteoporosis? [SEP] denosumab is a potent antiresorptive drug leading to significant reduction in the risk of vertebral and non-vertebral fractures in postmenopausal osteoporosis. studies in women with post-menopausal osteoporosis have shown that discontinuation of treatment with denosumab leads to an increased risk of vertebral fractures because of rebound bone turnover and rapid loss of bone mineral density (bmd). denosumab, a rankl inhibitor, reduced the risk of vertebral, hip, and nonvertebral fractures in the fracture reduction evaluation of denosumab in osteoporosis every 6 months (freedom) trial of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis compared with placebo. in randomized controlled trials, denosumab has been shown to significantly reduce the fracture risk in women with osteoporosis. the freedom (fracture reduction evaluation of denosumab in osteoporosis every 6 months) trial showed denosumab significantly reduced the risk of fractures in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. we evaluated the effect of denosumab on the incidence of new vertebral and hip fractures in subgroups of women at higher risk for these fractures. compared with placebo, denosumab significantly reduced the risk of new vertebral fractures in women with multiple and/or severe prevalent vertebral fractures (16.6% placebo vs. 7.5% denosumab; p < 0.001). denosumab reduced the incidence of new vertebral and hip fractures in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at higher risk for fracture. denosumab reduced bone resorption, increased bone mineral density (bmd), and decreased new vertebral, hip, and nonvertebral fracture risk in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis in the freedom trial. denosumab significantly decreased the risk of clinical osteoporotic fractures in postmenopausal women. ',
 'Does discontinuation of denosumab increase the risk of vertebral fractures??? [SEP] discontinuation of denosumab is associated with a rapid return of bone mineral density (bmd) to baseline and an increased risk of multiple vertebral fractures. denosumab discontinuation is associated with a rebound effect manifesting by an increased risk of multiple spontaneous vertebral fractures. during a period of 28 months (september 2015-january 2018) 7 women presenting spontaneous vertebral fractures after denosumab discontinuation were attended in the rheumatology department of our centre. we analyzed the risk of new or worsening vertebral fractures, especially multiple vertebral fractures, in participants who discontinued denosumab during the freedom study or its extension. of 1001 participants who discontinued denosumab during freedom or extension, the vertebral fracture rate increased from 1.2 per 100 participant-years during the on-treatment period to 7.1, similar to participants who received and then discontinued placebo (n\u2009=\u2009470; 8.5 per 100 participant-years). the vertebral fracture rate increased upon denosumab discontinuation to the level observed in untreated participants. a majority of participants who sustained a vertebral fracture after discontinuing denosumab had multiple vertebral fractures, with greatest risk in participants with a prior vertebral fracture. recent reports imply that denosumab discontinuation may lead to an increased risk of multiple vertebral fractures. clinical case series report multiple vertebral fractures after discontinuation of denosumab and a renewed analysis of freedom and freedom extension trial suggests, albeit does not prove, that the risk of multiple vertebral fractures may be increased when denosumab is stopped due to a rebound increase in bone resorption. there appears to be an increased risk of multiple vertebral fractures after discontinuation of denosumab although strong evidence for such an effect and for measures to prevent the occurring bone loss is lacking. ',
 'Does taking magnesium improve the symptoms of depression? [SEP] magnesium is effective for mild-to-moderate depression in adults. the growing body of evidence suggests that magnesium levels can serve as a marker of major depressive disorder (mdd), but findings from clinical trials remain inconclusive. magnesium has an effect on biological and transduction pathways implicated in the pathophysiology of depression. the possible role of magnesium in depression prevention and treatment remains unclear. we systematically reviewed the possible links between magnesium and depression in humans. a higher intake of dietary magnesium seems to be associated with lower depression symptoms though reverse causality cannot be excluded. oral magnesium supplementation may prevent depression and might be used as an adjunctive therapy. preclinical and clinical evidence suggests that magnesium, an n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor blocker, may be useful in the treatment of depression. magnesium supplementation is associated with improved depressive symptoms, but because the mechanism is unknown, it is unclear whether serum magnesium levels act as a biological predictor of the treatment outcome. serum magnesium may help identify the biological mechanism of depressive symptoms and identify patients likely to respond to magnesium supplementation. ',
 'Does focused ultrasound (HIFU) treatment reduce wrinkles and sagging of the skin? [SEP] high-intensity focused ultrasound (hifu) is one of noninvasive modalities that provides safe and effective improvement in skin laxity and tightening with minimal adverse effects. high-intensity focused ultrasound (hifu) has been proven effective in body sculpting when used noninvasively to reduce subcutaneous fat and improve body contour. high-intensity focused ultrasound was found to be an effective treatment in reducing localized adiposities in the abdominal region. this study further strengthens the current view that hifu is an effective and safe tool for localized fat reduction. intense focused ultrasound (ifus), a novel treatment modality for skin laxity, produces thermal effects at various depths while sparing overlying epidermis. high-intensity focused ultrasound (hifu) has recently been introduced in the treatment of facial wrinkles and laxity. high-intensity focused ultrasound can be an effective noninvasive treatment modality in facial and neck rejuvenation with an acceptable safety profile. ultrasound is efficacious for skin rejuvenation, body contouring, and reduction of cellulite of the face, décolletage, abdomen, and thighs. ultrasound seems to be an efficacious, effective, and safe modality for correction of skin laxity, lipolysis, and decrease the appearance of cellulite. various high intense focused ultrasound (hifu) devices have been introduced in recent years for improving skin laxity, with satisfactory results. ',
 'Does a ketogenic diet help against cancer? [SEP] the ketogenic diet (kd), a high-fat/low-carbohydrate/adequate-protein diet, has been proposed as a treatment for a variety of diseases, including cancer. recently, dietary modulation by carbohydrate depletion via ketogenic diet has been suggested as an important therapeutic strategy to selectively kill cancer cells and as adjuvant therapy for cancer treatment. this review revisits the meaning of physiological ketosis in the light of this evidence and considers possibility of the use of ketogenic diet for oncology patients. the review focused on the results of human trials for cancer patients and checked the feasibility of using ketogenic diet for cancer patients as adjuvant therapy. ketogenic diet may be efficacious in certain cancer subtypes whose outcomes appear to correlate with metabolic status, but the results are not yet supportive and inconsistent. low-carbohydrate, high-fat diets (ketogenic diets) might prevent tumor progression and could be used as supportive therapy; however, few studies have addressed the effect of such diets on colorectal cancer. the application of ketogenic diet (kd) (high fat/low carbohydrate/adequate protein) as an auxiliary cancer therapy is a field of growing attention. ketogenic diet (kd) is a high-fat-content diet with insufficiency of carbohydrates that induces ketogenesis. a dietary therapeutic strategy was proposed to inhibit tumor growth through administration of low-carbohydrate, average-protein, and high-fat diet, which is also known as ketogenic diet (kd). the ketogenic diet (kd) is a high-fat, low carbohydrate diet that is used as a therapy for intractable epilepsy. ',
 'Do curd compresses have an analgesic effect (e.g. for muscle and joint pain)? Do they have an antipyretic effect? Do curd compresses help breastfeeding women with lactation congestion? [SEP] there was no analgesic effect on incisional pain during breastfeeding, indicating that endogenous oxytocin associated with breastfeeding may not play a significant role in postpartum cesarean wound pain modulation. there are several alternative treatments, but there have not been any randomized controlled trial studies about the effects of herbal compresses for breast engorgement. the objective is to investigate the effects of herbal compresses for maternal breast engorgement. the pain reduction scales of the herbal compress treatments were analyzed and compared with the hot compress treatments. there were statistically significant mean differences of breast engorgement pain before and after treatment between the herbal and hot compress groups. no serious complications were found after treatment from herbal compresses. among the postpartum mothers who had breast engorgement, the herbal compresses could decrease breast engorgement pain. the pain reduction after herbal compresses was found to be greater than with the hot compresses. common prenatal ailments negatively impact performance of activities of daily living and it has been proposed that the use of dynamic elastomeric fabric orthoses, more commonly referred to as compression garments, during pregnancy might aid in the reduction of pain from these ailments, allowing for improved functional capacity. this study aims to determine whether compression shorts are effective and thermally safe in the prevention and management of prenatal pelvic and low back pain (lbp). ',
 'Does deuterium-reduced water prevent cancer? [SEP] work with sub-natural levels of deuterium (d) in animals has demonstrated an anti-cancer effect of low d-concentration in water. it is found that consumption of deuterium depleted water reduces not only the content of deuterium in biological fluids but also more than 2 times reduces the d/h gradient value along the line: mixed saliva > blood plasma. the experimental data showed that a physiological solution prepared on deuterium depleted water during induced apoptosis activates the dna repair system, significantly reducing the number of single-stranded dna breaks, which, in general, indicates an increase in the efficiency of defensive systems of the cell. the role of naturally occurring d in living organisms has been examined by using deuterium-depleted water (30-40 ppm d) instead of water containing the natural abundance of d (150 ppm). the deuterium-depleted water significantly decreased the growth rate of the l929 fibroblast cell line, and also inhibited the tumor growth in xenotransplanted mice. deuterium depleted water delays tumor progression in mice, dogs, cats and humans. ddw is proposed here to link cancer prevention and treatment using natural ketogenic diets, low deuterium drinking water, as well as ddw production as the mitochondrial downstream mechanism of targeted anti-cancer drugs such as avastin and glivec. recent studies have demonstrated that natural water that has 65% of the deuterium concentration depleted, can exhibit anti-tumor properties. despite the convincing empirical evidence that deuterium depleted water (ddw, 25-125 ppm deuterium) has anticancer effect, the molecular mechanism remains unclear. deuterium-depleted water (ddw) has a lower concentration of deuterium than occurs naturally (less than 145 ppm). ',
 'Does deuterium-reduced water improve disease progression in cancer??? [SEP] work with sub-natural levels of deuterium (d) in animals has demonstrated an anti-cancer effect of low d-concentration in water. in oncological patients who also suffered from diabetes and were treated with deuterium-depleted water (ddw), an improvement of glucose metabolism was observed, and rat studies also proved the efficacy of ddw to reduce blood sugar level. in vitro, in vivo and clinical studies have demonstrated anti-cancer effects of deuterium depleted water (ddw). it is found that consumption of deuterium depleted water reduces not only the content of deuterium in biological fluids but also more than 2 times reduces the d/h gradient value along the line: mixed saliva > blood plasma. the experimental data showed that a physiological solution prepared on deuterium depleted water during induced apoptosis activates the dna repair system, significantly reducing the number of single-stranded dna breaks, which, in general, indicates an increase in the efficiency of defensive systems of the cell. the deuterium-depleted water significantly decreased the growth rate of the l929 fibroblast cell line, and also inhibited the tumor growth in xenotransplanted mice. deuterium depleted water delays tumor progression in mice, dogs, cats and humans. ddw is proposed here to link cancer prevention and treatment using natural ketogenic diets, low deuterium drinking water, as well as ddw production as the mitochondrial downstream mechanism of targeted anti-cancer drugs such as avastin and glivec. deuterium-enriched water has an antiproliferative effect on transplantable mouse tumors without toxic side effects. despite the convincing empirical evidence that deuterium depleted water (ddw, 25-125 ppm deuterium) has anticancer effect, the molecular mechanism remains unclear. ',
 'Can a special mattress relieve nighttime rheumatism symptoms and thus improve sleep? [SEP] articles examining the effect of temperature alterations of mattresses on promoting sleep quality and reducing pain were included as well. except for some polysomnography studies, there have been no large quantitative studies of sleep disturbance (sd) in rheumatoid arthritis (ra). sleeping mattress parameters significantly influence sleeping comfort and health, as reflected by the extensive investigations of sleeping support biomechanics to prevent sleep-related musculoskeletal problems. sleep disturbances and related daytime complaints are frequent in rheumatoid arthritis (ra). in conclusion, treatment with zopiclone may be of value for subjective sleep complaints in selected patients with ra, but it is doubtful whether hypnotics improve daytime symptoms in this patient group. patients with rheumatic diseases often exhibit sleep disturbance. presently there is insufficient evidence to determine whether pharmacological treatment of sleep disturbance is beneficial for improving sleep quantity and quality in this patient group beyond rheumatoid arthritis. this study evaluated the effect of sleep loss during part of the night on daytime mood symptoms and pain perceptions in patients with rheumatoid arthritis in comparison with control subjects. this study provides the first evidence of an exaggerated increase in symptoms of mood and pain in patients with rheumatoid arthritis after sleep loss, along with an activation of rheumatoid arthritis-related joint pain. given the reciprocal relationship between sleep disturbances and pain, clinical management of pain in patients with rheumatoid arthritis should include an increased focus on the prevention and treatment of sleep disturbance in this clinical population. ',
 "Do people with blood group AB have a higher risk of developing dementia? [SEP] recent data indicates that blood group ab is associated with impaired cognition in elderly patients. the database was linked with health outcomes data from nationwide patient and cause of death registers to investigate the relationship between blood groups and risk of different types of dementia. overall, our study showed no association between abo blood group and risk of alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia or unspecified dementia. our results provide no evidence that abo blood group influences the risk of dementia. recent evidence indicated higher incidence of cognitive deficits in abo blood-type system 'ab' individuals. blood group non-o (a, b, and ab) individuals have consistently been found to demonstrate increased incidence of both arterial and venous thrombotic disease, compared to group o individuals. abo and rhesus (rh) blood groups were examined in 124 patients with presenile dementia of the alzheimer type (pdat) and senile dementia of the alzheimer type (sdat), and their distribution was compared with controls. epidemiological studies suggest that elders with bipolar disorder (bd) may be at increased risk for dementia compared to the general population. human abo blood groups are determined by the alleles a, b, and o (o01 and o02) of the abo gene and have been linked to the risks for cardiovascular diseases and cancers that affect lifespan.we examined the genetic associations of the abo gene and blood groups with longevity. compared with healthy subjects, a significantly higher proportion of psychiatric patients had ab blood group (χ2=9.359, df=3, p=0.025) and, accordingly, a significantly higher incidence of a1b genotype (χ2=8.226, df=3, p=0.042). ",
 "Does therapeutic dancing help people with Parkinson's improve their movement problems? [SEP] research has consistently shown that dancing can have a positive impact on the lives of people living with parkinson's (pwp). while dance may improve motor features in parkinson's disease (pd), it is not yet clear if the benefits extend to non-motor features. previous studies in parkinson's disease (pd) have described benefits of dance for motor and non-motor outcomes, yet few studies specifically look at dance therapy (dt) as a specific psychotherapeutic model for pd. dance may help individuals living with parkinson's disease (pd) improve motor and non-motor symptoms that impact quality of life (qol). overall, the reviewed evidence demonstrated that dance can improve motor impairments, specifically balance and motor symptom severity in individuals with mild to moderate pd, and that more research is needed to determine its effects on non-motor symptoms and qol. dance is growing in popularity for people with parkinson's and claims have been made for its benefits. conclusions: dancing may offer benefit to people with parkinson's through its intellectual, artistic, social and physical aspects. we have noticed that patients with pd obtain an immediate, short-lasting benefit to mobility by the end of a dance class, suggesting some mechanism by which dancing reduces bradykinetic symptoms. dance, added to drug therapy, can help treating these patients aims: to conduct a systematic review with meta-analysis with the aim to analyze the effects of dance classes in comparison to other interventions or to the absence of intervention, in randomized clinical trials (rcts), on functional mobility, motor symptoms and ql of pd patients methods: the search was conducted in medline, lilacs, scielo, cochrane and psycinfo (last searched in august 2017). dance can improve motor parameters of the disease and patients' functional mobility. ",
 'Is it possible to reliably detect coronavirus infection based only on symptoms but without laboratory testing? [SEP] in the absence of a virus nucleic acid real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (rt-pcr) test and experienced radiologists, clinical diagnosis is challenging for viral pneumonia with clinical symptoms and ct signs similar to that of coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19). the clinical course and viral detection period in mild or asymptomatic coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) patients are not yet known. the presumed low diagnostic sensitivity of upper respiratory specimens for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (sars-cov-2) makes it difficult to confirm infection and recommend de-isolation. the current diagnosis of severe acute respiratory syndrome-associated coronavirus (sars-cov) relies on laboratory-based tests since its clinical features are nonspecific, unlike other respiratory pathogens. in this study, a simple colorimetric and multiplex loop-mediated isothermal amplification (lamp) assay was developed to rapid screening of severe acute respiratory syndrome-associated coronavirus (sars-cov). rapid but yet sensitive, specific, and high-throughput detection of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov-2) in clinical samples is key to diagnose infected people and to better control the spread of the virus. alternative methodologies to pcr and immunodiagnostics that would not require specific reagents are worthy to investigate not only for fighting the covid-19 pandemic but also to detect other emergent pathogenic threats. although direct detection of sars-cov2 in symptomatic or asymptomatic individuals is the ideal epidemiological tool for determining the burden of disease, the lack of availability of testing can preclude its wider implementation as a robust surveillance system. the diagnosis of coronavirus disease 2019 using biomarkers and indicators at point-of-care level is much crucial. the diagnosis of acute hepatitis c virus (hcv) infection is not straightforward; few people exhibit clinical symptoms and genome/antigen detection techniques do not indicate when infection had occurred. ',
 "Are home coronavirus self-tests as reliable as tests performed by trained healthcare professionals? [SEP] home sample collection (hsc) tests allow persons to test themselves for human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection at home without medical supervision. we measured the concordance of hpv detection between home-based self-sampling and general practitioner (gp) sampling using the cobas 4800 hpv dna test and studied women's accept of home-based self-sampling. after undergoing cervical cytology at their gp, the women collected a self-sample with the evalyn brush at home and completed a questionnaire. we observed good concordance for hpv detection between self-samples and gp-collected samples (κ: 0.70, 95% ci: 0.58-0.81). during the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) pandemic, frontline healthcare professionals (hcp) may be at particular risk for infection. in a large german university hospital, we performed weekly questionnaire assessments and anti-severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus\xa02 (sars-cov-2) immunoglobulin g (igg) measurements with various commercial tests, a novel surrogate virus neutralisation test, and a neutralisation assay using live sars-cov-2. when assessing anti-sars-cov-2 immune status in individuals with low pre-test probability, we suggest confirming positive results from single measurements by alternative serology tests or functional assays. we compare the performance of point-of-care tests (pocts) and immunofluorescence assays (ifas) with nucleic acid tests (nats) and viral culture in pilgrims attending influenza clinics established during a large influenza outbreak (world youth day, sydney, australia, 2008) to assess their performance under the real-life pressures of a mass influenza outbreak. the current standards for detecting active coronavirus disease (covid-19) infection are molecular tests by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, using swabs from the lower or upper respiratory tract. we highlight a recent cochrane review that assessed the accuracy of antibody tests for diagnosing covid-19. ",
 'Does biotin help with hair loss? Does biotin make hair grow faster? [SEP] background: biotin is popular in hair loss treatment supplements, although the frequency of its deficiency in patients with hair loss has not been established. biotin has gained commercial popularity for its claimed benefits on healthy hair and nail growth. to systematically review the literature on biotin efficacy in hair and nail growth. in all cases, patients receiving biotin supplementation had an underlying pathology for poor hair or nail growth. though its use as a hair and nail growth supplement is prevalent, research demonstrating the efficacy of biotin is limited. in cases of acquired and inherited causes of biotin deficiency as well as pathologies, such as brittle nail syndrome or uncombable hair, biotin supplementation may be of benefit. the use of high concentrations of biotin as a dietary supplement to improve hair, skin, and nail quality has increased in the united states over the past few years. boehmite increased hdpc viability, alp activity, akt/gsk3ß/ß-catenin pathway activity, anagen-related gene expression and vegf secretion; moreover, it accelerated hair regrowth in a catagen-anagen transition model via upregulation of β-catenin signalling and follicular cell proliferation. collectively, our results indicate that boehmite accelerates hair growth, partly via its effects on critical events in the active phase of the hair follicle cycle, including the promotion of the proliferation of hdpcs and their immediate progeny to the follicle base. biotin is a water soluble b-vitamin and is marketed to improve the cosmetic appearance of hair, skin, and nails. ',
 'Can induction of labor prevent infant deaths in pregnancies that go beyond the estimated due date? Does it reduce the number of neonatal intensive care unit stays? [SEP] whether a policy of labour induction at a predetermined gestational age can reduce this increased risk is the subject of this review. a policy of labour induction at 41 completed weeks or beyond was associated with fewer (all-cause) perinatal deaths (1/2986 versus 9/2953; relative risk (rr) 0.30; 95% confidence interval (ci) 0.09 to 0.99). a policy of labour induction after 41 completed weeks or later compared to awaiting spontaneous labour either indefinitely or at least one week is associated with fewer perinatal deaths. whether a policy of labour induction at a predetermined gestational age can reduce this increased risk is the subject of this review. the number needed to treat to benefit (nntb) with induction of labour in order to prevent one perinatal death was 410 (95% ci 322 to 1492).for the primary outcome of perinatal death and most other outcomes, no differences between timing of induction subgroups were seen; the majority of trials adopted a policy of induction at 41 completed weeks (287 days) or more.fewer babies in the labour induction group had meconium aspiration syndrome (rr 0.50, 95% ci 0.34 to 0.73; eight trials, 2371 infants) compared with a policy of expectant management. a policy of labour induction compared with expectant management is associated with fewer perinatal deaths and fewer caesarean sections. some infant morbidities such as meconium aspiration syndrome were also reduced with a policy of post-term labour induction although no significant differences in the rate of nicu admission were seen.however, the absolute risk of perinatal death is small. preliminary data indicate that labor induction for prolonged latent phase may reduce cesarean delivery. induction of labor did not reduce cesarean delivery rates but intervention to delivery and to hospital discharge durations are shorter. to assess the effect on fetal and infant survival of increased rates of early delivery of preeclamptic pregnancies. ',
 'Does induction of labor make cesarean sections less necessary than observational waiting? [SEP] although induction of labor of low-risk nulliparous women at 39 weeks reduces the risk of cesarean delivery compared with expectant management, concern regarding more frequent use of labor induction remains, given that this intervention historically has been thought to incur greater resource utilization. the objective of the study was to determine whether planned elective labor induction at 39 weeks among low-risk nulliparous women, compared with expectant management, was associated with differences in health care resource utilization from the time of randomization through 8 weeks postpartum. during the delivery admission, women in the induction of labor group spent a longer time in labor and delivery (median, 0.83 vs 0.57 days), but both women (p\xa0= .002) and their neonates (p < .001) had shorter postpartum stays. women randomized to induction of labor had longer durations in labor and delivery but significantly fewer antepartum visits, tests, and treatments and shorter maternal and neonatal hospital durations after delivery. a recent systematic review found no "good quality evidence" that elective induction of labor confers substantial benefits to either mothers or babies, but concluded that elective induction is associated with a decreased risk of "cesarean delivery." the role of labor induction in patients scheduled for vaginal delivery following a previous lower segment cesarean section has been controversial. given the historically high rates of cesarean delivery in the united states, obstetrical providers must often consider an induction of labor for women with a history of prior cesarean delivery versus repeat cesarean delivery. to determine the risks and benefits of elective induction of labor (iol) at 39 weeks compared with expectant management (em) until 42 weeks in pregnancies complicated by one previous cesarean delivery. perinatal outcomes of pregnancies electively induced at 39 weeks (iol) were compared to pregnancies that were induced, augmented or underwent spontaneous labor between 40 and 42 weeks (em). in pregnancies complicated by one previous cesarean delivery, elective induction of labor at 39 weeks reduced the risk of intra-amniotic infection, blood transfusion, and low 5-minute apgar score while increased the risk of repeat cesarean delivery. ',
 'Does the number of deliveries with a vacuum cup and forceps remain similar with induction and observational waiting??? [SEP] to determine whether two techniques of vacuum extraction delivery-continuous vacuum and intermittent vacuum-have different effects on maternal-fetal outcomes. the rate of operative vaginal delivery has remained stable the last decade, however the rate of vacuum has increased against forceps application. the aim of the present study is to compare the short term maternal and neonatal outcomes between vacuum and forceps delivery. the incidence of 3rd degree lacerations and periurethral hematomas was similar between vacuum and forceps (3.4% vs. 2% and 0.3% vs 0% respectively), while perineal hematomas were more common in forceps compared with vacuum application (2% vs 0.3% respectively), albeit not significantly. the rate of neonates with apgar scores<or=at 1 min was significantly higher after forceps compared with vacuum delivery (18% vs 5.2% respectively, p=0.0003). a total of 258 women requiring assisted delivery where vacuum extraction was thought to be suitable were randomly allocated to delivery with a new silicone rubber cup or metal vacuum extractor cups. because of the faster induction of vacuum, delivery occurred more rapidly with the pliable cup, but the pliable cup detached significantly more often than the rigid cup. we conducted a prospective observational study of 1000 consecutive vacuum-assisted deliveries using the omnicup vacuum device in singleton pregnancies. we sought to ascertain whether the routine use of instruments, forceps or vacuum, at the time of elective repeat cesarean delivery, permits a delivery that is as safe for mother and infant and as easy for mother and physician as traditional manual delivery of the fetal head. in this prospective study 44 women undergoing elective repeat cesarean were randomized to deliver by vacuum (v), forceps (f), or by manual (m) means. ',
 'Does taking supplements with omega-3 fatty acids reduce the risk of heart attack, stroke or other sudden cardiovascular problems?  Does it lower the risk of dying prematurely? [SEP] an inverse relation exists between omega-3 fatty acid intake and risk of cardiovascular disease development/mortality and sudden cardiac death in humans. observational and clinical trial evidence suggests an inverse association of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids with coronary artery disease (cad) mortality, although relationships with non-fatal cad and stroke are less clear. omega-3 fatty acid supplement use was independently associated with a lower risk of non-fatal ischemic stroke [hr (95% ci): 0.88 (0.81, 0.95)] but not non-fatal cad [0.99 (0.93, 1.06)]. although high intake of n-3 fatty acids is associated with reduced mortality of patients with ischemic heart disease, especially reduction in sudden cardiac death (scd), the detailed mechanisms remain to be elucidated. epidemiologic data suggest that omega-3 fatty acids derived from fish oil reduce cardiovascular disease. dietary supplementation with omega-3 fatty acids significantly reduced the risk of cardiovascular deaths (odds ratio [or]: 0.87, 95% confidence interval [ci]: 0.79-0.95, p = 0.002), sudden cardiac death (or: 0.87, 95% ci: 0.76-0.99, p = 0.04), all-cause mortality (or: 0.92, 95% ci: 0.85-0.99, p = 0.02), and nonfatal cardiovascular events (or: 0.92, 95% ci: 0.85-0.99, p = 0.02). dietary supplementation with omega-3 fatty acids should be considered in the secondary prevention of cardiovascular events. n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (omega-3) supplementation is associated with reduced cardiovascular mortality and post-infarction death. initial epidemiological, clinical trial and animal data have suggested that a diet high in omega-3 fatty acids reduces the risk of cardiac death and that this reduction in the risk was owing to the prevention of fatal arrhythmias. more recent data, however, suggest that, in some patients with heart disease, omega-3 fatty acid supplementation may increase the risk of potentially fatal cardiac arrhythmias and the risk of sudden cardiac death. ',
 'Can taking dietary supplements with omega-3 fatty acids prevent further heart attacks or strokes if one has already had a heart attack?  In this case, does it lower the risk of dying prematurely?? [SEP] initial epidemiological, clinical trial and animal data have suggested that a diet high in omega-3 fatty acids reduces the risk of cardiac death and that this reduction in the risk was owing to the prevention of fatal arrhythmias. more recent data, however, suggest that, in some patients with heart disease, omega-3 fatty acid supplementation may increase the risk of potentially fatal cardiac arrhythmias and the risk of sudden cardiac death. of all known dietary factors, long-chain omega-3 fatty acids may be the most protective against death from coronary heart disease. omega-3 fatty acid supplementation reduces the risk of sudden cardiac death and death from any cause within 4 months in post-myocardial infarction patients. current evidence suggests that individuals with coronary artery disease may reduce their risk of sudden cardiac death by increasing their intake of long-chain omega-3 fatty acids by approximately 1 g per day. supplementation of omega-3 fatty acids (ω-3) has been associated with a decreased cardiovascular risk, thereby concentrating attention on a potentially preventive effect regarding tachyarrhythmias and sudden cardiac death. several epidemiologic and clinical studies show that following myocardial infarction, dietary supplements of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (omega3fa) reduce sudden death. an inverse relation exists between omega-3 fatty acid intake and risk of cardiovascular disease development/mortality and sudden cardiac death in humans. clinical studies suggest that intake of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (omega-3 pufa) may lower the incidence of heart failure. n-3 fatty acids appear to be beneficial in secondary prevention of cardiovascular events but their use in primary prevention is not clear. ',
 'Can cosmetic products with caffeine for hair and scalp help against hereditary hair loss? [SEP] caffeine is extensively used in cellulite and hair growth cosmetic products. for that reason, it is important to know the exact caffeine content in products for skin and hair care. in cellulite reduction, gel caffeine content was found to be in the range of 0.7-1.7%, whereas in the hair-care products, it was about 1.0%. the result shows that caffeine can prevent the proliferation of carcinoma cells and it is a perfect candidate for therapeutic applications. over the past years, chronic consumption of caffeine has been associated with prevention of cognitive decline associated to aging and mnemonic deficits of brain disorders. hair loss is known to negatively affect the quality of life and predispose to depression and anxiety. therefore, the development of topical treatments based on well-tolerated natural ingredients such as caffeine to alleviate hair loss may provide a much-needed alternative to drug-based approaches. studies have shown that lower concentrations of caffeine have a protective role in aging-related disorders. recently caffeine has been investigated for the treatment of various types of cancers upon oral administration. there is also some evidence that dermally applied caffeine can protect the skin from skin cancer caused by sun exposure. ',
 "Is music therapy with rhythmic training helpful for people with Parkinson's who have trouble walking? [SEP] in this study, patients suffering from mild to moderate pd underwent a structured music therapy session in which they were trained to walk while mentally singing. thus, walking while mentally singing has potential for improving the gait of individuals with pd. recent evidence suggests that music-based movement (mbm) therapy may be a promising intervention to improve gait and gait-related activities in parkinson's disease (pd) patients, because it naturally combines cognitive movement strategies, cueing techniques, balance exercises and physical activity while focussing on the enjoyment of moving on music instead of the current mobility limitations of the patient. entrainment of walking to rhythmic auditory cues (e.g., metronome and/or music) improves gait in people with parkinson's disease (pd). our findings aid in understanding the role of musical pleasure in invigorating gait in pd, and inform novel approaches for restoring or compensating impaired motor circuits. gait dysfunctions in parkinson's disease can be partly relieved by rhythmic auditory cueing. background: music-assisted treadmill training (matt) is a new therapeutic approach for parkinson's disease (pd) patients, combining treadmill training with rhythmic auditory cueing and visual feedback. music listening interventions such as rhythmic auditory stimulation can improve mobility, balance, and gait in parkinson&rsquo;s disease (pd). this review and rationale provides support for the use of music training to enhance cognitive outcomes in patients with parkinson&rsquo;s disease (pd). movement rehabilitation by means of physical therapy represents an essential tool in the management of gait disturbances induced by parkinson's disease (pd). ",
 'Do preparations with unsaponifiable components of avocado and soybean oils (ASU) help against limitations and pain in osteoarthritis of the knee joint? [SEP] to assess the efficacy and safety of avocado/soybean unsaponifiables (asu) in the treatment of patients with symptomatic osteoarthritis (oa) of the knee or hip, as well as the potential residual effects of asu after stopping treatment, to determine whether asu might be a symptomatic slow-acting drug for the treatment of oa. avocado and soybean unsaponifiables (asu) constitute vegetable extracts made from fruits and seeds of avocado and soybean oil. this article aims to summarize the studies on biological effects of the avocado-soybean unsaponifiable, its chemical composition, pharmacotherapy as well as applications in auto-immune, osteoarticular and menopausal disorders. avocado/soybean unsaponifiables such as arthrocen have been reported to reduce cartilage catabolism and chondrocytic synthesis of inflammatory mediators associated with osteoarthritis (oa). while there is some clinical evidence that avocado/soybean unsaponifiables can reduce oa pain, no preclinical studies have corroborated this observation. the present study determined whether addition of an avocado/soybean unsaponifiable (arthrocen) to the drinking water of oa rats reduced direct and referred joint pain. avocado-soybean unsaponifiables (asu) represent one of the most commonly used drugs for symptomatic osteoarthritis (oa). avocado/soy unsaponifiable (asu) components are reported to have a chondroprotective effect by virtue of anti-inflammatory and proanabolic effects on articular chondrocytes. we previously determined the anti-inflammatory effect of an avocado/soybean unsaponifiables (asu) and epigallocatechin gallate (egcg) combination on prostaglandin e2 (pge2) production and nuclear factor-kappa b (nf-κb) translocation. avocado and soya unsaponifiables (asu) have been reported to exert beneficial effects in the treatment of periodontal and osteoarticular diseases. ',
 'Do preparations with unsaponifiable components of avocado and soybean oils (ASU) help against limitations and pain in osteoarthritis of the hip joint? [SEP] to assess the efficacy and safety of avocado/soybean unsaponifiables (asu) in the treatment of patients with symptomatic osteoarthritis (oa) of the knee or hip, as well as the potential residual effects of asu after stopping treatment, to determine whether asu might be a symptomatic slow-acting drug for the treatment of oa. this article aims to summarize the studies on biological effects of the avocado-soybean unsaponifiable, its chemical composition, pharmacotherapy as well as applications in auto-immune, osteoarticular and menopausal disorders. to evaluate the structural effect of avocado/soybean unsaponifiables (asu) in the treatment of patients with symptomatic osteoarthritis (oa) of the hip. avocado/soybean unsaponifiables such as arthrocen have been reported to reduce cartilage catabolism and chondrocytic synthesis of inflammatory mediators associated with osteoarthritis (oa). while there is some clinical evidence that avocado/soybean unsaponifiables can reduce oa pain, no preclinical studies have corroborated this observation. the present study determined whether addition of an avocado/soybean unsaponifiable (arthrocen) to the drinking water of oa rats reduced direct and referred joint pain. avocado-soybean unsaponifiables (asu) represent one of the most commonly used drugs for symptomatic osteoarthritis (oa). avocado/soy unsaponifiable (asu) components are reported to have a chondroprotective effect by virtue of anti-inflammatory and proanabolic effects on articular chondrocytes. avocado and soya unsaponifiables (asu) have been reported to exert beneficial effects in the treatment of periodontal and osteoarticular diseases. arthrocen, an avocado/soy unsaponifiable (asu)-containing agent, is now used in the clinic and has potentially to decrease joint inflammation and pain associated with mild to severe osteoarthritis. ',
 'Is it safe to take preparations containing unsaponifiable components of avocado and soybean oils (ASU)? [SEP] avocado and soybean unsaponifiables (asu) constitute vegetable extracts made from fruits and seeds of avocado and soybean oil. this article aims to summarize the studies on biological effects of the avocado-soybean unsaponifiable, its chemical composition, pharmacotherapy as well as applications in auto-immune, osteoarticular and menopausal disorders. to assess the efficacy and safety of avocado/soybean unsaponifiables (asu) in the treatment of patients with symptomatic osteoarthritis (oa) of the knee or hip, as well as the potential residual effects of asu after stopping treatment, to determine whether asu might be a symptomatic slow-acting drug for the treatment of oa. avocado/soy unsaponifiable (asu) components are reported to have a chondroprotective effect by virtue of anti-inflammatory and proanabolic effects on articular chondrocytes. avocado-soybean unsaponifiables (asu) represent one of the most commonly used drugs for symptomatic osteoarthritis (oa). intake of unsaponifiable compounds from edible oils, such as plant sterols, can lower serum cholesterol concentrations in humans. however, little is known about effects of other chemically related unsaponifiables in edible oils, such as triterpene alcohols. avocado and soya unsaponifiables (asu) have been reported to exert beneficial effects in the treatment of periodontal and osteoarticular diseases. avocado/soybean unsaponifiables (asu) have shown some promise for oa. in the current study, fatty acid content analysis was used to determine the principal fatty acids in soybean, olive, avocado, sea-buckthorn pulp, raspberry seed and coconut oils. ',
 'Can taking chondroitin relieve osteoarthritis pain or improve mobility in the long term? [SEP] chondroitin sulfate has been shown to relieve pain and improve functional limitation in patients with osteoarthritis (oa) of the knee in numerous clinical trials and meta-analyses. to perform a meta-analysis of randomized double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trials to assess the efficacy of chondroitin sulfate as a structure-modifying drug for knee oa. these results demonstrate that chondroitin sulfate is effective for reducing the rate of decline in minimum joint space width in patients with oa of the knee. chondroitin sulfate may have a role as a structure-modifying agent in the management of patients with knee oa. previous meta-analyses described moderate to large benefits of chondroitin in patients with osteoarthritis. to determine the effects of chondroitin on pain in patients with osteoarthritis. although treatment development in osteoarthritis (oa) focuses on chondroprotection, it is unclear how much preventing cartilage loss reduces joint pain. in the treatment of degenerative joint disease, aka osteoarthritis, chondroitin sulphate is applied as a medicine or a dietary supplement. the preparations applied in the treatment of degenerative joint disease, containing chondroitin sulphate, are attributed numerous therapeutic and chondroprotective properties including stabilizing synthesis processes and cartilage degradation through stimulation and inhibition of chondrocyte apoptosis (production of the elements of the intracellular substance and osteocyte stimulation), an increased proteoglycan and hyaluronic acid biosynthesis, inhibition of the activity of proteolytic enzymes and hyaluronidase, reduction of inflammatory mediators (prostaglandins and leukotrienes) and a decreased collagen ii degradation. based on the results of the multidirectional research available in the newest source literature, the analysis of the therapeutic efficacy and safety of chondroitin application in the treatment of degenerative joint disease was conducted. ',
 'Does taking arginine benefit existing cardiovascular disease or does arginine prevent it from developing? [SEP] l-arginine supplementation is hypothesized to reduce endothelial dysfunction and atherogenesis via increased biosynthesis of nitric oxide. recent data have supported the view that supplemental arginine could alleviate the initiation and development of endothelial dysfunction and also shown that it may reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes. pathophysiological data in rodents have emphasized the importance of arginase activation during the development of cardiometabolic risk, which lends credence to a potential benefit for arginine supplements. the inhibition of arginase, resulting in higher arginine (arg) availability for nitric oxide synthesis, may account for the putative protective effect of homoarginine (homoarg) against atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease. l-arginine has been used to improve endothelial function by increasing nitric oxide (no) bioavailability and in animal models this in turn has attenuated the progression of atherosclerosis. it is known that l-arginine treatment can ameliorate endothelial dysfunction and insulin sensitivity in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients, but little is known on l-arginine effects on these variables in nondiabetic patients with stable cardiovascular disease (coronary artery disease). in conclusion, insulin resistance, endothelial dysfunction, and inflammation are important cardiovascular risk factors in coronary artery disease patients; and l-arginine seems to have anti-inflammatory and metabolic advantages in these patients. it cannot be excluded that supplementation with l-arginine, by improving function of endothelium and hypotensive effect, can be advantegeous in prevention of cardiovascular diseases in healthy people. based on the results of this study, l-arginine appears to be a novel cardio-protective agent, illustrated by its ability to ameliorate the deleterious effects of hypercholesterolemia on endothelial function, in a manner comparable to, and sometimes more potent than, commonly used cardiovascular medications. dietary-supplemented arginine has been shown to have positive effects on cardiovascular disease, but several drawbacks exist and could potentially be avoided by using l-citrulline, since it is recycled to l-arginine. ',
 'Does "Detoxic" work against tapeworms and other parasites? Does "Detoxic" help with health complaints? [SEP] studies in animals provide strong evidence that helminths can not only downregulate parasite-specific immune responses, but also modulate autoimmune and allergic inflammatory responses and improve metabolic homoeostasis. to use the tapeworm, hymenolepis diminuta, and to extend this concept by assessing whether triggering a memory response against the worm inhibits dinitrobenzene sulphonic acid (dnbs)-induced colitis in balb/c mice. detox diets are popular dieting strategies that claim to facilitate toxin elimination and weight loss, thereby promoting health and well-being. the present review examines whether detox diets are necessary, what they involve, whether they are effective and whether they present any dangers. a handful of clinical studies have shown that commercial detox diets enhance liver detoxification and eliminate persistent organic pollutants from the body, although these studies are hampered by flawed methodologies and small sample sizes. there is preliminary evidence to suggest that certain foods such as coriander, nori and olestra have detoxification properties, although the majority of these studies have been performed in animals. infection with helminth parasites and treatment with worm extracts can suppress inflammatory disease, including colitis. few such studies, however, have considered the phenomenon of tapeworm destrobilation when determining effective dosages. species-specific identification of human tapeworm infections is important for public health purposes, because prompt identification of taenia solium carriers may prevent further human cysticercosis infections (a major cause of acquired epilepsy). this article discusses the epidemiology, diagnosis, and treatment of taeniasis, diphyllobothriasis, hymenolepiasis, dipylidiasis, and other tapeworm infections. ',
 'Is mannose as good as or better than antibiotics for preventing recurrent cystitis? [SEP] among natural substances used to prevent uti, literature has provided preliminary data of the beneficial effects of d-mannose, n-acetylcysteine, and morinda citrifolia fruit extract, due to their complementary mechanism of action which contributes respectively to limit bacteria adhesion to the urothelium, to destroy bacterial pathogenic biofilm, and to the anti-inflammatory and analgesic activity. the purpose of this study was to compare the administration of an association of d-mannose, n-acetylcysteine (nac) and morinda citrifolia extract versus antibiotic therapy in the prophylaxis of utis potentially associated with urological mini-invasive diagnostics procedures, in clinical model of the urodynamic investigation. the association of mannose and nac therapy resulted similar to the antibiotic therapy in preventing utis in patients submitted to urodynamic examination. a potential approach is administration of d-mannose, an inert monosaccharide that is metabolised and excreted in urine and acts by inhibiting bacterial adhesion to the urothelium. we performed a systematic review to assess the effect of d-mannose in the prevention of recurrent utis. three studies reported that time to uti recurrence was longer with d-mannose. d-mannose improved quality of life and significantly reduced recurrent utis in both catheter and non-catheter users. d-mannose was effective in reducing the incidence of recurrent utis and prolonging uti-free periods, which consequently increased quality of life. patient summary: d-mannose is a sugar that seems to reduce the incidence of recurrent urinary tract infections and associated bothersome symptoms. d-mannose can be used as a supplementary or alternate treatment for recurrent urinary tract infections. ',
 'Does taking vitamin K lower the risk of spinal fractures in older women? [SEP] our results showed that vitamin k2 might play a role in maintaining the bone mineral density and in reducing the incidence of fractures for postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. this meta-analysis seemed to support the hypothesis that vitamin k2 plays kind of a role in the maintenance and improvement of vertebral bmd and the prevention of fractures in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. lifetime supplementation with vitamin k, vitamin d(3), and calcium is likely to reduce fractures and increase survival in postmenopausal women. vitamin k might have a role in the primary prevention of fractures, but uncertainties about its effectiveness and cost-effectiveness persist. lifetime supplementation with vitamin k, vitamin d(3), and calcium is likely to reduce fractures and increase survival in postmenopausal women. vitamin k may have a protective role against bone loss and osteoporotic fractures associated to aging, although data in humans are inconsistent and the mechanisms involved are still unknown. moreover, an increase in dietary vitamin k was significantly related to lower losses of bone mineral density and smaller increases in the porosity and elasticity attributed to aging, which helps to explain the previously described protective effect of vitamin k intake against osteoporotic fractures. recent studies have reported that vitamin k reduces vertebral and hip fractures without increasing bone mass in patients with osteoporosis, suggesting that vitamin k could affect bone quality. this review aims to summarize the role of vitamin k in bone health in older adults and discuss the clinical implications from a select few human studies. although the observational studies have shown linkages between vitamin k intake and lower risk of fractures in this population, the current evidence from randomized controlled trials is not strongly supportive of vitamin k supplementation in older adults for the intent of improving bone health. ',
 'Does taking vitamin K lower the risk of other bone fractures in older women? [SEP] our results showed that vitamin k2 might play a role in maintaining the bone mineral density and in reducing the incidence of fractures for postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. possible benefits of vitamin k on bone health, fracture risk, markers of bone formation and resorption, cardiovascular health, and cancer risk in postmenopausal women have been investigated for over three decades; yet there is no clear evidence-based universal recommendation for its use. vitamin k may have a protective role against bone loss and osteoporotic fractures associated to aging, although data in humans are inconsistent and the mechanisms involved are still unknown. high dietary vitamin k intake was associated with superior bone properties. moreover, an increase in dietary vitamin k was significantly related to lower losses of bone mineral density and smaller increases in the porosity and elasticity attributed to aging, which helps to explain the previously described protective effect of vitamin k intake against osteoporotic fractures. lifetime supplementation with vitamin k, vitamin d(3), and calcium is likely to reduce fractures and increase survival in postmenopausal women. vitamin k might have a role in the primary prevention of fractures, but uncertainties about its effectiveness and cost-effectiveness persist. lifetime supplementation with vitamin k, vitamin d(3), and calcium is likely to reduce fractures and increase survival in postmenopausal women. there has been shown that vitamin k (vk) supplementation during menopause may decrease bone loss as well as risk of bone breaking. in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis, vitamin k2 appears to decrease the incidence of hip, vertebral, and non-vertebral fractures. ',
 'Does Smartsleep provide better or more restful sleep? [SEP] we propose that nrem and rem sleep have distinct and complementary contributions to the overall function of sleep. deep non-rapid eye movement (nrem) sleep, also known as slow-wave sleep (sws), is thought to be the most "restorative" sleep stage, but beneficial effects of sws for physical well being have not been demonstrated. levels of subjective sleepiness were not affected by the nap opportunity condition; however, sleep was rated as more refreshing and restful after a nap in a quiet environment compared to noisy environment. very short naps could have very positive long-term effects on biological functions. these results are consistent with a conclusion that, among elite athletes, napping behaviour can reflect sleepability and may not necessarily result from nocturnal sleep disruption and daytime sleepiness. here, we address this countermeasure aspect of napping viewed as an action against sleep deprivation rather than an action associated with poor health. we review the physiological functions that have been associated positively with napping in both public health and clinical settings (sleep-related accidents, work and school, and cardiovascular risk) and in laboratory-based studies with potential public health issues (cognitive performance, stress, immune function and pain sensitivity). our results showed that self-awakening improved alertness (assessed by response speeds) by reducing sleep inertia and alleviated daytime sleepiness heightened by partial sleep deprivation. we had shown that a pre-sleep hypnotic suggestion to sleep more deeply increased slow-wave sleep duration in hypnotizable subjects. subjective sleep quality remained unaffected. ',
 'Can supplemental tryptophan, taken as a dietary supplement or with food, help with depression? [SEP] the serotonin precursor l-tryptophan (trp) is available as a nutritional supplement and is licensed as an antidepressant in a number of countries. this highlights a key role for serotonin in emotional processing and lends support to the use of trp as a nutritional supplement in people with mild depression or for prevention in those at risk. the intake of tryptophan, the precursor of serotonin, is assumed to affect serotonin availability and depression onset. nevertheless, a definitive relationship between dietary tryptophan intake and depressive symptoms has not been established. we examined the association between tryptophan intake and depressive symptoms screened in a group of 4272 first-year female dietetic students and 3651 their mothers. the adjusted pr (95% ci) for depressive symptoms in the highest versus lowest quintile of tryptophan intake was 0.84 (0.75, 0.93) in young women (p for trend <\u202f0.0001) and 0.83 (0.64, 1.01) in middle-aged women (p for trend <\u202f0.0001). this cross-sectional study showed that a higher tryptophan intake was independently associated with a lower prevalence of depressive symptoms in young japanese women. l-tryptophan, the amino acid precursor of serotonin and several other monoamines, has frequently been employed as an adjunct with tricyclic antidepressants and monoamine oxidase inhibitors to increase their effectiveness in treating affective disorders. some people may take excessive tryptophan as a supplement in the expectation that the tryptophan metabolite, melatonine, will help to induce sufficient sleep. brain serotonin levels are dependent on the availability of its food-derived precursor essential amino acid tryptophan (trp). ',
 'Can Neuro-Socks relieve pain or improve balance and stability? [SEP] an understanding of the biomechanics of the ankle is helpful in the successful use of orthotics and bracing. such improvement may be derived from applying contemporary pain neuroscience to the management of clbp. despite the fact that there are only a few neuromodulatory devices designed specifically for the periphery, clinical experiences are growing, and here we provide a clinical update on use of peripheral nerve stimulation (pns) in management of chronic pain in extremities. with the upcoming technological advances and new stimulation paradigms, along with clear updated guidelines statements, the utilization of pns will likely continue to increase and improve the management of chronic pain syndromes in the extremities. the potential success of the novel devices specifically designed to target the peripheral nervous system is expected to positively impact and promote the use of pns in treatment of chronic pain. surgical neurectomy, crush, and proximal nerve transposition significantly improved self-reported pain, depression, and quality-of-life scores. surgical intervention is a viable treatment of neuroma pain and should be considered in patients with symptomatic neuromas refractory to nonoperative management. various studies have shown that spine stabilisation exercise therapy elicits improvements in symptoms/disability in patients with chronic non-specific low back pain (clbp). the aim of the study was to compare the effects of neurocognitive therapeutic exercise, based on proprioception and neuromuscular control, on pain and function in comparison to traditional therapeutic exercise in patients with shoulder impingement syndrome. however, it is currently unknown whether core stability exercise produces more beneficial effects than general exercise in patients with np. ',
 'Does taking blood pressure medication in the evening prevent more heart attacks, strokes, and other acute cardiovascular diseases? [SEP] recent evidence suggests that blood pressure during nighttime and the early morning hours is associated with increased cardiovascular risk independently of the average 24 h blood pressure. the review aims to investigate whether nighttime administration of antihypertensive drugs alters the circadian blood pressure variation and prevents hypertension-induced target organ damage and cardiovascular or renal disease. several studies showed that nighttime administration of antihypertensive drugs has a larger blood pressure lowering effect during nighttime and the early morning hours. in a systematic review of the available evidence, we show that bedtime dosing of antihypertensive medication reduces nocturnal bp and increases day-night bp fall more than standard morning dosing. under this regard, evidence from a single trial strongly suggests that bedtime dosing of antihypertensive medications may greatly reduce cardiovascular morbidity in hypertensive patients. several studies have shown that evening intake of aspirin has antihypertensive effect in healthy adults, which has not been proven in patients with cardiovascular disease, who mostly take aspirin in the morning. administering aspirin at bedtime rather than in the morning does not modify the 24-h ambulatory blood pressure in hypertensive patients in secondary cardiovascular prevention.the trial was registered with clinicaltrials.gov (number nct01741922). this study will determine whether nighttime dosing reduces cv risk when compared with traditional morning dosing of antihypertensive agents. some data suggest that nocturnal dosing of antihypertensive agents may reduce cardiovascular outcomes more than daytime dosing. in summary, among hypertensive patients with reasonably well-controlled blood pressure, the timing of antihypertensive drug administration (morning or evening) did not affect mean 24-hour or clinic blood pressure levels. ',
 'In Covid-19, do nicotine or smoking have a protective effect, i.e., do they prevent severe progression or death? [SEP] this suggests that nicotine may have some preventive or modulatory effect on the inflammatory response in the lungs. because it is known that the response to, and resolution of the sars-cov-2 infection depends mainly on the lung macrophages, we discuss the recent scientific findings, which may explain why and how nicotine may modulate lung macrophage response during covid-19 infection. among unsettled controversies is whether tobacco smoking increases or protects from severe covid-19. the effects of smoking on covid-19 severity need clarification with larger studies. although it is well established that cigarette smoking is associated with morbidity and mortality in several respiratory infections, data from recent studies suggest that active smokers are underrepresented among patients with covid-19. plausible biologic mechanisms by which smoking might be protective in covid-19 include an anti-inflammatory effect of nicotine, a blunted immune response in smokers (reducing the risk of a cytokine storm in covid-19) and increased nitric oxide in the respiratory tract (which may inhibit replication of sars-cov-2 and its entry into cells). on the other hand, smoking may worsen susceptibility and prognosis in covid-19, in a manner similar to other respiratory infections. further investigations into the interaction between smoking and covid-19 are warranted to accurately assess the risk of contracting covid-19 among smokers, and progression to mechanical ventilation or death in patients suffering from it. a notable field of research has been conducted on the role of\xa0smoking, which has been initially hypothesized as being a protective factor for covid-19.... cigarette smoking may increase the risk of covid-19 complications, reinforcing the urgency of smoking cessation in populations with high smoking prevalence such as individuals with opioid use disorder (oud). ',
 'Can red mold rice products lower blood cholesterol levels? [SEP] several studies have found red yeast rice to be moderately effective at improving the lipid profile, particularly for lowering the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. thus, red yeast rice is a potentially useful over-the-counter cholesterol-lowering agent. when used as a dietary supplement to achieve and maintain healthy cholesterol levels, chinese red yeast rice has significant potential to reduce health care costs and contribute to public health by reducing heart disease risk in individuals with moderate elevations of circulating cholesterol levels. phytosterols and red yeast rice are largely studied cholesterol-lowering nutraceuticals, respectively inhibiting the bowel absorption and liver synthesis of cholesterol. the association of phytosterol and red yeast rice seems to have additive cholesterol lowering effect, reaching a clinically significant ldl-cholesterol reduction in mildly hypercholesterolemic patients. evidence shows that fermented red yeast rice lowers cholesterol levels moderately compared to other statin drugs, but with the added advantage of underscores its potential as a new alternative to lipid level control. in conclusion, red yeast rice modestly decreased total and ldl cholesterol, was well-tolerated, and was an acceptable alternative in patients intolerant of other lipid-lowering medications. red yeast rice, a commercially available food supplement known to reduce serum cholesterol, has been repeatedly advocated as alternative therapy for hypercholesterolemic patients that refuse statins, cannot tolerate statin therapy\'s side effects, or request a "naturopathic" medicine. red yeast rice is an herbal supplement that decreases low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol level. red yeast rice and therapeutic lifestyle change decrease ldl cholesterol level without increasing cpk or pain levels and may be a treatment option for dyslipidemic patients who cannot tolerate statin therapy. ',
 'Do products made from red mold rice have fewer side effects than cholesterol-lowering drugs called statins??? [SEP] red yeast rice, a commercially available food supplement known to reduce serum cholesterol, has been repeatedly advocated as alternative therapy for hypercholesterolemic patients that refuse statins, cannot tolerate statin therapy\'s side effects, or request a "naturopathic" medicine. this article discusses my clinical trial results with red yeast rice, reviews the literature on its therapeutic and side effects, and discusses why red yeast rice is not an acceptable substitution for statins. a number of small trials show that red yeast rice and simvastatin produce similar lipid-lowering effects. red yeast rice is an ancient chinese food product that contains monacolins, chemical substances that are similar to statins in their mechanisms of action and lipid lowering properties. thus, red yeast rice is a potentially useful over-the-counter cholesterol-lowering agent. evidence shows that fermented red yeast rice lowers cholesterol levels moderately compared to other statin drugs, but with the added advantage of underscores its potential as a new alternative to lipid level control. food supplements containing red yeast rice (ryr) are proposed as an alternative in statin-intolerant patients, although they actually contain natural statin(s) and their safety in clinical practice is still incompletely characterized. this study examines the efficacy and safety of red yeast rice (ryr), a source of natural statins, as compared with atorvastatin, which is the most widely used synthetic statin. many statin-intolerant patients use alternative lipid-lowering therapies, including red yeast rice. in conclusion, red yeast rice was tolerated as well as pravastatin and achieved a comparable reduction of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol in a population previously intolerant to statins. ',
 "Can disinfectants containing highly diluted sodium hypochlorite (below 0.1%) render corona and other viruses harmless and thus protect against infection? [SEP] sodium hypochlorite (naocl) is widely used to inactivate retroviruses topically and on environmental surfaces. we evaluated the efficacy of sodium hypochlorite to decontaminate gii.4 nov and three surrogates of human novs, feline calicivirus (fcv), murine norovirus (mnv), and coliphage ms2, on a fecally soiled stainless steel surface. sodium hypochlorite solution at 5000\u2009ppm could inactivate fcv by 3 log(10) plaque forming units after approximately 1.9 minutes of contact time, but required longer exposure times of 3.2 and 4.5 minutes to reduce mnv and ms2 by 3 log(10), respectively. to help address this issue, we studied 0.1 n naoh and 0.1% hypochlorite for their capacity to inactivate surface-dried lipid-enveloped (le) [human immunodeficiency virus (hiv), bovine viral diarrhoea virus (bvdv) and pseudorabies virus (prv)] and non-lipid-enveloped [nle; canine parvovirus (cpv) and hepatitis a virus (hav)] viruses in a background of either plasma or culture medium. we assessed the efficacy of sodium hypochlorite-containing disinfectants for decontamination for three poliovirus serotypes to implement decontamination procedures that are fully compliant with the who gap iii and health authorities' requirements. a 10.4 log reduction was observed with a 0.63% sodium hypochlorite solution in a suspension with high protein and high poliovirus concentrations diluted 10-fold compared with a 6 log reduction in an undiluted sample. the surface tests showed that two 1-min treatments, 5-min apart, with a 0.63% chl sodium hypochlorite solution effectively reduced the concentration of all poliovirus serotypes by 10 log10, irrespective of the protein and virus concentration in the sample. sodium hypochlorite solutions lower than 0.52% were less effective for complete inactivation of poliovirus. in conclusion, we demonstrated that a high level of virus reduction (>10 log10) can be achieved with sodium hypochlorite solutions with poliovirus in suspension and dried on surfaces. the virucidal activity of chlorine-compounds was studied using hepatitis a virus (hav) and poliovirus 2 and comparing the disinfectant efficiency of peracetic acid. ",
 "Does cat's claw improve joint disease symptoms? [SEP] degenerative joint disease, including osteoarthritis, is highly prevalent in cats and many cases have associated pain and impaired mobility. detection of clinically relevant pain relief in cats with degenerative joint disease (djd) is complicated by a lack of validated outcome measures and a placebo effect. enrolled cats were 6-21\xa0years of age, with owner-observed mobility impairment, evidence of pain in at least 2 joints during orthopedic examination, and overlapping radiographic evidence of djd, and underwent a 2-week baseline period, 3-week treatment period with placebo or meloxicam, and 3-week masked washout period. degenerative joint disease and associated pain are common in cats, particularly in older cats. the objectives of this study were to evaluate low-dose daily meloxicam for the treatment of pain associated with degenerative joint disease in cats, and further validate two clinical metrology instruments, the feline musculoskeletal pain index (fmpi) and the client specific outcome measures (csom). this study offered further validation of the fmpi as a clinical metrology instrument for use in detecting therapeutic efficacy in cats with degenerative joint disease. progress in establishing if therapies provide relief to cats with degenerative joint disease (djd)-associated pain is hampered by a lack of validated owner-administered assessment methods. degenerative joint disease is common in cats, with signs of pain frequently found on orthopedic examination and radiographs often showing evidence of disease. osteoarthritis is a chronic, painful condition that is now recognised as affecting a large proportion of cats. there is little doubt that cats with hd and associated osteoarthritis (oa) suffer pain, and this warrants appropriate therapy. ",
 'Do essential oils protect against corona infections and other viral infections like colds or flu? [SEP] essential oils and their volatile constituents are used widely to prevent and treat human disease. essential oils have shown promise as antiviral agents against several pathogenic viruses. in this work we hypothesized that essential oil components may interact with key protein targets of the 2019 severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov-2). however, essential oil components may act synergistically, essential oils may potentiate other antiviral agents, or they may provide some relief of covid-19 symptoms. the presence of essential oil in the culture medium enhances the antiviral effect: l. origanoides oil at 11.1 microg/ml produced a 100% reduction of virus yield, and the same result was observed with l. alba, o. vulgare and a. vulgaris oils at 100 microg/ml. the essential oils evaluated in the study showed antiviral activities against yfv. several essential oils have shown to possess antiviral activity in vitro against a wide spectrum of viruses. this study was conducted to determine whether essential oils had anti-influenza a/ws/33 virus activity and whether there were specific compounds associated with this activity. the antiviral assays demonstrated that 11 of the 62 essential oils (100 μg/ml) possessed anti-influenza activity, reducing visible cytopathic effects of influenza a/ws/33 virus activity by > 30%. this study demonstrated anti-influenza activity in 11 essential oils tested, with marjoram, clary sage and anise essential oils being the most effective at reducing visible cytopathic effects of the a/ws/33 virus. ',
 'Do air purifiers help relieve symptoms of allergic asthma? [SEP] since airway hyperresponsiveness (ahr) and allergic inflammatory changes are regarded as the primary manifestations of asthma, the main goals of asthma treatment are to decrease inflammation and maximize bronchodilation. air purification can reduce concentrations of particles in indoor air, including those of allergens. air purifiers have been recommended by clinicians for ar patients, but few studies have focused on the removal of airborne allergens from home environments. this study investigates the efficacy of a high-efficiency air purifier in reducing disease activity in the homes of ar patients sensitive to the allergens produced by artemisia (mugwort) pollen. ar patients can remove pollen from their homes using air purifiers, decreasing the risk of symptoms. since the 1950s, corticosteroid aerosols have proved useful in the treatment of asthma. the purpose of this study was to test recently developed air-cleaners with respect to their capacity to capture airborne allergen particles and to improve clinical parameters of asthmatic patients sensitized to aeroallergens. in combination with other allergen avoidance measures, the examined air-cleaners can contribute to diminished allergen exposure and improvement of airway hyperresponsiveness in asthmatic patients. inhalation of allergens by sensitized patients with asthma induces reversible airway obstruction, airway hyperresponsiveness, and eosinophilic airway inflammation. in asthma, adrenergic agonists alleviate airflow obstruction and prevent obstructive responses to a variety of stimuli. ',
 'Is special baby water better for infants than tap water? [SEP] to review relevant literature about bathing newborn infants, as well as examine the controversies about bathing nicu patients including the use of daily chlorhexidine gluconate (chg) baths. no differences have been reported in skin parameters such as ph, transepidermal water loss, and stratum corneum hydration whether the first and subsequent baths are given using water alone or water and a mild baby cleanser. breast fed babies receiving water or dextrose supplements had higher plasma bilirubins on the sixth day of life than bottle fed infants. we focused on infant bathing in normal temperature water (37 degrees c, range 36-38 degrees c) rather than in hot water that is above body temperature. we evaluated skin barrier function, measured by skin surface ph (primary outcome), transepidermal water loss (tewl), and hydration of the stratum corneum (sch) in 100 newborns before and after their first bath, randomizing this cohort to bathing with water alone or with water and a liquid baby cleanser. in addition, bathing with water alone or water and a liquid baby cleanser does not impact the developing skin barrier. the objective of this review was therefore to summarize the current evidence on factors associated with water consumption among children aged 2 to 12\u2009years. we performed a microbiological study comparing neonatal bacterial colonisation after water birth to conventional bed deliveries with or without relaxation bath. 100 healthy, full term neonates aged <24 hours were randomly assigned to bathing with water and cotton wool (w) or with a cleaning product (cp). forty nine babies were randomized to cleansing product, 51 to water. ',
 'Does platelet-rich plasma therapy (autologous blood therapy) reduce pain in osteoarthritis of the knee joint? [SEP] platelet-rich plasma (prp) is a concentrate of autologous blood growth factors which has been shown to provide some symptomatic relief in early osteoarthritis (oa) of the knee. platelet-rich plasma therapy is a simple and minimally invasive intervention which is feasible to deliver in primary care to treat osteoarthritis of the knee joint. objectives \u2003this study aimed to analyze the efficacy of platelet-rich plasma obtained from the peripheral, autologous blood of the patients in pain complaints reduction and functional improvement of knee osteoarthritis compared with the standard treatment with injectable corticosteroid, such as triamcinolone. according to the results obtained, platelet-rich plasma presented longer-lasting effects within 180 days in the treatment of knee osteoarthritis. background and purpose - platelet-rich plasma (prp) is broadly used in the treatment of knee osteoarthritis, but clinical outcomes are highly variable. the administration of platelet-rich plasma (prp), which increases the release of growth factors targeting cartilage regeneration, is used in an effort to relieve pain in knee osteoarthritis (oa). platelet-rich plasma is an experimental treatment in osteoarthritis. previous studies have shown that platelet-rich plasma reduces osteoarthritis symptoms in similar proportions as viscosupplements. intra-articular injections of platelet-rich plasma associated with better outcomes than hyaluronic acid in knee osteoarthritis. platelet-rich plasma might prolong the time to arthroplasty and provide a valid therapeutic option in selected patients with knee osteoarthritis not responding to conventional treatments. ',
 'Does platelet-rich plasma therapy (autologous blood therapy) reduce pain in osteoarthritis of the hip joint??? [SEP] the effectiveness of intra-articular platelet-rich plasma (prp) injections has been evaluated in knee chondroplasty and osteoarthritis (oa); however, little evidence of its efficacy in hip oa exists. intra-articular platelet-rich plasma (prp) injection therapy has been extensively applied in clinical practice to treat musculoskeletal disorders such as osteoarthritis, but the treatment for haemophilic arthropathy is rarely reported. intra-articular injections of platelet-rich plasma (prp) and hyaluronic acid (ha) represent efficacious medical treatments for osteoarthritis (oa), although no comparative study on long-term efficacy in hip oa exists. emerging evidence has suggested that platelet-rich plasma (prp) might be of assistance in the treatment of degenerative conditions of the joints. an intra-articular injection of platelet-rich plasma (prp) may be an effective treatment for osteoarthritis (oa). despite its increasing use in the management of musculoskeletal conditions, questions remain regarding the preparation methods of platelet-rich plasma (prp) and its clinical applications for intra-articular hip disorders, including femoroacetabular impingement syndrome (fais), labral pathology, and osteoarthritis (oa). platelet-rich plasma (prp) is a concentrate of autologous blood growth factors which has been shown to provide some symptomatic relief in early osteoarthritis (oa) of the knee. platelet-rich plasma therapy is a simple and minimally invasive intervention which is feasible to deliver in primary care to treat osteoarthritis of the knee joint. platelet-rich plasma may be an effective treatment for knee oa. the administration of platelet-rich plasma (prp), which increases the release of growth factors targeting cartilage regeneration, is used in an effort to relieve pain in knee osteoarthritis (oa). ',
 "Can vitamin D supplements prevent colds, flu, colds, and other viral respiratory illnesses when there is no or only a mild deficiency of vitamin D? [SEP] to determine whether high-dose vs standard-dose vitamin d supplementation reduces the incidence of wintertime upper respiratory tract infections in young children. some studies have hypothesized that vitamin d may have a role to play in protection against influenza virus infections and illnesses, and that seasonal fluctuation in serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d [25(oh)d] may affect seasonal patterns of influenza virus infections. these findings indicate that lower serum vitamin d concentrations may not contribute to the seasonality of influenza and are not associated with an increased risk of influenza virus infections in persons of all ages in hong kong. higher vitamin d concentrations have been proposed as a protective 'seasonal stimulus' against influenza, and there are suggestions for associations with other aspects of respiratory health. in conclusion, vitamin d status had a linear relationship with respiratory infections and lung function. interventional and observational epidemiological studies provide evidence that vitamin d deficiency may confer increased risk of influenza and respiratory tract infection. patients with respiratory disease are frequently deficient in vitamin d, implying that supplementation might provide significant benefit to these patients. vitamin d, acting through this receptor, may be important in protection against respiratory infections. here we review the in vitro data on the role of vitamin d in antiviral innate immunity, the data concerning the deficient levels of vitamin d in lung diseases, and the in vivo role of supplementation as protection against respiratory viral infections in healthy individuals and in patients with chronic respiratory diseases. finally, we suggest ways of improving the effectiveness of vitamin d as an adjuvant in the prevention and treatment of acute respiratory infections. ",
 'Does ACE inhibitors like ramipril increase the risk of lung cancer? [SEP] ramipril, an inhibitor of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (acei), is a drug commonly used in the therapy of hypertension. we assessed whether ramipril was superior to other ace inhibitors after ami as suggested by a previously published study. in diabetic patients who have had a previous cardiovascular event or having one other cardiovascular risk factor, the micro-hope clinical trial showed that ramipril lowers the combined risk of myocardial infarction, stroke and cardiovascular death by 25%. angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors like ramiprilat bind to ace expressed on the cell surface of endothelial cells and induce cell-specific signalling including the activation of activator protein (ap)-1. this newly described effect of ramiprilat may contribute to the protective effects seen by application of ace inhibitors. angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (acei) and angiotensin ii receptor blockers (arbs) reduce cardiovascular disease (cvd) events, but a recent meta-analysis of selected studies suggested that arbs may increase cancer risks. thus, the objective of this study was to determine whether arbs are associated with an overall increased risk of the four most common cancers, namely, lung, colorectal, breast and prostate cancers, and to explore these effects separately for each cancer type. the use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and calcium channel blockers was associated with an increased rate of lung cancer (rr: 1.13; 95% ci: 1.06-1.20 and rr: 1.19; 95% ci: 1.12-1.27, respectively). additional research is needed to further investigate a potentially increased risk of lung cancer with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and calcium channel blockers. the primary objective of this study was to investigate the effects of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitor, ramipril, on carotid atherosclerosis in patients with coronary, cerebrovascular or peripheral vascular disease. ',
 'Does propolis have a preventive or soothing effect against infection with coronavirus, colds or flu? [SEP] propolis has attracted attention in recent years due to its beneficial effects, which make it a potential preventive and therapeutic agent as well as a useful additive in food and cosmetics. the aim of this review is to discuss the growing evidence that propolis may, via a diverse array of biological actions, assist in the prevention of some inflammation-mediated pathologies including cardiovascular disease. this review will highlight the effects of propolis that may assist in the prevention of chronic degenerative diseases, such as cardiovascular disease. propolis is thought to help prevent thrombotic and related cardiovascular diseases in humans. propolis, a resinous material collected from numerous plants by honeybees, has historically been used as a health-promoting food. recently, due to its potential anti-tumor effects, use of propolis has been proposed as an adjuvant therapy to chemotherapy; however, the effects of propolis on immune responses remain unclear. in this study, we examined the effects of the oral ingestion of propolis on natural killer (nk) cell activity, which is important in immune surveillance against cancer and viral infections. due to its multiple biological activities, 5,7-dihydroxyflavone (chrysin) in propolis has gained attention as potentially useful therapeutics for various diseases. propolis has been used in folk medicine since ancient times and is known for its antimicrobial, antiparasitic, antiviral, anti-inflammatory, antitumoral and antioxidant properties. propolis and its major constituent - caffeic acid phenethyl ester (cape) have good abilities on antitumor and anti-inflammation. ',
 'Does DAILY administration of HIGH-dose atropine (0.5 - 1%) sustainably inhibit the progression of myopia in children? [SEP] in this prospective clinical effectiveness study, children with progressive myopia\u2009≥\u20091d/year or myopia\u2009≤\u2009-2.5d were prescribed atropine 0.5%. in children with or at risk of developing high myopia, a starting dose of atropine 0.5% was associated with decreased progression in european children during a 3-year treatment regimen. our study supports high-dose atropine as a treatment option for children at risk of developing high myopia in adulthood. we investigated whether lower doses of atropine would control myopia progression. background and objectives: atropine is a nonselective muscarinic antagonist which has been used to prevent worsening of myopia in children. fifteen myopic children who received daily atropine 1% ophthalmic solution bilaterally for a mean of 29.3 months (range 3-96) were compared to a control group of 15 unrelated similar myopic patients. to confirm the clinical security and effectiveness of the daily application of 0.01% superdiluted atropine eyedrops in the progression of myopia in children. to study the safety and efficacy of topical 1% atropine eye ointment in retarding myopic progression in children with moderate to severe myopia. because studies have suggested that atropine might slow the progression of myopia in children, randomized clinical trials are warranted to understand this potential causal relationship. to investigate the clinical efficacy of 0.01% atropine in slowing the progression of myopia in children and to evaluate the influence of 0.01% atropine on secretion of basal tear and stability of tear film. ',
 'Does MONTHLY administered HIGH-dose atropine (1%) sustainably inhibit the progression of myopia in children? [SEP] background and objectives: atropine is a nonselective muscarinic antagonist which has been used to prevent worsening of myopia in children. in this prospective clinical effectiveness study, children with progressive myopia\u2009≥\u20091d/year or myopia\u2009≤\u2009-2.5d were prescribed atropine 0.5%. in children with or at risk of developing high myopia, a starting dose of atropine 0.5% was associated with decreased progression in european children during a 3-year treatment regimen. our study supports high-dose atropine as a treatment option for children at risk of developing high myopia in adulthood. fifteen myopic children who received daily atropine 1% ophthalmic solution bilaterally for a mean of 29.3 months (range 3-96) were compared to a control group of 15 unrelated similar myopic patients. to study the safety and efficacy of topical 1% atropine eye ointment in retarding myopic progression in children with moderate to severe myopia. we investigated whether lower doses of atropine would control myopia progression. the widespread use of low-concentration atropine, especially in east asia, may help prevent the myopia progression for the high-risk children. to investigate the clinical efficacy of 0.01% atropine in slowing the progression of myopia in children and to evaluate the influence of 0.01% atropine on secretion of basal tear and stability of tear film. atropine prevented development of myopia in both unilateral lim and fdm in a dose-dependent fashion. ',
 'Does LOW dose atropine (0.05% or less) sustainably inhibit the progression of myopia in children??? [SEP] the purpose of this article was to evaluate the long-term efficacy of a low-concentration (lc) atropine eye drop regimen (0.05%-0.1%) for controlling myopia progression in schoolchildren. while low-dose atropine eye drops are currently widely used to inhibit myopia development in children, the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. in this prospective clinical effectiveness study, children with progressive myopia\u2009≥\u20091d/year or myopia\u2009≤\u2009-2.5d were prescribed atropine 0.5%. in children with or at risk of developing high myopia, a starting dose of atropine 0.5% was associated with decreased progression in european children during a 3-year treatment regimen. our study supports high-dose atropine as a treatment option for children at risk of developing high myopia in adulthood. background and objectives: atropine is a nonselective muscarinic antagonist which has been used to prevent worsening of myopia in children. because studies have suggested that atropine might slow the progression of myopia in children, randomized clinical trials are warranted to understand this potential causal relationship. to evaluate the efficacy and safety of atropine, 0.01%, eyedrops on slowing myopia progression and axial elongation in chinese children. we investigated whether lower doses of atropine would control myopia progression. atropine 1% ophthalmic solution has been used to retard progression of simple childhood myopia. ',
 'Is quarantining persons who have had contact with infected persons or who enter from high-risk areas an effective measure to reduce the number of COVID-19 infections and deaths? [SEP] to slow down the spread of covid-19, governments worldwide are trying to identify infected people, and contain the virus by enforcing isolation, and quarantine. in response to the covid-19 pandemic, public health communication campaigns have been targeted at reducing viral transmission, specifically among populations most vulnerable to infection and death from the virus (e.g. many countries have enforced social distancing to stop the spread of covid-19. covid-19 is causing a global pandemic with a high number of deaths and infected people. identifying and isolating individuals infected with covid-19 are critical steps in stopping the spread of the coronavirus. there is an outbreak of covid-19 worldwide. as there is no effective therapy or vaccine yet, rigorous implementation of traditional public health measures such as isolation and quarantine remains the most effective tool to control the outbreak. in response to the covid-19 pandemic, many countries have adopted community containment to manage covid-19. these measures to reduce human contact, such as social distancing, are deemed necessary to contain the spread of the virus and protect those at increased risk of developing complications following infection with covid-19. the success of behavioral interventions and policies designed to reduce the impact of the covid-19 pandemic depends on how well individuals are informed about both the consequences of infection and the steps that should be taken to reduce the impact of the disease. ',
 'Can homeopathic globules protect against infection with the novel coronavirus? [SEP] current strategies for influenza virus vaccines primarily aim to elicit immune responses towards the globular head domain of the hemagglutinin (ha) protein so that binding of the virus to membrane receptors on the host cells is inhibited. we investigated whether gc protects hsv from antibody neutralization. together, the data suggest that hsv-1 gc protects the viral envelope glycoproteins essential for entry, including gb, by shielding them from neutralization as a potential mechanism of immune evasion.importance hsv-1 causes lifelong infection in the human population and can be fatal in neonatal and immunocompromised individuals. this work suggests a novel role for gc in shielding the hsv entry glycoproteins. gc may function to help hsv escape neutralization by antibodies. influenza virus like particles (vlps) containing hemagglutinin were previously demonstrated to induce protection against the homologous strains. in this study, we developed vlps (na vlps) containing na and m1 derived from a/pr/8/34 (h1n1) influenza virus, and investigated their ability to induce protective immunity. serum immunoglobulin g (igg) antibodies have been implicated in protection against norovirus-associated gastroenteritis, but the level, specificity, and functionality necessary for protection remain to be elucidated. antibodies with functional anti-human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) activity are likely to be involved in preventing virus dissemination and thus may contribute to minimize the clinical manifestations of infection. human coronavirus nl63 (hcov-nl63), a common human respiratory pathogen, is associated with both upper and lower respiratory tract disease in children and adults. ',
 'Does the osteoporosis drug teriparatide increase the risk of bone cancer as a side effect? [SEP] teriparatide is a drug currently approved for treating patients with osteoporosis who are at high risk for future fracture. in conclusion, although teriparatide seems quite effective in the treatment of osteoporosis, it may cause life-threatening hypercalcemia. it appears that the osteoblastogenic effect of teriparatide might induce this condition and, most likely, osteosarcoma in certain populations. teriparatide is a skeletal anabolic treatment for patients with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture. because adequate clinical trials have not yet been conducted to assess the efficacy of teriparatide for reducing the risk of hip fracture, we review here the literature regarding how treatment with teriparatide affects the hip in patients with osteoporosis. taken together, this body of evidence suggests that teriparatide positively affects the hip in patients with osteoporosis. as teriparatide is an agent used to treat osteoporosis in patients with fragility fractures, it is unclear whether teriparatide treatment alters bone mineral density (bmd) and bone markers when given to patients with fractures. teriparatide, a therapeutic agent for osteoporosis, has been reported to increase the incidences of bone neoplasms such as osteosarcoma when administered subcutaneously to fischer 344 (f344) rats for a long term, but its non-carcinogenic dose level following 2-year daily administration has not been established. when teriparatide was administered subcutaneously to male and female sprague-dawley (sd) rats daily for 2 years, the incidence of osteosarcoma was increased at 13.6 µg/kg/day. the development of osteosarcoma in sd rats depends on the dose level of, and treatment duration with, teriparatide. ',
 'Can therapy with EMDR (Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing) alleviate the symptoms of people with post-traumatic stress disorder? [SEP] eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (emdr) is an evidence-based treatment for ptsd. eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (emdr) is a psychotherapeutic treatment resolving emotional distress caused by traumatic events. eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (emdr) is an effective treatment for posttraumatic stress disorder. eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (emdr) is a well-established treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder. eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (emdr) is an effective psychological intervention for posttraumatic stress disorder (ptsd). eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (emdr) is a treatment for posttraumatic stress disorder. background: eye movement desensitization and reprocessing [emdr] is an innovative, evidence-based and effective psychotherapy for post-traumatic stress disorder [ptsd]. eye movement desensitization and reprocessing is a psychotherapeutic approach with recognized efficiency in treating post-traumatic stress disorder (ptsd), which is being used and studied in other psychiatric diagnoses partially based on adverse and traumatic life experiences. it has been claimed that the symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder (ptsd) can be ameliorated by eye-movement desensitization-reprocessing therapy (emd-r), a procedure that involves the individual making saccadic eye-movements while imagining the traumatic event. eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (emdr) is an integrative psychotherapy approach that has been consistently evaluated as efficacious in the treatment of posttraumatic stress disorder (ptsd). ',
 'Does EMDR work similarly to exposure therapy, another well-studied form of psychotherapy for the symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder??? [SEP] eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (emdr) is an evidence-based treatment for ptsd. in this trial, we examine the effectiveness of emdr in reducing ptsd symptoms in patients with sud and ptsd. this study aims to expand the knowledge about the effectiveness of emdr in patients with sud and comorbid ptsd. the expected finding of the superiority of emdr in reducing ptsd symptoms compared to non-trauma-focused ptsd treatment may enhance the use of trauma-focused treatment approaches for patients with sud and co-morbid ptsd. exposure, trauma-focused cognitive therapy and eye-movement desensitisation and re-processing (emdr) are effective treatments for posttraumatic stress disorder (ptsd) producing equivalent outcomes. numerous studies have provided evidence for the efficacy of eye movement desensitization and reprocessing therapy (emdr) in the treatment of posttraumatic stress disorder (ptsd), including recent studies showing it to be more efficient than therapist-directed flooding. eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (emdr) therapy has been widely recognized as an efficacious treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder (ptsd). eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (emdr) and trauma-focused cognitive-behavioral therapy (cbt) are both widely used in the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder (ptsd). eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (emdr) is considered highly efficacious for the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder and has proved to be a valid treatment approach with a wide range of applications. emdr may be more suitable than cbt for ptsd patients with prominent intrusion or arousal symptoms. ',
 'Does filling with hydrogel help with chronic back pain caused by a worn disc? [SEP] percutaneous intervertebral hydrogel (polyethylene glycol) implantation is a current treatment procedure that aims to restore hydration of a degenerated disc. this procedure is reported to be indicated for discogenic low-back pain and mild radicular pain as it contributes to disc restoration. the patient had undergone hydrogel implantation for l4-5 intervertebral disc restoration 2 days prior to presentation. in patients who have increased pain after intervertebral hydrogel implantation and who develop a neurological deficit, the migration of the applied material into the spinal canal should be considered. a novel hydrogel has been developed to replace lost nucleus pulposus and potentially restore normal disc biomechanics following herniation and surgery. in this study, high-density collagen hydrogels at 5, 10, and 15 mg/ml were used to repair defects made to intact rat caudal intervertebral discs in vitro. these data suggest that high-density collagen gels may be effective at restoring mechanical function of injured discs as well as potential vehicles for the delivery of biological agents such as cells or growth factors that may aid in the repair of the annulus fibrosus. to that end we investigated the therapeutic potential of an injectable, triple-interpenetrating-network hydrogel comprised of dextran, chitosan, and teleostean, for functional regeneration of the nucleus pulposus (np) of the intervertebral disc in a series of biomechanical, cytotoxicity, and tissue engineering studies. this study evaluates functional restoration of needle puncture injured intervertebral discs with a newly developed injectable hydrogel using the quantitative discomanometry (qd) test. restoration of disc integrity secondary to needle puncture injury can be achieved via the repair with the newly developed gelatin hydrogel incorporated with γ-pga and edc. ',
 'Does taking hyaluronic acid in capsule form improve the symptoms of knee osteoarthritis? [SEP] to evaluate whether intra-articular hyaluronic acid is efficacious in treating knee oa. compared with lower-molecular-weight hyaluronic acid, the highest-molecular-weight hyaluronic acid may be more efficacious in treating knee oa, but heterogeneity of these studies limits definitive conclusions. among options for symptom control, viscosupplementation with hyaluronic acid (ha) had established usefulness in pain and function improvement of the knee. intra-articular hyaluronic acid has been used in treatment of patients with knee osteoarthritis. intra-articular injections of hyaluronan were administered to ten patients with symptomatic knee osteoarthritis. intraarticular hyaluronan (ha) is used clinically for symptomatic relief in patients with knee osteoarthritis (oa); however, the mechanism of action is unclear. the aim of this meta-analysis was to elucidate the therapeutic efficacy and safety of intra-articular injection of hyaluronic acid for osteoarthritis of the knee. intra-articular injection of hyaluronic acid can decrease symptoms of osteoarthritis of the knee. this meta-analysis confirmed the therapeutic efficacy and safety of intra-articular injection of hyaluronic acid for the treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee. viscosupplementation with hyaluronic acid (ha) of osteoarthritic (oa) knee joints has a well-established positive effect on clinical symptoms. ',
 'Does taking chlorella provide better performance, more resilience and does it promote health? [SEP] the use of chlorella as an immune stimulant to enhance nonspecific host defense mechanisms or as an antimicrobial to inhibit bacterial growth has been reported. thus, the aim of the present study was to clarify the effect of recombinant chlorella supplementation on growth performance, meat quality, and the blood profile, excreta microflora, and nutrient digestibility in broilers. chlorella, a green microalga, has been used as an important ingredient in food and medicine because of its excellent nutritive and functional properties. chlorella, a unicellular green alga, contains various antioxidants and other nutrients such as amino acids and fiber. these results suggest that intake of a chlorella-containing multicomponent supplement can decrease arterial stiffness. chlorella is used as a functional food in east asia and has been shown to enhance immune system function. chlorella, a unicellular green alga that grows in fresh water, contains high levels of proteins, vitamins, minerals, and dietary fibers. some studies have reported favorable immune function-related effects on biological secretions such as blood and breast milk in humans who have ingested a chlorella-derived multicomponent supplement. these results suggest 4-week ingestion of a chlorella-derived multicomponent supplement increases salivary siga secretion and possibly improves mucosal immune function in humans. in some communities, chlorella is a traditional medicinal plant used for the management of inflammation-related diseases. ',
 "Does going to the sauna several times a week prolong men's lives? [SEP] the aim of the study was to evaluate effects of finnish sauna bathing on lipid profile in healthy, young men. sixteen male subjects (20-23 years) were subjected to 10 sauna bathing sessions in a finnish sauna every 1 or 2 days. a statistically significant decrease of total cholesterol and ldl cholesterol was observed during 3 weeks of sauna treatment and in the week afterwards. the physiological adaptations to sauna bathing could enhance endurance performance. relative to control, sauna bathing increased run time to exhaustion by 32% (90% confidence limits 21-43%), which is equivalent to an enhancement of approximately 1.9% (1.3-2.4%) in an endurance time trial. in cox regression analysis adjusted for age, compared to men who had 1 sauna session per week, the hazard ratio (95% confidence intervals) of psychosis for 4-7 sauna sessions per week was 0.23 (0.09-0.58). of the rand-36 domains physical function, vitality, social functioning, and general health were significantly better among sauna users than non-users. regular sauna bathing was common among octogenarian men and was associated with better hrqol. sauna and sports go well together. top finnish athletes have discovered this, taking a sauna almost twice a week. ",
 "Does going to the sauna several times a week prolong women's lives??? [SEP] investigate whether a sauna exposure prior to short-term heat acclimation (ha) accelerates phenotypic adaptation in females. but, for either use, saunas are safe and effective and should be used more frequently to benefit the health of our patients and ourselves. analysis of well-being scores after stratifying respondents into three groups by sauna-bathing frequency (group i: <5 times per month; group ii: 5-15 times per month; group iii: >15 times per month) revealed group ii respondents had slightly higher mental well-being scores (kruskal-wallis testing: h\u202f=\u202f6.603\u202f>\u202fꭔ2 of 5.991, p\u202f=\u202f0.0368, df\u202f=\u202f2 with post hoc analysis using mann-whitney u test: p\u202f=\u202f0.016) as compared to respondents who were sauna-bathing less frequently (group i). this cross-sectional study documents that sauna-bathing participants, particularly those from finland, australia and the united states, are motivated to use saunas predominantly for relaxation, reporting health benefits especially around mental well-being and sleep, with relatively few adverse effects. emerging evidence suggests that beyond its use for pleasure, sauna bathing may be linked to several health benefits, which include reduction in the risk of vascular diseases such as high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease, and neurocognitive diseases; nonvascular conditions such as pulmonary diseases; mortality; as well as amelioration of conditions such as arthritis, headache, and flu. the beneficial effects of sauna bathing on these outcomes have been linked to its effect on circulatory, cardiovascular, and immune functions. it has been postulated that regular sauna bathing may improve cardiovascular function via improved endothelium-dependent dilatation, reduced arterial stiffness, modulation of the autonomic nervous system, beneficial changes in circulating lipid profiles, and lowering of systemic blood pressure. an overview of the postulated biological mechanisms underlying the associations between sauna bathing and its health benefits, areas of outstanding uncertainty, and implications for clinical practice is also provided. the physiologic effect of the sauna in human beings has been studied extensively, but only recently have there been studies to suggest sauna can be an effective therapeutic modality for patients with cardiovascular disease, especially for those with congestive heart failure. this study demonstrates that a session of sauna bathing induces an increase in hr. ",
 'Does the additional offer of HIV self-testing cause more people to take an HIV test? [SEP] with approval of an hiv self-test kit in the usa, increasing evidence from public pilot programs in sub-saharan africa showing high acceptability and feasibility, and evidence of the informal sale of rapid hiv test kits in the private sector, options for individuals to access hiv self-testing, as well as consumer-demand, appear to be increasing. more recently who and unaids have explored self-testing as an option to achieving greater hiv testing coverage to support global treatment targets. the rapid human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) self-test in the united states has expanded opportunities for hiv testing in nonclinical settings which may increase early diagnosis of hiv infection. significantly (p = <0.0001) more persons that self-tested positive (39/44, 89%) than persons that self-tested negative (14/36, 39%) sought laboratory-based hiv test within 1 month of last self-testing; and negative than positive self-tested persons were diagnosed with acute hiv infection (44% vs. 9%, p = <0.0001). with better health care and greater access to antiretrovirals (arvs) it has become important to increase the uptake of hiv testing. participants who preferred self-testing for hiv were predominantly (p < 0.05) male, white, lived in cities or towns, did not know their hiv status, and had no intention of being tested at a medical facility in future. participants indicated that they would consider testing if self-testing for hiv with telephone counselling becomes readily available in their communities. hiv self-testing (hivst) is an additional approach to increasing uptake of hiv testing services. self-testing has untapped potential as a strategy to improve access to hiv testing and to increase testing frequency. availability of over-the-counter rapid hiv tests could improve access to testing those reluctant or unable to use current services. ',
 'Can the combination of propolis, xyloglucan, gelatin and hibiscus (product "Utipro Plus") relieve the symptoms of cystitis or prevent cystitis? [SEP] interstital cystitis is often treated with exogenous glycosaminoglycans such as heparin, chondroitin sulphate (uracyst), hyaluronate (cystistat) or the semi-synthetic pentosan polysulphate (elmiron). when taken for 3 months, a combination of natural products (cernitin, saw palmetto, b-sitosterol, vitamin e) compared to placebo can significantly lessen nocturia and frequency and diminish overall symptomatology of bph as indicated by an improvement in the total aua symptom index score. pentosan polysulfate sodium (pps), an oral medication indicated for the treatment of interstitial cystitis, has shown moderate benefit in reducing chronic pelvic pain and voiding symptoms in patients with interstitial cystitis. the phytotherapeutic agent eviprostat, a popular treatment for benign prostatic hyperplasia in japan and germany, has antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activity. eviprostat, which has effective antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities in the prostate, may be useful for the clinical treatment of chronic prostatitis. the present study aimed to evaluate the gastroprotective effect of the hydroalcoholic extract of red propolis (herp), its mode of action, and the main compounds involved in its activity, therefore contributing to validate the chemical and pharmacological potential of this product. our data contribute to validate the traditional use of propolis for gastric disorders. propolis is a natural, resinous hive product that has several pharmacological activities including antimicrobial, antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and antitumoral activities. the aim of this study was to compare the cytotoxic, antioxidant and antitumoral activities of an ethanolic extract of egyptian propolis (eep) in vitro with an established chemotherapeutic drug such as doxorubicin (dox), and the effects of their combination against the pc3 human prostate cancer cell line. the rationale and efficacy of phytotherapeutic agents in the treatment of lower urinary tract symptoms secondary to benign prostatic hyperplasia (bph) are continuously debated. ',
 'Does PEMF noticeably improve pain in osteoarthritis? Does the method improve mobility and quality of life in sufferers? [SEP] which types of exercise intervention are most effective in relieving pain and improving function in people with lower limb osteoarthritis? exercise is an effective treatment for osteoarthritis. to evaluate the efficacy of exercise and its potential determinants for pain, function, performance, and quality of life (qol) in knee and hip osteoarthritis (oa). exercise significantly reduces pain and improves function, performance and qol in people with knee and hip oa as compared with usual care at 8 weeks. treatment of patients with osteoarthritis is often directed at relieving pain and restoring function. preliminary study results suggest that osteopathic manipulative treatment (omt) may reduce pain, improve ambulation, and increase rehabilitation efficiency in patients undergoing knee or hip arthroplasty. joint replacement provides significant improvements in pain, physical function, and quality of life in patients with osteoarthritis. regular physical activity (pa) can help preserve and improve physical functioning and reduce pain in patients with osteoarthritis. pain relief enables patients to regain their mobility and is therefore a key goal in the management of osteoarthritis (oa). this report summarises the major mechanisms of pain production in osteoarthritis and discusses the potential use of those exercises commonly used by physical therapists for relieving the pain associated with this disease. ',
 'Does oil pulling promote dental health? [SEP] there are numerous advocates for the practice of oil pulling to prevent common oral diseases. this review aimed to assess the effect of oil pulling with coconut oil in improving oral health and dental hygiene. the limited evidence suggests that oil pulling with coconut oil may have a beneficial effect on improving oral health and dental hygiene. oil pulling has been used extensively for many years, without scientific evidence or proof, as a traditional indian folk remedy to prevent teeth decay, oral malodor, bleeding gums, dryness of throat and cracked lips, and for strengthening the teeth, gums, and jaws. oil pulling can be used as an effective preventive adjunct in maintaining and improving oral health. oil pulling has been used extensively as a traditional indian folk remedy for many years for strengthening teeth, gums, and the jaw and to prevent decay, oral malodor, bleeding gums, dryness of the throat, and cracked lips. the oil pulling therapy showed a reduction in the plaque index, modified gingival scores, and total colony count of aerobic microorganisms in the plaque of adolescents with plaque-induced gingivitis. oil pulling has been used extensively as a traditional indian folk remedy without scientific proof for many years for strengthening teeth, gums and jaws and to prevent decay, oral malodor, bleeding gums and dryness of throat and cracked lips. oil pulling therapy has been used extensively as a traditional indian folk remedy for many years for strengthening teeth, gums, and jaws and to prevent decay, oral malodor, bleeding gums and dryness of throat, and cracked lips. oil pulling therapy using so and oso showed a significant improvement in oral hygiene. ',
 'Can injecting stem cells into the knee joint relieve pain and limitations associated with osteoarthritis? [SEP] we investigated the safety and efficacy of intra-articular injection of placental mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) in knee oa healing. various treatments are used to alleviate the symptoms of patients with knee osteoarthritis, including analgesics and intra-articular injections. objective: the purpose was to examine the current literature regarding the clinical application of adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (ad-mscs) for the management of knee oa. this review included studies using cell population containing ad-mscs for the treatment of knee oa. conclusion: our data suggest that the intra-articular injection of autologous ad-mscs is a safe and effective therapeutic alternative for the treatment of severe knee oa patients and may have the potential to attenuate progression of the disease. currently, cell-based therapy is being explored to address the repair of damaged articular cartilage in the knee joint. in the preclinical model of oa, stempeucel® reduced pain significantly and also repaired damaged articular cartilage in rats. platelet-rich plasma and mesenchymal stem cell therapy offer the potential to modify the natural course of knee osteoarthritis using cell-based technology. mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) are emerging as an attractive option for osteoarthritis (oa) of the knee joint, due to their marked disease-modifying ability and chondrogenic potential. it can decrease inflammation and be a replacement for knee surgery. ',
 'Can an extract of Desmodium promote liver health or relieve other ailments? [SEP] in this study, we found that pretreatment with dh extract significantly ameliorated liver injury and suppressed the production of inflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor (tnf-α) and interferon-γ (ifn-γ) in concanavalin a- (cona-) induced hepatitis (cih). the present work explores dh as an effective hepatoprotective medicine to inhibit inflammation and liver injury caused by hepatitis. is well known as a treatment for liver disease. extract, a traditional chinese medicine rich in dihydromyricetin (dhm), exhibited a significant hepatoprotective effect against acetaminophen (apap)-induced liver injury. these results suggested that dhm alleviated apap-induced liver injury in mice by inhibiting hepatocyte death, promoting p53-related regeneration, and regulating lipid homeostatic imbalance and apap transformation. the present study scientifically validated the traditional use of l. frutescens for liver disorders. the effects of h. dulcis seeds against alcoholic liver injury were investigated in mice with water extract pretreatment for 7 days followed by alcohol administration. it has been used for the treatment of numerous liver disorders characterized by functional impairment or degenerative necrosis. it is also used as a food remedy. in southern china, polygonum perfoliatum l can contribute to alleviating pathological symptoms of liver disease, such as hepatitis. ',
 'Does the balsam apple help against infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)? [SEP] betulinic acid existing in various medicinal herbs and fruits exhibits multiple biological effects, especially its outstanding anti-hiv activity, which has drawn the attentions of many pharmacists. acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids) is a serious health problem worldwide. it has been reported that aglaia andamanica hiern (meliaceae) leaves possessed an antiviral effect. the anti-herpes simplex virus type 1 and anti-herpes simplex virus type 2 effects of apple pomace, a by-product from the cider-processing industry, were investigated. the anti-herpetic mechanisms of apple pomaces included the inhibition of virus attachment to the cell surface and the arrest of virus entry and uncoating. african star apple (chrysophyllum albidum) is a traditonal fruit, which is predominant in tropical regions with the fruit parts consumed by the populace and used in folklore to manage diabetes. the current study examined and compared the inhibitory abilities of african star apple fruit parts on selected key enzymes related to diabetes mellitus in the pancreas tissue of rat. inhibitory effect of aqueous extract (1:10\u2009w/v) of african star apple fruit parts (pulp, cotyledon, seed coat and pulp coat) on the activities of α-amylase, α-glucosidase, as well as their starch composition, phenolic constituents, estimated glycemic index, and antioxidant properties were assessed. nevertheless, the african star apple pulp coat displayed the highest property in comparison to other parts of the fruit. understanding innate defence mechanisms would help to develop disease-resistant apple crops. ',
 'Does healing clay with the clay mineral smectite help when children have diarrhea? [SEP] diosmectite is a clay used to treat children with acute watery diarrhea. the natural clay dioctahedral smectite increases intestinal barrier function and is effective against infectious diarrhea in children in developing countries. the purpose of this work was to investigate the efficacy of smectite in italian children with acute diarrhea of mild to moderate severity. administration of smectite was associated with significant reduction of the duration of diarrhea, as judged by stool frequency and consistency. smectite, a medicinal clay, could offer a complementary intervention to reduce the duration of diarrhoea. to assess the effects of smectite for treating acute infectious diarrhoea in children. randomized and quasi-randomized trials comparing smectite to a control group in children aged one month to 18 years old with acute infectious diarrhoea. most studies included children with rotavirus infections, and half included breastfed children.smectite may reduce the duration of diarrhoea by approximately a day (md -24.38 hours, 95% ci -30.91 to -17.85; 14 studies; 2209 children; low-certainty evidence); may increase clinical resolution at day 3 (risk ratio (rr) 2.10, 95% ci 1.30 to 3.39; 5 trials; 312 children; low-certainty evidence); and may reduce stool output (md -11.37, 95% ci -21.94 to -0.79; 3 studies; 634 children; low-certainty evidence).we are uncertain whether smectite reduces stool frequency, measured as depositions per day (md -1.33, 95% ci -2.28 to -0.38; 3 studies; 954 children; very low-certainty evidence). based on low-certainty evidence, smectite used as an adjuvant to rehydration therapy may reduce the duration of diarrhoea in children with acute infectious diarrhoea by a day; may increase cure rate by day 3; and may reduce stool output, but has no effect on hospitalization rates or need for intravenous therapy. the natural clay dioctahedral smectite (smecta) increases intestinal barrier function and is effective against infectious diarrhoea in children. ',
 'Does a herbal combination preparation of rosemary, lovage, and centaury effectively relieve symptoms of uncomplicated cystitis? [SEP] rosmarinus officinalis l., rosemary, is traditionally used to treat headache and improve cardiovascular disease partly due to its vasorelaxant activity, while the vasorelaxant ingredients remain unclear. previously reported results of a prospective, randomized placebo-controlled study showed that the pollen extract (cernilton) significantly improved total symptoms, pain, and quality of life in patients with inflammatory prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (cp/cpps) without severe side effects. in traditional medicine, rosemary was used as mild analgesic, for relieving renal colic pain and dysmenorrhea. the aim of our study was to examine analgesic effects of rosemary essential oil and its pharmacodynamic interactions with codeine and paracetamol in mice. our findings support the use of rosemary in the management of pain and indicate a therapeutic potential of rosemary essential oil in combination with analgesic drugs. the mechanisms involved in analgesic effects of rosemary essential oil and the potential influence on cytochromes and drug metabolism should be more in-depth investigated. this study examined which of the herbal infusions used in treatment and reduction of symptoms of utis have the greatest efficacy, and at which concentration levels (5.85 mg/ml; 0.59 mg/ml; 0.29 mg/ml). extracts of rosemary, rosmarinus officinalis l., have been used in folk medicine as a diuretic, an emenagogue, an antispasmodic and its aqueous extract does not present toxicity to man, presenting, however, abortive effects. this result suggests that rosemary extract may present an anti-implantation effect without interfering with the normal development of the concept after implantation. rosmarinus officinalis l. (lamiaceae), popularly known as rosemary, is used for food flavoring and in folk medicine as an antispasmodic, analgesic, antirheumatic, diuretic, and antiepileptic agent. ',
 "Can a herbal combination preparation of rosemary, lovage and centaury prevent recurrent cystitis in women? [SEP] to assess whether the orally administered combination of hyaluronic acid (ha), chondroitin sulfate (cs), curcumin and quercetin could be effective in preventing recurrent cystitis in postmenopausal women and whether its efficacy was conditioned by the concurrent use of local estrogen therapy. in postmenopausal women, the combination of ha, cs, curcumin and quercetin per os was effective in preventing recurrent urinary tract infections, especially if administered with vaginal estrogen therapy. the world health organization has recommended herbal medicine for treatment and control of recurrent cystitis. this study was conducted to determine effect of eshnan on the prevention of recurrent cystitis. the present triple-blind clinical trial was conducted on 126 women (63 women per group) with recurrent cystitis. the consumption of eshnan can improve the symptoms of cystitis and prevent the incidence of recurrent cystitis in women of reproductive age. this article outlines the major known and theoretical drug-herb interactions of herbal medicines thought to be of benefit for menopausal symptoms, as well as discussing the implications for the medical profession. to evaluate the effectiveness of a phytotherapeutic intervention comprising a combination of hypericum perforatum (st. john's wort) and vitex agnus-castus (chaste tree/berry) in the management of menopausal symptoms. this pilot study demonstrates the potential benefit of a combination botanical for improving moderate menopausal symptoms in women. the efficacy and role of combination botanicals for long-term use to reduce menopausal symptoms requires further exploration. ",
 'Can healing clay help with gastritis? [SEP] clay therapy for skin disease treatment is an ancient practice popular worldwide as a cheap alternative to pharmaceutical products. effectiveness of clay against skin problems has been linked to its mineral composition and to microbial activity. healing clays have been traditionally used by man for therapeutic, nutritional and skin care purposes, but they could impart some important health and skin care risks. this paper pretends to review historical data, basic concepts and functions, as well as benefits and risks of the use of healing clays, in general, for therapeutic and cosmetic purposes, and of edible clays, in particular, for therapeutic purposes. thus, clay consumption appeared beneficial in that it either protected the rats from illness or enhanced recovery and might prove useful as an adjunct therapy for other animals, including humans, experiencing visceral malaise. from old times, the human kind has used clays, externally or internally, for maintaining body health or treating some diseases. clay minerals are efficient against several aggressors that cause major disorders of the gut. these beneficial effects of clay minerals (on the gastrointestinal mucosa) are associated with two mechanisms of action: (1) adsorption of the aggressors or their toxic secretions and (2) modification of the thickness and rheological properties of the adherent mucus, reinforcing the natural defenses of the gastrointestinal mucosa. clay is often used in cosmetic treatments, although little is known about its action. clay application promotes an increase in the number of collagen fibres, which may account for its beneficial effects. ',
 "Does the Indian spice paste Chyawanprash have a positive effect on adult health? [SEP] chyawanprash is an ancient indian dietary supplement containing vitamin c (34 mg/100 g) derived from amla (emblica officinalis). in addition, chyawanprash also contains several other herbal products. 'chyavanprash' is one of the oldest and most popular ayurvedic preparations, used widely as a health promotive and disease preventive 'rasayana' drug in india and elsewhere. chyawanprash is an ayurvedic formulation used in indian traditional medicinal system for its beneficial effect on human health. we investigated the immunostimulatory effects of chyawanprash (chy) using in vitro assays evaluating the secretion of cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-α), interleukin-1beta (il-1β) and macrophage inflammatory protein-1-alpha (mip-1-α) from murine bone marrow derived dendritic cells (dc) which play pivotal role in immunostimulation. chyawanprash is an ayurvedic formulation which is used traditionally to increase vitality, vigor and for delaying the aging process. the present study sought to explore the beneficial effects of chyawanprash on cognitive function of aged mice. in the present study, chyawanprash (chy) was administered orally in two concentrations (1 and 2% w/w of the diet) for 15 successive days to 17 different groups of young (8 groups) and aged (9 groups) mice. the administration of chyawanprash (1 and 2% w/w) for 15 consecutive days significantly improved the memory of aged mice when compared to young mice. chyawanprash may be looked upon as a useful memory enhancer in aged animals by virtue of its antioxidant effect, pro-cholinergic action, improved learning ability, and increased retention capacity. ",
 'Does ginger work against breast cancer? [SEP] the present study aimed to examine the antiproliferative potentiality of an extract derived from the medicinal plant ginger (zingiber officinale) on growth of breast cancer cells. ginger treatment suppressed the proliferation and colony formation in breast cancer cell lines, mcf-7 and mda-mb-231. ginger treatment downregulated expression of prosurvival genes, such as nf-κb, bcl-x, mcl-1, and survivin, and cell cycle-regulating proteins, including cyclin d1 and cyclin-dependent kinase-4 (cdk-4). these findings suggested that the ginger may be a promising candidate for the treatment of breast carcinomas. genistein has been proposed to be responsible for lowering the rate of breast cancer in asian women but the mechanism for this chemopreventive effect in vivo is unknown. ginger (zingiber officinale) is the mainly widespread spice and herbal remedies used in the world. since antique periods, ginger has been used in greece, india and china for the curing of upset stomach, nausea, diarrhea, colds, and headaches. two dietary polyphenols that have received attention from the health and research communities for their ability to protect against breast cancer are: genistein, a component of soy; and resveratrol, a phytoalexin found in red grapes and red wine. we and others have shown that both genistein and resveratrol can protect against mammary cancer in rodents. we conclude that genistein and resveratrol can protect against breast cancer by regulating important mammary growth and differentiation pathways. ',
 "Can Theta Healing help with physical ailments and mental problems? [SEP] practitioners enter a meditative state and pass their hands above the patient's body to find and correct any imbalances in the patient's 'life energy' or chi. practitioners enter a meditative state and pass their hands above the patient's body to find and correct any imbalances in the patient's 'life energy' or chi. practitioners enter a meditative state and pass their hands above the patient's body to find and correct any imbalances in the patient's 'life energy' or chi. practitioners enter a meditative state and pass their hands above the patient's body to find and correct any imbalances in the patient's 'life energy' or chi. healing touch has potential as a complementary therapeutic option for trauma recovery. healing touch and its predecessor, therapeutic touch, effectively and holistically improve physiologic and psychologic complaints, health perception, and well-being. massage, neuromuscular therapy, trager, and bowen work reduce stress, relieve pain, rebalance the body, and restore a sense of general well-being. they can be used by themselves to promote physical and emotional health or with conventional medical care to restore health. therefore, we examined whether meditative movements (tai chi, qigong, and yoga) are effective for treating mdd. it has also been used to treat various diseases without inflicting mental trauma or the pain of surgery. ",
 'Does taking Bacopa extract improve memory performance? [SEP] bacopa monnieri commonly known as brahmi is utilized in ayurveda to improve memory and many other human health benefits. bacosides enriched standardized extract of bacopa monnieri is being marketed as a memory enhancing agent. over the last 50 years, laboratories around the world analyzed the pharmacological effect of bacopa monniera extract in different dimensions, especially as a nerve tonic and memory enhancer. studies in animal model evidenced that bacopa treatment can attenuate dementia and enhances memory. bacopa monnieri is a medicinal plant with a long history of use in ayurveda, especially in the treatment of poor memory and cognitive deficits. in the present study, we hypothesized that bacopa monnieri extract (bme) can improve memory via increased cell proliferation and neuroblast differentiation in the dentate gyrus. bacopa monniera extract (cdri-08; bme) has been known to improve learning and memory, and understanding the molecular mechanisms may help to know its specificity. bacopa is also called as a natural antioxidant which may give details its neuroprotective role seen in the memory centers of the brain. pathway analysis using the ingenuity platform suggested that bacopa may protect against brain damage and improve brain development. bacosides, the effective component of standardised leaf extract of bacopa monniera (beseb cdri-08) has been reported to have memory enhancing effect. ',
 'Do remedies containing the trifoliate fruit alleviate the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis ("rheumatism")? [SEP] rosa centifolia l. (rosaceae) have been used for the treatment of joint pain and rheumatoid arthritis (ra) in the traditional system of medicine. the result of study demonstrates the antiarthritic activity of r. centifolia and validates its traditional use for the treatment of ra. as various medicinal plants are traditionally used for the management of symptomatologies associated with ra in persian medicine, we reviewed medicinal literature to confirm their efficacy in the management of ra. scientific evidence revealed that traditional medicaments exert beneficial effects on ra through several cellular mechanisms including downregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as tnf-α, il-6 and nf-κb, suppression of oxidative stress, inhibition of cartilage degradation with destructive metalloproteinases and enhancement of antioxidant performance. several natural substances have been shown to be effective at relieving the symptoms of osteoarthritis (oa), and preliminary evidence suggests that some of these compounds may exert a favorable influence on the course of the disease. (rm) has been used in oriental traditional medicines as remedies for scabies, rheumatic arthralgia and stomatitis which were practicably related with today\'s inflammatory and allergic diseases. (combretaceae) fruit is mentioned in ayurveda as useful in treating arthritic disorders. these promising findings support the traditional use of t. chebula fruits in the treatment of arthritic disorders and suggest that radical quenching may be one of the mechanisms for its anti-inflammatory activity. the present study has been conducted to explore the anti-inflammatory effects of choerospondias axillaris fruit extract on synoviocytes (fls) and collagen-induced arthritis (cia) rat model. observed results suggest that the underutilized fruit choerospondias axillaris can be used to reduce the inflammation of inflammatory diseases like ra. ',
 'Does thyme strengthen memory or prevent mental decline? [SEP] the lifespan of thymic-derived or t lymphocytes is of particular interest because of their central role in immunological memory. even among persons free from thyroid disorders, subclinical variations in thyroid functioning may affect cognitive performance. an association could be expected, as changes in the thyroid gland have been linked to alterations in frontal brain regions that play a key role in prospective remembering. thymic involution is central to the decline in immune system function that occurs with age. by regenerating the thymus, it may therefore be possible to improve the ability of the aged immune system to respond to novel antigens. collectively, our data establish that upregulation of a single transcription factor can substantially reverse age-related thymic involution, identifying foxn1 as a specific target for improving thymus function and, thus, immune competence in patients. it has often been speculated that if this age-associated atrophy of the thymus gland could be prevented, the natural decline that occurs in a number of t-cell-mediated immune responses could be reversed. thyroid activity plays a role in cognition. the aim of this study was analysis of cognitive function levels in reference to thyroid examination: thyroid-stimulating hormone (tsh), total thyroxin (tt4), triiodothyronine (tt3), free thyroxin (ft4), free triiodothyronine (ft3), thyroperoxidase antibodies (tpo-ab), and thyroglobulin antibodies (tg-ab), tsh receptor antibodies (ab-tshr) in women after menopause. our study supports the importance of thyroid functionality in cognitive functioning in a group of women after menopause. ',
 'Does regular consumption of chia seeds reduce body weight, blood sugar levels or cholesterol? [SEP] of the chia seed interventions, one study showed a significant drop in systolic blood pressure (sbp) and inflammatory markers, yet there was no change in body mass, lipid profile or blood sugar. only one study showed a significant drop in triglycerides (tg), body mass and inflammatory markers; however, the chia seed in that case was mixed with other foods. the evidence regarding the relationship between chia seed consumption and cardiovascular risk factors are insufficient, and the studies included in this review present numerous limitations. chia (salvia hispanica l.) has an elevated concentration of dietary fiber, it has been used to weight loss and enhance blood glucose and lipid profile. to evaluate the effect of chia supplementation in body composition, lipid profile and blood glucose in overweight or obese individuals. chia induced significant intragroup reduction in body weight (-1.1±0.4 kg; p<0.05), with a greater reduction among obese than overweighed individuals (-1.6±0.4 kg; p<0.00), but without difference when compared to pla. it was observed a reduction in total cholesterol (p=0.04) and vldl-c (p=0.03), and an increase in hdl-c (p=0.01) but only in the groups that ingested chia flour and presented abnormal initial values. consumption of chia for 12 weeks promotes significant but discrete reduction in weight and waist circumference, and enhances lipid profile dependent of initial values. the objective of this study was to assess the effectiveness of chia seed (salvia hispanica l) in promoting weight loss and altering disease risk factors in overweight adults. the hypothesis was that the high dietary fiber and alpha-linolenic (ala) contents of chia seed would induce a small but significant decrease in body weight and fat and improve disease risk factors. ',
 'Do heat patches that heat themselves or heat pads help with pain in the neck? [SEP] heating the skin and muscles is a commonly accepted method of pain relief and a modality to increase relaxation in muscles and increase tissue blood flow. the purpose of the present study was to examine the effect of local heat applied to trigger points and to determine if there was pain relief in the neck and plantar fascia. subjective pain significantly decreased in both sham and heat group patients with neck pain (p< 0.05), however, the change was greater in the heat group and there was a significant difference between the heat and sham groups (p= 0.002, d= 0.81). pain relief during the intervention was also significantly different between the heat and sham group in both patients with neck and plantar pain. the effect of local heat on trigger points of the body on pain relief was significantly better in the heat groups than in the sham groups. the objective of this study was to compare the analgesic efficacy of heat and cold in relieving pain from back and neck strains. the addition of a 30-minute topical application of a heating pad or cold pack to ibuprofen therapy for the treatment of acute neck or back strain results in a mild yet similar improvement in the pain severity. anecdotal reports suggest that application of a cool device to the back of the neck at the onset of a hot flush can afford symptomatic relief. for years, heat has been used for comfort and analgesia is recommended as a first-line therapy in many clinical guidelines. application of heat using a hot water bottle caused a significant increase in pain sensation and enhancement of bf and scl responses. ',
 'Do heat patches containing capsaicin help with neck pain??? [SEP] topical creams with capsaicin are used to treat pain from a wide range of chronic conditions including neuropathic pain. to review the evidence from controlled trials on the efficacy and tolerability of topically applied capsaicin in chronic neuropathic pain in adults. capsaicin, either as repeated application of a low dose (0.075%) cream, or a single application of a high dose (8%) patch may provide a degree of pain relief to some patients with painful neuropathic conditions. topical creams with capsaicin are used to treat pain from a wide range of chronic conditions including neuropathic pain. repeated topical capsaicin resulted in reduced sensation to mechanical, heat and cold pain without changing non-painful tactile sensation. topical capsaicin (trans-b-methyl-n-vanillyl-noneamide) has been successful for pain relief in postherpetic neuralgia, arthritis, and diabetic neuropathy. localized neuropathic pain can be relieved following the topical application of high-concentration capsaicin. we found that topical capsaicin selectively impairs heat sensitivity without any concomitant changes in cold sensitivity. topical capsaicin has been introduced in the u.s. and canada as a cream indicated for temporary relief of neuralgia following episodes of herpes zoster infections and in the treatment of diabetic neuropathy. although capsaicin is clinically used as an external analgesic for temporary relief of neuralgia, it has also been widely used as a research tool to study peripheral pain. ',
 'Do heat patches help with lower back pain? [SEP] yet, there are questions that remain about the actual effectiveness of heat for a condition as common as chronic low back pain, and factors such as time of onset, optimal temperature, and duration of effect. a randomized double-blinded controlled trial was designed to compare the analgesic response to heat delivered via pulses at 45°c (experimental group, n=49) to steady heat at 37°c (control group, n=51) in subjects with longstanding low back pain. the results of this trial provide insight into the mechanisms and properties of thermal analgesia that are not well understood in a chronic low back pain model. heat and cold are commonly utilised in the treatment of low-back pain by both health care professionals and people with low-back pain. to assess the effects of superficial heat and cold therapy for low-back pain in adults. in two trials of 258 participants with a mix of acute and sub-acute low-back pain, heat wrap therapy significantly reduced pain after five days (weighted mean difference (wmd) 1.06, 95% confidence interval (ci) 0.68 to 1.45, scale range 0 to 5) compared to oral placebo. one trial of 90 participants with acute low-back pain found that a heated blanket significantly decreased acute low-back pain immediately after application (wmd -32.20, 95%ci -38.69 to -25.71, scale range 0 to 100). one trial of 100 participants with a mix of acute and sub-acute low-back pain examined the additional effects of adding exercise to heat wrap, and found that it reduced pain after seven days. there is moderate evidence in a small number of trials that heat wrap therapy provides a small short-term reduction in pain and disability in a population with a mix of acute and sub-acute low-back pain, and that the addition of exercise further reduces pain and improves function. it has been reported that local thermal therapy with a hot pack or paraffin relieves pain. ',
 'Does ginger help with period pain? [SEP] ginger or ginger extracts have been used in traditional medicine relieve pain caused by diarrhea predominant irritable bowel syndrome (ibs-d), but few data exists about its effectiveness. this present study was to validate the effect of ginger on visceral pain, and to further explore the possible underlying mechanism by which ginger is used to relieve ibs-d intestinal hypersensitivity. and ginger treatment significantly reduced the defecation frequency, fecal water content and awr scores in ibs-d rats. histopathological analysis showed that ginger treatment can significantly reduce colonic edema and promote the recovery of inflammation in ibs-d rats, and the effect is equivalent to rifaximin. hplc analysis showed that 6-gingerol was the main component of ginger, which could improve clinical symptoms in ibs-d rats. is there evidence that ginger is safe to use during pregnancy? various preclinical and clinical studies have evaluated ginger as an effective and safe treatment for nausea and vomiting in the context of pregnancy and as an adjuvant treatment for chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting. we examined the effect of ginger root extract on nociceptive threshold and morphine-induced analgesia in male wistar rats. our results showed that ginger extract elicited a significant antinociceptive effect. thus, the data indicate that ginger extract has a beneficial influence on morphine analgesia and can be an efficacious adjunct for pain management. ',
 'Can the state of health be assessed as reliably with a "cell check" analysis as with other diagnostic tests (for example, blood or urine analyses)? [SEP] an integral part of routine health checkups involves laboratory measurements on various analytes in the blood. monitoring health conditions is essential to detect early asymptomatic stages of a disease. to achieve this, blood, urine and breath samples are commonly used as a routine clinical diagnostic. to evaluate diagnostic tests, one would ideally like to verify, for example, with a biopsy, the disease state of all subjects in a study. fast and reliable diagnoses are invaluable in clinical care. samples (e.g., blood, urine, and saliva) are collected and analyzed for various biomarkers to quickly and sensitively assess disease progression, monitor response to treatment, and determine a patient\'s prognosis. diagnostic assays can provide valuable information about the health status of a patient, which include detection of biomarkers that indicate the presence of an infection, the progression or regression of a disease, and the efficacy of a course of treatment. the performance of a medical diagnostic test is often evaluated by comparing the outcome of the test to the patient\'s true disease state. the physician will obtain more meaningful data from the laboratory when testing is ordered to confirm diagnostic suspicions that were raised during the history and physical examination of the patient. for this case, it is common to use diagnostic tests based only on the information of verified individuals. ',
 'Can pain from osteoarthritis (joint wear) be relieved by arnica ointment or arnica gel? [SEP] arnica preparations have long been used for the symptomatic treatment of rheumatic complaints and recent clinical trials have demonstrated the beneficial effects of arnica preparations in the treatment of osteoarthritis (oa). the efficacy of arnica is presumed to be mainly due to its anti-inflammatory properties and inhibition of the transcription factor nf-kappab. arnica preparations suppress mmp1 and mmp13 mrna levels in bovine and human articular chondrocytes in a concentration-dependent manner and in a low concentration range. hyaluronic acid (ha), a natural biomaterial present in healthy joints but depleted in osteoarthritis (oa), has been employed clinically to provide symptomatic relief of joint pain. the objective of this study was to investigate the safety and efficacy of a dietary supplement, arthrem, containing an extract from the medicinal plant artemisia annua, on pain, stiffness, and functional limitation in osteoarthritis (oa) of the hip or knee. art has potential as an anti-inflammatory/analgesic in oa. treatment with art 150\xa0mg bd is associated with clinically relevant reductions in pain over 12\xa0weeks. corticosteroids are intra-articularly injected to relieve pain in joints with osteoarthritis (oa) or acute tissue damage such as ligament or tendon tears, despite its unverified contraindication in unstable joints. osteoarthritis (oa) is the most common chronic condition of the joints that takes place when the cartilage or a low friction surface between joints breaks down which leads to pain, stiffness and swelling. enhancing joint lubrication, combined with anti-inflammatory therapy, is considered as an effective strategy for osteoarthritis treatment. ',
 'Can pain from a sprained ankle be relieved by arnica ointment or arnica gel? [SEP] acute ankle sprains are common and activity limiting injuries, and topical diclofenac gel has proven efficacy in alleviating pain and restoring function. this prospective, multicentre, randomised, blinded, active-control and non-inferiority study involved 449 physically active adults sustaining unilateral grade 1 or 2 ankle sprain within the past 24 h. participants were randomised to receive 2 g of traumeel ointment (t-o) (n = 152) or traumeel gel (t-g) (n = 150) or diclofenac gel (d-g) (n = 147), administered topically to the ankle three times a day for 14 days, with 6-weeks follow up. t-o and t-g decreased pain and improved joint function to the same extent as d-g in acute ankle sprain, and were well tolerated. after sustaining an ankle sprain, taping is often the standard treatment in primary care. a sprained ankle is a common musculoskeletal sports injury and it is often treated by immobilization of the joint. the fixed-dose dhep/heparin plaster is effective and has advantages over the dhep plaster in relieving pain, and possibly also swelling, associated with mild to moderate acute ankle sprains with oedema in adults. ankle arthrodesis is indicated for patients with recalcitrant ankle pain despite appropriate nonoperative intervention. functional treatment is a widely used and generally accepted treatment for ankle sprain. patients with acute ankle sprain received rest, ice, compression and elevation with an compressive bandage at the emergency department. treatment of acute ankle sprain with semi-rigid brace leads to significantly higher patient comfort and satisfaction, both with similar good outcome. ',
 'Can sore muscles be relieved by arnica ointment or arnica gel? [SEP] the herb arnica montana, in topical formulations, has been reputed to decrease bruising and muscle pain. pain scores on legs treated with arnica were higher than scores on those receiving placebo 24 hours after exercise (3.04 vs 2.36, respectively; p < 0.005). rather than decreasing leg pain, arnica was found to increase leg pain 24 hours after eccentric calf exercises. arnica is commonly used by the public as a treatment for bruising and swelling. to assess whether arnica administration affects recovery from hand surgery. homeopathic arnica tablets and herbal arnica ointment compared to placebos. massage is commonly believed to be the best modality for relieving muscle soreness. sixteen subjects were randomized to receive either a topical gel containing 3.5% menthol or topical application of ice to the non-dominant elbow flexors two days following the performance of an exercise designed to induce muscle soreness. to evaluate the clinical efficacy of arnica at a high potency (200c), on moderating delayed onset muscle soreness and accompanying symptoms of muscle dysfunction. the results of this study did not substantiate the clinical efficacy of arnica at a high potency on moderating delayed onset muscle soreness and accompanying symptoms of muscle dysfunction. ',
 'Can carbon dioxide in mineral water and other sparkling drinks damage teeth or cause tooth decay? [SEP] soft drinks containing caffeine have been associated with more aggressive forms of dental decay. erosive tooth surface loss due to acidic soft-drinks has been well documented. increased consumption of carbonated beverages remains a major cause for dental erosion. however, many of the so called safe beverages that are consumed may also have sufficiently low ph to cause dental erosion. ten permanent and three deciduous teeth samples each were kept in lime juice, lime soda, carbonated beverage and tap water. the present study shows that many of the most commonly used beverages like lime juice and lime soda have a sufficiently low ph to cause erosion of the enamel surface as well as that of cementum of both deciduous and permanent teeth. though protective mechanisms do exist in the oral cavity to neutralize the acids present in these beverages, continuous usage of these beverages leads to irreversible damage to the tooth structure. there is much speculation about the role of carbonated soft drinks in the development of dental caries. this study suggests that carbonated soft drinks are not associated with poor dental health. the consumption of carbonated beverages is one of the etiological factors that cause dental erosion. ',
 'Does bark extract from maritime pine (also: "pine bark extract") improve the symptoms of osteoarthritis? [SEP] the standardized maritime pine bark extract (pycnogenol®) has previously shown symptom alleviating effects in patients suffering from moderate forms of knee osteoarthritis (oa). this review summarizes the effects of the standardized proprietary bark extract of the french maritime pine (pycnogenol®) in mild osteoarthritis (oa), stage 1 and 2. the extract exerts antioxidative, anti-inflammatory, and chondroprotective effects in vitro and in vivo. the resulting inhibition of cartilage-destructing proteases and pain-producing cyclo-oxygenases provides the basis for relief from pain, improvement of stiffness, enhanced mobility, and well-being in three clinical studies with the pine bark extract as an adjunct supplement. sparing the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, supplementation with the pine bark extract reduced gastric complications and hospital admissions of oa patients. extract of pine nodules (matsufushi) formed by bark proliferation on the surface of trees of pinus tabulaeformis or pinus massoniana has been used as an analgesic for joint pain, rheumatism, neuralgia, dysmenorrhea and other complaints in chinese traditional medicine. pine bark is an important source of polyphenolic compounds, mainly procyanidins, with reported protective effects against disease. the safe and efficacious use of pycnogenol (french maritime pine bark extract) in other inflammatory diseases prompted this study of its antiinflammatory effects in patients with osteoarthritis (oa). extracts from this bark storage protein contain polyphenolic compounds which have well-known antiinflammatory activities. french maritime pine bark extract (pycnogenol) was found to alleviate menstrual pain and reduce hyperactivity in clinical studies. ',
 'Is brown millet effective in favorably influencing the course of the disease in rheumatism ("rheumatoid arthritis")? [SEP] this study aims to evaluate therapeutic effects and the mechanisms of astragalus polysaccharides (aps) on adjuvant-induced arthritis (aa) in rats. aps treatment reduced cell accumulation, swelling and arthritic index of the joints and serum concentrations of tnf-α and il1-β in a dose-dependent manner in aa rats. results support further investigation of therapeutic effects of aps in treatment of ra and other autoimmune diseases. rheumatoid arthritis is a common inflammatory articular disorder in bangladesh. the use of biological agents (bas) for treating diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis (ra), spondyloarthropathy, and systemic lupus erythematosus to reduce inflammation has been fruitful. a revolution in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis has occurred in recent years. this review article focuses on the role of biological agents currently employed in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, as well as novel biological agents in development. methotrexate is recommended as an anchor drug for rheumatoid arthritis treatment to achieve the therapeutic goal of reducing damage to joints and improving clinical score. therefore, this study assessed the potential role of β-caryophyllene (bcp) in treating adjuvant-induced arthritis (aia), increasing the efficacy of methotrexate (mtx) and/or leflunomide (lef), and ameliorating their side effects. monotherapy with bcp or mtx or lef as well as mtx\u202f+\u202flef significantly reduced paw thickness and arthritic index; the histopathological changes in hind paw joints were recovered; and oxidative stress and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-α) levels in arthritic rats were reduced. ',
 'Are cannabis or substances derived from cannabis effective and safe anti-cancer agents? [SEP] cannabis is under clinical investigation to assess its potential for medicinal use, but the question arises as to whether there is any advantage in using cannabis extracts compared with isolated delta9-trans-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta9thc), the major psychoactive component. interest in the use of cannabis and cannabinoids to treat chronic non-cancer pain is increasing, because of their potential to reduce opioid dose requirements. cannabis use was common in people with chronic non-cancer pain who had been prescribed opioids, but we found no evidence that cannabis use improved patient outcomes. the cannabis plant (cannabis sativa) has been known by many names but the question remains \'can we call it medicine?\' the primary aim of this review is to assess whether cannabis satisfies the seven previously published criteria for substitute medications for alcohol [e.g. this review provides a summary of the available literature on the use of cannabis and cannabinoid-based medicines in palliative oncology. finally, cannabinoids have shown anti-neoplastic effects in preclinical studies in a wide range of cancer cells and some animal models. because there is a possibility that cannabis or cannabis-like molecules might be used as treatments for certain conditions in the future, it becomes important to consider the possible adverse effects of these compounds. an internet search with search words "cannabis cures cancer" produce a wealth of sites claiming that cannabis has this effect. but do delta(9) -tetrahydrocannabinol (δ(9) -thc) and cannabidiol (cbd) cure cancer? ',
 'It is not always possible to reduce elevated cholesterol levels to a healthy level with tablets and thus minimize the risk of heart attack or stroke. Does this succeed through additional injections with PCSK9 antibodies? [SEP] statins alone often do not reduce ldl cholesterol levels sufficiently to given maximum cardiovascular benefit. monoclonal antibodies to pcsk9 have recently been shown to decrease ldl cholesterol, but it is not known whether they improve cardiovascular outcomes. we evaluated two clinical trials reporting cardiovascular outcomes with antibodies to pcsk9, the osler extension with evolocumab, and the odyssey long term trial with alirocumab. in our opinion, these antibodies may be suitable for use in subjects with familial hypercholesterolemia, who are uncontrolled with their present medications, provided intensive safety and cardiovascular monitoring is being undertaken. statins cause only a modest increase in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (hdl)--an established independent protective factor for coronary heart disease (chd)--and a modest decrease in triglycerides (tg). clinical trials with ezetimibe and pcsk9 inhibitors have reported further reductions in cardiovascular events, beyond statins. in patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia or statin intolerance antibody-based inhibitors of preprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin 9 (pcsk9) produce reductions in ldl-c of 30-65%. cholesterol ester transfer protein inhibitors (cetpis) reduce ldl-c by 30-40% as well as raising levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (hdl-c) and may also have a role as additional ldl-c-reducing drugs. lowering cholesterol level by drugs is not recommended except in a small minority of subjects at very high risk of coronary heart disease (chd), since it causes an excess of non-chd deaths. alterations of dietary fat that reduce serum cholesterol are beneficial to people who have the highest risk of death from coronary heart disease (chd). ',
 'Do vaginal suppositories containing the active ingredient imiquimod cause precancerous stages of cervical cancer to recede or disappear? [SEP] the human papillomavirus (hpv) infection, which is strongly related to cervical cancer, can be reduced by the topical application of imiquimod. this study evaluated cervical application of imiquimod as an adjunct to standard treatment for cervical dysplasia. this trial does not support the hypothesis that imiquimod, as used in this trial, has an impact on recurrence of cervical dysplasia, but the adequacy of findings are limited by sample size. imiquimod has been proven to be effective in the regression of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (vin) and vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia (vain). in this study, we postulated that the use of imiquimod in nanoemulsion results in a better antitumoral effect than the drug administered in its nonencapsulated form for the treatment of cervical cancer. our results demonstrate that the imiquimod-loaded nanoemulsioncan be an alternative product for the treatment of cervical cancer validating the hypothesis. to assess the clinical response to imiquimod 5% cream in patients with persistent human papillomavirus (hpv) infection after treatment of genital intraepithelial neoplasia. imiquimod 5% cream was applied to treat 76 women with persistent hpv after surgical therapy for cervical or vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia (cin or vain). in total, 58 of the 76 patients (76.3%) were clear of hpv infection and had normal pap smears after administration of imiquimod cream. topical imiquimod 5% cream may be beneficial in most cases of genital intraepithelial neoplasia, especially cin, with persistent hpv following surgical treatment. ',
 'Is blue light treatment as effective as UV light or other established therapies for psoriasis? [SEP] clinical investigations prove that blue light irradiation reduces the severity of psoriasis vulgaris. we investigated the underlying mechanism of blue light irradiation of psoriatic skin, and tested the hypothesis that regulation of proliferation is a key process. our modeling approach constitutes a framework for testing diverse hypotheses on the underlying mechanism of blue light-based phototherapy, and for designing effective strategies for the treatment of psoriasis. phototherapy using blue light has been proven in the treatment of acne vulgaris and offers the clinician an effective alternative. narrow-band blue light (420 nm) has demonstrated safety and efficacy in the treatment of acne vulgaris. previous studies using blue light showed more improvement in inflammatory lesions than in comedones, as well as some improvement on the untreated side. these results expand the properties of narrow-band blue light in modulating the inflammatory process and will facilitate testing of its phototherapeutic applications in different inflammatory skin conditions. ultraviolet b (uvb) is a highly effective, relatively safe, affordable and widely used therapeutic option for moderate psoriasis. ultraviolet (uv) light is an effective treatment for extensive psoriasis and some other inflammatory skin conditions. ultraviolet (uv) b phototherapy is an established treatment option for psoriasis. ',
 'Does frequent consumption of potatoes increase the risk of dying from cancer? [SEP] the aim was to examine the association between potato consumption and risk of total and specific cvd events as well as mortality from cvd in 2 prospective cohorts of swedish adults, a population with a high consumption of potatoes. epidemiological studies suggest that consumption of potatoes is associated with increased risk of cardiometabolic diseases. potato consumption has been hypothesized to be associated with higher risk of hypertension, diabetes, and colorectal cancer. background: few studies have assessed the association between potato consumption and mortality.objective: we investigated whether potato consumption (including fried and unfried potatoes) is associated with increased premature mortality risk in a north american cohort.design: a longitudinal analysis included 4440 participants aged 45-79 y at baseline with an 8-y follow-up from the osteoarthritis initiative cohort study. to investigate the association between potato consumption and mortality, cox regression models were constructed to estimate hrs with 95% cis, with adjustment for potential confounders.results: of the 4400 participants, 2551 (57.9%) were women with a mean ± sd age of 61.3 ± 9.2 y. however, subgroup analyses indicated that participants who consumed fried potatoes 2-3 times/wk (hr: 1.95; 95% ci: 1.11, 3.41) and ≥3 times/wk (hr: 2.26; 95% ci: 1.15, 4.47) were at an increased risk of mortality. the consumption of unfried potatoes was not associated with an increased mortality risk.conclusions: the frequent consumption of fried potatoes appears to be associated with an increased mortality risk. the aim of this study was to prospectively investigate the association between potato consumption and pancreatic cancer among 114 240 men and women in the prospective helga cohort, using cox proportional hazard models. high consumption of potatoes showed a non-significantly higher risk of pancreatic cancer in the adjusted model (hazard ratio (hr) 1·44; 95 % ci 0·93, 2·22, p for trend 0·030) when comparing the highest v. the lowest quartile of potato consumption. in this study, high potato consumption was not consistently associated with a higher risk of pancreatic cancer. ',
 "Can cancer be detected by dark field analysis (dark field microscopy) of the blood? [SEP] evidence for the presence of cancer is dependent on the ability to detect features in the peripheral circulation that are deemed as cancer-associated. cell-free dna (cfdna) quantitation in patients' plasma has been recently applied in monitoring several cancer types. the detection of tumor-derived cell-free dna in plasma is one of the most promising directions in cancer diagnosis. the major challenge in such an approach is how to identify the tiny amount of tumor dnas out of total cell-free dnas in blood. therefore, cancerdetector can sensitively identify a trace amount of tumor cfdnas in plasma, at the level of individual reads. testing cancerdetector on real plasma data demonstrated its high sensitivity and specificity in detecting tumor cfdnas. cell-free dna in blood (cfdna) represents a promising biomarker for cancer diagnosis. analysis of cell-free dna from blood could provide an alternative method for identifying genomic changes in the tumors of patients with advanced lung adenocarcinoma. however, early-stage detection of cancer using tumor-derived cfdna has proven challenging because of the small proportion of cfdna derived from tumor tissue in early-stage disease. a machine learning approach to discover signatures in cfdna, potentially reflective of both tumor and non-tumor contributions, may represent a promising direction for the early detection of cancer. ",
 'Can dark field analysis indicate other health problems? [SEP] dark adaptation is a highly sensitive neural function and may be the first symptom of many status including the physiologic and pathologic entity, suggesting that it could be instrumental for diagnose. however, shortcomings such as the lack of standardized parameters, the long duration of examination, and subjective\xa0randomness would substantially impede the use of dark adaptation in clinical work. in this review we summarize the recent research about the dark adaptation, including two visual cycles-canonical and cone-specific visual cycle, affecting factors and the methods for measuring dark adaptation. in the opinions of authors, intensive investigations are needed to be done for the widely use of this significant visual function in clinic. there is scope to better understand how vitamin d deficiency interacted with other diseases to affect health in past groups. however, previous studies included patients with medical diseases, affecting both vitamin d levels and lung function. the large range of health effects that have been associated with vitamin d deficiency raises the possibility that vitamin d levels may be a marker of poor health status rather than a cause of it. larger long-term studies are required to clarify these associations. lower serum levels of vitamin d were associated with different variables that should be explored in several diseases before a conclusion of hypovitaminosis d is drawn. this large cohort study indicates that low levels of 25(oh)d were associated to the presence and severity of depressive disorder suggesting that hypovitaminosis d may represent an underlying biological vulnerability for depression. ',
 'Does kombucha have a positive effect on health? [SEP] focusing on the effect of fermentation, this study hypothesized that consumption of fermented kimchi would have more beneficial effects compared with that of fresh kimchi on metabolic parameters that are related to cardiovascular disease and metabolic syndrome risks in overweight and obese subjects. therefore, the ingestion of fermented kimchi had positive effects on various factors associated with metabolic syndrome, including systolic and diastolic blood pressures, percent body fat, fasting glucose, and total cholesterol, compared with the fresh kimchi. consumption of kombucha fermented tea (kt) has always been associated with different health benefits. many personal experiences and testimonials of kt drinkers are available throughout the world on the ability of kt to protect against a vast number of metabolic and infectious diseases, but very little scientific evidence is available that validates the beneficial effects of kt. the aim of this review is to give an overview of the recent studies in search of experimental confirmation of the numerous kt health-promoting aspects cited previously. it is shown that kt can efficiently act in health prophylaxis and recovery due to four main properties: detoxification, antioxidation, energizing potencies, and promotion of depressed immunity. this makes kt attractive as a fermented functional beverage for health prophylaxis. under the hypothesis that dietary intake of kimchi can be ideal intervention for either ameliorating colitis or preventing colitic cancer, we performed the study to validate the efficolitic cancery of fermented kimchi on preventing colitic cancer. preemptive administration of fermented kimchi significantly afforded colitic cancer prevention through attenuating inflammasomes (il-18, il-1β, caspase-1), enhancing antioxidative (nqo1, gst-π), imposing anti-proliferative (bax, caspase-3, β-catenin), and affording cytoprotective actions (hsp70, 15-pgdh), while non-fermented kimchi did not prevent colitic cancer. kombucha, historically an asian tea-based fermented drink, has recently become trendy in western countries. ',
 'Is graviola an effective and safe treatment for cancer? [SEP] we determined the potential role of genistein as a radiosensitizer for cervical cancer cells. effect of genistein on the radiosensitivity of the two cervical tumor cells was variable. : genistein inhibits growth of cervical cancer cells. graviola demonstrated anticancer effects in vitro, but has not been studied in humans. despite the lack of human data, many websites promote graviola to cancer patients based on traditional use and on the in vitro studies. radiotherapy is currently applied in the treatment of human cancers. we studied whether genistein would enhance the radiosensitivity and explored its precise molecular mechanism in cervical cancer cells. co-treatment with genistein and gamma-irradiation inhibited proliferation through g2/m arrest and induced apoptosis via ros modulation in the caski cancer cells. egcg [(-)-epigallocatechin-3-gallate] has shown its antitumor ability and perhaps a potential regimen for cancer patients. our results suggested that egcg may be suitable for prevention and treatment of cervical cancer. ',
 "Does taking preparations with fenugreek extract improve sex life or satisfaction with it? [SEP] objectives limited research has examined the effects of fenugreek (trigonella foenum-graecum l.) supplementation to improve healthy younger men's aging male symptoms. the study objective was to examine whether a fenugreek seed extract would improve healthy men's aging male symptoms, health-related quality of life (hrqol), grip strength, and anxiety. results the fenugreek groups reported significant improvements in aging male symptoms, anxiety levels, grip strength, and indicators of hrqol compared to the placebo group, p's\xa0<\xa00.05. conclusion fenugreek supplementation is an effective nutritional intervention for improving aging male symptoms, anxiety levels, grip strength, and aspects of hrqol in healthy recreationally active men. future researchers are encouraged to examine the health and ergogenic effects of fenugreek supplementation in hypogonadal and older populations. different types of glycosides extract of fenugreek have shown androgenic and anabolic effect in male. the aim of the study was to evaluate the effect of fenugreek extract on total testosterone levels in male. fenugreek extract has a significant effect on total serum testosterone. results from clinical trials suggest that fenugreek extract supplement has an effect on serum total testosterone levels in male. to uncover the fennel-derived essential oil (fveo)-induced effects on male reproductive potential, 24 mature male albino mice were divided into, control, 0.37, 0.75, and 1.5 mg kg-1 fveo-received groups. ",
 'Does disulfiram improve the effectiveness of chemotherapy for cancer? [SEP] disulfiram has been repurposed as a potential candidate to suppress various cancers. in this study, we aimed to assess the anti-cancer activity and underlying mechanisms of disulfiram in the context of oral squamous cell carcinoma. disulfiram (dsf) in combination with copper (cu) has been reported to override drug resistance in cancer cells, and dsf combined with chemotherapy based on the microtubule inhibitor vinorelbine appears to prolong survival in non-small cell lung cancer patients. disulfiram is an aldehyde dehydrogenase inhibitor that was used to treat alcoholism and showed anticancer activity, but its anticancer mechanism remains unclear. considerable evidence demonstrates the importance of dithiocarbamates especially disulfiram as anticancer drugs. disulfiram (dsf) is an fda approved, copper chelating agent that can target oxidative metabolic frailties in cancer vs. normal cells and be repurposed as an adjuvant to cancer therapy. disulfiram has been used in the treatment of alcoholism and exhibits an anti-tumor effect. in conclusion, the attenuation of ae2 and its supportive enzyme ca12, and the inhibitory effect on cell migration by disulfiram treatment in cancer cells provided the molecular evidence supporting the potential of disulfiram as an anticancer agent. our purpose was to determine the potential of disulfiram to enhance the antitumor efficacy of external-beam γ-irradiation and (131)i-metaiodobenzylguanidine ((131)i-mibg), a radiopharmaceutical used for the therapy of neuroendocrine tumors. therefore, disulfiram may have anticancer potential in combination with radiotherapy. ',
 "Can binaural beats relieve stress or anxiety before surgery and medical treatments? [SEP] as compared to the placebo visit, the binaural-beat visit resulted in greater self-reported relaxation, increased parasympathetic activation and increased sympathetic withdrawal. findings suggest that listening to binaural beats may exert an acute influence on both lf and hf components of hrv and may increase subjective feelings of relaxation. application of auditory beat stimulation has been speculated to provide a promising new tool with which to alleviate symptoms of anxiety and to enhance cognition. it has been suggested that binaural beats can influence cognition and mental states among others. the objective of this meta-analysis was to study the effect of binaural beats on memory, attention, anxiety, and analgesia. our meta-analysis adds to the growing evidence that binaural-beat exposure is an effective way to affect cognition over and above reducing anxiety levels and the perception of pain without prior training, and that the direction and the magnitude of the effect depends upon the frequency used, time under exposure, and the moment in which the exposure takes place. aims: we aimed to determine whether listening to music could reduce anxiety prior to and during bronchoscopy, and whether it is influenced by the patient's preference in music. conclusion: listening to music reduces anxiety in patients undergoing bronchoscopy, provided that the music complies with the patient's preferences. several controversial claims have been attributed to binaural beats regarding their ability to entrain human brain activity and mood, in both the scientific literature and the marketing realm. whether binaural beats have an impact on cognitive performance or other mood measurements remains to be seen and can be further investigated within the proposed methodological framework. ",
 'Is a vegan diet healthier than a vegetarian diet? [SEP] this review examines whether there is evidence that a strict vegan diet confers health advantages beyond that of a vegetarian diet or overall healthy eating. few studies include vegan subjects as a distinct experimental group, yet when vegan diets are directly compared to vegetarian and omnivorous diets, a pattern of protective health benefits emerges. in western countries, vegetarian diets are associated with lower intakes of energy, saturated fatty acids and animal protein and higher intakes of fibre and phytochemicals, compared to omnivorous diets. vegetarian diets have long been thought of as beneficial to health. these findings suggest that vegetarian diets are nutrient dense, consistent with dietary guidelines, and could be recommended for weight management without compromising diet quality. differences in food composition, nutrient intake, and various health outcomes have been reported for vegetarians and non-vegetarians in the adventist health study-2 (ahs-2) cohort. the fat content of the vegan diet is significantly lower and the polyunsaturated:saturated fatty acid ratio higher than in the omnivore diet. vegetarian and vegan diets can vary widely, but the empirical evidence largely relates to the nutritional content and health effects of the average diet of well-educated vegetarians living in western countries, together with some information on vegetarians in non-western countries. in terms of nutrients, vegetarian diets are usually rich in carbohydrates, n-6 fatty acids, dietary fibre, carotenoids, folic acid, vitamin c, vitamin e and mg, and relatively low in protein, saturated fat, long-chain n-3 fatty acids, retinol, vitamin b(12) and zn; vegans may have particularly low intakes of vitamin b(12) and low intakes of ca. cross-sectional studies of vegetarians and vegans have shown that on average they have a relatively low bmi and a low plasma cholesterol concentration; recent studies have also shown higher plasma homocysteine concentrations than in non-vegetarians. ',
 'Can taking chlorophyll change mouth or body odor? [SEP] chlorophyllin (chl), a water-soluble derivative of chlorophyll, has been used for the treatment of several abnormal human conditions without apparent toxicity. chlorophyllin (chl), a chlorophyll-derivative, exhibits several beneficial properties, including antibacterial, antioxidant, and anticancer activities. in a real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, chl significantly decreased interleukin-8 (il-8) and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (mcp-1) production in a dose-dependent manner, decreasing both mrna and protein levels for these chemokines in thp-1 cells indicating the anti-inflammatory effects of it. chlorophyllin (chl), a water soluble semisynthetic derivative of the ubiquitous plant pigment chlorophyll used as a food additive, is recognized to confer a wide range of health benefits. numerous experimental and epidemiological studies have demonstrated that dietary supple-mentation of chl lowers the risk of cancer. we conclude that the chamomile tea eye washing can induce allergic conjunctivitis. chlorophyllin (chl), a sodium-copper-salt derived from chlorophyll, has been widely used as a food-dye, also reportedly having some anti-cancer effect. chlorogenic acid has shown antimicrobial activity against a wide range of organisms,including bacteria, yeasts, molds, viruses, and amoebas. phenol, one of the most widely used agents for inducing cutaneous exfoliation, may induce cardiac arrhythmias and is toxic to the liver and kidneys. both phenol and trichloroacetic acid may produce hypertrophic scars and/or keloids and pigmentation irregularities, may accentuate preexisting abnormalities (e.g., telangiectasias, nevi, and pores), and may be associated with a flare of latent herpesvirus infection. ',
 "Can taking chlorophyll affect the odor of urine in catheter wearers or stool in people with an artificial bowel outlet? [SEP] an indwelling urinary catheter can solve the problem of incontinence and may be life-saving in individuals with retention, but it can cause problems such as infection and may have a negative impact on body image, sex, and sexuality. to explore the individual's perceptions of how a long-term urinary catheter can affect body image, sex, and sexuality; and to help gps to discuss the subject in consultations. qualitative study of a diverse sample of individuals living with a long-term urinary catheter. others talked about how their catheter and their disability affected their sexual self-esteem, feelings of masculinity or femininity, and how the catheter caused pain, discomfort, or unexpected symptoms during sex. to address these issues we tested the effect of a cranberry powder and proanthocyanidin extract on adherence of a p-fimbriated uropathogenic e. coli isolate to 2 new urogenital model systems, namely primary cultured bladder epithelial cells and vaginal epithelial cells. mean adherence of e. coli to primary cultured bladder epithelial cells was decreased by exposure to 50 mug/ml proanthocyanidin extract from 6.9 to 1.6 bacteria per cell (p <0.001). cranberry products can inhibit e. coli adherence to biologically relevant model systems of primary cultured bladder and vaginal epithelial cells. these findings provide further mechanistic evidence and biological plausibility for the role of cranberry products for preventing urinary tract infection. pulmonary diseases are occasionally observed after exposure to chlorine. olfactory dysfunction significantly influences patients' quality of life. ",
 'Is the risk of bacterial or fungal infection comparable when using menstrual cups or pads? [SEP] to assess the feasibility of the menstrual cup for short-term management of urinary leakage among women with vesicovaginal fistula (vvf). a repeated measures design compared volume of leakage with and without the cup via a 2-hr pad test among women with vvf seeking surgical repair at a health facility in ghana. menstrual cup is increasingly gaining acceptance among women to control the menstrual period. the menstrual cup is gaining acceptance among women and it is important for clinicians to be aware of this device and possible complications associated with its use. menstrual cups have been reported to be an acceptable substitute for tampons. these flexible cups have also been reported to provide a sustainable solution to menstrual management, with modest cost savings and no significant health risk. the present article documents the first case of toxic shock syndrome associated with the use of a menstrual cup in a woman 37 years of age, using a menstrual cup for the first time. toxic shock syndrome and the literature on menstrual cups is reviewed and a possible mechanism for the development of toxic shock syndrome in the patient is described. premenopausal women are reportedly at a higher risk than postmenopausal women of postoperative infection following vaginal hysterectomy. orthopaedic surgeons must currently choose from several types of ultra high molecular weight polyethylene acetabular cups that differ in their material properties and in the methods used for their sterilization. ',
 'Laboratory experiments indicate that leoligin and other substances from edelweiss have a medicinal effect. However, this has not been researched in humans. [SEP] ellagitannin-rich plant materials are widely used in traditional medicine as effective, internally used anti-inflammatory agents. lentinula edodes, has been utilized as food, as well as, in popular medicine, moreover, its extract isolated from its mycelium and fruiting body have shown several therapeutic properties. although the pharmacological effects of extracts of leonuri herba have been shown in platelets and uteri, the effect on the vascular system has not been determined. however, the preparative method for lin enriched extract from dendranthema indicum flowers was not clear and its antihypertensive effect was not confirmed. in this study, we designed a series of experiments to develop an efficient method for purification of lin extracts and confirm the possibility of lin extracts to be an antihypertensive drug. leucas aspera (lamiaceae), an aromatic herbaceous plant, is well known for many medicinal properties and a number of bioactive compounds against animal cells have been isolated. the analgesic properties of epilobium angustifolium (ea), a plant containing flavonoids with anti-inflammatory activity, have not been sufficiently studied so far. dendropanax morbifera leveille (araliaceae) has been used in traditional oriental remedies for cancer, inflammation, diabetes, and thrombosis. edelweiss (leontopodium alpinum cass.) edelweiss cell cultures could be a valuable source of anti-inflammatory substances potentially applicable for chronic inflammatory skin diseases and bacterial and atherogenic inflammation. ',
 'Can a straight bar improve harmless tension and pain in the neck and back? [SEP] there is currently no evidence about the effects of neuromuscular facilitation after the use of a flexible bar on scapulothoracic muscle activity in individuals with subacromial pain syndrome. the study aimed to assess the acute effect of flexible bar exercise and subjective fatigue on scapulothoracic muscle activity, shoulder proprioception, and shoulder abduction force of subjects with and without symptoms of subacromial pain syndrome. the acute effects of flexible bar exercise and subjective fatigue were unable to influence scapulothoracic muscle activation, shoulder joint position sense, and isometric shoulder abduction force in subacromial pain syndrome. it lessens the common tendency for hyperextension of the neck and for the use of the lower back as a major joint in sitting and standing. this biomechanical study aims to elucidate whether additional bar application increases postoperative pain after the nuss procedure for pectus excavatum. clinical evaluation: the intensity of postoperative pain was compared between patients for whom a single-bar was used (single-bar group: n = 14) and those for whom double bars (double-bar group: n = 10) were used to correct the thoracic deformity. performing double-bar placement decreases postoperative pain. to introduce a newly designed massage instrument, the hand grip t-bar (ht-bar) and use it to relieve chronic non-specific low back pain (nlbp) through deep cross-friction massage (roptrotherapy). this study suggests that deep cross-friction massage can be a beneficial therapeutic technique and that the ht-bar can be a useful instrument in deep cross-friction massage for chronic nlbp patients. the literature describes that habitually adopted relaxed postures often exacerbate low back pain. ',
 'Are ultrasound examinations during pregnancy safe for the health of the child? [SEP] most fetuses in developed countries are exposed in utero to diagnostic ultrasound examination. ultrasound technology offers valuable information when used as a diagnostic tool during a pregnancy at risk for complications. most guidelines on ultrasound examinations during pregnancy do not recommend routine early pregnancy scan in uncomplicated and asymptomatic pregnancies (ie, before 10 weeks based on last menstrual period). many clinicians advocate routine ultrasound screening during pregnancy to detect congenital anomalies, multiple-gestation pregnancies, fetal growth disorders, placental abnormalities, and errors in the estimation of gestational age. the interest in studying routine ultrasound in pregnancy has provided useful results that can be applied to practice. prenatal ultrasound (us) is commonly used as a routine procedure on pregnant women. the use of ultrasound in obstetrics nowadays is an integral part of prenatal care. a systematic review of scientific literature on possible harmful effects on child development of ultrasound investigation during pregnancy. all studies demonstrated that ultrasound examinations during pregnancy increased the risk of undesirable developmental outcomes. it is concluded that there is no adverse effect of ultrasound examinations during pregnancy on child development outcomes. ',
 'Can oregano oil relieve discomfort or disease? [SEP] this study determined whether oregano essential oil (oeo) exerts an anti-inflammatory effect on lipopolysaccharide (lps)-treated murine macrophage cells (raw264.7 cells) in vitro and elucidated the possible underlying molecular mechanisms. different oregano species have been traditionally used as infusions in folk medicine. oregano medicinal properties, such as antioxidant and anti-inflammatory, have been partially attributed to its polyphenolic content. several herb species classified as oregano have been widely used in folk medicine to alleviate inflammation-related diseases, respiratory and digestive disorders, headaches, rheumatism, diabetes and others. these potential health benefits are partially attributed to the phytochemical compounds in oregano such as flavonoids (fl) and phenolic acids (pa). the aim of this manuscript is to summarize the latest studies on the identification and distribution of flavonoids and phenolic compounds from oregano species and their potential antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer health benefits. oregano (origanum vulgare l.) is a common aromatic plant used in mediterranean and asian regions for treating respiratory diseases, painful menstruation, rheumatoid arthritis, etc. these results suggest that oregano extract exerts anticancer activities in adrenocortical tumour cell lines, providing evidence for further research in higher models. the present data indicated that olive oil has antinociceptive and anti-inflammatory effects in mice but further investigation of these effects is required to elucidate the mechanism(s) involved in analgesic and anti-inflammatory effects of olea europaea oil. among oregano properties, its antioxidant and antibacterial effects are particularly interesting. ',
 'Are Bach flower remedies effective in helping with test anxiety? [SEP] bach-flower remedies are a type of alternative medication used increasingly for over-the-counter self-help purposes. we studied the efficacy of a combination of bach-flower remedies in subjects with test anxiety in a randomized, placebo-controlled, blinded parallel group design, with crossing over the placebo group to remedies after the first phase. we conclude that bach-flower remedies are an effective placebo for test anxiety and do not have a specific effect. bach flower remedies are thought to help balance emotional state and are commonly recommended by practitioners for psychological problems and pain. we assessed whether bach flower remedies (bfrs) are safe and efficacious for these indications by performing a systematic review of the literature. flower remedies (also called "bach" flower remedies) are used by an increasing number of individuals, and many health claims have been made for them. this paper explores the potentiality of bach flower remedies as a means of pain relief through a retrospective case-study analysis to establish how clients suffering with painful conditions responded to the therapy. the use of bach flower remedies has brought about positive emotional changes in the majority of clients in this study. the indication is that potential for bach flower remedies as a therapeutic agent in the relief of pain does exist and is worthy of further qualitative and quantitative investigation through robust, purpose-designed studies to replicate and progress the results shown here. bach flower remedies consist of 38 remedies which are designed as a system of emotional healing. ',
 'Can capsules with diamine oxidase alleviate or prevent symptoms of histamine intolerance? [SEP] our intention was to objectify and quantify histamine-associated symptoms and to analyse whether oral administration of the histamine-degrading enzyme diamine oxidase (dao) caused a reduction of symptoms. the intake of dao demonstrated a statistically significant reduction of histamine-associated symptoms compared to placebo (p = 0.014). intestinal diamine oxidase (dao) acts as a protective barrier against exogenous histamine. diamine oxidase (dao) administration has been proposed to treat certain gastrointestinal dysfunctions induced by histamine, an immunomodulator, signaling, and pro-inflammatory factor. it appears that treatment of food histaminosis using a combination of vegetal dao and catalase would protect against histamine toxicity and prevent h2o2-induced damage that may occur during histamine oxidative deamination. the main enzyme for metabolizing ingested histamine is diamine oxidase (dao). histamine intolerance is thought to trigger manifold clinical symptoms after ingesting histamine-rich food due to reduced activity of diamine oxidase (dao). histamine intolerance is a disorder in the homeostasis of histamine due to a reduced intestinal degradation of this amine, mainly caused by a deficiency in the enzyme diamine oxidase (dao). histamine intolerance is a disorder in the homeostasis of histamine due to a reduced intestinal degradation of this amine, mainly caused by diamine oxidase (dao) enzyme deficiency, which provokes its accumulation in plasma and the appearance of adverse health affects. histamine intolerance is a disorder in the homeostasis of histamine due to a reduced intestinal degradation of this amine, mainly caused by a deficiency in the enzyme diamine oxidase (dao). ',
 'Does magnesium help with period pain? [SEP] circumstantial evidence points to the possible role of magnesium deficiency in the pathogenesis of headaches and has raised questions about the clinical utility of magnesium as a therapeutic regimen in some headaches. we evaluated the efficacy of intravenous infusion of 1 gram of magnesium sulfate (mgso4) for the treatment of patients with headaches and attempted to correlate clinical responses to the basal serum ionized magnesium (img2+) level. there has been much debate as to whether magnesium, a well-tolerated, readily available and cheap therapy, should be used to treat patients with suspected myocardial infarction. controversy exists regarding the use of magnesium in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction (ami) because of apparent conflicting results from clinical trials. to summarise the evidence for use of intravenous magnesium for analgesic effect in caesarean section patients. magnesium, an n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist and calcium-channel blocker, has previously been investigated for its analgesic properties. preoperative intravenous magnesium may decrease total postcaesarean rescue analgesia consumption with few side effects; however, small sample size and heterogeneity of methodology in included trials restricts the ability to draw strong conclusions. therefore, given the apparent safety and efficacy of magnesium, its role as an adjunct analgesic in caesarean section patients should be further investigated with the most current anaesthetic techniques. it has been suggested that magnesium (mg) may play a role in the pathogenesis of headaches. magnesium (mg2+) has received considerable attention with regards to its potential role in the pathophysiology of the mood disorders, but the available evidence seems inconclusive.aimsto review and quantitatively summarise the human literature on mg2+ intake and mg2+ blood levels in the mood disorders and the effects of mg2+ supplements on mood. ',
 "Does cannabis improve symptoms of Parkinson's disease, for example movement disorders? [SEP] cannabis has been used for medicinal purpose for thousands of years; however the positive and negative effects of cannabis use in parkinson's disease (pd) and multiple sclerosis (ms) are mostly unknown. however, cannabinoids may still affect the glial response within the damaged central nervous system, which facilitate the slow, neurodegenerative processes that account for progressive neurodegeneration, and therefore may have utility in addition to value of cannabis-related drugs for symptom control. for many years, multiple sclerosis (ms) patients have been self-medicating with illegal street cannabis to alleviate symptoms associated with ms. data from animal models of ms and clinical studies have supported the anecdotal data that cannabis can improve symptoms such as limb spasticity, which are commonly associated with progressive ms, by the modulation of excessive neuronal signalling. experimental studies into the biology of the endocannabinoid system have revealed that cannabinoids have activity, not only in symptom relief but also potentially in neuroprotective strategies which may slow disease progression and thus delay the onset of symptoms such as spasticity. studies suggest cannabis may improve symptoms like pain and muscle spasticity in patients with multiple sclerosis (pwms). cannabis therapy has been considered an effective treatment for spasticity, although clinical reports of symptom reduction in multiple sclerosis (ms) describe mixed outcomes. the aim of the present open-label observational study was to assess the clinical effect of cannabis on motor and non-motor symptoms of pd. twenty-two patients with pd attending the motor disorder clinic of a tertiary medical center in 2011 to 2012 were evaluated at baseline and 30 minutes after smoking cannabis using the following battery: unified parkinson disease rating scale, visual analog scale, present pain intensity scale, short-form mcgill pain questionnaire, as well as medical cannabis survey national drug and alcohol research center questionnaire. mean (sd) total score on the motor unified parkinson disease rating scale score improved significantly from 33.1 (13.8) at baseline to 23.2 (10.5) after cannabis consumption (t = 5.9; p < 0.001). the study suggests that cannabis might have a place in the therapeutic armamentarium of pd. ",
 'Is the dietary supplement nattokinase effective and safe as a blood thinner? [SEP] in this study, we hypothesized that nattokinase could reduce certain factors of blood clotting and lipids that are associated with an increase risk for cardiovascular disease (cvd). all subjects ingested 2 capsules of nattokinase (2000 fibrinolysis units per capsule) daily orally for 2 months. after 2 months of administration, fibrinogen, factor vii, and factor viii decreased 9%, 14%, and 17%, respectively, for the healthy group; 7%, 13%, and 19%, respectively, for the cardiovascular group; and 10%, 7%, and 19%, respectively, for the dialysis group, whereas blood lipids were unaffected by nattokinase. in summary, this study showed that oral administration of nattokinase could be considered as a cvd nutraceutical by decreasing plasma levels of fibrinogen, factor vii, and factor viii. the aim of this study was to investigate whether supplementation with nattokinase, which is considered one of the most active functional ingredients found in natto, alters hemostatic factors. nattokinase is a thrombolytic enzyme obtained from japanese traditional food natto for prevention and cure of thrombosis-related cardiovascular diseases. this work demonstrates the availability of bilayer shell-core structure design in oral delivery of nattokinase and shows its high potential for application as an anti-thrombosis functional food additive. we have previously demonstrated that natto-extracts containing nattokinase (nk) inactivates plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 and then potentiates fibrinolytic activity. nattokinase is an enzyme derived from a popular fermented soybean preparation in japan (natto), which has fibrinolytic properties and is gaining popularity in nontraditional health journals and nonmedical health websites as an over-the-counter thrombolytic. we believe this is the first documented case of nattokinase being used as a substitute for warfarin after valve replacement, and we strongly discourage its use for this purpose. ',
 'Is the Feldenkrais Method effective against pain and tension in the neck, shoulders and back? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to quantify the results of a feldenkrais method-awareness through movement-involving a neck flexion task. the study examined 30 normal subjects to determine if a feldenkrais awareness through movement sequence would result in an increase in neck flexion range of motion and if the subjects would indicate a significantly lower level of perceived effort posttest. to investigate the effect of the feldenkrais method versus core stability exercises on pain, disability, quality of life and interoceptive awareness in patients with chronic non-specific low back pain. sixty patients with chronic non-specific low back pain randomised equally into the feldenkrais method versus core stability exercises groups. feldenkrais method intervention gave increased benefits in improving quality of life, improving interoceptive awareness and reducing disability index. in conclusion our results demonstrate for the first time that the treatment with the feldenkrais method changes muscle tone leading to a more relaxed supine position with respect to pressure and contact surface on the mat. the inefficacy of conventional strategies to elicit postural correction has prompted many to seek alternative techniques such as the feldenkrais method®. to determine the efficacy of the feldenkrais method for relieving pain in patients with chronic low back pain (clbp) and the improvement of interoceptive awareness. implications for rehabilitation the feldenkrais method is a mind-body therapy that is based on awareness through movement lessons, which are verbally guided explorations of movement that are conducted by a physiotherapist who is experienced and trained in this method. the efficacy of the feldenkrais method is comparable with that of bs for nonspecific chronic low back pain. ',
 "Does an alkaline bath help with neurodermatitis? [SEP] bathing is a therapeutic measure commonly advised in atopic dermatitis (ad). whether baths improve skin condition remains yet unclear. our objectives were to appreciate the effect of 1-month tap water bathing on the submerged skin of ad patients, and to evaluate the proportion of ad patients in favour of baths. a medline search of the last 30\xa0years was performed in november 2012 using the medical subject heading terms 'atopic dermatitis' or 'eczema' combined with 'baths' or 'bath' or 'hydrotherapy' or 'cleansing' or 'soak'. background: few standardized bath product clinical trials were performed for atopic dermatitis patients. methods: the efficacy of two complementary bath products was studied and compared. efficacy and acceptability of the bath products were measured by patient general acceptability of treatment (gat: very, good, fair or poor), disease severity (scorad: scoring atopic dermatitis), quality of life (cdlqi: children dermatology life quality index), and pertinent clinical parameters were measured before and after four weeks of treatment. in one group, nine ad patients were subjected to bathing with a pine-tar bath oil for 10⁻15 min daily for four weeks. the combination of a chinese herbal medicine (chm) bath and narrowband ultraviolet b (nb-uvb) improved the efficacy of nb-uvb treatment of psoriasis vulgaris, but bath therapy is inconvenient. skin surface ph and roughness were comparable in both groups and remained unchanged, while both groups showed a trend to improvement in dry skin symptoms conclusions: this pragmatic trial provides empirical evidence that the regular use of the investigated bath oil is effective in improving the skin barrier function in children and adults with mild dry skin when used in routine skin care and supports its use as a basic element for the management of a broad spectrum of dry skin conditions. ",
 'Does birch water, also called birch sap, help with health problems? [SEP] betula utilis, also known as himalayan silver birch has been used as a traditional medicine for many health ailments like inflammatation, hiv, renal and bladder disorders as well as many cancers from ages. the sq tree slit-tablet (containing birch extract) proved clinically significant effects during the pollen season for birch as well as alder/hazel. immune outcomes of this treatment for allergens from multiple birch homologous trees needs further investigation. we hypothesize that birch pollen extract ait modulate a highly cross-reactive immune response and that this may be the basis for the observed clinical cross-protection. blood samples were collected from 397 birch allergic patients during sq tree slit-tablet or placebo treatment (1:1) for up to 40 weeks. t-cell reactivity was observed throughout the birch homologous group. slit achieved a significant clinical benefit in birch pollinosis, reduced the eosinophil infiltration in nasal mucosa, and significantly improved pulmonary function during the pollen seasons. in addition to their conventional benefits, birches synthesize a wide range of secondary metabolites having pharmacological significance. balneotherapy is a clinically effective complementary approach in the treatment of low-grade inflammation- and stress-related pathologies. the biological mechanisms by which immersion in mineral-medicinal water and the application of mud alleviate symptoms of several pathologies are still not completely understood, but it is known that neuroendocrine and immunological responses—including both humoral and cell-mediated immunity—to balneotherapy are involved in these mechanisms of effectiveness; leading to anti-inflammatory, analgesic, antioxidant, chondroprotective, and anabolic effects together with neuroendocrine-immune regulation in different conditions. ',
 'Is oolong tea an effective way to lose weight? [SEP] to determine the anti-obesity effects of oolong tea on diet-induced overweight or obesity. a total of 8 g of oolong tea a day for 6 weeks was ingested by 102 diet-induced overweight or obese subjects. oolong tea could decrease body fat content and reduce body weight through improving lipid metabolism. chronic consumption of oolong tea may prevent against obesity. several studies have evaluated the effects of oolong tea extracts on obesity. oolong tea is traditionally reported to have anti-obesity and hypolipidaemic effects. the present study was performed to clarify whether oolong tea prevented obesity induced in mice by the oral administration of a high-fat diet for 10 weeks. high-fat diet-induced obese mice were treated with oolong tea for 10 weeks. oolong tea prevented the obesity and fatty liver induced by a high-fat diet. the results suggest that oolong tea may be an effective crude drug for the treatment of obesity and fatty liver caused by a high-fat diet. ',
 'Do Waveex and similar products reduce exposure to electromagnetic fields, for example when using a cell phone or smartphone? [SEP] recent neurophysiological studies indicate that exposure to electromagnetic fields (emfs) generated by mobile phone radiation can exert effects on brain activity. one technical solution to reduce effects of emfs in mobile phone use is provided in mobile phone chips that are applied to mobile phones or attached to their surfaces. the present study investigated whether mobile phone chips that are applied to mobile phones reduce effects of emfs emitted by mobile phone radiation on electroencephalographic (eeg) brain activity in a laboratory study. application of the mobile phone chip reduced effects of emfs on eeg brain activity and attentional performance significantly. although there is no clear evidence to show harmful physiological effects of electromagnetic fields (emf) at the levels used by mobile phones, there is widespread public concern that there may be potential for harm. electromagnetic shielding fabrics may limit and inhibit electromagnetic waves. results showed that electromagnetic shielding fabrics produced as conductive nonwoven textile surfaces improved oxidant-antioxidant status and tp53 expression that were impaired in electromagnetic waves exposed zebrafish embryos. also, electromagnetic shielding fabrics decreased casp3a expression responsible for the execution phase of apoptosis that increased in electromagnetic waves exposed zebrafish embryos. the widespread use of cell phone in recent years has raised many questions whether their use is safe to operator who is exposed to electromagnetic waves (emv). studies showed that cell phone emitted radiations had effects on oral mucosal cells and causes changes in salivary flow rate. ',
 'Can ingredients in deodorants like aluminum salts cause breast cancer? [SEP] the known genotoxic effects of aluminum might play a role in the development of breast cancer. the present study prospectively determined the use of both aluminum-containing and non aluminum containing deodorants on axillary skin toxicity during conventionally fractionated postoperative radiation therapy for breast cancer. we found no evidence that the use of either aluminum-containing or non-aluminum containing deodorant adversely effects axillary skin reaction during conventionally fractionated radiation therapy for breast cancer. aluminium salts, present in many industrial products of frequent use like antiperspirants, anti-acid drugs, food additives and vaccines, have been incriminated in contributing to the rise in breast cancer incidence in western societies. our observations provide experimental evidence that aluminium salts could be environmental breast carcinogens. aluminium salts used as antiperspirants have been incriminated as contributing to breast cancer incidence in western societies. our observations do not formally identify aluminium as a breast carcinogen, but challenge the safety ascribed to its widespread use in underarm cosmetics. in conclusion, underarm shaving with antiperspirant/deodorant use may play a role in breast cancer. if the use of aluminium-based antiperspirant salts is involved in the etiology of gross breast cyst formation, it might be expected that aluminium would be at elevated levels in human breast cyst fluid (bcf). the increasing exposure to aluminum has been linked with the development of different human pathologies (e.g., breast cancer, myofasciitis, neurodegenerative diseases), probably due to the consistent presence of aluminum salts in widely diffused cosmetic products and vaccines. ',
 'Does the intake of black cumin improve the symptoms of asthma, e.g. shortness of breath? [SEP] asthma may respond to dietary modification, thereby reducing the need for pharmacologic agents. the black cumin or nigella sativa l. seeds have many acclaimed medicinal properties such as bronchodilatory, hypotensive, antibacterial, antifungal, analgesic, anti-inflammatory and immunopotentiating. simplifying dosing regimens could improve both adherence and asthma-related morbidity. inhaled drugs may act by improving mucociliary function. nigella sativa and its derivatives have been reported to have anti-inflammatory and bronchodilator effects, but the effects have been evaluated in only a few clinical studies. to determine the effect of n sativa supplementation on inflammation of the airways and limitation of airflow in partly controlled asthma patients. n sativa supplementation with inhaled maintenance therapy improves some measures of pulmonary function and inflammation in partly controlled asthma. astragalus membranaceus, a traditional chinese herb, has been used to improve airway inflammation and asthma. an ovalbumin (ova)-induced, chronic inflammatory airway murine asthma model was used to examine the status of pulmonary inflammation after the administration of a. membranaceus. these results indicate that a. membranaceus has an inhibitory effect on airway inflammation in a murine model of asthma through modulating the imbalanced relationship between th1 and th2 cytokines. ',
 "Do specially trained dogs reliably warn of dangerous hypoglycemia? [SEP] we investigated whether trained dogs reliably respond to their owners' hypoglycaemic state, and whether owners experience facilitated tightened glycaemic control, and wider psychosocial benefits. owner-recorded data showed that dogs alerted their owners, with significant, though variable, accuracy at times of low and high blood sugar. the recent publication of the results of 3 small trials, and as many as 5 case reports on dogs producing clear and intelligible alerts in the presence of their owners' hypoglycemia, opens an intriguing clinical scenario for management of diabetes. provided that further trials can confirm the findings, the use of diabetes alert dogs that are trained to detect the onset of hypoglycemia can be regarded as a fast, versatile, reliable, and cost-effective approach for safeguarding the health of individuals with diabetes. we examined the reliability of trained dogs to alert to hypoglycemia in individuals with type 1 diabetes. dogs provided timely alerts in 36% (sensitivity) of all hypoglycemia events (n = 45). this is the first study evaluating reliability of trained dogs to alert to hypoglycemia under real-life conditions. trained dogs often alert a human companion to otherwise unknown hypoglycemia; however due to high false-positive rate, a dog alert alone is unlikely to be helpful in differentiating hypo-/hyper-/euglycemia. anecdotal evidence suggests that domestic dogs may be able to detect hypoglycemia in their human caregivers; scientific investigation of this phenomenon, however, is sorely lacking. dogs' behavioral responses to their owners' hypoglycemic episodes varied. ",
 'Does taking proton pump inhibitors (PPI) increase the risk of bone fractures? [SEP] recent studies have shown an association between proton-pump inhibitor use (ppi) and hip fracture. recent studies revealed that long-term intake of proton pump inhibitor (ppi) increases the risk of vertebral or hip fracture; however, the exact mechanism for this is not known. proton pump inhibitor (ppi) use has been identified as a risk factor for hip and vertebral fractures. epidemiological studies suggest an increased fracture risk in patients taking proton pump inhibitors (ppis) for long term. proton pump inhibitors (ppis) are frequently prescribed to patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease; however, the number of bone fractures reportedly increased in these patients. long-term treatment with proton pump inhibitors (ppis) is associated with an increased risk of fractures in the general population. to identify the relationship between proton-pump inhibitors (ppis) and the risk of fracture, we conducted an update meta-analysis of observational studies. results showed that ppi use was associated with a modestly increased risk of hip, spine, and any-site fracture. many studies have investigated the association of proton-pump inhibitors (ppis) with fracture risk, but the results have been inconsistent. pooled analysis showed that ppi use could moderately increase the risk of hip fracture [rr\u2009=\u20091.26, 95 % confidence intervals (cis) 1.16–1.36]. ',
 'Can matrix therapy (also: matrix rhythm therapy) alleviate complaints of muscles and joints? [SEP] matrix therapy is an innovative, minimally invasive approach in the field of regenerative medicine, that aims to promote tissue regeneration by reconstructing the cellular microenvironment following tissue injury. this approach has significant therapeutic potential in the treatment of pathologies characterized by tissue inflammation and damage, or following injury, conditions which can be incapacitating and cost-consuming. applications merging rgta®-based matrix therapy and cell therapy, combining extra-cellular matrix reconstruction with cells required for optimal tissue repair show significant promise. many structural, behavioral, and pharmacological interventions imply that favorable treatment effects in musculoskeletal pain states are mediated through the correction of muscle function. with the improved understanding of the relationship between pain and motor function, including the inappropriateness of many clinical assumptions, a new literature emerges that opens the door to exciting therapeutic opportunities. novel treatments are expected to have a profound impact on the care of musculoskeletal pain and its effect on motor function in the not-too-distant future. the cases reviewed herein suggest the strain and counterstrain (scs) technique, described in 1981 by jones, may be helpful in reducing pain and improving function in patients with localized myofascial pain syndromes. massage therapy has been observed to be helpful in some patients with fibromyalgia. this study was designed to examine the effects of massage therapy versus relaxation therapy on sleep, substance p, and pain in fibromyalgia patients. a significant decrease in connective tissue thickness and pain was observed in participants. ',
 'Can hyposensitization by injections with allergy-causing pollen components help with hay fever? [SEP] grass pollen immunotherapy for the treatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis (\'summer hayfever\') results in improvement in symptoms, a reduction in the early and late phase responses to allergen provocation and decreased tissue eosinophilia. grass pollen injection immunotherapy is effective in patients with summer hay fever, although efficacy must be balanced against possible side effects. the results suggest that successful grass pollen immunotherapy for summer hay fever may act by inhibiting allergen-induced t lymphocyte and eosinophil recruitment and eosinophil activation in the target organ, possibly through a mechanism involving protective local increases in th1-type cells. grass pollen immunotherapy is the only treatment for hayfever that is both effective and confers long-term benefit. this review describes the connection between hay fever and asthma in patients suffering from specific ige-mediated allergy. the short-term and longterm benefits of allergen specific immunotherapy (sit), including potential prevention of exacerbation of disease from hay fever into asthma, are discussed. treatment with allergenic vaccines (immunotherapy) resulted in decreased symptoms of allergic rhinitis, decreased development of new allergies, and less asthma in the treated group, compared with the untreated control group. with recent developments in molecular biology of pollen allergens it has become feasible to produce modified hypoallergenic derivatives of recombinant allergens with abrogated or greatly reduced likelihood of anaphylactic side-effects as compared to extract-based treatments. international guidelines recommend that allergen-specific immunotherapy for pollen-induced rhinoconjunctivitis is initiated preseasonally. however, because subjects often present to physicians with allergy symptoms during the pollen season, "within-season" initiation of specific immunotherapy is of special interest. ',
 'Can hyposensitization by means of drops or tablets administered under the tongue help with hay fever? [SEP] therapy for hay fever should begin with environmental control, because sometimes avoidance of allergens is all that is needed to adequately control symptoms. if not, useful medications include antihistamines, decongestants, combinations of the two, prescription nasal sprays, and allergy immunotherapy. oral hyposensitization is still widely used in the treatment of allergic diseases, but controlled studies proving a beneficial effect are lacking. fifty-eight hay fever patients were admitted to a double-blind placebo efficacy study in oral hyposensitization. the study failed to prove any beneficial effect of oral hyposensitization measured by symptom score, medication score, nasal provocation test or skin prick test. the possibility that oral hyposensitization might be an effective treatment of hay fever in the future is discussed, but it is concluded that the present regimens cannot be recommended. immunotherapy of allergic diseases first called desensitization or hyposensitization is based on the introduction by parenteral administration or perhaps also by mouth of the allergens which has been considered to be responsible by the clinical symptoms. hyposensitization therapy is useful in some patients. some patients with allergic rhinitis (ar) may prefer a "dry" intranasal corticosteroid aerosol to avoid certain sensory perceptions such as the "wet feeling in the nose" and the "dripping down the throat" associated with aqueous nasal sprays. additional heated humidification (hh) is the appropriate method when such complaints arise. ',
 'Do Blushwood berries help against skin cancer? [SEP] berries and their phytochemicals have well documented chemopreventive roles, but understanding their ability to regulate cancer immunology is only beginning to be explored. the literature, including human studies, suggests that berry components can modulate our immune system to delay cancer development. therefore, the potential of berries to aid cancer immune-therapies by, for example, regulating dendritic cells, warrants further investigation in animal and human studies. this review summarizes the effects of berries as anti-tumor agents from the immunological perspective in tumor-bearing animals and humans. some berry constituents have been proven to have cancer preventive actions on chemically induced tumors in vivo and cancer suppressive effects in in vitro studies. overwhelming evidence suggests that edible small and soft-fleshed berry fruits may have beneficial effects against several types of human cancers. the anticancer potential of berries has been related, at least in part, to a multitude of bioactive phytochemicals that these colorful fruits contain, including polyphenols (flavonoids, proanthocyanidins, ellagitannins, gallotannins, phenolic acids), stilbenoids, lignans, and triterpenoids. studies show that the anticancer effects of berry bioactives are partially mediated through their abilities to counteract, reduce, and also repair damage resulting from oxidative stress and inflammation. the growth of various cancer cell lines, including those of stomach, prostate, intestine and breast, was strongly inhibited by raspberry, black currant, white currant, gooseberry, velvet leaf blueberry, low-bush blueberry, sea buckthorn and cranberry juice, but not (or only slightly) by strawberry, high-bush blueberry, serviceberry, red currant, or blackberry juice. these results illustrate that berry juices have striking differences in their potential chemopreventive activity and that the inclusion of a variety of berries in the diet might be useful for preventing the development of tumors. ',
 'Can relaxation exercises and a reduction in stress slow the progression of glaucoma? [SEP] reduction of intraocular pressure (iop) by 20-30% with glaucoma drainage surgery slows disease progression in normal tension glaucoma (ntg). exercise is widely known to lower intraocular pressure and increase ocular blood flow, which may be beneficial for glaucoma management. however, there are few studies that have reported on the relationship between exercise and glaucoma progression. evening exercise may lower the odds of vf progression, suggesting that exercise habits possibly play an important role in glaucoma progression. the efficacy of intraocular pressure reduction in retarding the progression of glaucoma has been demonstrated. this review examines the potential for prognostic advantage for glaucoma suspects in reducing their optic nerve head exposure to elevated intraocular pressure associated with activities which have been shown to elevate intraocular pressure. a reduction in exposure to elevated intraocular pressure may improve the prognosis for glaucoma suspects. reduction of intraocular pressure by 20-30% with glaucoma drainage surgery slows disease progression in normal tension glaucoma (ntg). intraocular pressure is a widely accepted risk factor and its reduction can improve the prognosis in normal-tension glaucoma patients. reducing intraocular pressure (iop) seems to be the only treatment that slows progression in glaucoma. ',
 'Can dementia be prevented by years of orange juice consumption? [SEP] epidemiological studies indicate that a diet rich in fruit is associated with cognitive improvement. we investigated whether 8 wk of daily flavanone-rich orange juice consumption was beneficial for cognitive function in healthy older adults. global cognitive function was significantly better after 8-wk consumption of flavanone-rich juice than after 8-wk consumption of the low-flavanone control. chronic daily consumption of flavanone-rich 100% orange juice over 8 wk is beneficial for cognitive function in healthy older adults. these results suggest that orange beverage may produce greater protection against cardiovascular risk factors than orange juice in healthy mice. orange juice (oj) is among the most consumed fruit juices worldwide, and its chemopreventive action is fairly addressed in the literature. we aimed to assess whether daily consumption of anthocyanin-rich cherry juice changed cognitive function in older adults with dementia. a 12-week randomised controlled trial assessed cognitive outcomes in older adults (+70\xa0year) with mild-to-moderate dementia (n\xa0=\xa049) after consumption of 200\xa0ml/day of either a cherry juice or a control juice with negligible anthocyanin content. inclusion of an anthocyanin-rich beverage may be a practical and feasible way to improve total anthocyanin consumption in older adults with mild-to-moderate dementia, with potential to improve specific cognitive outcomes. fifty years ago, orange juice was the major juice produced and it was consumed primarily to prevent scurvy. ',
 'Can remedies from papaya improve digestion or relieve gastrointestinal discomfort? [SEP] papaya (carica papaya l.) is used as a natural remedy in abnormal digestion in tropical and industrialized countries. former clinical observations had revealed positive effects for patients with constipation, heartburn, and symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) after eating papaya preparations. we conclude from these results, that the papaya preparation (caricol®) contributes to the maintenance of digestive tract physiology. several biological activities of pomegranate have been widely described in the literature, but the anti-inflammatory effect in the gastrointestinal tract has not been reviewed till now. the aim of the present paper is to summarize the evidence for or against the efficacy of pomegranate for coping with inflammatory conditions of the gastro-intestinal tract. different preparations of pomegranate, including extracts from peels, flowers, seeds, and juice, show a significant anti-inflammatory activity in the gut. the traditional use of papaya to treat many diseases, especially skin conditions and its prohibition for consumption during pregnancy has prompted us to determine whether papaya extracts both from green and ripe fruits improve wound healing and also produce foetal toxicity. papaya has a high content of enzymes supporting digestive function. due to the inherent biological activities of ingredients of papaya and of oats and their known effects (anti-inflammatory, epithelial integrity), the observed beneficial effects may be owed to the constituents synergisms to reduce chronic inflammation. po appears to provide symptomatic relief in some patients with dysphagia and cp. ',
 'Are kinesiotapes effective for chronic non-specific lower back pain ("low back pain")? [SEP] recently, kinesiotaping, as a simple and noninvasive treatment, has been used to treat chronic nonspecific lbp, but its effectiveness and true merit remains unclear. the purpose of this study was to summarize the results of randomized controlled trials (rcts) on the effectiveness of kinesiotaping (kt) for chronic nonspecific low back pain (cnlbp) and disability. blocking the lumbar or lumbosacral spine with a custom-made rigid lumbar brace, based on the mechanical origin of active discopathy, is a therapeutic option for low back pain, but no study has yet defined its applicability in low back pain. interventions for low back pain (lbp) commonly target \'dysfunctional\' or atypical lumbo-pelvic kinematics in the belief that correcting aberrant movement improves patients\' pain and activity outcomes. this study aimed to compare the effectiveness of spinal manipulation and functional technique on pain, disability, kinesiophobia, and quality of life in patients with chronic lbp. data on disability (roland-morris disability questionnaire [rmq], oswestry low back pain disability index [odi]), pain intensity (numerical pain rate scale [nprs]), fear of movement (tampa scale of kinesiophobia [tsk]), quality of life (short form-36 [sf-36] quality of life questionnaire), isometric resistance of abdominal muscles (mcquade test), and spinal mobility in flexion (finger-to-floor distance) were collected at baseline immediately after the intervention phase and at 1 month postintervention by an assessor blinded to group allocation of the patients. osteopathic manipulation treatment is widely used in the clinical practice in the care of patients with chronic nonspecific low back pain, however, its benefits still seem uncertain. this study aimed to verify the efficacy of osteopathic manipulation for chronic nonspecific low back pain. forty-two participants with chronic nonspecific low back pain were selected and randomized into two groups: active control group (acg - n= 19) and osteopathic manipulation treatment group (omtg - n= 23). the interventions were carried out over 5\xa0weeks of treatment, totaling 10 treatments for the acg and 5 for the omtg.the visual analogue scale (vas) was used to measure chronic nonspecific low back pain and the oswestry disability index 2.0, tampa scale of kinesiophobia and beck depression inventory were used to measure disability, kinesiophobia and depression, respectively. ',
 'Does early detection of lung cancer by trained sniffer dogs provide significant benefits to those affected? [SEP] properly trained dogs can perceive the volatile organic compounds (vocs) related to cancer thanks to their acute sense of smell. dogs have highly developed olfactory systems and may be able to detect cancer in its primary stages. after training, non-small cell lung cancer and healthy control blood serum samples were presented to the dogs, and the sensitivity and specificity of each dog were analyzed. trained dogs were able to identify non-small cell lung cancer samples from healthy controls. cancer detection using sniffer dogs is a potential technology for clinical use and research. (1) background: previous reports have indicated that cancers of the stomach, lung, and pancreas can be detected by dog sniffing, but results have been varied. canine scent detection has shown promising results in lung cancer detection, but there has only been one previous study that reproduces a screening-like situation. to determine whether canines could be trained to identify patients with cancer by sniffing the urine obtained from a patient with breast or prostate cancer from among samples obtained from healthy volunteers. better management of urine samples and a more stringent training protocol during our study may have provided new evidence as to the feasibility of using canines for cancer detection. the scent detection prowess of dogs has prompted interest in their ability to detect cancer. ',
 'Do snoring sprays or gargle solutions help against snoring? [SEP] although it is anecdotally known that nasal obstruction is associated with snoring, it remains unknown whether the application of nasal steroids could decrease oral/oro-nasal breathing and increase nasal breathing, and subsequently decrease snoring indices. this study evaluated the effect of nasal budesonide on breathing route pattern and snoring. twenty-four snorers were enrolled in a randomized, double-blind, crossover trial of 1-week treatment with nasal budesonide compared with 1-week intervention with nasal placebo. nasal budesonide was associated with a decrease in oral/oro-nasal breathing epochs and concomitant increase in nasal breathing epochs, decrease of snoring frequency by [median (interquartile range)] 15.8% (11.2-18.8%), and an increase of rapid eye movement sleep; snoring intensity decreased only in patients with increased baseline nasal resistance by 10.6% (6.8-14.3%). the change in nasal breathing epochs was inversely related to the change in snoring frequency (rs = 0.503; p < 0.001). nasal budesonide in snorers can increase nasal breathing epochs, modestly decrease snoring frequency and increase rapid eye movement sleep. topical intra-nasal sprays are amongst the most commonly prescribed therapeutic options for sinonasal diseases in humans. snoring is a very common social inconvenience. this double-blind study suggests a significant reduction in snoring reported by bed partners in a group of snoring volunteers using either an essential oil spray or gargle formulation. in this cross-sectional study of 45 wood industry workers, a significant decrease in nasal symptoms (such as obstruction, posterior secretions, itching, irritation and sneezing) was seen after a 3-week treatment with rhinomer, which contains de-ionized, sterilized, isotonic seawater. ',
 'Does Maca help with sexual problems such as erectile dysfunction or sexual aversion in men and women? [SEP] to determine the acute and chronic effects of maca on male sexual behavior and to examine chronic administration of maca on anxiety. maca treatment did not produce large changes in male sexual behavior. after 21 days of treatment maca had no effect on sexual behavior. acute and short-term administration of maca produced a small effect of rat male sexual behavior and long-term administration did not increase anxiety. as a consequence of the impact of viagra on male sexual dysfunction, considerable attention is now being paid to sexual dysfunctions in women, which might respond to pharmacological treatment. preparations from maca root have been reported to improve sexual function. the aim of this review was to assess the clinical evidence for or against the effectiveness of the maca plant as a treatment for sexual dysfunction. two rcts suggested a significant positive effect of maca on sexual dysfunction or sexual desire in healthy menopausal women or healthy adult men, respectively, while the other rct failed to show any effects in healthy cyclists. the further rct assessed the effects of maca in patients with erectile dysfunction using the international index of erectile dysfunction-5 and showed significant effects. the results of our systematic review provide limited evidence for the effectiveness of maca in improving sexual function. ',
 'Can glacier milk powder prevent hangover or relieve hangover symptoms? [SEP] the paper describes studies on the influence of heat impact in reconstituted skim milk on chemical and functional properties of yoghurt products. reconstituted skim milk was heated for 20 min at 85 degrees c, 90 degrees c, or 95 degrees c. ropy (producing exopolysaccharides, eps) or non-ropy strains of s. thermophilus and l. delbrueckii subsp. both types of heat-treatments can correct chemical changes that occur in cold stored raw milk. the aim of the present work was to investigate the influence of residual milk-clotting enzyme on alpha(s1)-casein hydrolysis in reggianito cheeses. the results suggest that residual milk-clotting enzyme can contribute to proteolysis during ripening of hard cheeses, because it probably renatures partially after the cooking step. dry heating of cow\'s milk protein, as applied in the production of "baked milk", facilitates the resolution of cow\'s milk allergy symptoms upon digestion. this study improves our understanding of the heat stability of almond milk proteins and indicates their potential as a gelling ingredient for vegan and vegetarian products. holder pasteurization (62.5\u202f°c, 30\u202fmin) of human milk denatures beneficial proteins. feed additives may alleviate hs in dairy cows by improving rumen fermentation efficacy, stimulating feed consumption, enhancing vasodilation, and/or improving antioxidant capacity. our results suggest that dhp can enhance the antioxidant abilities of dairy cows with favorable effects on ruminal microbial communities under hs, further alleviating hs on dairy cows. ',
 'Can ingredients from pomegranate lower elevated blood pressure or reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] pomegranate (punica granatum), a polyphenol-rich fruit, has been suggested to reduce cardiovascular risk due to its antioxidant properties. the aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of pomegranate extract (pe) on blood pressure and anthropometric measures in adults with no symptomatic disease. pomegranates can help prevent or treat various disease risk factors including high blood pressure, high cholesterol, oxidative stress, hyperglycemia, and inflammatory activities. several lines of experimental and clinical evidence have shown that pomegranate intake helps lowering blood pressure (bp) through different mechanisms. a review on the efficacy of consuming different parts of pomegranate (juice, peels, fruit extract and seed oil) in lowering bp has been performed. findings arising from animal and clinical studies have shown pomegranate juice can reduce bp in both short-term and long-term course. the anti-hypertensive effects have been reported for both pomegranate juice and seed oil. pomegranate juice possesses antioxidant, anti-hypertensive and anti-atherosclerotic properties. pomegranate juice may improve cardiovascular risk because of its content of antioxidant polyphenols. we conducted a randomized placebo-controlled parallel study to examine the effect of pomegranate juice on pulse wave velocity (pwv), blood pressure (bp) and plasma antioxidant status (ferric reducing power; frap) in 51 healthy adults (30-50\xa0years). ',
 'Does regular consumption of red meat or processed meat products increase the risk of colorectal cancer? [SEP] studies have suggested that red and processed meat consumption elevate the risk of colon cancer; however, the relationship between red meat, as well as fat and protein, and distal colorectal cancer (crc) specifically is not clear. although a large body of epidemiological research suggests that red meat intake increases the risk of colorectal cancer, little is known regarding how such an association varies across populations and types of red meat. consumption of red and processed meat has been associated with colorectal cancer in many but not all epidemiological studies; few studies have examined risk in relation to long-term meat intake or the association of meat with rectal cancer. high intake of red and processed meat reported in 1992/1993 was associated with higher risk of colon cancer after adjusting for age and energy intake but not after further adjustment for body mass index, cigarette smoking, and other covariates. our results demonstrate the potential value of examining long-term meat consumption in assessing cancer risk and strengthen the evidence that prolonged high consumption of red and processed meat may increase the risk of cancer in the distal portion of the large intestine. red meat intake is associated with elevated risk of developing colorectal cancer. the frequency of red meat consumption rather than total amount of consumed meat is associated with a higher risk of colorectal carcinogenesis. an increased risk for colorectal cancer has been consistently reported for long-time consumption of cooked and processed red meat. diets containing substantial amounts of red or preserved meats may increase the risk of various cancers, including colorectal cancer. specific components of the diet such as red and processed meat have been associated with the risk of developing colorectal cancer. ',
 'Does stool transplantation help with ulcerative colitis? [SEP] fecal microbiota transplantation is an effective treatment for many gastrointestinal diseases, such as clostridium difficile infection and inflammatory bowel disease, especially ulcerative colitis. fecal bacterial transplants and oral probiotics are becoming important ways to relieve active ulcerative colitis. this systematic review with meta-analysis compared the efficacy and safety of basic treatment combined with fecal microbiota transplantation or mixed probiotics therapy in relieving mild to moderate ulcerative colitis. in terms of clinical remission and clinical response to active ulcerative colitis, direct comparisons showed fecal microbiota transplantation (or = 3.47, 95% ci = 1.93-6.25) (or = 2.48, 95% ci = 1.18-5.21) and mixed probiotics vsl#3 (or = 2.40, 95% ci = 1.49-3.88) (or = 3.09, 95% ci = 1.53-6.25) to have better effects than the placebo. fecal microbiota transplantation or mixed probiotics vsl#3 achieved good results in clinical remission and clinical response in active ulcerative colitis, and there was no increased risk of adverse reactions. fecal microbiota transplantation may contribute to disease remission in ulcerative colitis; however, the factors that determine the effects of treatment remain unknown. the aim of the present study was to prospectively investigate the clinical efficacy of fecal microbiota transplantation in patients with ulcerative colitis and identify the bacterial signatures associated with clinical remission. fecal microbiota transplantation has a potential therapeutic value for the treatment of ulcerative colitis as it changes the abundance of bacterial flora and improves the scores for diarrhea, abdominal pain, and mucous membrane lesions in patients with this disease. faecal microbiota transplantation is an experimental approach for the treatment of patients with ulcerative colitis. to establish a faecal microbiota transplantation treatment protocol in ulcerative colitis patients, and to investigate which patient or donor factors are responsible for the treatment success. ',
 "Does stool transplantation help in Crohn's disease??? [SEP] new data suggest that fecal transplantation could also be efficient in other gastrointestinal diseases, for instance in inflammatory bowel disease, irritable bowel syndrome, but, there are also some data that could imply the efficacy outside the gastrointestinal tract. fecal transplant is highly effective, safe, with practically no adverse effects, inexpensive, a procedure easy to be done that could be introduced in clostridium difficile treatment protocols. faecal diversion produced significant improvement in the disease activity index mean (sem) (before 176 (9); after 114 (9), p < 0.01) and serum albumin concentrations (before 33 (3.0); after 38 (3.0), p < 0.05) in all patients with crohn's colitis. fecal bacteriotherapy ('stool transplant') can be effective in treating recurrent clostridium difficile infection, but concerns of donor infection transmission and patient acceptance limit its use. fecal microbiota transplantation is an effective treatment for many gastrointestinal diseases, such as clostridium difficile infection and inflammatory bowel disease, especially ulcerative colitis. fecal bacterial transplants and oral probiotics are becoming important ways to relieve active ulcerative colitis. small bowel transplant is an acceptable procedure for intractable crohn's disease (cd). fecal microbiota transplantation (fmt), a treatment aiming to restore dysbiosis by transferring stool from a healthy donor into the patient, has cure rates up to 90% in the management of recurrent clostridium difficile (c. difficile) diarrhea. fecal microbiota transplantation is used with success in persistent (more than two episodes) clostridium difficile infection; it has also gained importance and started to be used in inflammatory bowel disease. deviation of gut contents away from the inflamed area, bowel rest, or the use of liquid diets appears to benefit crohn's disease. ",
 'Can remedies from the iambul tree improve blood glucose control in diabetes or precursors of diabetes ("pre-diabetes")? [SEP] the hypoglycemic activity of ipomoea digitata tuber extract was investigated in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. thus, the plant can be the key contributor in the treatment of diabetes as an alternative medicine. there are many anti-diabetic plants, which might supply useful sources for developing new medicines that can be used in treatment of diabetes mellitus. the medicinal plant with established hypoglycemic properties garcinia kola heckel might have the potential to mitigate diabetes mellitus metabolic syndrome and complications. we have investigated the neuroprotective properties of a suspension of g. kola seeds in long-term type 1 diabetes mellitus rat model. the study of plants having antidiabetic activity may give a new approach in the treatment of dm. the identification of natural products that can modulate blood glucose levels is of great interest as it can possibly facilitate the utilization of mild interventions such as herbal medicine or functional foods in the treatment of chronic diseases like diabetes. if the products are found to improve lipid and glucose levels, it will provide evidence for their use in people with pre-diabetes to help reduce the risk of progression to type 2 diabetes. traditionally, artocarpus heterophyllus stem bark has been reputably used in the management of diabetes mellitus and its complications. conclusion: the results suggest that ethanol extract of artocarpus heterophyllus stem bark may be useful in ameliorating complications associated with diabetes mellitus patients. ',
 'Does HPV vaccination reduce the risk of cervical cancer in girls? [SEP] while the hpv vaccine significantly reduces the risk of hpv infection and subsequent cervical cancer diagnosis, underuse is linked to lack of knowledge of its effectiveness in preventing cervical cancer. hpv vaccination reduces the risk of developing malignant lesions and is expected to change the dynamics of hpv transmission. human papillomavirus (hpv) vaccination and cervical screening prevent cervical cancer effectively. effective vaccination is now available to prevent human papillomavirus (hpv), the most common sexually transmitted infection and the cause of cervical cancer, which is the second most common cancer among women worldwide. this exploratory study examined the relationship between cervical cancer screening rates and hpv vaccination. women who have been vaccinated for hpv are more likely to have been screened for cervical cancer. vaccination is available to prevent human papillomavirus (hpv) types that cause cervical and other cancers. the human papillomavirus (hpv) vaccine has the potential to greatly reduce the incidence of cervical cancer by protecting against hpv infections responsible for 70% of cervical cancer diagnoses. however, preliminary research has indicated that women vaccinated against hpv may be less likely to undergo cervical cancer screening and engage in safe sexual behaviour. human papillomavirus (hpv) vaccination, which is recommended for u.s. women and girls aged 11-26 years, effectively prevents cervical cancer. ',
 "Is stool transplantation effective against recurrent Clostridium difficile infections ? [SEP] fecal transplantation was shown to effectively reduce the reoccurrence in patients with refractory clostridium difficile infection. fecal transplant is highly effective, safe, with practically no adverse effects, inexpensive, a procedure easy to be done that could be introduced in clostridium difficile treatment protocols. we conclude that c. difficile infection can be successfully treated by fecal microbiota transplantation and that this leads to stable transformation of the distal gut microbial community from the one abundant in aerotolerant species to that dominated by members of the clostridia. while faecal microbiota transplant has been shown to be effective for recurrent c\xa0difficile infection, there is little data on the utility of faecal microbiota transplant in severe or fulminant c\xa0difficile infection. to compare the outcomes of antibiotics and faecal microbiota transplantation vs antibiotics alone (standard of care) in critically ill patients with severe or fulminant c\xa0difficile infection. faecal microbiota transplantation provides mortality benefit over standard of care for severe and fulminant c\xa0difficile infection and should be considered in critically ill patients. in cases of recurrent c. difficile infection, fecal microbiota transplant (fmt) is a highly effective treatment option promoting the restoration of normal gut microbiota. fecal microbiota transplantation (fmt) is an alternate treatment option for recurrent c. difficile infection (rcdi) refractory to antibiotic therapy. fecal bacteriotherapy ('stool transplant') can be effective in treating recurrent clostridium difficile infection, but concerns of donor infection transmission and patient acceptance limit its use. here we describe the use of a stool substitute preparation, made from purified intestinal bacterial cultures derived from a single healthy donor, to treat recurrent c. difficile infection that had failed repeated standard antibiotics. ",
 'Does the juice of the aronia berry help against cystitis? [SEP] cranberry juice has been widely used for the treatment and prevention of urinary tract infections and is reputed to give symptomatic relief from these infections. cranberry juice has been recognized as a treatment for urinary tract infections on the basis of scientific reports of proanthocyanidin anti-adhesion activity against escherichia coli as well as from folklore. cranberry ( vaccinium macrocarpon) juice is traditionally used for the prevention of urinary tract infections. cranberry juice appears to acidify urine and has bacteriostatic properties, and is widely recommended for the reduction of urinary tract infections. the authors conclude that while drinking cranberry juice did not appear to acidify the urine as expected, improvements were still seen in the skin conditions of the study participants, suggesting that drinking cranberry juice does positively impact the incidence of skin complications for these patients. cranberry (vaccinium macrocarpon aiton) is used to treat noncomplicated urinary tract infections (utis). studies bearing on the therapeutic value of cranberries in the prevention and/or treatment of urinary tract infections are reviewed. 2) does cranberry juice inhibit the adherence of bacteria to bladder cells? 3) what research evidence exists to support that cranberry juice is an effective intervention for urinary tract infections? and 4) does cranberry ingestion enhance antibiotic effectiveness? ',
 'Is Intermittent Fasting suitable for reducing excess weight as well as a conventional low calorie diet? [SEP] the potential health benefits of fasting can be related to both the acute food restriction and chronic influence of weight loss; the long-term effect of chronic food restriction in humans is not yet clear, but may be a potentially interesting future dietary strategy for longevity, particularly given the overweight epidemic. intermittent fasting or alternate day fasting may be an option for achieving weight loss and maintenance. fasting resulted in a significant reduction in body weight, improved well-being and had a beneficial modulating effect on blood lipids and glucose regulation. intermittent fasting has been proposed as a potential nutrition approach against obesity and metabolic disease. recent studies have examined the effect of two intermittent fasting approaches, that is, alternate day fasting (adf) and time-restricted eating (tre), on weight loss and cardiometabolic risk factors. intermittent fasting is a promising nutritional approach against obesity and its related metabolic diseases. current data suggest that intermittent fasting may be beneficial for overall health and wellbeing. intermittent fasting (if), a periodic energy restriction, has been shown to provide health benefits equivalent to prolonged fasting or caloric restriction. intermittent fasting (imf) is a relatively new dietary approach to weight management, although the efficacy and adverse effects have not been full elucidated and the optimal diets for imf are unknown. we tested the hypothesis that a one-meal-per-day intermittent fasting with high fat (hf) or protein (hp) diets can modify energy, lipid, and glucose metabolism in normal young male sprague-dawley rats with diet-induced obesity or overweight. ',
 "Is the risk for the brain inflammation SSPE as a consequence of measles disease greater than long assumed? That is, out of every 100,000 people infected with measles, does more than one person develop SSPE (subacute sclerosing panencephalitis) later in life? [SEP] subacute sclerosing panencephalitis, a devastating neurologic illness, is prone to develop years after measles infection. the inflammation of measles-induced subacute sclerosing panencephalitis, even subclinical cases, could well promote tumor formation, since many tumors arise from sites of infection, chronic irritation and inflammation. subacute sclerosing panencephalitis, a devastating neurologic illness, is prone to develop years after measles infection. the inflammation of measles-induced subacute sclerosing panencephalitis, even subclinical cases, could well promote tumor formation, since many tumors arise from sites of infection, chronic irritation and inflammation. several factors influence the risk of chronic brain infection with the mutant measles virus. sspe appears years after these children have had the measles but still a measles-like virus can be found in their brain and in other organs. subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (sspe) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease caused by the measles (rubeola) virus and is most often seen in children. to determine whether exposure to a measles epidemic in utero or in infancy is a risk factor for the development of crohn's disease, and to determine whether such an association can be found in individuals with subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (sspe), a condition in which early infection with measles is known to be of aetiological importance. subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (sspe), in the majority of cases, is caused by the wild measles virus, although there are some reports relating sspe to vaccination. measles can persist in the central nervous system and cause subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (sspe), a progressive disease that is almost always fatal. ",
 'Can acupuncture for labor induction trigger the onset of labor? [SEP] acupressure is a natural method that is used for inducing uterine contractions. nevertheless, few studies have examined the impact of acupressure on the induction of labor. the aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of acupressure on the initiation of labor. according to the finding of this study, it seems that acupressure treatment was not effective in initiating labor as compared with the sham acupressure and the routine care groups. the aim of the present study is to investigate the effect of acupuncture to induce labor. acupuncture was applied in post-date pregnancies one week before a planned induction; the primary outcome was the rate of women submitted to labor induction for prolonged pregnancy at week 41\u2009+\u20095. the present study demonstrated that acupuncture applied every odd day for one week seems ineffective in reducing the rate of labor induction performed for prolonged pregnancy at 41\u2009+\u20095 weeks. to estimate the clinical effectiveness of acupuncture to induce labor. two sessions of manual acupuncture, using local and distal acupuncture points, administered 2 days before a scheduled induction of labor did not reduce the need for induction methods or the duration of labor for women with a postterm pregnancy. induction of labor refers to iatrogenic stimulation of uterine contractions before the onset of spontaneous labor as a therapeutic option when benefits of expeditious delivery outweigh the risks of continuing the pregnancy. ',
 'Can switching to a higher fiber diet prevent colorectal cancer? [SEP] epidemiologic evidence that cereal fiber protects against colorectal cancer is equivocal. it has been hypothesized that increased intakes of fiber, vitamin c, and beta carotene could decrease the risk of colorectal cancer. the objective of this study was to examine the effects of fiber, vitamin c, and beta-carotene intakes on colorectal cancer risk in a combined analysis of data from 13 case-control studies previously conducted in populations with differing colorectal cancer rates and dietary practices. this analysis provides substantive evidence that intake of fiber-rich foods is inversely related to risk of cancers of both the colon and rectum. if causality is assumed, we estimate that risk of colorectal cancer in the u.s. population could be reduced about 31% (50,000 cases annually) by an average increase in fiber intake from food sources of about 13 g/d, corresponding to an average increase of about 70%. support for a protective role for certain dietary fibers in the etiology of colon cancer has come from nutritional epidemiologic studies. recommendations to increase consumption of fiber-containing food and decrease the intake of dietary fat should form the basis of a diet that is unlikely to do harm, and may have the potential for reducing the development of colon cancer, in humans. many epidemiological and experimental studies have suggested that dietary fiber plays an important role in colon cancer prevention. this article reviews the current knowledge concerning the mechanisms via which dietary fiber protects against colon cancer. the claim that populations at low risk for colon cancer generally consume a more fiber-rich diet than those at high risk, has been used to postulate a protective role for this group of substances. ',
 'Can perineal massage during pregnancy help prevent birth injury in first-time mothers? [SEP] to evaluate the effectiveness of antenatal perineal massage in increasing the likelihood of delivering with an intact perineum. the practice of antenatal perineal massage showed neither a protective nor a detrimental significant effect on the occurrence of perineal trauma. although the performance of perineal massage by a woman or her partner during the last weeks of pregnancy may help to prevent perineal trauma at delivery, the technique has never been evaluated rigorously. antenatal perineal massage has been shown to reduce the incidence of perineal tears in primiparous women. antenatal perineal massage was found to significantly affect postnatal perineal pain scores although it did not impact on the incidence of intact perineum at delivery, postnatal continence scores, anal manometry pressures, or endoanal ultrasound findings. antenatal perineal massage has been proposed as one method of decreasing the incidence of perineal trauma. to assess the effect of antenatal perineal massage on the incidence of perineal trauma at birth and subsequent morbidity. randomised and quasi-randomised controlled trials evaluating any described method of antenatal perineal massage undertaken for at least the last four weeks of pregnancy. antenatal perineal massage was associated with an overall reduction in the incidence of trauma requiring suturing (three trials, 2417 women, relative risk (rr) 0.91 (95% confidence interval (ci) 0.86 to 0.96), number needed to treat (nnt) 16 (10 to 39)). antenatal perineal massage reduces the likelihood of perineal trauma (mainly episiotomies) and the reporting of ongoing perineal pain and is generally well accepted by women. ',
 'Can cancer be effectively treated with vitamin C infusions? [SEP] vitamin c was found to induce cytotoxicity against cancers. high intravenous doses of vitamin c (ascorbic acid) have been reported to benefit cancer patients, but the data are controversial and there is incomplete knowledge of what physiological mechanisms might be involved in any response. intravenous administration of high-dose vitamin c has recently attracted attention as a cancer therapy. high-dose vitamin c induces pro-oxidant effects and selectively kills cancer cells. over the past century, the notion that vitamin c can be used to treat cancer has generated much controversy. studies have shown that pharmacological vitamin c targets many of the mechanisms that cancer cells utilize for their survival and growth. biological and some clinical evidence suggest that high-dose intravenous vitamin c (ivc) could increase the effectiveness of cancer chemotherapy. especially in the public, vitamin c is considered supportive for the treatment of cancer and supplementation is common. in vivo, intratumoral delivery of vitamin c delayed tumor growth in murine solid tumor models. considering its low toxicity and availability, the present study indicates that vitamin c may be a novel therapeutic method for patients with advanced tumors. ',
 'Are detox cures good for health? [SEP] detox diets are popular dieting strategies that claim to facilitate toxin elimination and weight loss, thereby promoting health and well-being. the present review examines whether detox diets are necessary, what they involve, whether they are effective and whether they present any dangers. although the detox industry is booming, there is very little clinical evidence to support the use of these diets. a handful of clinical studies have shown that commercial detox diets enhance liver detoxification and eliminate persistent organic pollutants from the body, although these studies are hampered by flawed methodologies and small sample sizes. this study investigates whether a 7-day program of detoxification can improve well-being and enhance the activity of liver detoxification pathways. in disease-free adults, a 7-day course of detoxification may produce improvements in subjective health reports. a simple 7-day detoxification program resulted in a significant reduction in participant symptomology. the tendency toward improvement in liver detoxification measures is consistent with the hypothesis that improved liver detoxification capacity may contribute to well-being. numerous popular "detoxification" supplements claim to promote the removal of harmful compounds from the body, thereby alleviating gastrointestinal symptoms, improving body composition, and enhancing overall health. better detoxification techniques would help patients who are ready to discontinue the use of methadone as well as those who want to start naltrexone treatment. ',
 'Do sweeteners increase the risk of type 2 diabetes or sugar metabolism disorders? [SEP] sugar-sweetened soft drinks are a prevalent source of readily absorbable sugars and have been associated with an increased risk of obesity and diabetes. the intake of sugar-sweetened soft drinks has been reported to be associated with an increased risk of type 2 diabetes, but it is unclear whether this is because of the sugar content or related lifestyle factors, whether similar associations hold for artificially sweetened soft drinks, and how these associations are related to bmi. there is an association between the consumption of artificial sweeteners and type 2 diabetes in cohort studies, but intervention studies do not show a clear elevation of blood glucose after the use of artificial sweeteners. intake of sugary drinks, especially soft drinks, carries increased risk for obesity and diabetes. the consumption of sweet beverages has been associated with greater risk of type 2 diabetes and obesity, which may be involved in the development of pancreatic cancer. increased sugar consumption may adversely affect glycemic control in patients with diabetes. dietary sugar has been largely related to the onset of metabolic diseases such as type 2 diabetes and obesity, among others. consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages has been shown to be associated with dyslipidemia, insulin resistance, fatty liver, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. dietary added sugars are associated with a greater risk for t2d; however, it is unclear if added sugars influence t2d risk directly or if their effects are mediated by excess caloric intake and weight gain. sugar intake abuse is directly related with the increase of metabolic diseases such as type 2 diabetes, obesity, and insulin resistance. ',
 'Does flu vaccination reduce the likelihood of getting the flu (influenza)? [SEP] this study examines the relationship between the risk of flu infection and the probability of getting vaccinated. higher influenza vaccine dose has been associated with reduced risk of influenza illness. influenza vaccination can potentially reduce the incidence of influenza in people with asthma, but uptake remains persistently low, partially reflecting concerns about vaccine effectiveness (ve). influenza vaccination gave meaningful protection against laboratory-confirmed influenza in people with asthma across all seasons. strategies to boost influenza vaccine uptake have the potential to substantially reduce influenza-triggered asthma attacks. the flu, a condition that can affect the elderly by increasing the risk of serious complications can be prevented through vaccination. vaccination in both the current and previous seasons was associated with a higher ve against hospitalization with influenza than vaccination in either single season. annual influenza vaccination is a key to preventing widespread influenza infections. the model shows that, even in the presence of vaccine interference, revaccination reduces the influenza attack rate and provides individual benefits. influenza vaccination of hiv1-seropositive subjects generally protects against specific flu, especially if the patients have not reached a too-advanced stage. ',
 'Can therapy with the radioactive gas radon noticeably alleviate pain in rheumatism-related joint inflammation (rheumatoid arthritis)? [SEP] radon therapy is clinically useful for the treatment of pain-related diseases. in this study, we aimed to determine whether radon inhalation actually induced a remission of neuropathic pain and improved the quality of life. first, we investigated the antinociceptive effects of radon inhalation in the chronic constriction injury (cci) model of neuropathic pain. treatment with radon inhalation, specifically at a concentration of 2000\u2009bq/m(3) , produced antinociceptive effects, i.e., lowered plasma tnf-α, ne and no levels and restored sod activity, as well as pain-related behaviour. this study showed that inhalation of 2000\u2009bq/m(3) radon prevented and alleviated cci-induced neuropathic pain in mice. the pain-relieving effects of low-dose radon therapies on patients suffering from chronic painful inflammatory diseases have been described for centuries. the rad-on01 study showed for the first time a modulation of the peripheral immune cells following standard radon spa therapy. the aim of this study was to analyze the effect of radon therapy on pain in rheumatic diseases. included were all prospective randomized controlled clinical trials that compared clinical effects of radon therapy with other interventions in patients with rheumatic diseases and studied pain intensity. the existing trials suggest a positive effect of radon therapy on pain in rheumatic diseases. ',
 "Does frankincense help with painful joint wear (osteoarthritis)? [SEP] the non-pharmacological treatment of osteoarthritis (oa) includes exercise therapy; however, little is known about the specific effect of exercise on the joint per se. thirty minutes of mechanical loading of a single knee joint in human subjects with knee oa resulted in a reduced comp concentration in sf. the aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of a four-week moderate treadmill exercise on rats' knee osteoarthritis. the osteoarthritis model was induced by intra-articular injection of monosodium iodoacetate (mia). histological assessment on 3 measurements of, depth ratio of lesions (p=0.001), total cartilage degeneration width (p=0.001), and significant cartilage degeneration width (p=0.001), demonstrated that moderate exercise for 4 weeks could surprisingly almost treat oa symptoms of rats' knee joints. the findings of the present study indicate that a moderate treadmill exercise program exert a beneficial influence on rats' knee osteoarthritis. to examine the effect of a topical cream consisting of cetylated fatty acids on functional performance in patients diagnosed with osteoarthritis (oa) of one or both knees. forty patients diagnosed with knee oa were randomly assigned to one of 2 topical treatment groups: (1) cetylated fatty acid (cfa) (n = 20; age 62.7 +/- 11.7 yrs); or (2) placebo group (n = 20; age 64.6 +/- 10.5 yrs). use of a cfa topical cream is an effective treatment for improving knee rom, ability to ascend/descend stairs, ability to rise from sitting, walk and sit down, and unilateral balance. osteoarthritis (oa) is a highly prevalent musculoskeletal disorder. ",
 'Does the extract of the plant Salacia reticulata in combination with vitamin D ("Exadipin") help to lose weight? [SEP] our results demonstrated the protective effects of salvia miltiorrhiza aqueous extract (sma) on bone metabolism were influenced by levels of dietary fat and sucrose in ovariectomized (ovx) rats through its actions on attenuating lipid deposition and oxidative stress in rats. chemopreventive administration of vitamin d caused significant reduction of animal body weight. salacia (s.) reticulata, a hippocrateaceae plant distributed in sri lankan and indian forests, has been used as a supplementary food in japan to prevent obesity and diabetes. we examined the antiobesity effects of the hot water-soluble extract (srhw) from the roots of s. reticulata using obese rat models and an in vitro study. next, we examined the effects of polyphenols, di- and triterpenes and salacinol isolated from the roots of s. reticulata on lipid metabolizing enzymes and lipolysis. the indian plant root salacia reticulata, which is rich in alpha-glucosidase inhibitors, is used for metabolic disorders in ayurvedic medicine. these promising results suggest that the combination of salacia reticulata and vitamin d₃ might be highly valuable and potent to treat overweight and obesity, especially in addition to a modifying lifestyle program. salicornia europaea (amaranthaceae) (se) has been shown to reduce obesity, but it remains a problem as a food supplement because of its high salt content (25-35% nacl). the body weight was significantly reduced by co-administration of dsp (596.51\u2009±\u200919.84\u2009kg, 4.60% and 562.08\u2009±\u20099.74\u2009kg, 10.10%, respectively) and ge (576.00\u2009±\u200911.29\u2009kg, 7.88%) relative to the hfd group (625.25\u2009±\u200914.02\u2009kg) and was accompanied by reduced abdominal fat mass, and serum lipid levels, with no effects on feed intake. these findings suggest that dsp may be considered for use as a food supplement intent of controlling obesity through its antiobesity and antiadipogenic properties. ',
 'Does yoga reduce the impairment in everyday life caused by persistent (chronic) back pain? [SEP] yoga has been proven to be an effective therapy for chronic low back pain. to critically compare the effects of yoga for patients with chronic low back pain on pain, disability, quality of life with non-exercise (e.g. yoga might decrease pain from short term to intermediate term and improve functional disability status from short term to long term compared with non-exercise (e.g. chronic low back pain is a significant public health problem and, although underused, yoga may be an effective complementary treatment. these results suggest that iyengar yoga provides better improvement in pain reduction and improvement in hrqol in nonspecific chronic back pain than general exercise. although yoga is an effective treatment for chronic low back pain, little is known about the mechanisms responsible for its benefits. in a trial comparing yoga to intensive stretching and self-care, we explored whether physical (hours of back exercise/week), cognitive (fear avoidance, body awareness, and self-efficacy), affective (psychological distress, perceived stress, positive states of mind, and sleep), and physiological factors (cortisol, dhea) mediated the effects of yoga or stretching on back-related dysfunction (roland-morris disability scale (rdq)). yoga is effective for mild to moderate chronic low back pain (clbp), but its comparative effectiveness with physical therapy (pt) is unknown. yoga has been shown to decrease disability among people with pain, but it is not known how. because even the most basic yoga practices possess many of the components thought to be important in fostering resilience, yoga is a promising means of improving resilience and clinical outcomes for people with chronic pain. ',
 'Does yoga alleviate the severity of persistent back pain??? [SEP] although yoga is an effective treatment for chronic low back pain, little is known about the mechanisms responsible for its benefits. in a trial comparing yoga to intensive stretching and self-care, we explored whether physical (hours of back exercise/week), cognitive (fear avoidance, body awareness, and self-efficacy), affective (psychological distress, perceived stress, positive states of mind, and sleep), and physiological factors (cortisol, dhea) mediated the effects of yoga or stretching on back-related dysfunction (roland-morris disability scale (rdq)). yoga is effective for mild to moderate chronic low back pain (clbp), but its comparative effectiveness with physical therapy (pt) is unknown. yoga is a popular recreational activity in western society and there is an abundance of literature suggesting that yoga may be beneficial for people with a chronic pain disorder. yoga has been proven to be an effective therapy for chronic low back pain. to critically compare the effects of yoga for patients with chronic low back pain on pain, disability, quality of life with non-exercise (e.g. yoga could significantly reduce pain at 4 to 8 weeks (md = -0.83, 95% ci = -1.19 to -0.48, p<0.00001, i2 = 0%), 3 months (md = -0.43, 95% ci = -0.64 to -0.23, p<0.0001, i2 = 0%), 6 to 7 months (md = -0.56, 95% ci = -1.02 to -0.11, p = 0.02, i2 = 50%), and was not significant in 12 months (md = -0.52, 95% ci = -1.64 to 0.59, p = 0.36, i2 = 87%) compared with non-exercise. chronic low back pain is a significant public health problem and, although underused, yoga may be an effective complementary treatment. studies suggest that yoga is effective for moderate to severe chronic low back pain (clbp) in diverse predominantly lower socioeconomic status populations. poor physical health at baseline is associated with greater improvement from yoga in back-related function and pain. ',
 "Do laughter yoga or laughter therapy have positive health effects? [SEP] scientific research has shown that laughter may have both preventive and therapeutic values. laughter has shown different physiological and psychological benefits. however, current research is beginning to show that laughter may also have serious positive physiological effects for those who engage in it on a regular basis. a small but growing body of empirical data support the popular belief that laughter benefits health. this article also identifies the physical and psychosocial benefits of laughter therapy, and how patients and nurses can engage with this activity to enhance their well-being. laughter and humor therapy have been used in health care to achieve physiological and psychological health-related benefits. laughter yoga consists of physical exercise, relaxation techniques and simulated vigorous laughter. all nurses agreed or strongly agreed that laughter yoga had a positive impact on patients' mood, it was a feasible intervention and they would recommend laughter yoga to their patients. this study provides evidence that laughter yoga is a safe, low-intensity form of intradialytic physical activity that can be successfully implemented for patients in dialysis settings. laughter is a good medicine; it enhances cardiovascular health and the immune system. ",
 'Can a height-adjustable desk reduce sitting time in the office? [SEP] proponents of these desks suggest that health benefits may be acquired as standing desk use discourages long periods of sitting, which has been identified as an independent health risk factor. sit-stand desks can reduce occupational sitting time, however, their cost can limit scalability. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of a low-cost standing desk on objectively-measured occupational sitting and prolonged sitting bouts over 3- and 6-months. installation of height-adjustable workstations has been proposed as a feasible approach for reducing occupational sitting time in office workers. nevertheless, all studies reported that height-adjustable workstation interventions reduced occupational sitting time in office workers. as a consequence, the present study investigated the effects of prompting the use of height-adjustable working desk (hawd) on occupational sitting and standing time, neuromuscular outcomes and concentration in office workers. the findings suggest that introducing a sit-to-stand workstation can significantly reduce sedentary time and increase light activity levels during working hours. height adjustable office desks now present the opportunity to replace sitting with standing in the workplace. a semiautomated sit-stand table may effectively contribute to making postures more variable among office workers and thus aid in alleviating negative health effects of extensive sitting. height-adjustable desks are being used to decrease worksite based sitting time (st). ',
 'Does a diet that includes as many organic foods as possible lower the risk of cancer? [SEP] the evidences from several epidemiological studies suggest that higher intakes of fruits and vegetables have been associated with lower risk of cancer. the role of diet in cancer is a major public health issue foods associated with a low risk of cancer are those typically included in the so-called mediterranean diet, which is also associated with low mortality rates from cardiovascular disease. the objective of this review is to evaluate the association between organic food consumption and the incidence of cancer among adults. the association between organic food consumption and the incidence of cancer has not yet been synthesized. studies that compared organic food consumption to conventional food consumption, measured the incidence of cancer among adults, and captured disease incidence, such as prospective and retrospective cohort methodologies, will be included. overall, a diet habitually high in fresh fruits and vegetables, modest in calories and alcohol, and low in red meat and animal fat is cancer protective. there is now considerable evidence that a high intake of fruit and vegetables can decrease the risk of developing cancer. the most consistent result of epidemiological studies on diet and cancer is that a diet rich in vegetables, fruit and, more generally, in plant foods is associated with a reduced risk of cancer at several anatomical sites. an increased intake of fruits and vegetables has been shown to be associated with reduced risk of cancer. although consumption of fruits, vegetables, spices, cereals and pulses has been associated with lower incidence of cancer and other chronic diseases, how these dietary agents and their active ingredients minimize these diseases, is not fully understood. ',
 'Does cinnamon lower blood sugar levels in diabetes? [SEP] it has long been believed that an intake of cinnamon (cinnamomum zeylanicum) alleviates diabetic pathological conditions. the aim of this review was to examine the results of randomized controlled clinical trials of cinnamon and evaluate the therapeutic potential amongst patients with diabetes and insulin-resistant patients, particularly the ability to reduce blood glucose levels and inhibit protein glycation. previous studies of patients with type 2 diabetes showed that cinnamon lowers fasting serum glucose, triacylglycerol, and ldl- and total cholesterol concentrations. we hypothesized cinnamon should be effective in improving blood glucose control in chinese patients with type 2 diabetes. in conclusion, our study indicates that cinnamon supplementation is able to significantly improve blood glucose control in chinese patients with type 2 diabetes. research has shown that adding cinnamon to diet can help to lower the glucose level. the aim of this study was to determine the effect of cinnamon on the glucose level in blood. the purpose of this study was to determine whether cinnamon lowers hba1c in patients with type 2 diabetes. taking cinnamon could be useful for lowering serum hba1c in type 2 diabetics with hba1c >7.0 in addition to usual care. the cinnamon extract seems to have a moderate effect in reducing fasting plasma glucose concentrations in diabetic patients with poor glycaemic control. ',
 'Does sitting for long periods shorten the lifespan? [SEP] human leukocyte telomere length (ltl) decreases with age and shorter ltl has previously been associated with increased prospective mortality. background: prolonged sitting as a major sedentary behavior potentially contributes to illness, but its relation with lung cancer risk is unclear. prolonged sitting can be presented in physically active or inactive individuals. we therefore aimed to prospectively examine if total sitting time daily itself or in combination with physical activity is associated with lung cancer incidence overall and histologic types. compared with participants sitting < 8 h daily and being physically active, those sitting ≥8 h daily (prolonged sitting) and being physically inactive had an increased incidence of lung cancer (overall: adjusted hr = 1.44, 95% ci: 1.07-1.94; small cell lung cancer: adjusted hr = 2.58, 95% ci: 1.23-5.41). conclusions: our study suggested that prolonged sitting was not independently associated with lung cancer incidence. the combination of prolonged sitting and physical inactivity might increase the risk of lung cancer. ltl shortening has correlated with decreased longevity, dementia, and other age-associated processes. telomere shortening to a critical length can trigger aging and shorter life spans in mice and humans by a mechanism that involves induction of a persistent dna damage response at chromosome ends and loss of cellular viability. we found that the telomere shortening rate, but not the initial telomere length alone, is a powerful predictor of species life span. ',
 'Does mammography screening reduce the risk of dying from breast cancer in certain age groups? [SEP] screening for breast cancer with mammography in women aged 50 years or more has been shown to reduce mortality from breast cancer. in women aged 50-59 years, the addition of annual mammography screening to physical examination has no impact on breast cancer mortality. screening for breast cancer using mammography alone, or mammography plus physical examination of the breasts, reduces mortality from breast cancer in women age 50-69. mammography screening is increasingly promoted as a means to avoid death from breast cancer. mammographic screening is effective in reducing mortality from breast cancer. mammographic screening has been shown to reduce breast cancer mortality in women over the age of 50 years, and to a lesser extent in younger women. mammography screening of women aged 50-70 years for breast cancer has proven to be effective in reducing breast cancer mortality. the issue of whether to screen women aged 40-49 for breast cancer is debated usually in terms of the potential mortality reduction achievable by the application of screening in this age group. in randomized trials, screening mammography has been shown to reduce breast cancer mortality. the benefits that have been realized from mammography screening in overall breast cancer mortality and diagnosis of earlier stage cancers are also reviewed. ',
 'Should wisdom teeth that have not or not completely grown out of the jaw and gums be removed as a precaution? Even if the "impacted" teeth are not causing any symptoms at the moment and no pathological changes are to be expected immediately? [SEP] impacted wisdom teeth may be associated with pathological changes, such as inflammation of the gums around the tooth, root resorption, gum and alveolar bone disease, damage to the adjacent teeth and the development of cysts and tumours. nevertheless, in most developed countries prophylactic removal of trouble-free wisdom teeth, either impacted or fully erupted, has long been considered as \'appropriate care\' and is a very common procedure. to evaluate the effects of prophylactic removal of asymptomatic impacted wisdom teeth in adolescents and adults compared with the retention (conservative management) of these wisdom teeth. impacted wisdom teeth have been associated with pathological changes, such as inflammation of the gums around the tooth, root resorption, gums- and alveolar bone disease, damage of the adjacent teeth, the development of cysts and tumours. wisdom teeth do not always fulfil a functional role in the mouth. nevertheless, in most developed countries the prophylactic removal of trouble-free wisdom teeth, either impacted or fully erupted, has long been considered as \'appropriate care\'. it has been suggested that watchful monitoring of asymptomatic wisdom teeth may be an appropriate strategy. to evaluate the effect of prophylactic removal of asymptomatic impacted wisdom teeth in adolescents and adults compared with the retention of these wisdom teeth. there is some reliable evidence that suggests that the prophylactic removal of asymptomatic impacted wisdom teeth in adolescents neither reduces nor prevents late incisor crowding. dentists usually remove them if they are associated with any pathologic sign or symptom. ',
 'Do turmeric preparations alleviate the symptoms of knee osteoarthritis ("joint wear") better than a placebo? [SEP] the main aim of the study was to assess the efficacy and safety of "tlpl/ay/03/2008", a polyherbal formulation on knee joint pain assessed on visual analogue scale (vas) and western ontario and mcmaster universities osteoarthritis index (womac). the study provides good evidence in support of the efficacy and safety of the \'tlpl/ay/03/2008\' in oa of knee. knee sleeves are often prescribed to alleviate pain in people with early knee osteoarthritis. overall results show significant reduction in pain, early stance and late stance knee adduction moment and increased walking speed after 6\u2009weeks of both knee sleeves application. after the intervention the statistical significant between groups differences favoring the eswt were found in the womac with regard to pain (p< 0.000), stiffness (p= 0.018), physical function (p< 0.000), total score (p< 0.000), extension and flexion of the affected knee (p= 0.015, p< 0.000) respectively. eswt improves womac and rom better then kin on the affected knee in patients with oa of the knee. several symptom-relieving interventions have been shown to be efficacious among osteoarthritis (oa) patients with knee effusion; however, not every symptomatic knee oa patient has clinical effusion. the aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of intra-articular triamcinolone with intra-articular morphine in pain relief due to osteoarthritis of the knee in the elderly population. intra-articular morphine was as effective as intra-articular triamcinolone for analgesia in patients with osteoarthritis knee. different methods are used to alleviate the symptoms of patients with knee oa, including analgesics, physical therapy, exercise prescription, and intra-articular injections (glucocorticoids, hyaluronic acid [ha], etc). ',
 'Do turmeric preparations relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis ("rheumatism") better than a placebo or painkiller??? [SEP] background and objectives: turmeric has assisted in the control of inflammation and pain for decades and has been used in combination with other nutraceuticals to treat acute and chronic osteoarthritis pain. recently, the effect of turmeric, turmeric extract, or curcuminoids on musculoskeletal pain, either by themselves or in conjunction with other substances, has been reported. therefore, we undertook studies to determine the antiarthritic efficacy and mechanism of action of a well-characterized turmeric extract using an animal model of rheumatoid arthritis (ra). these translational studies demonstrate in vivo efficacy and identify a mechanism of action for a well-characterized turmeric extract that supports further clinical evaluation of turmeric dietary supplements in the treatment of ra. turmeric has been used for centuries in ayurvedic medicine as a treatment for inflammatory disorders including arthritis. on the basis of this traditional usage, dietary supplements containing turmeric rhizome and turmeric extracts are also being used in the western world for arthritis treatment and prevention. therefore, the studies described here were undertaken to determine the in vivo efficacy of well-characterized curcuminoid-containing turmeric extracts in the prevention or treatment of arthritis using streptococcal cell wall (scw)-induced arthritis, a well-described animal model of rheumatoid arthritis (ra). an essential oil-depleted turmeric fraction containing 41% of the three major curcuminoids was efficacious in preventing joint inflammation when treatment was started before, but not after, the onset of joint inflammation. a commercial sample containing 94% of the three major curcuminoids was more potent in preventing arthritis than the essential oil-depleted turmeric fraction when compared by total curcuminoid dose per body weight. turmeric extract or active component curcumin may have anti-inflammatory effects in people with chronic inflammatory diseases. ',
 'Does the intake of omega-3 fatty acids improve the clinical picture in multiple sclerosis (MS) or does this inhibit progression of the disease? [SEP] combined omega-3 fatty acid and vitamin d supplementation may improve multiple sclerosis (ms) by correcting metabolic abnormalities and attenuating oxidative stress and inflammation. this study aimed to determine the effects of ω-3 fatty acid and vitamin d cosupplementation on the disability score and metabolic status of patients with ms. overall, taking ω-3 fatty acid and vitamin d supplements for 12 wk by patients with ms had beneficial effects on edss and metabolic status. recent trial studies have shown that omega-3 supplementation can beneficially improve scores on the expanded disability status scale (edss), which is considered a gold standard for measuring disability and disease severity in multiple sclerosis (ms) patients, as well as reducing neuroinflammation. diet especially fish oils and omega-3 has been found to play an important role in ms. this work aimed to review the literature systematically for evidence on the effect of omega-3 fatty acids (epa, dpa and dha) on ms progression in adults. these studies showed the beneficial roles of fish oil supplementation and omega-3 fatty acids in improving the quality of life of ms patients. conclusion: omega-3 and fish oils supplementations have beneficial effects on reducing the relapsing rate, inflammatory markers, and improving the quality of life for ms patients. ω-3 fatty acids are suggested to have anti-inflammatory properties that might be beneficial in ms. we aimed to explore the relationship between serum levels of inflammation markers and mri activity in patients with relapsing remitting ms, as well as the effect of ω-3 fatty acids on these markers. serum levels of cxcl16, mmp-9, and osteoprotegerin reflect disease activity in ms, but are not affected by ω-3 fatty acid treatment. ',
 'Does taking vitamin A or following certain diets improve or halt the progression of multiple sclerosis (MS)? [SEP] the effect of nutrition and dietary supplements on the course of multiple sclerosis (ms) is a topic of great interest to both patients and clinicians. in particular, vitamin d status has been shown to influence both the incidence and the course of ms. high vitamin d levels are probably protective against the development of ms, although the efficacy of vitamin d supplementation in slowing progression of ms remains to be established. in vitro, in vivo and human studies, supports the protective role of some vitamins in ms occurrence or progression. current study reviews recent insights and reports about the importance of vitamins in ms incidence or progression. observational studies suggest that adequate vitamin d nutrition may reduce the risk of ms and affect the course of the disease. clinical and experimental data suggest that certain dietary regimens, particularly those including polyunsaturated fatty acids (pufas) and vitamins, might improve outcomes in people with multiple sclerosis (ms). diets and dietary supplements are much used by people with ms in the belief that they might improve disease outcomes and overcome the effectiveness limits of conventional treatments.this is an update of the cochrane review "dietary intervention for multiple sclerosis" (first published on the cochrane library 2007, issue 1). studies have shown that vitamin a and its active derivatives are able to modulate the immune system in ms patients. clinical and experimental data suggest that certain dietary regimens, particularly those including polyunsaturated fatty acids (pufas) and vitamins might improve outcomes in people with multiple sclerosis (ms). diets and dietary supplements are much used by people with ms in the belief that they might improve disease outcomes. ',
 'Can Botox injections prevent migraine attacks? [SEP] efficacy of botulinum toxin type a (bont-a) in migraine has been investigated in clinical studies but the mechanism of action remains unexplored. to determine if botulinum toxin type a (bont-a) injections can reduce the frequency and severity of migraines. the primary endpoint was reduction in number of migraine attacks up to week 8 and between weeks 8 and 12 after injection. botulinum toxin type a (bont/a) is an approved treatment for chronic migraine and has been shown to be effective in reducing number, days, and severity of headache in other headache disorders. headache pain severity was significantly reduced by 0.06 with botulinum toxin treatment (p\u2009=\u2009.02) and was not significantly increased by 0.04 in the placebo group with a significant difference between groups (p\u2009=\u2009.006). botulinum toxin serotype a (bont/a) was originally used in neurology for the treatment of dystonia and blepharospasms, but is now clinically used worldwide for the treatment of chronic migraine. clinical and experimental studies with botulinum toxin in the last decade have advanced our understanding of headache and other pain states. administration of onabotulinumtoxina (bont-a) to peripheral tissues outside the calvaria reduces the number of days chronic migraine patients experience headache. although botulinum toxin type a (bt-a) is approved for chronic migraine treatment, its site and mechanism of action are still elusive. botulinum toxins are promising preventive treatments for patients with moderate to severe episodic and chronic migraine and chronic daily headache. ',
 'Does taking probiotics facilitate weight loss to any significant degree? [SEP] previous meta-analyses reported that probiotics improve the effectiveness of helicobacter pylori (h. pylori) eradication during antibiotic therapy, while results regarding a possible reduction of side effects remained inconclusive. there is interest whether probiotics have an effect on obesity, but the effectiveness and safety of only a few probiotics for the treatment of obesity have been reported. the purpose of this study was to investigate whether ingestion of lactobacillus sakei (cjls03) derived from kimchi causes weight loss in people with obesity. several studies have reported limited or no reduction in serum cholesterol in response to probiotic formulations. recently, probiotics have shown promise in treating metabolic disease due to improved strain selection and delivery technologies. however, evidence for the role of eps-producing probiotics in the management of obesity and associated conditions is scarce and the role of the microbiota is unclear. in this study, two probiotic candidates were screened for their effects on metabolic health using the diet-induced obesity (dio) mouse model. recently, it has been suggested that probiotics and in particular lactobacilli are contributing to human obesity. the former two are expected to grow and probiotics may, by reducing disease risk, contribute to an improved growth. furthermore, when looking at animal models of obesity, it even appears the lactobacilli may potentially contribute to a reduction in body weight. ',
 'Does the full moon have a negative effect on sleep duration? [SEP] there is ongoing debate on whether the full moon is associated with sleep and dreaming. there is a long-held belief in the association between the full moon and extremes of human behaviour and adverse health consequences. to evaluate the impact of the lunar phase, and in particular, the full moon phase, on the incidence and outcomes among st-elevation myocardial infarction (stemi) cases undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (pci). the potential effect of a full moon on psychogenic nonepileptic events has not been as well studied, despite what anecdotal accounts from most epilepsy monitoring unit (emu) staff would suggest. recently, evidence has emerged that the phases of the moon may modulate subjective sleep quality and polysomnographically assessed sleep structure in humans. we aimed to explore further the putative effects of circa-lunar periodicity (~29.5 days) on subjective and objective parameters of human sleep in a retrospective analysis. separate analyses for men and women indicated that in women total sleep time, stage 4 sleep and rem sleep were reduced when sleep occurred close to full moon, whereas in men rem duration increased around full moon. these data provide limited evidence for an effect of lunar phase on human sleep. previous literature suggests that human behaviour and physiology are somehow altered by the moon-cycle, with particular emphasis on poorer sleep quality and increased aggressive behaviour during full moon. the findings suggest that the full moon or new moon or the gravitational pull have no effect on football injuries. ',
 'Can lemon juice prevent or effectively treat gastrointestinal illness caused by norovirus? [SEP] human norovirus (hunov) is the primary cause of viral gastroenteritis worldwide. norovirus infection constitutes the primary cause of acute viral gastroenteritis. we also demonstrate herein in vivo efficacy of an inhibitor using the murine model of norovirus infection. outbreaks of acute gastroenteritis caused by noroviruses constitute a public health concern worldwide. human noroviruses in the caliciviridae family are the major cause of nonbacterial epidemic gastroenteritis worldwide. norovirus infection usually results in acute gastroenteritis, often with incapacitating nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. appropriate preventative and infection control measures can mitigate the morbidity and mortality associated with norovirus infection. caliciviridae, including norovirus, are considered important sources of human gastroenteritis. norovirus (nov), a major food-borne virus, causes non-bacterial acute gastroenteritis in humans. norovirus infection is a major cause of nonbacterial foodborne outbreaks worldwide, but no specific treatments are available yet. ',
 'For knee osteoarthritis, does rubbing DMSO into the knee bring less pain and more mobility than rubbing a placebo? [SEP] fifty-two adults with painful primary knee osteoarthritis for at least three months were randomized to intra- and peri-articular injection groups. dextrose prolotherapy either intra- or peri-articular injection resulted in significant improvement, so it could be an inexpensive and effective management of knee osteoarthritis. prolotherapy injection with 10% dextrose resulted in clinically and statistically significant improvements in knee osteoarthritis. pain and function of the knee improved significantly (p<0.001) in all patients. eswt improves womac and rom better then kin on the affected knee in patients with oa of the knee. the aim of this study was to demonstrate the beneficial effect of intra-articular injection of tenoxicam on knee effusion after arthroscopy. a randomized, double-blind, controlled study was carried out on 60 patients with primary oa of the knee, randomized into two intervention groups: jl/th group, joint lavage in combination with th intra-articular injection and th group, th intra-articular injection. massage may offer a safe and effective complement to the management of knee osteoarthritis. examine effects of whole-body massage on knee osteoarthritis, compared to active control (light-touch) and usual care. multisite rct assessing the efficacy of massage compared to light-touch and usual care in adults with knee osteoarthritis, with assessments at baseline and weeks 8, 16, 24, 36, and 52. ',
 'In case of osteoarthritis of the knee, does rubbing DMSO bring less pain and more mobility than the recognized painkiller diclofenac??? [SEP] this study assessed the efficacy and safety of topical diclofenac sodium 1% gel (dsg) in mild to moderate symptomatic knee osteoarthritis. over a 3-month treatment period, topical treatment with dsg achieved statistically and clinically significant improvements of pain and measures of physical function in patients with knee osteoarthritis. topical diclofenac, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, has proven efficacy and safety in the management of osteoarthritis pain. we investigated penetration of topical diclofenac into knee synovial tissue and fluid (primary objective) and evaluated relative exposure in the knee versus plasma (secondary objective). the objective of this trial was to assess the safety and efficacy of a topical diclofenac solution in relieving the symptoms of primary osteoarthritis of the knee. the patients were randomly assigned to apply 1 of 3 solutions to their painful knee for 4 weeks: a topical diclofenac solution (1.5% wt/wt diclofenac sodium in a carrier containing dimethyl sulfoxide [dmso]); a vehicle-control solution (the carrier containing dmso but no diclofenac); and a placebo solution (a modified carrier with a token amount of dmso for blinding purposes but no diclofenac). in the intent-to-treat group the mean change (and 95% confidence interval [ci]) in pain score from baseline to final assessment was significantly greater for the patients who applied the topical diclofenac solution (-3.9 [- 4.8 to -2.9]) than for those who applied the vehicle-control solution (-2.5 [- 3.3 to -1.7]; p = 0.023) or the placebo solution (-2.5 [-3.3 to -1.7]; p = 0.016). this topical diclofenac solution can provide safe, site-specific treatment for osteoarthritic pain, with only minor local skin irritation and minimal systemic side effects. electrical muscle pain thresholds increased significantly more in diclofenac+heparin than in diclofenac, heparin, and placebo (0.0001 < p < 0.04). topical diclofenac+heparin is significantly more effective than diclofenac alone in reducing muscle hyperalgesia in subjects without spontaneous pain, independently of the anti-edematous action of heparin. ',
 'Does taking vitamin D improve symptoms in the most common form of psoriasis? [SEP] several reports have appeared in the literature suggesting that vitamin d metabolites and analogues may be useful for the treatment of psoriasis. this is a report of an open study in which the efficacy of 1, alpha-25-dihydroxyvitamin d (calcitriol) is evaluated in cases of moderate to severe psoriasis. psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory skin disease of unknown aetiology, and an active form of vitamin d(3) (1α,25-dihydroxyvitamin d(3)) and its analogues (vd3as) are widely used topical reagents for psoriasis treatment. vitamin d, calcitriol, and its analogues are successfully used for psoriasis therapy. topical vitamin d analogues offer a new, effective, more convenient and generally well-tolerated option for the treatment of psoriasis. 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3, which is used for the treatment of psoriasis, binds to vitamin d receptor (vdr) and modulates gene transcription. vitamin d could have important immunomodulatory effects in psoriasis. in the logistic regression analysis, vitamin d deficiency was associated with psoriasis independently of age, sex, body mass index, calcium, pth levels and season of blood sampling. vitamin d deficiency may be common in patients with psoriasis, especially in winter. recently topical vitamin d3, tacalcitol, calcipotriol, and maxacalcitol are widely used for psoriasis. ',
 'Does taking fish oil with omega-3 fatty acids improve the symptoms of various forms of psoriasis more than a placebo??? [SEP] fish oil and omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (ω-3 pufas) have anti-inflammatory properties, but their effect on psoriasis and its comorbidities remains inconclusive. overall, when combined with conventional treatments, fish oil and its components may have beneficial effects on psoriasis and its comorbidities, including obesity, cardiovascular disease, and metabolic disease. fish oil supplement has been advocated for treating psoriasis which is a chronic inflammatory dermatosis. we aimed to investigate the effects of fish oil supplement on psoriasis. fish oil supplement did not significantly reduce the severity of psoriasis when assessed by psoriasis area and severity index score (mean difference\u2009-\u20090.28; 95% confidence interval\u2009-\u20091.74 to 1.19). psoriasis may improve during dietary supplementation with fish oil containing n-3 fatty acids including eicosapentaenoic acid. an open study testing the effects of fish oil supplementation on psoriasis in 26 patients is described. since eicosanoids have been implicated in the pathogenesis of psoriasis, less potent eicosanoid mediators derived from fish oil might improve psoriasis. at the conclusion of phototherapy, and 4 weeks later, patients in the fish oil group had a greater decrease in the total body surface area of psoriasis and more improvement compared to patients in the olive oil group. the apparent safety and general health-promoting features of fish oil could provide an ideal adjunctive therapy for psoriasis. ',
 'Does following a Mediterranean diet decrease the likelihood of cardiovascular disease in people at high risk? [SEP] adherence to the mediterranean diet reduces the risk of all-cause and cardiovascular (cv) mortality and the incidence of cv events. greater adherence to the mediterranean diet was associated with reduced fatal and non fatal cv events, especially in individuals at low cv risk, thus suggesting the usefulness of promoting this nutritional pattern in particular in healthier individuals. a mediterranean diet has been associated with a reduced risk of cardiovascular disease and mortality. several epidemiological and clinical studies have evaluated the effects of a mediterranean diet (med-diet) on total cardiovascular mortality, and all concluded that adherence to the traditional med-diet is associated with reduced cardiovascular risk. several epidemiological studies have observed that following a traditional mediterranean diet reduces overall and cardiovascular mortality, as well as the incidence of chronic diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, cancer and neurodegenerative diseases. there is evidence from epidemiologic studies and clinical trials demonstrating that the mediterranean dietary pattern reduces the risk of many chronic diseases, including cardiovascular disease (cvd), and the attendant risk factors. a mediterranean dietary pattern has been associated with a reduced risk of coronary heart disease, as well as a reduction of oxidative stress, but studies indicating possible interactions between food intake and inflammatory mediators production at specific sites are lacking. this finding could provide a novel mechanistic explanation for the recognized lower coronary risk associated with a mediterranean diet. the traditional mediterranean diet (md) is reportedly associated with lower risk of major chronic diseases and long considered to contribute to the reduced rates of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events and to the highest life expectancy in adults who lived near the mediterranean sea. mediterranean diet is associated with a reduced risk for cardiovascular disease (cvd). ',
 'Does the probability of dying from cardiovascular disease decrease in people who have already had a heart attack? [SEP] many of these events are probably vascular and might be prevented by reducing the risk of developing coronary disease. only a minority of sudden deaths occur in people with established cardiac disease, but in patients with major structural heart disease, the annual rate is high. in most patients with heart failure the underlying cause is coronary artery disease (cad). decreased heart rate variability (hrv) may predict cardiac death after myocardial infarction (mi). antihypertensive drugs are often used in the belief that lowering blood pressure will prevent cardiac events, including myocardial infarction and sudden death (death of unknown cause within one hour of the onset of acute symptoms or within 24 hours of observation of the patient as alive and symptom free). this review provides moderate-quality evidence to show that antihypertensive drugs do not reduce sudden death (risk ratio (rr) 0.96, 95% confidence interval (ci) 0.81 to 1.15) but do reduce both non-fatal myocardial infarction (rr 0.85, 95% ci 0.74, 0.98; absolute risk reduction (arr) 0.3% over 4.2 years) and fatal myocardial infarction (rr 0.75, 95% ci 0.62 to 0.90; arr 0.3% over 4.2 years). the high mortality rate from coronary heart disease in hypertensives can only be substantially reduced if sudden coronary death rates can be decreased. death rates for coronary heart disease have been declining in the united states, but the reasons for this decline are not clear. one factor that could contribute to this decline is a reduction in the severity of acute myocardial infarction (mi). this reduction in severity may have contributed, along with other factors, to the decline in death rates for coronary heart disease. ',
 'Does Grander water have health benefits compared to untreated drinking water? [SEP] it is known that both disinfection and water quality can influence the bacterial communities in a drinking water distribution system (dwds). here, we hypothesized that bacterial communities in a dwds with untreated groundwater with no prior purification and disinfection might differ from those in a dwds with disinfected surface water. drinking water is an important nutrient for human health. the mineral ingredients included in drinking water may affect the physical condition of people. various kinds of natural water are in circulation as bottled water in developed countries; however, its influence on clinical conditions of patients with certain diseases has not been fully evaluated. the epidermal hyperplasia and allergic inflammation were reduced in atopic mice supplied with jeju groundwater when compared to those supplied with tap water or other kinds of natural groundwater. does the public perception of water quality equate with the actual water quality? we investigated public perceptions of water quality and the perceived health risks and associated with the actual quality of public water supplies in the same communities. older, higher educated and high-income group respondents were more satisfied with water quality than the younger, less educated and low-income group respondents. we aimed to assess whether delivery of riverbank filtration-treated water to newly installed water storage tanks (improved quality and access, intervention condition) reduced reported diarrhea in comparison to delivery of unfiltered river water (improved access alone, control condition) in rural indian villages. ',
 'Does astaxanthin protect against cardiovascular disease, cancer or prolong life? [SEP] astaxanthin is a red ketocarotenoid that exhibits extraordinary health-promoting activities such as antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, antitumor, and immune booster. the recent discovery of the beneficial roles of astaxanthin against many degenerative diseases such as cancers, heart diseases, and exercise-induced fatigue has raised its market demand as a nutraceutical and medicinal ingredient in aquaculture, food, and pharmaceutical industries. astaxanthin, a xanthophyll carotenoid, holds exceptional promise as an antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and anticancer agent. astaxanthin is a type of carotenoid known to have strong antioxidant effects. astaxanthin exhibits various pharmacological activities, including anti-oxidative, anti-tumor, and anti-inflammatory effects, and is thought to exert a neuroprotective effect via these mechanisms. astaxanthin is beneficial for human health and is used as a dietary supplement. based on its unique chemical features, the xanthophyll carotenoid astaxanthin is being proposed as a suitable preventive and therapeutic agent in cardiovascular disease. this review focuses on recent advances in astaxanthin research relevant to cardiovascular health and disease, i.e. the red diketocarotenoid, astaxanthin, exhibits extraordinary health-promoting activities such as antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, antitumor, and immune booster, which may potentially protect against many degenerative diseases such as cancers, heart diseases, and exercise-induced fatigue. astaxanthin is an important antioxidant with many biological activities such as anti-tumor, anti-obesity, cardioprotective, and immuno-modulatory activities. ',
 'Do products from the noni fruit promote health? [SEP] more recently, an array of commercial noni fruit juice products are gaining popularity as dietary supplements, with claims of anticancer and immunostimulant activities. the present investigation was designed to evaluate the antipsychotic effect of noni fruits (morinda citrifolia linn.) we hypothesize that the fungal endophytes of noni may possibly play a role in its overall pharmacological repertoire, especially since the perceived efficacy of the fruit in ethnomedicinal use is associated with the fermented juice. a large number of beneficial effects have been claimed for noni. this article reviews current knowledge on the phytochemistry, pharmacology, safety aspects of noni fruit and noni-derived products, and health-related claims and benefits. the knowledge on the chemical composition of noni fruit has considerably increased over recent years. noni (morinda citrifolia) is a popular medicinal plant found in tropical or subtropical regions of the world. in our studies on noni juice produced from fruit collected from the kohala and puna districts of the island of hawaii from 2008 to 2010, mucor circinelloides f. sp. noni fruit (morinda citrifolia l., rubiaceae) has been used in traditional medicine throughout the tropics and subtropics and is now attracting interest in western medicine. fermented noni juice is of particular interest for its promising antitumor activity. ',
 'Can spending time at waterfalls on a regular basis provide lasting improvement in asthma symptoms? [SEP] water-based exercise is believed to offer benefits for people with asthma through pollen-free air, humidity and effects of exercise on physical function. to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of water-based exercise for adults with asthma. randomised controlled trials are needed to assess the efficacy and safety of water-based exercise for adults with asthma. the specific microclimate of alpine waterfalls with high levels of ionized water aerosols has been suggested to trigger beneficial immunological and psychological effects. analysis of the mucosal immune response revealed a waterfall-specific beneficial effect with elevated iga titers in the waterfall group. in line with these results, exposure to waterfall revealed an additional benefit concerning psychological parameters such as subjective stress perception (measured via visual analog scale), the global severity index (gsi), and the positive symptom total (pst). our study provides new data, which strongly support an "added value" of exposure to waterfall microclimate when combined with a therapeutic sojourn at high altitude including regular physical activity. there was a significant improvement in airway responsiveness and clinical asthma severity in both treatment groups. this study provides strong evidence that prolonged use of inhaled steroids is associated with improvement in airway responsiveness and clinical asthma severity in inhaled steroid-dependent asthma with a suggestion that the improvements are dose related. since most asthmatic patients are healthy except for an intermittent respiratory problem, providing them the opportunity to exercise in all weather conditions affords a clear improvement in their quality of life. ',
 'Does goji help with serious diseases like cancer or prevent heart attacks? [SEP] guggulsterone is a plant polyphenol traditionally used to treat obesity, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, atherosclerosis, and osteoarthritis, possibly through an anti-inflammatory mechanism. goji (lycium barbarum l.) has recognized nutritive and antioxidant properties and many products are commercialized for health in food market. besides its food use, goji has been the subject of more than 2000 years of traditional chinese medicine, using berries, root bark, and leaves. digoxin is a kind of plant-derived cardiac glycoside that is mainly used to treat heart diseases, especially in congestive heart failure or arrhythmia. ), a traditional folk medicine and functional food in china and south korea, is known for its beneficial properties, which include anti-cancer, anti-oxidative, and anti-obesity effects. angelica shikokiana has been used as a health food for its anticancer, anti-inflammatory, antibacterial, antiallergic, and blood vessel dilating effects in japan. it can also be used to prevent and treat hepatitis, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and arteriosclerosis. the present study was designed to compare the biological activities such as melanin synthesis inhibitory, anti-allergy, anti-lipase, anti-bacterial, anti-oxidant, and neuroprotective activities of different parts of the plant that may justify the use of this plant in folk medicine. it is recommended for some diseases in which radical species are produced as a result of oxidative stress. the results obtained in this study clearly indicate that chinese jujube has a significant potential to use as a natural antioxidant agent. ',
 'Are amla supplements effective and safe in lowering high cholesterol? [SEP] the effect on total serum cholesterol and its lipoprotein fractions of supplementation of the diet with amla (emblica officinalis, gaertn., the indian gooseberry) was studied in normal and hypercholesterolaemic men aged 35-55 years. rbc-mda levels were significantly decreased and rbc-gsh levels were significantly increased with higher concentration of amla extract (150 and 200\u2009μg/ml). the plasma in vitro study also showed that amla improved the plasma mda, protein carbonylation, total protein, and albumin levels. amla (phyllanthus emblica l.), apart from its food value, can be used as a gastroprotective agent in non steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (nsaid)-induced gastropathy. it has been suggested that the antioxidative property of amla is the key to its therapeutic effect. in 12\u2009weeks, the major lipids such as total cholesterol (tc) (p\u2009=\u20090.0003), triglyceride (tg) (p\u2009=\u20090.0003), low density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c) (p\u2009=\u20090.0064) and very low density lipoprotein cholesterol (vldl-c) (p\u2009=\u20090.0001) were significantly lower in amla group as compared to placebo group. these results show that the amla extract used in the study is potentially a hypoglycaemic as well. the amla extract has shown significant potential in reducing tc and tg levels as well as lipid ratios, aip and apob/apo a-i in dyslipidemic persons and thus has scope to treat general as well as diabetic dyslipidemia. modulation of cholesterol absorption is potentially an effective way of lowering blood cholesterol levels and decreasing inherent cardiovascular risk in the general population. statins can modestly raise the levels of hdl cholesterol and apolipoprotein a-i (apoa1). ',
 "Does inhaling hive air have health benefits for asthma, allergies or other conditions? [SEP] the aim of this study was to determine whether ozone enhances bronchial responsiveness to allergens in subjects with allergic asthma, or facilitates a bronchial response in subjects with allergic rhinitis. therefore, our data suggest that short-term exposure to ozone can increase bronchial allergen responsiveness in subjects with mild allergic asthma or rhinitis. airborne allergen is an important cause of exacerbations even in those with 'intrinsic' asthma. we determined the effect of exposure to house dust mite (hdm) allergens on bronchial responsiveness in asthmatics sensitive to mites while under optimal drug treatment. this long-term study shows that exposure to lower levels of mite allergens in the bedroom is associated with a decrease of bronchial hyper-responsiveness in sensitized asthmatic subjects under optimal drug treatment. the purpose of this study was to investigate whether inhaled furosemide would exhibit any therapeutic benefit in acute asthma. inhaled furosemide may benefit certain acute asthma patients, especially those suffering complications from the adverse effects of beta 2-agonists. according to the hygiene hypothesis, respiratory infections should protect individuals from allergic diseases including asthma, but epidemiologic data on the role of infections or exposure to microbial compounds in asthma are contradictory. therefore, evidence obtained from studies on mice indicates that innate immune responses may promote, rather than protect from, the development as well as the exacerbation of asthma. asthma control also improved (mean acq-5 score, 1.3-0.7; p\xa0< .0001). ",
 'Can chlorinated water from baby swimming cause asthma or allergies later in childhood? [SEP] irritant chlorination products in swimming pools can cause respiratory problems in swimmers but their possible implication in allergies development is still unclear. to assess prospectively whether early-life attendance at chlorinated pools increases the risks of ige sensitization and of airways inflammation later during childhood. attendance at chlorinated swimming pools in early life is associated with higher risks of new-onset airways inflammation and ige sensitization to house dust mite, independently of other risk factors. recent studies suggest that swimming in chlorinated pools during infancy may increase the risks of lower respiratory tract infection. attendance at indoor or outdoor chlorinated pools ever before the age of 2 yrs was associated with an increased risk of bronchiolitis (or 1.68; 95% ci 1.08-2.68; p = 0.03), which was exposure-dependent for both types of pool (p-value for trend <0.01). infant swimmers who developed bronchiolitis also showed higher risks of asthma and respiratory allergies later in childhood. we evaluated the impact of infant swimming practice on allergic status and respiratory health later in childhood. our data suggest that infant swimming practice in chlorinated indoor swimming pools is associated with airways changes that, along with other factors, seem to predispose children to the development of asthma and recurrent bronchitis. to examine whether swimming in infancy and childhood was associated with asthma and allergic symptoms at age 7 and 10 years in a uk longitudinal population-based birth cohort, the avon longitudinal study of parents and children. there may be a link between infant swimming and rhinovirus-induced wheezing illnesses in atopic infants. ',
 'Is a lot of sunlight in childhood and adolescence a cause of age-related macular degeneration? [SEP] among the identified risk factors of age-related macular degeneration, sunlight is known to induce cumulative damage to the retina. in this study, specific causal factors of amd are analyzed, emphasizing the causal role and effects of sunlight, no matter which part of its spectrum, in a longer exposition through life. age-related macular degeneration (amd) is the leading cause of blindness in the aged people. the latest systemic review of epidemiological investigations revealed that excessive light exposure increases the risk of amd. this form of radiation has been implicated as one of the potential etiological factors causing age-related macular degeneration (amd). exposure to solar radiation is a risk factor for multiple ocular pathologies. ultraviolet (uv) radiation is involved in ocular diseases, including pterygium, ocular surface squamous neoplasia, and cataracts. high-energy visible light (hev) is associated with age-related macular degeneration. the evidence that solar radiation is responsible for some of the deteriorative changes that lead to amd is examined in this review. in the human retina, documented lesions from solar radiation range from the acute effects of sun-gazing to injuries resulting from prolonged periods of exposure in brightly illuminated environments. ',
 'Does wearing sunglasses in childhood and adolescence protect against macular degeneration in old age??? [SEP] macular pigment may protect against age related macular degeneration (amd), because of its capability to absorb blue light and scavenge free radicals. age-related macular degeneration (amd) is the leading cause of irreversible blindness in people over the age of 65. the age-related eye disease study (areds) suggests antioxidants may delay the advance of age-related macular degeneration. vision of the elderly may be affected by typical age-related diseases like cataract and macular degeneration. the prevalence of ocular diseases and the impairment of vision increases with age. although 98% of elderly subjects have reported to suffer from any ocular disease, subjective quality of life seems to be affected to a lesser extent. age-related macular degeneration (amd) is one of the most common diseases leading to blindness in elderly people. cumulative light exposure is significantly associated with ageing and the progression of age-related macular degeneration. these in vitro findings support the hypothesis that the ultraviolet- and blue light-absorbing intraocular lens may prevent retinal damage in clinical use. age-related macular degeneration is one of the leading causes of vision loss in the elderly. ',
 "Does water from jugs with semi-precious stones have a positive health effect? [SEP] the consumption of natural mineral water has increased enormously during the past few years, yet doubts are arising about the real utility of using such water instead of ordinary drinking water (tap water). mineral water's 'special' mineral composition might have properties favourable to health, which should be assessed by clinical and pharmacological analyses. no toxicological signs were recorded at the allium cepa assay for any but the water with the highest mineral content. drinking water is an important nutrient for human health. the mineral ingredients included in drinking water may affect the physical condition of people. various kinds of natural water are in circulation as bottled water in developed countries; however, its influence on clinical conditions of patients with certain diseases has not been fully evaluated. the epidermal hyperplasia and allergic inflammation were reduced in atopic mice supplied with jeju groundwater when compared to those supplied with tap water or other kinds of natural groundwater. the early inflammation and hypersensitivity in the atopic skin was alleviated in mice supplied with jeju groundwater, suggesting its profitable potential on the daily care of patients with skin troubles including ad. in the past two decades, water has emerged as a potential therapeutic agent in nephrolithiasis, chronic kidney disease (ckd), and polycystic kidney disease (pkd) in particular. in nephrolithiasis, the benefit of drinking water beyond that demanded by thirst is a cornerstone of therapy for both primary and secondary disease. ",
 'Is calcium from Japanese coral safe and effective in preventing disease? [SEP] although it has been hypothesized that a high intake of dietary calcium may reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease (cvd), no prospective studies have been conducted to examine the specific association between calcium intake and incidence of stroke or coronary heart disease among japanese with a low average calcium intake. to investigate the association between calcium intake and risk of cvd, a total of 41 526 japanese men and women age 40 to 59 years without a history of cvd or cancer and who had completed a food consumption frequency questionnaire were enrolled in this study. dietary calcium intake, especially calcium from dairy products, was found to be associated with a reduced incidence of stroke among middle-aged japanese. supplementation of calcium is highly recommended for such conditions. we hypothesize that naturally occurring coral calcium and zeolite may prevent ovariectomy-induced bone loss. coral calcium protected bone to a lesser extent in the proximal tibia and lumbar vertebrae. dietary or supplemental calcium intake has long been encouraged for optimal bone health. in this review, we present results from observational studies and randomized controlled trials (rcts) that have evaluated calcium intake (dietary or supplemental) in relation to cardiovascular risk factors and cardiovascular disease as a secondary outcome. the national osteoporosis foundation and american society for preventive cardiology convened an expert panel to evaluate the effects of dietary and supplemental calcium on cardiovascular disease based on the existing peer-reviewed scientific literature. this review assesses (1) the potential role of calcium supplements in the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis and osteoporotic fractures, and (2) the safety of calcium supplements with respect to cardiovascular health as well. ',
 'Does the observance of feng shui design rules help against bad sleep? [SEP] sleep hygiene can be described as practices to ease sleep and to avoid factors which decrease sleep quality. despite proper sleep hygiene being critical to our health, guidelines for improving sleep habits often focus on only a single component, namely, sleep duration. good sleep is advantageous to the quality of life. sleep-related benefits are particularly helpful for the working class, since poor or inadequate amounts of sleep degrade work productivity and overall health. sleep is a modifiable lifestyle factor that can be a target for efficient intervention studies to improve the quality of life and decrease the risk or burden of some chronic conditions. purpose in life has been linked with better mental health, physical health, and health behaviors, but the association between purpose and sleep is understudied. should future research replicate our findings, this area of research may lead to innovative efforts that improve the quality of sleep in older adults. we hypothesize that consistently meeting sleep guidelines that recommend at least 7 hours of sleep per night will be associated with better cognition, greater gray matter volumes, higher fractional anisotropy, and lower radial diffusivity values. chronobiologists argue that their scientific findings have implications for prevention of sleep problems. they also claim that by taking the findings of chronobiology seriously in policy-making some sleep problems can be prevented. ',
 'Does taking vitamin C prevent motion sickness? [SEP] in children, 1 to 2 g/day vitamin c shortened colds by 18%. the severity of colds was also reduced by regular vitamin c administration.seven comparisons examined the effect of therapeutic vitamin c (3249 episodes). the failure of vitamin c supplementation to reduce the incidence of colds in the general population indicates that routine vitamin c supplementation is not justified, yet vitamin c may be useful for people exposed to brief periods of severe physical exercise. the role of vitamin c (ascorbic acid) in the prevention and treatment of the common cold has been a subject of controversy for 60 years, but is widely sold and used as both a preventive and therapeutic agent. vitamin c may also have some effect on the immune system. it is proposed that vitamin c administration can reduce disproportionate pain and stiffness after distal radius fracture; however, randomized trials that tested this hypothesis have had inconsistent results. furthermore, vitamin c acts as a biological antioxidant that can lower elevated levels of oxidative stress, which also may contribute to chronic disease prevention. this study examined the impact of vitamin c on physical activity and respiratory tract infections during the peak of the cold season. these data suggest measurable health advantages associated with vitamin c supplementation in a population with adequate-to-low vitamin c status. vitamin c is an essential component of the diet and may reduce the adverse effects of exercise-induced reactive oxygen species, including muscle damage, immune dysfunction, and fatigue. ',
 'Do Lifewave patches improve health or athletic and mental performance? [SEP] lifewave energy enhancer (lee) patches (lifewave corp, san diego, ca, usa) on skin produce some changes that are consistent with increased energy production, but little is known about their effects on cortisol concentrations or the peripheral circulation. the study intended to assess the effects of lee patches on salivary cortisol, peripheral circulation, and psychological measures on healthy adults. the polaris wr is a device that combines laser energy with radiofrequency (rf) treatment to provide more focused rf energy on the skin to reduce wrinkles and/or tighten skin. hence, researchers have begun to put significant efforts into studying the direct and indirect benefits of wearable devices for health and wellbeing. this paper summarizes recent studies on the use of consumer wearable devices to improve physical activity, mental health, and health consciousness. all these previous studies indicate that wearable devices are used either to validate their benefits for general wellbeing or for more serious medical contexts, such as cardiovascular disorders and post-stroke treatment. regular physical activity has multifarious benefits for physical and mental health, and music has been found to exert positive effects on physical activity. music was associated with significant beneficial effects on affective valence (g = 0.48, ci [0.39, 0.56]), physical performance (g = 0.31, ci [0.25, 0.36]), perceived exertion (g = 0.22, ci [0.14, 0.30]), and oxygen consumption (g = 0.15, ci [0.02, 0.27]). overall, results supported the use of music listening across a range of physical activities to promote more positive affective valence, enhance physical performance (i.e., ergogenic effect), reduce perceived exertion, and improve physiological efficiency. regular practice of sport activities yields psychophysical benefits for both the general population and persons affected by physical or intellectual impairments. ',
 'Are there differences in hair removal effectiveness between IPL and diode laser? [SEP] devices such as diode laser and intense pulsed light (ipl) are in constant development aiming at permanent hair removal, but there are few comparative studies between these technologies. the objective was to comparatively assess axillary hair removal performed by diode laser and ipl and to obtain parameters of referred pain and evolution response for each method. a comparative prospective, double-blind, and randomized study of axillary hair removal performed by the diode laser and ipl was conducted in 21 females. the number of hair shafts was significantly reduced with the diode laser and ipl. the diode laser was more effective, although more painful than the ipl. both diode laser and the ipl are effective, safe, and able to produce lasting results in axillary hair removal. the efficacy of the long-pulsed diode laser (lpdl) in hair removal is determined with various physical parameters. the effectiveness of intense pulsed light (ipl) and laser devices is widely accepted in aesthetic dermatology for unwanted hair removal and treatment of a variety of cutaneous conditions. applications for intense pulsed light (ipl) for hair removal are gaining favor among other methods, including lasers, because of its noninvasive nature, versatility regarding different skin and hair types, safety, and ease of use. to compare the safety and long-term efficacy of diode lasers (dl) and ipl sources for axillary hair removal, we conducted an intrapatient, left-to-right, assessor-blinded and controlled trial. ',
 'Does carbonic acid cause cancer? [SEP] carbonic anhydrase (ca) catalyzes the reversible conversion of carbon dioxide to bicarbonate ion and a proton, and its inhibitor is reported to reduce cancer cell proliferation and induce apoptosis. our results suggested that ca is involved in intestinal carcinogenesis. the relationship between calcium intake and colorectal cancer (crc) risk remains inconclusive. higher calcium intake was associated with a lower risk of developing colon cancer, especially for distal colon cancer. carbon monoxide is a toxic gas with potentially lethal action, which forms as a result of incomplete combustion in conditions where there is a lack of oxygen and which, therefore, is present in varying percentages in environments where fire develops. carbon dioxide (co2), an important gas molecule metabolite produced by the tricarboxylic acid cycle, is a direct signal for identifying cancers in cells and tissues. although many people naively assume that the bite of carbonation is due to tactile stimulation of the oral cavity by bubbles, it has become increasingly clear that carbonation bite comes mainly from formation of carbonic acid in the oral mucosa. the aim of this study was to assess whether one of the most common poisons of cellular respiration, i.e., carbon dioxide, is proinflammatory. in conclusion, this study strongly suggests that exposure to carbon dioxide may be more toxic than previously thought. this may be relevant for carcinogenic effects of combustion products. ',
 'Does carbonic acid have any health effects on the digestive tract??? [SEP] caffeine is known to produce various effects on the gastrointestinal tract. several studies suggested that charcoal supplement may be beneficial for stomach disorders, diarrhea, gas and indigestion. to investigate the change of vitamin c concentration (ascorbic and dehydroascorbic acid) in gastric juice after anti-helicobacter pylori treatment, and to relate any observed change to gastric ph, inflammatory compromise of the gastric mucosa, plasma vitamin c concentration, and smoking habits. gastric juice ascorbic acid increased significantly after h. pylori clearance. the findings are consistent with a causal association between h. pylori infection and low ascorbic acid levels in gastric juice, and support two mechanisms for this association: increased oxidation and a decreased secretion of ascorbic acid. dietary calcium (ca) positively modulates the susceptibility to colon cancer, but its effects on related or earlier colonic pathologies, such as inflammation and mucosal dysregulation, are poorly understood. increasing or lowering dietary ca increased mucosal caspases (p < 0.0001 vs. nca). the relationship between calcium intake and colorectal cancer (crc) risk remains inconclusive. total calcium intake (≥1,400 vs. <600 mg/d) was associated with a statistically significant lower risk of colon cancer (multivariable relative risk: 0.78, 95%ci: 0.65-0.95). higher calcium intake was associated with a lower risk of developing colon cancer, especially for distal colon cancer. ',
 'Does wearing compression stockings on a long-haul flight prevent thrombosis (blood clots) and the associated symptoms? [SEP] this paper reports a systematic review whose objective was to evaluate the effectiveness of graduated compression stockings as prophylaxis for flight-related venous thrombosis, including deep vein thrombosis and superficial venous thrombosis, after air travel in the general population. this review demonstrates the effectiveness of medium compression pressure, below-knee graduated compression stockings in preventing flight-related deep vein thrombosis but not superficial venous thrombosis in low-medium- or high-risk participants. compression stockings reduce the risk of thromboembolic complications, leg edema, and edema-related pain and discomfort during long-haul flights. the aim of this study was to assess if compression stockings reduce leg edema, pain, and discomfort during a three-hour flight. compression stockings reduced edema formation in young healthy passengers during a three-hour flight. passengers experiencing edema-related discomfort during short-haul flights may benefit from wearing compression stockings during air travel. randomized trials of compression stockings versus no stockings in passengers on flights lasting at least four hours. randomised trials of compression stockings versus no stockings in passengers on flights lasting at least four hours. there is moderate-quality evidence that superficial vein thrombosis may be reduced if passengers wear compression stockings. elastic compression stockings are useful for preventing post-thrombotic syndrome after deep venous thrombosis (dvt). ',
 'Can extracorporeal shock wave therapy relieve heel pain if the cause is tendonitis or a heel spur? [SEP] focused extracorporeal shock waves (eswt) has been used in the treatment of plantar fasciitis with heel spurs. the objective of the present study was to test whether focused extracorporeal shock wave therapy is effective in relieving chronic heel pain diagnosed as plantar fasciitis. the results of the present study provide proof of the clinically relevant effect size of focused extracorporeal shock wave therapy without local anesthesia in the treatment of recalcitrant plantar fasciitis, with success rates between 50% and 65%. to compare the results of extracorporeal shock wave (eswt) with a modified endoscopic plantar fasciotomy technique for the treatment of recalcitrant heel pain. sixty-five patients suffering from chronic heel pain that failed to respond to standard nonoperative methods were randomized to undergo either high-energy extracorporeal shock wave therapy (group 1), or modified endoscopic plantar fasciotomy (group 2). the aim of this study was to compare the effect of extracorporeal shockwave therapy (eswt) in patients with chronically painful proximal plantar fasciitis with a conventional conservative treatment consisting of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, heel cup, orthoses and/or shoe modifications, local steroid injections and electrotherapy. high-energy extracorporeal shock wave therapy has been shown to be an effective treatment for chronic insertional achilles tendinopathy. shock wave therapy is an effective treatment for noninsertional achilles tendinopathy. shock wave therapy is an effective treatment for chronic noninsertional achilles tendinopathy. among noninvasive management of plantar fasciitis, extracorporeal shockwave therapy (eswt) has been extensively studied and found to be effective, but few studies have assessed the effectiveness of kinesiotaping (kt) method. ',
 'Does an extract from the African black bean (active ingredient 5-hydroxytryptophan) help against lovesickness? [SEP] 5-hydroxy-l-tryptophan (5-htp) is a naturally occurring aromatic amino acid present in the seeds of the african plant griffonia simplicifolia. the common bean contains phytochemicals, including phenolic compounds, which can provide health benefits to the consumer. the seeds of griffonia simplicifolia baill., a tropical shrub native to west africa, are rich in 5-hydroxy-l-tryptophan (5-htp), a direct precursor in the synthesis of serotonin (5-ht). in the dark-light test, the administration of the extract at the doses of 10 and 25 mg/kg was able to significantly increase the time spent in the light compartment (p<0.05). in conclusion these findings indicate that griffonia simplicifolia seed extract exerts anxiolytic-like effect in rats and suggest its potential usefulness for the treatment of anxiety in humans. paullinia pinnata l. (sapindaceae) is an african tropical plant whose roots and leaves are used in traditional medicine for many purposes, especially for erectile dysfunction, but its action mechanism is unknown. herein, we investigated the anti-obesity mechanisms of hyacinth bean compared to milk thistle, a natural herb employed for ameliorating obesity-related diseases, using high-fat diet (hfd) fed mice towards unfolding the perplexing mechanisms. equivocally, we conjecture that hyacinth bean could be used as a potent anti-obesity herbal functional food. red bean exerts an anti-inflammatory response and has potential as a health-promoting ingredient. the bark of the african tree pausinystalia yohimbe has been used as a food additive with aphrodisiac and penile erection enhancing properties. ',
 'Does a mixture of hops and other natural remedies help with sleep problems? [SEP] hops (humulus lupulus, cannabinaceae) has been used in traditional european medicine as a mild sedative for the treatment of anxiety, nervousness, and insomnia. however, there has been little information available about the underlying sleep inducing mechanism of hops. hops extract (250 mg kg(-1)) significantly decreased body temperature in male bl6/c57j mice (deltat -0.75 +/- 0.07 degrees c) 2 h after oral administration. the hypothermic effects of melatonin and hops extract were antagonized with the competitive melatonin receptor antagonist luzindole. thus, our data suggests that the hypothermic--and therefore the sleep-inducing--effects of hops extract are possibly mediated through activation of melatonin receptors. humulus lupulus l. (hops) is a popular botanical dietary supplement used by women as a sleep aid and for postmenopausal symptom relief. hops (humulus lupulus (l.)) dietary supplements are of interest as herbal remedies to alleviate menopausal symptoms, such as hot flushes, depression and anxiety. hops also inhibit aromatase activity, which is linked to 8-pn. understanding the biological targets of hop dietary supplements and their phytoconstituents will ultimately lead to standardized botanical products with higher efficacy, safety, and chemopreventive properties. although being reported and used as a sedative remedy for several years, the bioactive principle of hop preparations is still not decisively clarified. ',
 'Do hops as a single active ingredient help with sleep problems??? [SEP] hops (humulus lupulus, cannabinaceae) has been used in traditional european medicine as a mild sedative for the treatment of anxiety, nervousness, and insomnia. however, there has been little information available about the underlying sleep inducing mechanism of hops. hops extract (250 mg kg(-1)) significantly decreased body temperature in male bl6/c57j mice (deltat -0.75 +/- 0.07 degrees c) 2 h after oral administration. the hypothermic effects of melatonin and hops extract were antagonized with the competitive melatonin receptor antagonist luzindole. thus, our data suggests that the hypothermic--and therefore the sleep-inducing--effects of hops extract are possibly mediated through activation of melatonin receptors. hops (humulus lupulus (l.)) dietary supplements are of interest as herbal remedies to alleviate menopausal symptoms, such as hot flushes, depression and anxiety. humulus lupulus l. (hops) is a popular botanical dietary supplement used by women as a sleep aid and for postmenopausal symptom relief. although being reported and used as a sedative remedy for several years, the bioactive principle of hop preparations is still not decisively clarified. hops (humulus lupulus l.), a major component of beer, contain potentially neuroactive compounds that made it useful in traditional medicine as a sleeping aid. the present study aims to investigate the individual components in hops acting as allosteric modulators in gabaa receptors and bring further insight into the mode of action behind the sedative properties of hops. ',
 'Does taking a mushroom called reishi benefit cancer? [SEP] some non-edible mushrooms like reishi (ganoderma lucidum) have a history use, both alone and in conjunction with standard therapies, for the treatment of various diseases including cancer in some cultures. with similar content of putative effective anticancer compounds such as polysaccharides, proteoglycans, steroids, etc., one might predict that edible mushrooms would also demonstrate anticancer and cancer preventive activity. the mushroom known as reishi (ganoderma lucidum) has been used as an herbal medicine for tumor treatment and immune system activation. consumption of reishi mushroom has been reported to prevent colon carcinogenesis in rodents, although the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. to investigate this effect, rats were fed a high-fat diet supplemented with 5% water extract from either the reishi mushroom (ganoderma lingzhi) (wgl) or the auto-digested reishi g. lingzhi (awgl) for three\xa0weeks. these results suggest that the reishi extracts have an impact on colon luminal health by modulating secondary bile acids, microflora, mucins, and propionate that related to colon cancer. ganoderma lucidum (reishi), an oriental medical mushroom, has been widely used in asian countries for centuries to prevent or treat different diseases, including cancer. shiitake (lentinus edodes) mushrooms have been reported to have cancer-preventing properties. these data suggest that inhibition of growth in tumor cells by "mycochemicals" in shiitake mushrooms may result from induction of apoptosis. ganoderma lucidum (lingzhi or reishi) and agaricus brasiliensis are mushrooms that have long been used for medicinal purposes. ',
 'Can labor pain during childbirth be relieved by aromatherapy with lavender oil? [SEP] therefore, the use of aromatherapy with chamomile oil as a simple way without any side effects for the reduction of pain in mothers after cesarean section is recommended. anecdotal evidence suggests that some women find lavender oil effective at relieving some of the symptoms associated with perineal trauma following childbirth. pain is a major problem in patients after cesarean and medication such as aromatherapy which is a complementary therapy, in which the essences of the plants oils are used to reduce such undesirable conditions. in this study, the effect of aromatherapy using lavender (lavandula) essential oil on cesarean postoperative pain was assessed. the inhaled lavender essence may be used as a part of the multidisciplinary treatment of pain after cesarean section, but it is not recommended as the sole pain management. the present study tried to determine the efficacy of aromatherapy with citrus aurantium oil in reducing anxiety during the first stage of labor. the results of this study confirmed aromatherapy with c. aurantium blossom oil as a simple, inexpensive, noninvasive, and effective intervention to reduce anxiety during labor. the use of essential oils of aromatic plants, or aromatherapy, is a non-invasive procedure that can decrease childbirth anxiety. lavender inhalation aromatherapy is widely believed to impart a hypnotic effect, act as a mood stabilizer, and enhance the positive feelings of mothers toward their infants. research has shown that aromatherapy administered during labor reduces anxiety in mothers. ',
 'Can the duration of childbirth be reduced by aromatherapy with lavender oil? [SEP] research has shown that aromatherapy administered during labor reduces anxiety in mothers. with regard to the specific biological conditions in postpartum period and the subsequent drop in hormone levels, this study investigated the effect of lavender on prevention of stress, anxiety, and postpartum depression in women. inhaling the scent of lavender for 4 weeks can prevent stress, anxiety, and depression after childbirth. in this study, the effect of aromatherapy using lavender (lavandula) essential oil on cesarean postoperative pain was assessed. the inhaled lavender essence may be used as a part of the multidisciplinary treatment of pain after cesarean section, but it is not recommended as the sole pain management. anecdotal evidence suggests that some women find lavender oil effective at relieving some of the symptoms associated with perineal trauma following childbirth. the use of essential oils of aromatic plants, or aromatherapy, is a non-invasive procedure that can decrease childbirth anxiety. lavender inhalation aromatherapy is widely believed to impart a hypnotic effect, act as a mood stabilizer, and enhance the positive feelings of mothers toward their infants. the present study tried to determine the efficacy of aromatherapy with citrus aurantium oil in reducing anxiety during the first stage of labor. the results of this study confirmed aromatherapy with c. aurantium blossom oil as a simple, inexpensive, noninvasive, and effective intervention to reduce anxiety during labor. ',
 "Does a patch with high-dose capsaicin relieve pain after shingles? [SEP] these results suggest that capsaicin cannot reduce inflammation but may play a helpful role in reducing pruritus in dogs. topical capsaicin therapy may be of benefit in providing pain relief in patients with peripheral neuropathy. to review the evidence from controlled trials on the efficacy and tolerability of topically applied capsaicin in chronic neuropathic pain in adults. randomised, double blind, placebo controlled studies of at least six weeks' duration, using topical capsaicin to treat neuropathic pain. capsaicin, either as repeated application of a low dose (0.075%) cream, or a single application of a high dose (8%) patch may provide a degree of pain relief to some patients with painful neuropathic conditions. to review the evidence from controlled trials on the efficacy and tolerability of topically applied low-concentration (< 1%) capsaicin in chronic neuropathic pain in adults. topical capsaicin (trans-b-methyl-n-vanillyl-noneamide) has been successful for pain relief in postherpetic neuralgia, arthritis, and diabetic neuropathy. for this reason, application of capsaicin to the skin has been used for a variety of painful syndromes. capsaicin decreased sensitivity to pain produced by sharp mechanical stimuli and nearly eliminated heat-evoked pain within the injected area. topical capsaicin has been introduced in the u.s. and canada as a cream indicated for temporary relief of neuralgia following episodes of herpes zoster infections and in the treatment of diabetic neuropathy. ",
 'Does a patch with high-dose capsaicin relieve pain in diabetes mellitus or infection with HIV? [SEP] high-dose capsaicin patch is effective in treatment of neuropathic pain in hiv-associated neuropathy and diabetic neuropathy. we sought to determine the effectiveness of treatment of pain associated with chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy with high-dose capsaicin patch. topical capsaicin (trans-b-methyl-n-vanillyl-noneamide) has been successful for pain relief in postherpetic neuralgia, arthritis, and diabetic neuropathy. capsaicin desensitizes cutaneous nociceptors resulting in reduced pain. we report a placebo-controlled study of a high-concentration capsaicin dermal patch (ngx-4010) for the treatment of painful hiv-dsp. this double-blind multicenter study randomized 307 patients with painful hiv-dsp to receive ngx-4010 or control, a low-concentration capsaicin patch. this multicenter, controlled, randomized, double-masked clinical trial studied patients with hiv-associated dspn and compared measures of pain intensity, pain relief, sensory perception, quality of life, mood, and function for patients who received topical capsaicin to the corresponding measures for patients who received the vehicle only. these results suggest capsaicin is ineffective in relieving pain associated with hiv-associated dspn. the capsaicin 8% patch is a food and drug administration-approved treatment of neuropathic pain in postherpetic neuralgia and has demonstrated significant efficacy in human immunodeficiency virus-autonomic neuropathy. capsaicin, either as repeated application of a low dose (0.075%) cream, or a single application of a high dose (8%) patch may provide a degree of pain relief to some patients with painful neuropathic conditions. ',
 'Does industrially highly processed food increase the risk of cancer? [SEP] an increasing literature associates high intake of meat, especially red meat and processed meat with an increased risk of cancers, especially colorectal cancer. there is evidence that this risk may not be a function of meat per se, but may reflect high-fat intake, and/or carcinogens generated through various cooking and processing methods. numerous epidemiological studies have demonstrated a link between excessive meat consumption and the incidence of various cancers, especially colorectal cancer, and it has been suggested that environmental carcinogens present in meat might be related to the increased risk of cancer associated with this food. our results indicate that the current consumption of beef, pork, lamb, chicken, and "chorizo", represents a relevant carcinogenic risk for consumers (carcinogenic risk quotient between 1.33 and 13.98). a recent investigation by the world health organisation (who) has found that the consumption of processed meat and potentially red meat promotes carcinogenesis and can increase the risk of colorectal cancer. red meat products, especially those that have been processed, have a wide variety of carcinogenic molecules known to increase the risk of colorectal cancer. there is epidemiologic evidence that the consumption of fried, grilled or barbecued meat and fish that are well-done or browned may be associated with an increased cancer risk. several dietary exposures may increase the risk of cancer, while others may have a protective effect. investigations on the mechanisms by which food components contribute to either increase or decrease cancer risks therefore deserve priority, as their results would allow a quantitative evaluation of risks and of their preventability. red and processed meat consumption has been strongly related to increase the risk of colorectal cancer (crc), although its impact is largely unknown. ',
 'Does propolis have a healing or soothing effect on inflammation in the mouth (in otherwise healthy people)? [SEP] the aim of this review is to discuss the growing evidence that propolis may, via a diverse array of biological actions, assist in the prevention of some inflammation-mediated pathologies including cardiovascular disease. recently, propolis has been used by dentist to treat various oral diseases. objective: to analyse the expression of il-6 on inflamed rat dental pulp tissue following application of propolis. propolis from south sulawesi, indonesia could suppressed the expression of il-6 on inflamed rat dental pulp tissue. propolis is a potent anti-microbial and natural anti-inflammatory by-product obtained from the beehive. propolis is a bee product used in folk medicine to improve health and prevent inflammatory diseases. propolis has been used for the management of oral mucositis in a number of studies. it seems that propolis mouthwash is an effective and safe medication for alleviation of oral mucositis and dysphagia in patients under head and neck radiotherapy. recently, immunoregulatory and anti-inflammatory properties of propolis have been published. thus, the bee product propolis can be considered as a powerful natural anti-inflammatory medicine influencing different types of immune-responses probably via immunoregulatory t cells. ',
 "Do amalgam fillings affect the mental development of school children compared to plastic dental fillings? [SEP] the new england children's amalgam trial found that children randomized to amalgam had better psychosocial outcomes than those assigned to composites for posterior tooth restorations. the objective of this study was to examine whether greater exposure to dental composites is associated with psychosocial problems in children. greater exposure to bisgma-based dental composite restorations was associated with impaired psychosocial function in children, whereas no adverse psychosocial outcomes were observed with greater urethane dimethacrylate-based compomer or amalgam treatment levels. a concern persists that children's exposure to mercury vapor from dental amalgams produces neurotoxicity. our goal was to compare the neuropsychological function of children, without prior exposure to dental amalgam, whose caries were repaired using either dental amalgam or mercury-free composite materials. exposure to elemental mercury in amalgam at the levels experienced by the children who participated in the trial did not result in significant effects on neuropsychological function within the 5-year follow-up period. in our study, urinary hg levels was examined in children of age 8-18 years, with and without dental amalgam fillings, from a completed clinical trial (parent study) that was designed to evaluate the potential health consequences of prolonged exposure to hg from dental amalgam fillings. as part of the new england children's amalgam trial, a randomized trial involving 6- to 10-year-old children, we evaluated the hypothesis that restoration of caries using dental amalgam resulted in worse psychosocial outcomes than restoration using mercury-free composite resin. no evidence was found that exposure to mercury from dental amalgams was associated with adverse psychosocial outcomes over the five-year period following initial placement of amalgams. this clinical study was undertaken to compare a composite resin, containing a modified filler, with a dental amalgam alloy in class ii restorations. ",
 "Does curcumin protect healthy people from mental impairment or even from developing dementia? [SEP] these findings reveal the therapeutic potential of curcumin as a preventive agent upon the deterioration of cognitive faculties. we hypothesized that curcumin would have an influence on cognitive functions in aged female rats. the purpose of the present study was to investigate the effects of curcumin supplementation on cognitive impairment evaluated by morris water maze (mwm) as well as the oxidative stress induced by aging in female rats. it may be concluded that, curcumin supplementation improves cognitive functions by decreasing the lipid peroxidation in brain tissue of aged female rats. curcumin, a dietary polyphenol, has shown a potential to act on the symptoms of neurodegenerative disorders, including alzheimer's and parkinson's diseases, as a consequence of its antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and anti-protein aggregation properties. curcumin was reported to have beneficial effect against several neurodegenerative disorders including alzheimer's disease. curcumin is a polyphenolic natural compound with diverse and attractive biological activities, which may prevent or ameliorate pathological processes underlying age-related cognitive decline, dementia, or mood disorders. curcumin appears to be more effective in improving cognitive function in the elderly than in improving symptoms of ad and schizophrenia. recent studies show that curcumin also possesses neuroprotective and cognitive-enhancing properties that may help delay or prevent neurodegenerative diseases, including alzheimer's disease (ad). in vitro studies have shown that aβ metabolism is altered by curcumin, and animal studies report that curcumin may influence brain function and the development of dementia, because of its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, as well as its ability to influence aβ metabolism. ",
 "Does curcumin protect people with already diagnosed dementia from further decline in mental abilities??? [SEP] a number of neuroprotective effects of curcumin have been demonstrated in recent years. however, whether curcumin exerts any beneficial effects on age-related impaired cognition and memory has not been well characterized; nor was there any detailed data on the molecular pathways activated by curcumin. the present study attempts to investigate the effects of curcumin on memory decline of aged mice with a focus upon the possible contribution of the neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nnos)/nitric oxide (no) pathway in the memory amelioration effect of curcumin. the results showed that chronic administration of curcumin (50mg/kg, i.p., 21 days) significantly ameliorated the memory acquisition ability of aged male mice in the novel object recognition and passive avoidance tasks. taken together, the results of the present study suggest that the amelioration of memory deficits by curcumin in aged mice was mediated, at least in part, by activating the nnos activity in specific brain regions. these findings reveal the therapeutic potential of curcumin as a preventive agent upon the deterioration of cognitive faculties. curcumin was reported to have beneficial effect against several neurodegenerative disorders including alzheimer's disease. therefore, the present study was conducted in order to explore the possible role of curcumin against d-galactose-induced cognitive dysfunction, oxidative damage, and mitochondrial dysfunction in mice. curcumin (15 and 30 mg/kg) and galantamine (5 mg/kg) treatment for 6 weeks significantly improved cognitive tasks, locomotor activity, oxidative defense, and restored mitochondrial enzyme complex activity as compared to control (d-galactose). in conclusion, the present study highlights the therapeutic potential of curcumin against d-galactose induced senescence in mice. ",
 "Do preparations with humic acids help with diseases or complaints of the stomach and intestines? [SEP] antacid-loaded biopolymer microgels can be used to control the acidity of the gastric fluids, which may be useful for developing functional foods to treat these problems. the dietary effect on gut health has long been recognized through the empirical practice of soothing gastric discomfort with certain types of food, and recently the correlation between specific diets with lower incidences of several gastrointestinal diseases has been revealed. in this review, we focus on latest studies of these food-derived ingredients for their proposed preventive and therapeutic roles in gastrointestinal disorders, with the attempt of drawing evidence-based suggestions on consuming these products. these foods help to restore the natural gastric balance and function, curb acid reflux, aid digestion, reduce the burning sensation due to hyperacidity and soothe the inflamed mucosa of the stomach. the present study evaluates and compares the antacid effect of broccoli, kale, radish, cucumber, lemon juice, cold milk and curd in an artificial stomach model. the ph of the test samples and their neutralizing effect on artificial gastric acid was determined and compared with that of water, the active control sodium bicarbonate and a marketed antacid preparation eno. a modified model of vatier's artificial stomach was used to determine the duration of consistent neutralization of artificial gastric acid by the test samples. atractylodin, a widely used herbal medicine, is used to treat digestive disorders. the use of nutrients for pharmacotherapy is a recent advance in the treatment of gastrointestinal disorders or alterations of gut function and structure. colitis was induced by intracolonic instillation of 4% acetic acid; the control group received physiological saline (10mlkg(-1)). ",
 "Does an extract from grapefruit seeds work against fungal diseases such as athlete's foot or nail fungus? [SEP] these results suggest that resveratrol could be employed as a therapeutic agent to treat fungal infections of humans. the aim of this study was to elucidate whether grape-associated fungi exert an influence on gushing by their production of surface-active compounds. in preliminary experiments, 58 grape-associated isolates of species within penicillium and aspergillus genera were tested for their ability to modify the surface activity of culture supernatants. a variety of plant products have been recognized for their antifungal activity and recently have attracted food industry attention for their efficacy in controlling postharvest fungal decay of fruits. fungal inoculations promoted the content of reducing sugar (rs), total flavonoids (tf), total phenols (tph), trans-resveratrol (res) and activities of phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (pal), in both leaves and berries of grapevine. conferred greater promotion effects in grape metabolic re-shaping, compared to other used fungal strains. black foot disease of grapevines, caused by several fungal species in the genera campylocarpon, cylindrocarpon, cylindrocladiella, and ilyonectria, causes significant economic losses to the grapevine industry worldwide. this study represents the first attempt to identify and characterize the fungal pathogens associated with black foot disease of grapevines in british columbia (bc). were the sole fungi isolated from symptomatic tissue. in the rest of the samples, black foot fungi were found to primarily coexist with fungal taxa associated with petri disease of grapevines. ",
 'Does taking rosehip powder for rheumatoid arthritis improve symptoms? [SEP] to investigate if standardised powder made from rose-hip (rosa canina) can reduce the symptom score in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. in a double-blind placebo-controlled trial, patients with rheumatoid arthritis (ra) according to ara/acr criteria were randomised to treatment with capsulated rose-hip powder 5g daily or matching placebo for 6 months at two outpatient clinics in berlin and copenhagen. the results indicate that patients with ra may benefit from additional treatment with rose hip powder. in particular, the rose hip powder and extract have been reported to exert therapeutic effects on arthritis. rose hip powder (rhp) alleviates osteoarthritis (oa) due to its anti-inflammatory and cartilage-protective properties. significant improvement in gad symptoms was found with r. rosea, with a reduction in hars scores similar to that found in clinical trials. a previously published systematic review and a metaanalysis have concluded that the consumption of standardized rose hip powder (rosa canina l.) can reduce pain in osteoarthritis patients. therefore, the immunomodulatory effect of standardized rose hip powder of rosa canina l. was investigated and active principles isolated using the mono mac 6 cell line as a model for human macrophages. the genus rosa (roses) has long been used in traditional or folk medicine worldwide for the treatment of various types of arthritis including rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis. the dynamic beneficial effects of the products prepared from this genus in arthritis management are summarized. ',
 "Does taking rosehip powder for osteoarthritis alleviate the symptoms??? [SEP] rose hip powder (rhp) alleviates osteoarthritis (oa) due to its anti-inflammatory and cartilage-protective properties. this powder has demonstrated antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activity as well as clinical benefits in conditions such as osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis and inflammatory bowel disease. to examine the evidence suggesting that standardised rosehip powder may be a viable replacement or supplement for conventional therapies used in inflammatory diseases such as arthritis. a meta-analysis of three randomised controlled trials involving 287 patients with a median treatment period of 3 months reported that treatment with standardised rosehip powder consistently reduced pain scores and that patients allocated to rosehip powder were twice as likely to respond to rosehip compared to placebo. to investigate if standardised powder made from rose-hip (rosa canina) can reduce the symptom score in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. the results indicate that patients with ra may benefit from additional treatment with rose hip powder. clinical studies have shown that rose hip powder (rhp) alleviates osteoarthritis (oa). in particular, the rose hip powder and extract have been reported to exert therapeutic effects on arthritis. the aim of this study was to determine whether a herbal remedy made from a subspecies of rose-hip (rosa canina) might reduce symptoms of osteoarthritis and consumption of rescue medication in patients suffering from osteoarthritis. the data suggest that the present herbal remedy can alleviate symptoms of osteoarthritis and reduce the consumption of 'rescue medication'. ",
 "Can the genetic blood test for Down syndrome (trisomy 21) predict whether the unborn child is affected - in pregnant women at increased risk? [SEP] a primary goal of amniocentesis is the detection of trisomy 21 (down syndrome- ds) in the fetus. a strong association of human chorionic gonadotropin (hcg) and down syndrome was reported. prenatal detection of fetal down syndrome has important implications not only for management of the current pregnancy, but also for recurrence risk counseling for future pregnancies. we report a case of fetal down syndrome due to an isochromosome 21q detected after maternal serum screening using alpha-fetoprotein and human chorionic gonadotropin indicated an increased risk for fetal down syndrome in a 19-year-old pregnant woman. this confirms that maternal serum screening can detect fetal down syndrome due to rare chromosome rearrangements and illustrates the importance of cytogenetic studies for provision of appropriate genetic counseling. the aim of this study was to investigate the possible effect of fetal gender in first trimester down's syndrome screening markers. prenatal diagnosis was performed in a woman whose previous pregnancy resulted in a girl with probable down syndrome who died soon after delivery. originally, prenatal genetic testing focused primarily on down syndrome (trisomy 21), but now it is able to detect a broad range of genetic disorders. originally, prenatal genetic testing focused primarily on down syndrome (trisomy 21), but now it is able to detect a broad range of genetic disorders. this study investigates whether first-trimester screening for trisomy 21 by fetal nuchal translucency thickness preferentially identifies those fetuses destined to die in utero and examines the potential impact of such a method of screening on the live birth incidence of trisomy 21. ",
 "Do preparations with rose root have an effect against stress and its consequences, e.g. exhaustion? [SEP] currently r. rosea roots and rhizome are classified as a traditional herbal medicinal product for temporary relief of symptoms of stress, such as fatigue and sensation of weakness by the european medicines agency. this work expands the knowledge of the intracellular mechanisms involved in r. rosea anti-stress activity and may be useful for the study of other adaptogen drugs. the objective was to investigate the effect of repeated doses of a r. rosea hydroethanolic root extract (hre) on hypothalamic pituitary adrenal response in a murine model of acute mild stress and also the mechanisms involved. in the acute mild stress model used, r. rosea hre decreased corticosterone level and increased expression of stress-responsive genes, especially in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. these findings suggest that r. rosea hre could be of value for modulating reactivity to acute mild stress. rhodiola rosea l. roots and rhizome extracts are active ingredients in adaptogenic herbal medicinal products (hmp) and dietary supplements for temporary relief of symptoms of stress, such as fatigue and weakness. r. rosea extract has a stimulating effect on the cns, suggesting potential benefits on cognitive functions, memory, learning, and attention. rhodiola rosea l., or 'golden root', is a popular plant in traditional medicine in eastern europe and asia, with a reputation for improving depression, enhancing work performance, eliminating fatigue and treating symptoms of asthenia subsequent to intense physical and psychological stress. rhodiola rosea has been extensively used to improve physical and mental performance and to protect against stress. rhodiola rosea extract is one of the most common herbal treatment for stress. ",
 'Is microwave therapy effective and safe for long-term reduction of excessive sweating (primary hyperhidrosis) in adults? [SEP] this report presents a technical overview of a new noninvasive, microwave-based device for creating thermolysis of sweat glands. the results demonstrate that microwave technology is well suited for targeting sweat glands while allowing for protection of both the upper skin layers and the structures beneath the subcutaneous fat. hyperhidrosis is uncontrollable excessive sweating, which occurs at rest, regardless of temperature. to undertake a systematic review of the clinical effectiveness and safety of treatments available in secondary care for the management of primary hyperhidrosis. a new microwave procedure for treatment of axillary hyperhidrosis has been tested. hyperhidrosis is a the disorder of excessive sweating in certain regions of the body. thermal nd:yag lasers used with an interstitial fiber, microwave devices, and photodynamic therapy appear to offer new treatment options for axillary hyperhidrosis. hyperhidrosis refers to excessive and uncontrollable sweating beyond that is required to return body temperature to normal. the objective if this study was to compare microwave ablation (ma), botulinum toxin (bt) injection, and liposuction-curettage (lc) in the treatment of primary axillary hyperhidrosis based on subjective and objective criteria. background\u2003hyperhidrosis is a dysfunction of the autonomic nervous system that results in regional excessive sweating, mostly in the hands, armpits, and feet. ',
 'Does ointment with comfrey help against back pain and knee pain better than a placebo? [SEP] today, multiple randomized controlled trials have demonstrated the efficacy and safety of comfrey preparations for the topical treatment of pain, inflammation and swelling of muscles and joints in degenerative arthritis, acute myalgia in the back, sprains, contusions and strains after sports injuries and accidents, also in children aged 3 or 4 and over. this paper provides information on clinical trials and non-interventional studies published on comfrey to date and further literature, substantiating the fact that topical comfrey preparations are a valuable therapy option for the treatment of painful muscle and joint complaints. comfrey anti-inflammatory and analgesic properties have been proven in clinical studies. topical administration of curcumin 5% ointment can significantly reduce knee pain in older adults with knee osteoarthritis. comfrey root extract has been used for the topical treatment of painful muscle and joint complaints. this study compared the efficacy of an herbal ointment to a placebo ointment in relieving the pain and stiffness of osteoarthritis. in a double-blind, multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled, group comparison study on patients suffering from unilateral acute ankle sprains (n = 142, mean age 31.8 years, 78.9% male), the percutaneous efficacy of an ointment of comfrey extract (kytta-salbe f, four treatments per day for 8 days) was confirmed decisively. the purpose of this study was to determine the effect of 2 concentrations of topical, comfrey-based botanical creams containing a blend of tannic acid and eucalyptus to a eucalyptus reference cream on pain, stiffness, and physical functioning in those with primary osteoarthritis of the knee. repeated-measures analyses of variance yielded significant differences in all of the western ontario and macmaster universities osteoarthritis index categories (pain p < .01, stiffness p < .01, daily function p < .01), confirming that the 10% and 20% comfrey-based creams were superior to the reference cream. both active topical comfrey formulations were effective in relieving pain and stiffness and in improving physical functioning and were superior to placebo in those with primary osteoarthritis of the knee without serious adverse effects. ',
 'Does ointment with comfrey help with ankle sprains and sore muscles??? [SEP] comfrey (symphytum officinale l.) is a medicinal plant with anti-inflammatory, analgesic and tissue regenerating properties. in a double-blind, multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled, group comparison study on patients suffering from unilateral acute ankle sprains (n = 142, mean age 31.8 years, 78.9% male), the percutaneous efficacy of an ointment of comfrey extract (kytta-salbe f, four treatments per day for 8 days) was confirmed decisively. in this study, we assess the use of a neuromuscular electrical stimulation (nmes) device as an adjunctive therapy to reduce oedema in patients recovering from grade i and ii ankle sprains. in this pilot, randomised controlled trial, nmes was well tolerated by patients following ankle sprain and demonstrated statistically significant improvements in oedema reduction as measured by fluid displacement. today, multiple randomized controlled trials have demonstrated the efficacy and safety of comfrey preparations for the topical treatment of pain, inflammation and swelling of muscles and joints in degenerative arthritis, acute myalgia in the back, sprains, contusions and strains after sports injuries and accidents, also in children aged 3 or 4 and over. this paper provides information on clinical trials and non-interventional studies published on comfrey to date and further literature, substantiating the fact that topical comfrey preparations are a valuable therapy option for the treatment of painful muscle and joint complaints. traditional practice suggests comfrey can be used to treat musculoskeletal disorders, wounds and various other conditions; however a full and critical coverage of the evidence base has not yet been undertaken. previous reports suggest that acupressure therapy for acute ankle sprains may shorten the recovery time. to evaluate whether acupressure therapy can improve ankle sprain recovery compared with standard rice (rest, ice, compression, and elevation) treatment. acupressure therapy may improve recovery after acute ankle sprain injury, yielding shortened time of disability and improved quality of life. ',
 'Can chlorhexidine in the form of dental varnish prevent the formation of caries in adults? [SEP] previous experiments have shown that daily use of 1% chlorhexidine gel strongly reduced caries development in the abutment teeth under overdentures. chlorhexidine varnish and chlorhexidine gel applications significantly suppressed mutans streptococci on the abutment teeth for four and eight weeks, respectively. chlorhexidine (chx) varnishes have been mainly used for the prevention of caries in high-risk populations. chlorhexidine has proved an efficient antibacterial agent and has been used successfully to prevent new carious lesions in the teeth of adults and children. dentin specimens from extracted human teeth were treated with chlorhexidine varnish and exposed to the oral environment of 47 subjects. chlorhexidine, a cationic anti-microbial agent, prevents gingivitis by inhibiting plaque accumulation. the purpose of this study was to determine the effects of a chlorhexidine varnish on the gingival status of adolescents. it is concluded that the professional application of a chlorhexidine varnish significantly improved the gingival health of adolescents over a 6-month period. the effect of a single application of such a varnish containing 2.5% chlorhexidine on occlusal caries development of the first permanent molars on 6-year-old children in a high caries incidence area was investigated. addition of 2.5% chlorhexidine to glass ionomer did not seem to increase the caries-reducing effect of the varnish in this high caries incidence population. ',
 'Can chlorhexidine in the form of mouth rinses and gels for home use in children and adults, and as a dental varnish in children, prevent the formation of caries? [SEP] chlorhexidine is an active agent commonly used against dental plaque in the mouth apart from fluorides applied to prevent caries. in addition to its plaque-inhibiting effect, chlorhexidine possesses other properties beneficial for use in dentistry. chlorhexidine has proven anticaries activity; other agents might also prevent caries by means of their antiplaque properties. chlorhexidine has a role in the management of patients with a high level of disease, but it is not a universal panacea for caries control. chlorhexidine (chx)-containing mouthrinses are recommended as adjuncts to mechanical oral hygiene. previous experiments have shown that daily use of 1% chlorhexidine gel strongly reduced caries development in the abutment teeth under overdentures. chlorhexidine varnish and chlorhexidine gel applications significantly suppressed mutans streptococci on the abutment teeth for four and eight weeks, respectively. the chlorhexidine gel reduced plaque accumulation and gingival bleeding for one week but had no long-lasting effect. the use of chlorhexidine as a topically applied oral antiseptic is well documented; however, clinical studies examining the effects of chlorhexidine gel on in situ dental caries are limited. this study utilized an in situ caries model and a modified crossover design to examine whether the addition of a biweekly topical, alcohol-free, 1% chlorhexidine digluconate gel to a daily fluoridated dentifrice inhibited artificial caries in dental tissues better than the fluoridated dentifrice alone when compared to a nonfluoridated placebo dentifrice. ',
 'Does a legal smoking ban reduce the likelihood of cardiovascular disease in nonsmokers? [SEP] it is well established that quitting smoking reduces coronary events. smoking is a well-established and important risk factor for cardiovascular disease. is nicotine, whether in tobacco products or in nrt, the cause of the cardiovascular consequences associated with tobacco use? smoking and other forms of tobacco use are major risk factors for cardiovascular disease. background smoke-free legislation has been associated with reductions in secondhand smoke exposure and cardiovascular disease. fixed-effects regression estimated associations of smoke-free policies with within-person changes in systolic and diastolic bp and hypertension. participants living in areas with smoke-free policies had lower systolic bp on average at the end of follow-up compared with those in areas without policies (adjusted predicted mean differences [in mm\xa0hg]: restaurant: -1.14 [95% confidence interval: -2.15, -0.12]; bar: -1.52 [-2.48, -0.57]; workplace: -1.41 [-2.32, -0.50]). conclusions while the magnitude of associations was small at the individual level, results suggest a potential mechanism through which reductions in secondhand smoke because of smoke-free policies may improve population-level cardiovascular health. although the importance of smoking as a risk factor for coronary heart disease is beyond doubt, the speed and magnitude of risk reduction when a smoker with coronary heart disease quits are still subjects of debate. although the importance of smoking as a risk factor for coronary heart disease is beyond doubt, the speed and magnitude of risk reduction when a smoker with coronary heart disease quits are still subjects of debate. ',
 'Do pregnant women who take vitamin D have a lower risk of preterm birth? [SEP] pregnancy complications hypothesized to be related to vitamin d include preeclampsia, gestational diabetes, low birth weight, preterm delivery, cesarean section and infectious disease. there have been a few studies which have demonstrated maternal serum vitamin d to be associated with preterm labor. vitamin d supplementation during pregnancy has been suggested as an intervention to protect against adverse gestational outcomes. to examine whether supplements with vitamin d alone or in combination with calcium or other vitamins and minerals given to women during pregnancy can safely improve maternal and neonatal outcomes. five trials involving 623 women compared the effects of vitamin d alone versus no supplementation/placebo and one trial with 400 women compared the effects of vitamin d and calcium versus no supplementation.only one trial with 400 women reported on pre-eclampsia: women who received 1200 iu vitamin d along with 375 mg of elemental calcium per day were as likely to develop pre-eclampsia as women who received no supplementation (average risk ratio (rr) 0.67; 95% confidence interval (ci) 0.33 to 1.35). data from three trials involving 463 women suggest that women who receive vitamin d supplements during pregnancy less frequently had a baby with a birthweight below 2500 grams than those women receiving no treatment or placebo; statistical significance was borderline (rr 0.48; 95% ci 0.23 to 1.01).in terms of other conditions, there were no significant differences in adverse side effects including nephritic syndrome (rr 0.17; 95% ci 0.01 to 4.06; one trial, 135 women); stillbirths (rr 0.17; 95% ci 0.01 to 4.06; one trial, 135 women) or neonatal deaths (rr 0.17; 95% ci 0.01 to 4.06; one trial, 135 women) between women who received vitamin d supplements in comparison with women who received no treatment or placebo. we aimed to assess the association of 25(oh) vitamin d levels in mothers with term and preterm delivery with their neonates. vitamin d deficiency in pregnancy has been associated with an increased risk of preeclampsia. vitamin d deficiency is common in pregnancy, leading to increase in the frequency of preeclampsia, cesarean delivery, neonatal bacterial vaginosis, and gestational diabetes. many pregnant women in the united states have suboptimal vitamin d, but the impact on infant development is unclear. ',
 'Do pregnant women who take vitamin D in combination with calcium have a lower risk of preterm birth? [SEP] to examine whether supplements with vitamin d alone or in combination with calcium or other vitamins and minerals given to women during pregnancy can safely improve maternal and neonatal outcomes. five trials involving 623 women compared the effects of vitamin d alone versus no supplementation/placebo and one trial with 400 women compared the effects of vitamin d and calcium versus no supplementation.only one trial with 400 women reported on pre-eclampsia: women who received 1200 iu vitamin d along with 375 mg of elemental calcium per day were as likely to develop pre-eclampsia as women who received no supplementation (average risk ratio (rr) 0.67; 95% confidence interval (ci) 0.33 to 1.35). maternal-child health benefits of optimizing vitamin d status during pregnancy may include a reduced risk of pre-eclampsia, improved fetal growth and beneficial effects on infant immune function. suboptimal maternal calcium intake and vitamin d status may or may not adversely influence fetal growth. there have been a few studies which have demonstrated maternal serum vitamin d to be associated with preterm labor. it has been suggested that vitamin d supplementation during pregnancy may reduce the risk of adverse gestational outcomes. to update a previous meta-analysis on the effects of oral vitamin d supplementation (alone or in combination with other vitamins and minerals) during pregnancy on maternal 25(oh)d levels and risk of developing pre-eclampsia, gestational diabetes, preterm birth, impaired glucose tolerance, caesarean section, gestational hypertension and other adverse conditions. also, three trials found that supplementation with vitamin d plus calcium reduced the risk of pre-eclampsia (5% versus 9%; average risk ratio 0.51; 95% ci 0.32, 0.80). vitamin d supplementation, with or without calcium, may be related to lower risk of preeclampsia but more studies are needed to confirm this. in conclusion, we observed an interactive effect of low calcium and vitamin d intake that may impact offspring phenotype and preterm birth rate supporting the hypothesis that both calcium and vitamin d status are important for a successful pregnancy. ',
 'Does aromatherapy have a calming effect on agitation and aggression typical of dementia? [SEP] aromatherapy and hand massage therapies have been reported to have some benefit for people with dementia who display behavioural symptoms; however there are a number of limitations of reported studies. the aim is to investigate the effect of aromatherapy (3% lavender oil spray) with and without hand massage on disruptive behaviour in people with dementia living in long-term care. aromatherapy may reduce the behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (bpsd), improve quality of care, and thus improve the quality of life for people with dementia. the purpose of this study was to compare aroma-acupressure and aromatherapy with respect to their effects on agitation in patients with dementia. aroma-acupressure had a greater effect than aromatherapy on agitation in patients with dementia. future studies should continue to assess the benefits of aroma-acupressure and aromatherapy for the treatment of agitation in dementia patients. to determine whether aromatherapy with lavender oil is effective in the treatment of agitated behaviour in patients with severe dementia. lavender oil administered in an aroma stream shows modest efficacy in the treatment of agitated behaviour in patients with severe dementia. aromatherapy is an option that has been recommended for use in dementia. the effects of aromatherapy and massage on disturbed behaviour in four individuals with severe dementia were evaluated using a single-case research design. ',
 "Does aromatherapy have other positive effects for dementia patients??? [SEP] clinical aromatherapy is a complementary therapy that may be very helpful for elderly dementia care. aromatherapy may reduce the behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (bpsd), improve quality of care, and thus improve the quality of life for people with dementia. the study assessed the effectiveness and safety of clinical aromatherapy as part of routine integrative care among people with dementia in a clinical care setting. this pilot study demonstrated that clinical aromatherapy was clinically safe but did not lead to statistically significant improvements in bpsd or adl among people with dementia. aromatherapy and hand massage therapies have been reported to have some benefit for people with dementia who display behavioural symptoms; however there are a number of limitations of reported studies. aroma therapy has been used for people with dementia to reduce disturbed behaviour (e.g. to assess the efficacy of aroma therapy as an intervention for people with dementia. in the present study, we examined the curative effects of aromatherapy in dementia in 28 elderly people, 17 of whom had alzheimer's disease (ad). in conclusion, we found aromatherapy an efficacious non-pharmacological therapy for dementia. aromatherapy may have some potential for improving cognitive function, especially in ad patients. ",
 'Does tomato extract reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] epidemiological studies suggest that consumption of tomato products reduces the risk of cvd via antioxidant, hypocholesterolaemic and anti-inflammatory mechanisms. to test the hypothesis that tomato ingestion ameliorates endothelial function, we randomised healthy non-smoking postmenopausal women to consume a buttered roll with and without tomato purée (70 g) in a cross-over design. these results provide a potential mechanism by which tomatoes contribute to cardiovascular health. epidemiological evidence suggests an association between consumption of tomato products or lycopene and lower risk for cardiovascular diseases (cvd). the available evidence on the effects of tomato products and lycopene supplementation on cv risk factors supports the view that increasing the intake of these has positive effects on blood lipids, blood pressure and endothelial function. consumption of tomato and tomato-based products is associated with risk reduction of cardiovascular disease (cvd). epidemiologic evidence suggests that tomato-based products could reduce the risk of cardiovascular diseases. there is a growing body of evidence that tomato consumption reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease, through antioxidative, anti-inflammatory and hypotensive effects. epidemiologic studies suggest that consumption of tomato-based foods may lower cvd risk. regular consumption of tomato and its products is being consistently associated with lower risk of several types of cancer and, to a lesser extent, coronary heart disease. ',
 'Does quitting smoking prolong life? [SEP] quitting smoking is beneficial to health at any age, and cigarette smokers who quit before age 35 years have mortality rates similar to those of persons who never smoked. smoking cessation improves life expectancy at any age. quitting smoking has several health benefits, including an improvement in health-related quality of life. despite unequivocal evidence that smoking cessation is beneficial in terms of survival, there is at present no firm evidence that smoking cessation programs save lives. our findings suggest that at least 3 years of smoking cessation may contribute to reduce premature mortality among asian men. smoking cessation can increase life expectancy by nearly a decade if achieved in the third or fourth decades of life. older smokers who quit have a reduced risk of death compared with current smokers within 1 to 2 years after quitting. smoking cessation in older adults markedly reduces the risks of coronary events and of cardiac deaths within 1 year of quitting, and risk continues to decline more gradually for many years. smoking cessation reduces the risk of copd mortality after 10 to 15 years of abstinence in men and 5 to 10 years of abstinence in women. nevertheless, at the population level, the prospects are excellent that smoking cessation after age 65 will extend both the number of years of life and the quality of life. ',
 'Does eating eggs increase the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] some studies have found that egg consumption is associated with a higher risk of ischemic heart disease in patients with diabetes. we conducted the study to investigate if egg consumption is associated with incident cardiovascular disease (cvd) and all-cause mortality. eggs are a ubiquitous and important source of dietary cholesterol and nutrients, yet their relationship to coronary heart disease (chd) remains unclear. thus, we sought to examine whether egg consumption is associated with calcified atherosclerotic plaques in the coronary arteries. whether dietary cholesterol or egg consumption is associated with cardiovascular disease (cvd) and mortality remains controversial. among us adults, higher consumption of dietary cholesterol or eggs was significantly associated with higher risk of incident cvd and all-cause mortality in a dose-response manner. purpose: the relationship between egg and cholesterol intakes, and cardiovascular disease is controversial. meta-analyses indicate that egg consumption is associated with increased cardiovascular disease and mortality, but reduced incidence of hypertension, a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease. conclusion: egg and cholesterol intakes were associated with a higher risk of hypertension in french women. although eggs are important sources of dietary cholesterol and other nutrients, little is known about the association between egg consumption and heart failure (hf) risk. ',
 'Does oseltamivir (brand name "Tamiflu") reduce the severity and duration of influenza in otherwise healthy adults? [SEP] oseltamivir (tamiflu) has been shown to be effective as a treatment and chemoprophylaxis for influenza virus infections. oseltamivir (tamiflu®) is currently the only fda-approved oral drug that is available for the prevention and treatment of influenza virus infection. oseltamivir (tamiflu) is approved by the food and drug administration and is advertised for the treatment of influenza types a and b. oseltamivir (tamiflu) is a neuraminidase inhibitor-a new class of antiviral treatment for influenza where efficacy and safety has been established but cost-effectiveness is unknown. of 2288 patients randomized, influenza was confirmed in 1575 (69%) and oseltamivir treatment reduced the mean time to symptom alleviation by 1.08 days (95% confidence interval ci] 0.58-1.59). in comparison, oseltamivir (tamiflu) is effective against all influenza strains and can reduce the severity and duration of influenza among adults and children. oseltamivir (tamiflu®) is an important pharmaceutical intervention against the influenza virus. oseltamivir significantly reduced the duration of fever (wmd, -20.48; 95% ci, -28.43, -12.53) and influenza-like symptoms (wmd, -19.39; 95% ci, -32.94, -5.84). oseltamivir can effectively alleviate the symptoms of influenza and reduce hospitalization, antibiotic usage, and the risk of otitis media without significantly increasing the rate of adverse drug reactions. oseltamivir (tamiflu), an oral neuraminidase inhibitor, has been widely used to treat pandemic 2009 (h1n1) influenza a. ',
 'Is active surveillance ("active surveillance") of patients with low-risk prostate cancer associated with increased prostate cancer mortality risk in the long term? [SEP] active surveillance (as) is increasingly accepted as appropriate management for low-risk prostate cancer (pc) patients. the aim of active surveillance is to avoid radical treatment and its side-effects in men who have truly low risk prostate cancer, whilst offering radical treatment to those men who are at higher risk of local progression or metastatic disease. active surveillance is an option for men with clinically localized prostate cancer and may be suitable for those with very low risk disease. active surveillance is an important alternative to definitive therapy for men with low risk prostate cancer. patients with low-grade and early-stage prostate cancer may benefit from active surveillance, rather than undergoing surgical and medical treatments that are associated with side effects. active surveillance is increasingly recognized as the preferred standard of care for men with low-risk prostate cancer. active surveillance for prostate cancer. active surveillance is now considered a viable treatment option for men with low-risk prostate cancer. active surveillance (as) is an increasingly utilized potential solution to the issue of overtreatment of prostate cancer. active surveillance is a solution to the widely acknowledged problem of overdiagnosis and overtreatment of  clinically insignificant disease which accompanies early detection of prostate cancer using psa and biopsy. ',
 "Does Active Surveillance reduce the likelihood of becoming impotent or incontinence, i.e. unintentional urine leakage ?? [SEP] up to 30% of patients complain about urine leakage after radical prostatectomy, but persistent stress incontinence (beyond 1 year) affects <5% of them. some preventive measures have been described to decrease the risk of incontinence after radical prostatectomy, but with conflicting results. the objectives of the present study were to investigate whether buttressing sutures, which prevent the bladder neck from pulling open as the bladder fills, can promote earlier recovery from urinary incontinence after radical retropubic prostatectomy (rrp) and to identify possible risk factors associated with urinary incontinence after rrp. urinary incontinence is a common problem that is often under-reported due to the embarrassing nature and social stigma attached. urinary incontinence can have a considerable effect on an individual's quality of life, but can be significantly improved with correct assessment, treatment and management. this article provides an overview of the main types of urinary incontinence, and summarises recent guidelines for the assessment, diagnosis and effective conservative treatment options for them, and when a referral to specialist care is required. urinary incontinence (ui) following radical prostatectomy is a well-recognized risk of the surgery. incontinence after rp is secondary to intrinsic sphincter deficiency, but urodynamics have been advocated before aus placement to detect factors that could limit surgical success. no evidence has shown that patients who are incontinent after rp who have detrusor overactivity, a low first sensation, decreased compliance, or a low bladder capacity have worse post-aus outcomes than other patients. rate of continence after artificial urinary sphincter (aus) placement appears to decline with time. ",
 'Do extracts of prickly pear (Opuntia ficus-indica) help with hangover symptoms after alcohol consumption? [SEP] are known as prickly pear and folkloric use as hematinic, anti-inflammatory and antiasthmatic action. shingo) has been used as a traditional medicine for alleviating alcohol hangover. second, mouse pk data (auc(∞) and c(max) ) showed that the pear extract decreased the alcohol level in blood regardless of aldh2 genotype. these stimulations could be the main mechanism of the korean pear for alcohol detoxification. the present study evaluates the antinociceptive and anti-inflammatory action of prickly pear. the results establish the folklore use of prickly pear may be due to the presence of betacyanin and/or other phenolic compounds. "opuntia ficus-indica" (prickly pear) is the cactus member of the cactaceae family as an important nutrient and food source. the purpose of this study was to characterize the phytochemical composition of hydroalcoholic extract of prickly pear seeds that cause therapeutic effects. we previously demonstrated that alcoholic extracts from pterodon pubescens benth. based on the traditional use of prickly pear for enhancement of immune function, the objective of the present study to evaluate the effect of prickly pear on mast cell degranulation function. ',
 "Do statins help older people suffering from cardiovascular disease to live longer? Do they reduce the risk of heart attack and stroke? [SEP] the purpose of this paper was to assess whether statins reduce all-cause mortality and cardiovascular (cv) events in elderly people without established cv disease. in elderly subjects at high cv risk without established cv disease, statins significantly reduce the incidence of mi and stroke, but do not significantly prolong survival in the short-term. despite of the patient's nutritional status, statins therapy as a secondary prevention in elderly cad patients was associated with decreased risk of all-cause death. statins are widely used to prevent cardiovascular disease (cvd). with advancing age, the risks of statins might outweigh the potential benefits. using statins to treat older men and women with coronary artery disease (cad) and hypercholesterolemia reduces the risk of all-cause mortality, cardiovascular mortality, coronary events, coronary revascularization, stroke, intermittent claudication, and congestive heart failure. statins are also effective in reducing cardiovascular events in older persons with hypercholesterolemia without cardiovascular disease. although statins reduce coronary and cerebrovascular morbidity and mortality in middle-aged individuals, their efficacy and safety in elderly people is not fully established. several well-publicized trials have recently reported that statin drugs (hmg coa reductase inhibitors) are effective in lowering cholesterol and in reducing the risk of myocardial infarction and stroke. available evidence shows that statins reduce cardiovascular events and invasive revascularization in older adults. ",
 'Are statins useful in preventing cardiovascular disease in people 75 years and older??? [SEP] the purpose of this paper was to assess whether statins reduce all-cause mortality and cardiovascular (cv) events in elderly people without established cv disease. statins are widely used to prevent cardiovascular disease (cvd). background while there is clear evidence for the benefit of statins in the secondary prevention of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events, there is a lack of research on the effects of statin regimens in older patients aged 75\xa0years and over. objectives to compare the effectiveness of statin regimens in the secondary prevention of ischemic cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events among patients aged 75\xa0years and over. the role of statin therapy in primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in persons older than 75\u2009years remains a subject of debate with little evidence to support or exclude the benefit of this treatment. statins have been shown conclusively to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events in subjects with clinical cardiovascular disease or diabetes aged 65 to 80 years of age. this study aimed to critically evaluate the efficacy and safety of statins for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease (cvd) in the elderly. from a risk-benefit perspective, there is a role of statins for the primary prevention of major adverse cardiovascular events in elderly patients. available evidence shows that statins reduce cardiovascular events and invasive revascularization in older adults. although hmg-coa reductase inhibitors (statins) have been shown to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events in patients aged 65-80 years who have clinical cardiovascular disease, fewer data are available for elderly patients without cardiovascular disease. ',
 'Is Traumeel gel or ointment effective for sports injuries such as sprains, bruises and strains? [SEP] acute ankle sprains are common and activity limiting injuries, and topical diclofenac gel has proven efficacy in alleviating pain and restoring function. this trial aimed to compare a topical natural agent, traumeel with topical diclofenac gel (1%) in the management of acute ankle sprain. this prospective, multicentre, randomised, blinded, active-control and non-inferiority study involved 449 physically active adults sustaining unilateral grade 1 or 2 ankle sprain within the past 24 h. participants were randomised to receive 2 g of traumeel ointment (t-o) (n = 152) or traumeel gel (t-g) (n = 150) or diclofenac gel (d-g) (n = 147), administered topically to the ankle three times a day for 14 days, with 6-weeks follow up. t-o and t-g decreased pain and improved joint function to the same extent as d-g in acute ankle sprain, and were well tolerated. sport injuries (bruises, swelling secondary to sprains and contusions) respond favorably to eg, which is also indicated for varices in pregnancy. triamcinolone acetonide (ta) is widely used for the treatment of rotator cuff injury because of its anti-inflammatory properties. the aim of this study is to assess the efficacy and safety of traumeel injections versus corticosteroid injections and placebo in the treatment of rotator cuff syndrome and bursitis and expand the current evidence base for the conservative treatment of rotator cuff syndrome. this is a multi-center, randomized, double-blind, 16-week, three-arm, parallel-group, active- and placebo-controlled trial to assess the efficacy and safety of traumeel 2 ml injection versus dexamethasone 8 mg injection versus placebo (saline solution). this study was conducted to evaluate effects of flunixin meglumine (fm) on tendon healing after experimentally induced acute trauma. the present study showed that intramuscular injection of fm resulted in improved structural and mechanical properties of tendon repairs and it could be an effective treatment for acute tendon injuries like severance and laceration. ',
 'Are weather phenomena and weather changes triggers of migraine attacks? [SEP] weather is mentioned as a trigger factor by migraine patients most frequently. we examined the impact of meteorological factors and the impact of their day-to-day change on the risk of occurrence and persistence of headache and migraine and the correlation of subjective weather perception with objective weather data. self-reported surveys have indicated that weather can trigger migraine headaches. although atmospheric weather changes are often listed among the common migraine triggers, studies to determine the specific weather component(s) responsible have yielded inconsistent results. the study aimed at elucidating a potential correlation between specific meteorological variables and the prevalence and intensity of migraine attacks as well as exploring a potential individual predictability of a migraine attack based on meteorological variables and their changes. in a subgroup of migraineurs, a significant weather sensitivity could be observed. many headache patients believe that weather changes act as pain triggers. migraine attacks started most frequently at 4\xa0a.m. and reached the highest intensity between 4 and 8\xa0a.m. a highly significant association between meteorological variables and the occurrence of migraine attacks was found in six patients. our data indicate that a subgroup of migraineurs is highly sensitive to changes of certain weather components. we found that higher relative humidity was associated with higher odds of migraine headache onset in warm season, and traffic-related gaseous pollutants may be associated with higher odds of migraine headache onset in cold season. ',
 'Does artichoke preparation help with gastrointestinal problems? [SEP] to determine whether the consumption of artichokes enriched with a probiotic lactobacillus paracasei strain affects fecal microbiota composition, fecal enzyme activity, and short-chain fatty acids production and symptom profile in patients suffering from constipation. moreover, recent studies assessed the suitability of some vegetables, particularly olives and artichokes, to vehicle probiotic strains into the gastrointestinal tract. artichoke extracts are well known to be helpful in various gastrointestinal disorders. to evaluate the effects of probiotic-enriched artichokes on treatment preference, symptom profile and short-chain fatty acid (scfa) production in constipated subjects when compared with ordinary artichokes. satisfactory relief of symptoms was significantly higher (p = 0.0014) during the probiotic-enriched artichoke period. this trial shows a positive effect on symptoms in constipated patients after intake of probiotic-enriched artichokes. the present study evaluated the effects of artichoke and artichoke products administration on the glycemic indices. moreover, these outcomes suggested that just the supplementation of artichoke and artichoke products is more effective in the reduction of homa-ir levels than the co-supplementation form. in this study, the bioaccessibility and gut bioavailability of artichoke constituents were evaluated by combining in vitro digestion and large intestine fermentation, metabolomics, and caco-2 human intestinal cells model. moreover, the ability of artichoke polyphenols to modulate the in vitro starch digestibility was also explored. ',
 'Does prickly pear help with long-term weight loss? [SEP] the anti-diabetic activity of pear through inhibition of α-glucosidase has been demonstrated. however, little has been reported about the effect of pear on insulin signaling pathway in obesity. objective: the aim of the study was to compare the efficacy of long-term (12-mo) treatment of weight loss with pg and placebo (pl). previous research suggests potential for fresh pears as a functional food for promoting cardiometabolic health. the purpose of this randomized, open-label, placebo-controlled, crossover clinical trial was to evaluate the influence of daily fresh pear consumption on blood pressure (primary outcome) and other biomarkers of cardiometabolic health in middle-aged/older adults with metabolic syndrome (mets). after 12 weeks of daily fresh pear consumption, systolic blood pressure tended to be reduced (130 ± 2 mmhg vs. 134 ± 2 mmhg at baseline, p = 0.07) and pulse pressure was significantly reduced (51 ± 1 vs. 54 ± 1 at baseline, p < 0.05). waist circumference was significantly reduced at 12 weeks in the pear group (107.7 ± 2.0 cm vs. 108.4 ± 2 cm at baseline, p < 0.05) with a trend for a group by time interaction (p < 0.1), and significantly lower in the pear group than control (108.1 ± 2.0 cm vs. 108.8 ± 2 cm, p < 0.05) at 6 weeks with a significant group by time interaction (p < 0.05). these findings suggest that daily fresh pear consumption may promote modest improvements in cardiometabolic health in middle-aged/older adults with mets. our purpose was to determine if pgx® meal replacements and pgx(®) fibre complex in combination with a calorie-restricted diet would aid in weight loss in a clinical setting. polycystic ovary syndrome (pcos), a common condition in women, improves with weight loss. ',
 'Can turmeric relieve the symptoms of depression? [SEP] to clarify the underlying mechanism of turmeric, which is traditionally used as a medicinal plant for the treatment of cardiovascular disorders, such as hypertension, and palpitations. methanol extracts of different turmeric were used. turmeric extract or active component curcumin may have anti-inflammatory effects in people with chronic inflammatory diseases. background and objectives: turmeric has assisted in the control of inflammation and pain for decades and has been used in combination with other nutraceuticals to treat acute and chronic osteoarthritis pain. recently, the effect of turmeric, turmeric extract, or curcuminoids on musculoskeletal pain, either by themselves or in conjunction with other substances, has been reported. turmeric is commonly used as a dietary treatment for inflammation, but few studies have evaluated the direct effect of turmeric on cartilage. these data contribute to the growing body of evidence for the utility of turmeric as an intervention for cartilage inflammation. turmeric has been used as a medicinal herb for thousands of years for treatment of various disorders. although curcumin is the most studied active constituents of turmeric, accumulating evidence suggests that other components of turmeric have additional anti-inflammatory and anti-tumorigenic properties. collectively, these findings suggest that the combined treatment of curcumin and essential turmeric oils provides superior protection from dss-induced colitis than curcumin alone, highlighting the anti-inflammatory potential of turmeric. ',
 'Do phthalates affect semen quality in men? [SEP] are urinary phthalate concentrations associated with altered semen quality parameters among males recruited from the general population? studies involving infertile men seeking care suggest that phthalates influence measures of semen quality raising concern about the implications for men in the general population. results suggest that ambient phthalate metabolite concentrations may adversely affect human semen quality. in this study, we first assessed whether exposure to phthalates is associated with altered reproductive hormones and semen parameters in 599 men attending an in vitro fertilization clinic. although the level of phthalates is relatively mild, an association of phthalate levels and reduced quality of human semen has been shown in the present study. exposure to phthalates has been found to have adverse effects on male reproductive function in animals. here we examined the associations of phthalate exposure with semen quality and reproductive hormones in a chinese population using phthalate metabolite concentrations measured in semen as biomarkers. associations of the semen phthalate metabolites with semen quality parameters and serum reproductive hormones were assessed using confounder-adjusted linear and logistic regression models. semen phthalate metabolites were significantly associated with decreases in semen volume [mono-n-butyl phthalate (mbp), mono-(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (mehp), mono(2-ethyl-5-hydroxyhexyl) phthalate (mehhp), mono(2-ethyl-5-oxohexyl) phthalate (meohp)], sperm curvilinear velocity [monobenzyl phthalate (mbzp), mehp, the percentage of di-(2-ethylhexyl)-phthalate metabolites excreted as mehp (%mehp)], and straight-line velocity (mbzp, mehp, %mehp), and also associated with an increased percentage of abnormal heads and tails (mbzp) (all p for trend <0.05). our findings suggest that environmental exposure to phthalates may impair human semen quality. ',
 'Do phthalates reduce the likelihood of pregnancy in women? [SEP] phthalates are known reproductive toxicants that reduce placental and fetal weight in experimental animal studies. although phthalate exposure has been associated with reduced birth weight in humans, there is limited epidemiologic evidence on whether the placenta is also affected. animal studies demonstrate that several phthalates are embryofetotoxic and are associated with increased pregnancy loss and malformations. we examined pregnancy loss prospectively in relation to urinary phthalate metabolite concentrations among women undergoing medically assisted reproduction. is female exposure to phthalate metabolites associated with reduced fecundity, as estimated by prolonged time to pregnancy (ttp)? male exposure to phthalates is potentially associated with adverse effects on human fecundity in epidemiological studies, but little is known about the potential effects on female reproduction. our results suggest that female exposure to mep may have an adverse effect on female fecundity, but these findings need to be replicated in a larger and newer cohort study with sufficient exposure contrast if the use of diethyl phthalate (dep) and thereby mep in the future potentially should be regulated in cosmetics and industrial consumer products. increasing scientific evidence suggests that exposure to phthalates during pregnancy may be associated with an elevated risk of adverse reproductive outcomes such as preterm birth. phthalates have been linked to adverse pregnancy complications. exposure to phthalates during gestation has been associated with decreased birth weight among offspring. ',
 "Does ginseng improve mental performance in healthy individuals and patients with Alzheimer's dementia? [SEP] ginseng has been reported to improve cognitive function in animals and in healthy and cognitively impaired individuals. in this study, we investigated the efficacy of a heat-processed form of ginseng that contains more potent ginsenosides than raw ginseng in the treatment of cognitive impairment in patients with moderately severe alzheimer's disease (ad). these results demonstrate the potential efficacy of a heat-processed form of ginseng on cognitive function and behavioral symptoms in patients with moderately severe ad. to evaluate the efficacy and adverse effects of ginseng given to improve cognitive performance in healthy participants, participants with cognitive impairment or dementia.to highlight the quality and quantity of research evidence available. the effects of ginseng in healthy participants, participants with cognitive impairment or dementia were addressed independently. recent experimental evidences suggest protective and trophic effects of ginseng in the memory function of alzheimer disease (ad). these results suggest that panax ginseng is clinically effective in the cognitive performance of ad patients. ginseng has been used to alleviate age-related dementia and memory deterioration for thousands of years. ginseng has various medical applications, and it seems to have significant effects as a cognition-enhancing drug. ginseng extracts show cognition-enhancing effects in alzheimer's disease (ad) patients. ",
 "Does leaky gut syndrome cause health complaints or diseases? [SEP] it is now believed that disordered gut function (including abnormalities like disturbances of motility such as postprandial fundic relaxation, gastric emptying and disturbed visceral sensory function) play a key role for the manifestation of these disorders. constipation is one of the most common digestive complaints. functional gastrointestinal disorders, such as functional dyspepsia (fd) and irritable bowel syndrome, are common pathologies of the gut. irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) is the most common functional disorder in the gut. the objectives of this review on 'leaky gut' for clinicians are to discuss the components of the intestinal barrier, the diverse measurements of intestinal permeability, their perturbation in non-inflammatory 'stressed states' and the impact of treatment with dietary factors. information on 'healthy' or 'leaky' gut in the public domain requires confirmation before endorsing dietary exclusions, replacement with non-irritating foods (such as fermented foods) or use of supplements to repair the damage. dietary factors can reverse intestinal leakiness and mucosal damage in the 'stress' disorders. whereas inflammatory or ulcerating intestinal diseases result in leaky gut, no such disease can be cured by simply normalising intestinal barrier function. 'leaky gut' has been found in intestinal and extra-intestinal diseases. intestinal diseases, such as inflammatory bowel disease (ibd), are characterized by an impaired gut-blood barrier commonly referred to as 'leaky gut'. ",
 'Does the Alexander Technique help with back pain and neck pain? [SEP] the alexander technique (at) aims to improve postural coordination by using conscious processes to alter automatic postural coordination and ongoing muscular activity, and it has been reported to reduce low back pain. this case report describes the use of the at with a client with low back pain and the observed changes in automatic postural responses and back pain. "the alexander technique" is a taught form of physical therapy involving a series of movements designed to correct posture and bring the body into natural alignment with the object of helping it to function efficiently, and is reported to aid relaxation. \'the alexander technique\' is a taught form of physical therapy involving a series of movements designed to correct posture and bring the body into natural alignment with the object of helping it to function efficiently, and is reported to aid relaxation. the alexander technique (at) seeks to eliminate harmful patterns of tension that interfere with the control of posture and movement and in doing so, it may serve as a viable intervention method for increasing gait efficacy in older adults. the paper also describes how the alexander technique is used by women in pregnancy and childbirth and explains why it is beneficial. to determine whether the alexander technique, alongside normal treatment, is of benefit to people disabled by idiopathic parkinson\'s disease. a randomized controlled trial with three groups, one receiving lessons in the alexander technique, another receiving massage and one with no additional intervention. to evaluate clinical effectiveness of alexander technique lessons or acupuncture versus usual care for persons with chronic, nonspecific neck pain. acupuncture sessions and alexander technique lessons both led to significant reductions in neck pain and associated disability compared with usual care at 12 months. ',
 'Do the components of the Moringa oleifera tree have a positive effect on health? [SEP] moringa oleifera lam., a multipurpose tree, is used traditionally for its nutritional and medicinal properties. we investigated the effect of moringa oleifera lam. in addition, moringa oleifera lam. moringa oleifera is a tropical plant with high nutritional and medicinal value. moringa oleifera leaves are the most widely studied and they have shown to be beneficial in several chronic conditions, including hypercholesterolemia, high blood pressure, diabetes, insulin resistance, non-alcoholic liver disease, cancer and overall inflammation. overall, it has been well documented that moringa oleifera leaves are a good strategic for various conditions associated with heart disease, diabetes, cancer and fatty liver. the moringa plant (moringa oleifera) is known for its potential medicinal properties and health benefits in addition to its high nutritional value. moringa oleifera plant has been widely used for a vast number of folkloric medicinal purposes. moringa oleifera is a multi-purpose herbal plant used as human food and an alternative for medicinal purposes worldwide. moringa oleifera contains essential amino acids, carotenoids in leaves, and components with nutraceutical properties, supporting the idea of using this plant as a nutritional supplement or constituent in food preparation. ',
 'Does an extract from the root of the Cape geranium (Pelargonium sidoides, Umckaloabo) work against bronchitis? [SEP] the medicinal plant pelargonium sidoides dc. (geraniaceae) was traditionally used for the treatment of the common cold and cough in south africa. today an aequous-ethanolic root extract from this plant is approved for the treatment of acute bronchitis and is globally marketed also as an immunostimulant. the root extract of pelargonium sidoides dc (geraniaceae), eps® 7630, is currently used to treat respiratory tract infections. eps 7630 is an extract of the root of the south african geranium pelargonium sidoides. clinical data have shown that this herbal drug preparation can be used to treat upper respiratory tract infections (urti). pelargonium sidoides is a medical herb and respective extracts are used very frequently for the treatment of respiratory tract infections. aqueous leaf extract of bryophyllum pinnatum lam (crassulaceae) is used as a cough remedy and for the prophylaxis of asthma. it is concluded that aqueous leaf extract of b. pinnatum possesses antispasmodic effects on the guinea pig tracheal rings. previous investigations suggest the use of extract from the root of pelargonium sidoides (eps 7630) for the therapy of uncomplicated acute upper airway inflammations, due to its strong antimicrobial and immunomodulatory effect. ',
 'Does geranium extract help against colds and sinusitis??? [SEP] sinupret(®), a herbal medicinal product made from gentian root, primula flower, elder flower, sorrel herb, and verbena herb is frequently used in the treatment of acute and chronic rhinosinusitis and respiratory viral infections such as common cold. guettarda speciosa is known in traditional folk medicine for treating cough, cold, sore throat, fever, wounds, epilepsy, and headaches. alpinia officinarum (a. officinarum), a member of the ginger family, is used in traditional medicine to treat stomach ache, cold and swelling. the present study investigated the effect of g. gargal extract on allergic bronchial asthma. g. gargal extract significantly reduced airway hyperresponsiveness, lung eosinophilic infiltration, lung interleukin (il)-13 expression, and plasma ige level and significantly increased il-10 plasma levels compared to untreated control mice. g. gargal extract significantly suppressed expression of cytokines in mast cells and eosinophils compared with control cells. overall, these observations show that g. gargal extract augments the lung population of regulatory t cells and ameliorates allergic inflammation and airway hyperresponsiveness in mice with allergic bronchial asthma, suggesting the potential therapeutic benefit of g. gargal extract in allergic diseases. galgeun-tang water extract (ggwe) is used to treat various diseases such as the common cold, eczema and asthma in china and korea. our study suggests that the shoseiryu-to may alleviate nasal symptoms in allergic rhinitis through control of the allergen-induced inflammatory process. geranium schiedeanum has been used in traditional therapies as an antiseptic, antipyretic, and as analgesic. ',
 'Does taking DHEA have an anti-aging effect by increasing the physical and mental well-being of older people? [SEP] although dehydroepiandrosterone (dhea) is widely used in the elderly to prevent some adverse effects of ageing, possible deleterious side effects have not been fully assessed. dehydroepiandrosterone (dhea) is a widespread nutritional "anti-aging" supplement. the adrenal steroid hormone dehydroepiandrosterone (dhea) and its sulfated derivative [dhea(s)] have been extensively studied for their potential anti-aging effects. associated with aging, dhea levels decline in humans, whereas other adrenal hormones remain unchanged, suggesting that dhea may be important in the aging process. dehydroepiandrosterone (dhea) concentration decreases with age, therefore, dhea has been considered a hormone that reduces the symptoms associated with aging, so the usefulness of dhea in premenopausal and postmenopausal women, and the options of hormone therapy have received a large amount of attention. in view of the theoretical possibility of beneficial effects of dhea or dheas in retarding age-associated deterioration in cognitive function, we have reviewed studies in this area. dehydroepiandrosterone (dhea) is widely used as a nutritional supplement, and administration of dhea produces a number of beneficial effects in the elderly. these results increase our understanding of the molecular mechanism of the anti-ageing effect of dhea. serum concentrations of dehydroepiandrosterone (dhea) and its sulfate ester (sdhea) decrease dramatically with age in parallel with the appearance of age-related health problems, leading to the suggestion that dhea replacement therapy may be beneficial in older patients. a favorable role for dheas in successful aging is proposed. ',
 'Can DHEA prolong life or improve health in old age? [SEP] in view of the theoretical possibility of beneficial effects of dhea or dheas in retarding age-associated deterioration in cognitive function, we have reviewed studies in this area. to establish whether administration of dhea, or its sulphate, dheas, improves cognitive function or reduces the rate of decline of cognitive function in normal older adults. although dehydroepiandrosterone (dhea) is widely used in the elderly to prevent some adverse effects of ageing, possible deleterious side effects have not been fully assessed. dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (dheas), the major circulating adrenal hormone, has been suggested to have a role in many aging related diseases and perhaps in aging itself. a favorable role for dheas in successful aging is proposed. dehydroepiandrosterone (dhea) is a widespread nutritional "anti-aging" supplement. dehydroepiandrosterone (dhea) is widely used as a nutritional supplement, and administration of dhea produces a number of beneficial effects in the elderly. these results increase our understanding of the molecular mechanism of the anti-ageing effect of dhea. despite limited scientific data, dhea has gained recognition as a dietary supplement to reduce the symptoms of aging and improve well-being. dehydroepiandrosterone (dhea) concentration decreases with age, therefore, dhea has been considered a hormone that reduces the symptoms associated with aging, so the usefulness of dhea in premenopausal and postmenopausal women, and the options of hormone therapy have received a large amount of attention. ',
 'Can the proper use of fluoride toothpaste cause serious long-term health problems? [SEP] toothbrushing with fluoride dentifrice has become an important public health measure in preventing caries and gingivitis. although fluoride is known to reduce the incidence of caries, chronic excessive fluoride exposure can impair human health, even resulting in fluorosis. the results suggest that overexposure to fluoride (160-320\xa0μm) can induce cytotoxicity and regulate relevant genes expression. fluoride is an effective caries prophylactic, but at high doses can also be an environmental health hazard. acute or chronic exposure to high fluoride doses can result in dental enamel and skeletal and soft tissue fluorosis. although fluoride has been widely used in toothpaste, mouthwash, and drinking water to prevent dental caries, the excessive intake of fluoride can cause fluorosis which is associated with dental, skeletal, and soft tissue fluorosis. the extensive literature on water fluoridation and fluoride supplementation is discussed, looking critically at the benefits of systemic fluoride availability in the prevention of dental caries and at the adverse factors of enamel fluorosis which can occur from the ingestion of too much fluoride during the period of tooth development. recent studies suggest that fluoride may be genotoxic. while the concentration of fluoride in artificially fluoridated water (1 mg fl-1) is generally considered to be "safe", levels of fluoride present in a number of widely used dental health products, such as fluoride-containing toothpaste, appear to be potentially mutagenic. fluoride toxicology and epidemiology documents frequent unspecific chronic gastrointestinal symptoms and intestinal inflammation. ',
 'Does fluoride toothpaste prevent tooth decay? [SEP] the purpose of this paper is to report an investigation of the link between oral fluoride levels and applied fluoride dose from dentifrices. the present study was aimed to clinically evaluate the salivary fluoride retention of dentifrices containing low fluoride concentration in 50 children, aged 7-9 years before, during and after the use of fluoride toothpaste. the results of the present study suggest that there is considerable salivary fluoride retention after brushing with fluoride dentifrices. with more than 50 years of clinical success, fluoride serves as the gold standard agent for preventing tooth decay. toothpastes are the most universally accepted form of fluoride delivery for caries prevention. while fluoride has had a dramatic effect in reducing the rate of caries, it has failed to provide complete protection against caries development, and tooth decay is still widely prevalent. while the clinical anticaries efficacy of fluoride toothpaste is now without question, our understanding of the relation of fluoride efficacy to brushing time and dentifrice quantity is limited. compared to 0.5 g dentifrice, brushing with 1.5 g dentifrice more than doubled the fluoride recovered in saliva after brushing and increased efu. in conclusion, the results of this preliminary, short-term usage study suggest for the first time that both brushing time and dentifrice quantity may be important determinants both of fluoride retention in the oral cavity and consequent enamel remineralization. although it is generally accepted that the presence of fluoride in the enamel protects teeth against carious attack, at the same time, there is some concern that ingestion of fluoride from toothpastes may substantially contribute to the total intake of this element. ',
 'Do products with the tropical fruit mangosteen promote health? [SEP] the mangosteen (garcinia mangostana) is a tropical fruit native to southeast asia and has long been reported to contain multiple health promoting properties. mangosteen (garcinia mangostana) is a tropical fruit cultivated mainly in southeast asia. recent studies have shown mangosteen has many health benefits. in this study, we aimed to determine the effects of a mangosteen-based beverage on antioxidant and anti-inflammatory and immunity biomarkers in plasma of healthy adults. the outcome of this study showed that the mangosteen-based formula significantly increases antioxidant capacity and possesses anti-inflammatory benefits with no side effects on immune, hepatic, and renal functions for long-term consumption. mangosteen is a tropical fruit native to southeast asia. mangosteen (garcinia mangostana l., guttiferae) is a tropical fruit renowned for its pleasant taste, rich nutrition, and medicinal value. the tropical mangosteen fruit has long been prized in southeast asia for its traditional healing properties. mangosteen fruit juice is now available in the united states and marketed for its purported health benefits. mangosteen is a xanthone-containing fruit found in southeast asia for which health claims include maintaining healthy immune and gastrointestinal systems to slowing the progression of tumor growth and neurodegenerative diseases. ',
 'Are topical agents containing acids and oils, such as Excilor and Nailner, effective for nail fungus? [SEP] amorolfine nail lacquer was mentioned as an effective treatment for non-dermatophyte nail infection. this study aimed to demonstrate efficacy and treatment outcomes of amorolfine nail lacquer in n. dimidiatum onychomycosis, compared with topical urea treatment. among 53 outpatients of n. dimidiatum infection, 28 (52.8%) were treated by amorolfine nail lacquer and other 26 (47.2%) by conventional topical urea cream with occlusion. this study supported that amorolfine nail lacquer provided promising efficacy in the treatment of neoscytalidium onychomycosis as a novel monotherapy regimen which were superior to topical urea cream with occlusion in every aspect. the present study aimed at evaluating the antimycotic activity of a new water-soluble nail lacquer containing cpx (cpx/sol), easily removable by washing with water and applicable to periungual skin. of all commercial nail formulations, only excilor(®) and nailner(®) demonstrated inhibitory activity, which was much lower compared to the daily application of loceryl(®) . these results suggest a role for organic acids in the antifungal effect of excilor(®) (acetic acid, ethyl lactate) and nailner(®) (lactic acid, citric acid, ethyl lactate) as all tested formulations without organic acids were inactive. the use of antifungal nail lacquers in combination with oral agents, such as terbinafine and itraconazole, improves efficacy of antifungal therapy. traditionally, topical agents used as monotherapy for onychomycosis are only able to inhibit the growth of fungal nail infections; clinical and mycologic cures have recently been observed after treatment with some of the newer preparations. alternatively, the application of antifungal lacquer to fingernail and toenail fungal infections may also be an effective topical therapy for the treatment of less severe forms of onychomycosis. ',
 'Can weight loss programs reduce obesity in children and adolescents? [SEP] although several intervention programs for children result in weight loss or stabilisation in the short term, preventing relapse after weight loss remains an important challenge. weight loss maintenance approaches in childhood are thought to be promising, but a structured overview of these maintenance interventions is lacking. lifestyle intervention programs currently emphasize weight loss secondary to obesity as the primary determinant of phenotypic changes. how effective are diet, physical activity, and behavioral interventions in treating children aged 6 to 11 years with overweight or obesity? weight-related behaviors such as sedentary activity, physical activity, and diet have been the focus of efforts to prevent and reduce the occurrence of obesity and overweight in children, but few longitudinal studies have examined the effects of weight-related behaviors on changes in weight status over time in children. early prevention and treatment of childhood and adolescent obesity is mandated. these results highlight the importance of multidisciplinary programs for the treatment of childhood obesity and emphasize their encouraging long-term effects. further, weight loss interventions among children and adults alike tend to demonstrate efficacy in the short-term, however individuals tend to slowly revert back to their original weight status over time. the aim of this review is to summarize the most effective types of intervention for treating obesity in children and adolescents. childhood obesity treatments should involve a combination of lifestyle changes including strategies to reduce energy intake, increase physical activity, reduce sedentary activities, facilitate family involvement and change behaviours associated with eating and physical activity. ',
 'Does valerian help with sleep disorders? [SEP] one of the most popular herbal remedies for the alleviation of sleep problems is valerian. this clinical study used standardized sleep eeg and psychometric tests to evaluate the clinical efficacy of a valerian preparation (li 156). valeriana officinalis l. is a popular herbal treatment for mild sleep disorders. the herb valerian may be useful as a mild sleep aid in clinical populations, such as persons with rheumatoid arthritis. objective: to systematically review the evidence for the effects of the herb valerian (valeriana officinalis) on insomnia, based on randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trials.background: valerian has long been advocated and used for promoting sleep but until quite recently evidence was solely anecdotal. due to these findings it is proposed that not sedative but anxiolytic and antidepressant activity, which was elaborated particularly in the special extract phytofin valerian 368, considerably contribute to the sleep-enhancing properties of valerian. valerian is a traditional herbal sleep remedy that has been studied with a variety of methodologic designs using multiple dosages and preparations. valerian improves subjective experiences of sleep when taken nightly over one- to two-week periods, and it appears to be a safe sedative/hypnotic choice in patients with mild to moderate insomnia. while many prescription drugs are used to treat insomnia, extracts of valerian (valeriana officinalis l., valerianaceae) are also used for the treatment of insomnia and restlessness. valeriana officinalis l. (valerian) is widely used as a traditional medicine to improve the quality of sleep. ',
 'Is milk thistle extract an effective treatment for liver disease? [SEP] milk thistle extracts have been used as a "liver tonic" for centuries. extracts of milk thistle have been recognized for centuries as "liver tonics" and are well-known to prevent or reverse hepatotoxicity of reactive drug metabolites or naturally occurring toxins. milk thistle (silybum marianum) is a flowering herb utilized for its potentially protective effects on the liver. preliminary clinical evaluations of milk thistle for cirrhosis of the liver indicate potential benefits in healthier patients with alcoholic cirrhosis. eighteen randomised clinical trials assessed milk thistle in 1088 patients with alcoholic and/or hepatitis b or c virus liver diseases. thirteen randomised clinical trials assessed milk thistle in 915 patients with alcoholic and/or hepatitis b or c virus liver diseases. milk thistle or its purified extract, silymarin (silybum marianum), is widely used in treating acute or chronic hepatitis. milk thistle (silybum marianum) is an herbal supplement used to treat liver and biliary disorders. although milk thistle has not significantly altered the course of chronic liver disease, it has reduced liver enzyme levels and demonstrated anti-inflammatory and t cell-modulating effects. milk thistle (silybum marianum) has been used in humans for the treatment of liver disease because of its antioxidant properties and its ability to stabilize cell membranes and regulate cell permeability. ',
 'Do dietary supplements with amino acids and proteins help against muscle atrophy in old age (sarcopenia)? [SEP] the protein intake of older people has gained increasing scientific interest as a potential factor to delay the age-associated decline in muscle mass and consequently to counteract the development of sarcopenia. we previously showed that free-form essential amino acids acutely stimulate muscle protein synthesis in both the young and the elderly. the loss of skeletal muscle size and function with aging and sarcopenia may be related, in part, to an age-related muscle protein synthesis impairment. in this review, we discuss to what extent aging affects skeletal muscle protein synthesis and how nutrition and exercise can be used strategically to overcome age-related protein synthesis impairments and slow the progression of sarcopenia. this review evaluates the effectiveness of dairy proteins on functions associated with sarcopenia in middle-aged and older adults. protein and amino acid supplements can preserve muscle strength but the effect on function is variable. we conducted a systematic literature review and meta-analysis to investigate the effect of protein and amino acid supplementation on fat-free mass, muscle strength and physical function in malnourished, frail, sarcopenic, dependent or elderly with acute or chronic conditions, with or without rehabilitation exercise. amino acids alone stimulate muscle protein synthesis in the elderly. with aging, skeletal muscle becomes resistant to the anabolic effect of dietary proteins and sarcopenia develops. decline in muscle mass, protein synthesis, and mitochondrial function occurs with age, and amino acids are reported to enhance both muscle protein synthesis and mitochondrial function. ',
 'Can music therapy help people affected by stroke learn to walk normally again? [SEP] in line with this, musical rhythmicity improves post-stroke gait. what is the state of knowledge and evidence for a role of music in supporting the rehabilitation of movements after stroke? in this brief perspective, i provide background context and information about stroke recovery in general, in order to spark reflection and discussion for how we think music may impact motor recovery, given the current clinical milieu. the purpose of this article is to educate nurses about music therapy and provide evidence for the therapeutic use of music in the rehabilitation setting for victims of stroke. individualized in-patient rehabilitation interventions improve balance and gait in patients with stroke. objective: to describe an in-patient rehabilitation intervention that rhythmically paired patient-selected music with rehabilitative interventions for a patient with acute stroke. conclusion: incorporating patient-selected music with in-patient physical rehabilitation may be a feasible intervention for patients with acute stroke. robotic-assisted walking training after stroke aims to enhance the odd of regaining independent gait. in order to explore the plasticity effects of music-supported therapy, this therapeutic intervention was applied to twenty chronic stroke patients. we investigated effects of music-supported therapy (mst) in chronic stroke on motor, cognitive, and psychosocial functions compared to conventional physical training (grasp). ',
 'Can music therapy help stroke victims with other problems??? [SEP] music-supported therapy (mst) is a new approach for motor rehabilitation of stroke patients. additionally, it suggests that apart from the repetitive practices of mst, music may play a unique role in improving upper-limb motor function for post-stroke patients. the purpose of this article is to educate nurses about music therapy and provide evidence for the therapeutic use of music in the rehabilitation setting for victims of stroke. by extending an earlier study on the effects of music-supported therapy, behavioral indices of motor function as well as electrophysiological measures were obtained before and after a series of therapy sessions to assess whether this new treatment leads to neural reorganization and motor recovery in patients after stroke. thus we see that music-supported therapy leads to marked improvements of motor function after stroke and that these are accompanied by electrophysiological changes indicative of a better cortical connectivity and improved activation of the motor cortex. the effect of music-supported therapy (mst) as a tool to restore hemiparesis of the upper extremity after a stroke has not been appropriately contrasted with conventional therapy. a preliminary investigation was initiated to explore the use of music as a means of improving general mobility, social interaction, and emotional stability in patients who have suffered a stroke. what is the state of knowledge and evidence for a role of music in supporting the rehabilitation of movements after stroke? music-supported therapy (mst) has been developed recently in order to improve the use of the affected upper extremity after stroke. in order to explore the plasticity effects of music-supported therapy, this therapeutic intervention was applied to twenty chronic stroke patients. ',
 'Does plant or animal protein have an influence on lifespan? [SEP] the level of dietary protein determines the onset of reproduction, affects offspring growth and maturation, and hence influences life-history traits and fitness. this study demonstrates that the level of dietary protein influences the life-history of r. d. chakae in predictable ways. diets higher in protein have been reported to improve age-related changes in body composition via increased energy expenditure, shifts in substrate oxidation (so), and decreased appetite. however, how protein source (e.g., animal compared with plant protein) affects energy expenditure, appetite, and food intake as we age is unknown. there was a significant effect of time, age, and protein source on appetite (p\xa0<\xa00.05). proteins from plant-based compared with animal-based food sources may have different effects on cardiovascular disease (cvd) risk factors. disruption of any one of these genes increased lifespan up to 90% independent of food intake suggesting the perceived value of dietary protein is a critical determinant of its effect on lifespan. while many studies have shown that nad(+) is important when lifespan is modulated by dietary means, it is uncertain whether or how nad(+) affects either formation or elimination of altered proteins. increased consumption of animal-derived protein is often advocated as a strategy to support physical performance in old age. the pubmed database was searched for both chronic and acute interventional studies, as well as observational studies, in healthy humans or those with metabolic dysfunctions, in which the impact of animal and plant protein intake was compared while using the following variables: cholesterolemia and triglyceridemia, blood pressure, glucose homeostasis, and body composition. ',
 'Does chicken soup help with colds? [SEP] chicken soup has long been regarded as a remedy for symptomatic upper respiratory tract infections. as it is likely that the clinical similarity of the diverse infectious processes that can result in "colds" is due to a shared inflammatory response, an effect of chicken soup in mitigating inflammation could account for its attested benefits. to evaluate this, a traditional chicken soup was tested for its ability to inhibit neutrophil migration using the standard boyden blindwell chemotaxis chamber assay with zymosan-activated serum and fmet-leu-phe as chemoattractants. chicken soup significantly inhibited neutrophil migration and did so in a concentration-dependent manner. all of the vegetables present in the soup and the chicken individually had inhibitory activity, although only the chicken lacked cytotoxic activity. the present study, therefore, suggests that chicken soup may contain a number of substances with beneficial medicinal activity. a mild anti-inflammatory effect could be one mechanism by which the soup could result in the mitigation of symptomatic upper respiratory tract infections. chicken soup is one of the most popular chinese-style soups due to its high nutritional value and special flavor. to evaluate the antioxidant status of chicken during cold stress and to investigate if there are any beneficial effects of brahma rasayana supplementation in cold stressed chicken. the results suggest that ss improved the flavor retention of chicken soup after 21\xa0days of storage and is a potential alternative treatment compared to rs. ',
 'Do herbal remedies containing an extract of Chinese tragacanth root, such as Lectranal or Allvent, help against allergies? [SEP] traditional medicine uses herbal infusions such as: lingonberry leaf (vitis idaeae folium), birch leaf (betulaefolium) wild thyme extract (serpylli herba), dwarf everlast flower (helichrysi inflorescentia), goldenrod (virgauneae herba, also called solidaginis herba), restharrow root (ononidis radix), agrimony (agrimoniae herba), rowanberry (sorbi aucupariae fructus), black elderberry (sambuci fructus), and juniper berry (juniperifrictus). the results of the experiments carried out using the microtox test show that both in preventative medicine, as well as in aiding treatment of utis, the biggest benefit is brought by herbal infusions of wild thyme extract and birch leaf (at all concentrations), and also by infusions at higher concentrations (approx. tea brewed from the leaves of persimmon or rosa agrestis have several medical functions including treating allergy, antiatopic dermatitis, and anti-inflammatory effects. plants belonging to the rhodiola genus, originating from asia, are traditionally used as tonic, adaptogen, antidepressant and anti-inflammatory drugs. these plants have also potent immunomodulatory properties and in some situations possibly could be used instead of standard antibiotic therapy (e.g. the successful derivation of pure bioactive compounds from ganoderma lucidum, ginseng and zingiber officinale supports the traditional practice of using these plants to stimulate the immune system. clinically, some traditional chinese herbal medicines have been thought to be effective in treating rheumatic diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus. to examine the mechanism by which such herbal remedies might be effective, we investigated the ability of tripterygium wilfordii hook-f (twhf) and tetrandrine (ttd) to affect human immune responsiveness in vitro. here, we sought to determine whether a. orientale has a therapeutic effect on acute lung injury (ali). together, our results provide evidence that a. orientale has a therapeutic effect on ali induced by sepsis. ',
 'Does alkaline water keep you healthy or can it prevent disease? [SEP] consumption of hard water is presumed to protect against the development of arteriosclerotic diseases. substantial epidemiologic correlations support the "hard water effect" as sufficiently valid to warrant alteration of public water supplies as a public health measure. the relationship between hard water and arteriosclerosis is reviewed, contradictions and exceptions noted, and an alternate theory of microbial infection is offered. hydrogen-dissolved water has been shown to improve diverse oxidation stress-related diseases, which drove us to examine effects of hydrogen-rich water on oxidation stress-related skin troubles and lipid-metabolism markers. this review contends that "healthy" water in terms of electrolyte balance is as important as "pure" water in promoting public health. in view of the rising production and consumption of demineralized water in most parts of the world, there is a strong need for further research on the biological importance and protean roles of electrolyte abnormalities in promoting, antagonizing or otherwise enabling the development of cancer. boiling, disinfecting, and filtering water within the home can improve the microbiological quality of drinking water among the hundreds of millions of people who rely on unsafe water supplies. this review tests the hypothesis that optimal chronic water intake positively impacts various aspects of health and proposes an evidence-based definition of optimal hydration. therefore, in this review we analyze current evidence that support water therapy in nephrolithiasis and we highlight the possible effects of different types of water and other beverages on lithogenic risk, giving some practical recommendations for what stone formers should be advised to prevent recurrence. adequate daily water consumption is an important factor of keeping regular homeostasis. ',
 "Do remedies with hops or valerian help with anxiety disorders? [SEP] hops (humulus lupulus, cannabinaceae) has been used in traditional european medicine as a mild sedative for the treatment of anxiety, nervousness, and insomnia. hops extract (250 mg kg(-1)) significantly decreased body temperature in male bl6/c57j mice (deltat -0.75 +/- 0.07 degrees c) 2 h after oral administration. thus, our data suggests that the hypothermic--and therefore the sleep-inducing--effects of hops extract are possibly mediated through activation of melatonin receptors. hops (humulus lupulus (l.)) dietary supplements are of interest as herbal remedies to alleviate menopausal symptoms, such as hot flushes, depression and anxiety. for the alleviation of menopausal symptoms, women frequently turn to botanical dietary supplements, such as licorice and hops. women seeking alternatives to hormone-replacement therapy for menopausal symptoms often try botanical dietary supplements containing extracts of hops (humulus lupulus l.). aqueous hop extract induced relaxation of endothelium-intact thoracic arterial rings in male and sham ovx rats, whereas a weak effect was observed in ovx rats. valerian preparations alone or in combination with hops are popular over-the-counter products used for sleep disturbances or anxiety. the inhibitory effects of valerian and valerian/hops extracts as well as valerenic acid (a major constituent of valerian) on glucuronidation were evaluated in human liver microsomes and with expressed uridine 5'-diphosphate (udp)-glucuronosyltransferases (ugt). in addition to its efficacy for menopausal symptoms, hops can also modulate the chemical estrogen carcinogenesis pathway and potentially protect women from breast cancer. ",
 "Do extracts of African devil's claw (Harpagophytum procumbens) relieve pain in patients with osteoarthritis? [SEP] harpagophytum procumbens, known as devil's claw, has been used traditionally for the treatment of pain, fevers, and dyspepsia. preparations of harpagophytum procumbens, known as devil's claw, are used as an adjunctive therapy for the treatment of pain and osteoarthritis. stapf, devil's claw which has been used in patients with osteoarthritis (oa). their root extracts contain the iridoid glycoside, harpagoside, which has been found to be effective in the treatment of degenerative rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, tendonitis, kidney inflammation, and heart disease. various researchers have described anti-inflammatory activity of aqueous extracts of devil's-claw (harpagophytum procumbens dc.). devil's claw is a common ingredient in nutraceutical products for the treatment of inflammation due to arthritis. a previous report showed that extracts of cell suspension and transformed root cultures of harpagophytum procumbens (commonly known as devil's claw), an african plant with high medicinal value, exhibit strong antiinflammatory characteristics. harpagophytum procumbens, or devil's claw, is an african plant whose root is used to relieve minor joint symptoms. devil's claw (harpagophytum procumbens), turmeric (curcuma longa), and bromelain are nutraceuticals that have demonstrated anti-inflammatory and analgesic properties and may be potential solutions in the treatment of acute or chronic joint pain. harpagophytum procumbens, popularly known as devil's claw, is a plant commonly used in the treatment of diseases of inflammatory origin. ",
 "Can probiotics prevent diarrhea after treatment with antibiotics? [SEP] the role of probiotics in the prevention and treatment of antibiotic-associated diarrhea, clostridium difficile diarrhea, and recurrent c. difficile diarrhea is reviewed. probiotics are living microorganisms, which, upon oral ingestion, may prevent antibiotic-associated diarrhea (aad) by the normalization of an unbalanced gastrointestinal flora. diarrhea is a common side effect of treatment with antibiotics. some studies indicate that the risk of antibiotic-associated diarrhea can be reduced by administration of certain probiotic microorganisms. probiotics may be of benefit in treating acute infectious diarrhea and reducing antibiotic-associated diarrhea. several studies have shown that probiotics are of benefit in gastrointestinal infections, including viral diarrhea, clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea, traveler's diarrhea, and antibiotic-associated diarrhea. one condition for which probiotics have been advocated is the diarrhea that is a common adverse effect of antibiotic use. to evaluate the evidence for probiotic use in the prevention and treatment of antibiotic-associated diarrhea (aad). probiotic bacteria have well-established beneficial effects in the management of diarrhoeal diseases. some studies suggest a role for probiotics as supplemental treatment, in combination with antibiotics, for the aforementioned disease processes. ",
 'Is exercise an effective measure to combat depression? [SEP] previous observational and interventional studies have suggested that regular physical exercise may be associated with reduced symptoms of depression. is exercise an effective treatment for depression? exercise is associated with a greater reduction in depression symptoms compared with no treatment, placebo, or active control interventions, such as relaxation or meditation. exercise effectively improves mood in major depressive disorder (mdd), but the optimal exercise stimulus to improve depressed mood is unknown. to acutely improve depressed mood, exercise of any intensity significantly improved feelings of depression with no differential effect following light, moderate, or hard exercise. acute exercise should be used as a symptom management tool to improve mood in depression, with even light exercise an effective recommendation. exercise as a treatment for depression carries both potential benefit for depressive symptoms and risk for adverse events. although currently available evidence suggests that physical exercise can be beneficial for depressed patients and might be comparable to antidepressant treatment, the best way of implementing this recommendation in clinical practice is not known. exercise has been studied as a potential antidepressant, with most studies supporting its efficacy. exercise also has the potential to reduce the risk for physical comorbidities that occur with depression. ',
 'Can a tantrum trigger a heart attack? [SEP] the cardiovascular manifestations of tetanus consist of disturbances of heart rate and rhythm, blood pressure instability, arrhythmias, myocardial dysfunction and sympathetic overactivity. it was suggested that either a sudden loss of catecholamine stimulation or myocardial damage caused by the direct action of the tetanus toxin, could be involved in cardiac dysfunction described in tetanus. we report a fatal case of tetanus in which we investigated the cardiac morphology and the expression of tnfalpha to elucidate the heart involvement in this case. since it is well known that myocardial damage caused by catecholamines can induce synthesis of cytokines by myocytes, cytokines, specifically those with known cardiodepressant properties such as tnf-alpha, could be an alternative mechanism involved in cardiac dysfunction in the setting of tetanus. tako-tsubo-like cardiomyopathy (ttc) is much more common than originally thought. the most accepted theory proposes myocardial stunning of neurogenic origin, supported by the frequent antecedent of emotional or physical stress, suggesting a catecholamine-mediated mechanism. it is uncertain whether external electrical cardioversion (cv) of atrial fibrillation (af) can cause myocardial injury identifiable by troponin i (ctni). right ventricular myocardial infarction can lead to cardiogenic shock and death. this study was undertaken to determine whether thickening of the atrioventricular (av) node artery is a cause of sudden cardiac death. thickening of the av node artery has been implicated as a cause of sudden death primarily on the basis of case reports. ',
 'Can anger over a long period of time increase the risk of heart attack??? [SEP] a high level of anger has a powerful effect on the incidence of preventable cardiovascular death. the aim of the present study was to explore the association between outbursts of anger and acute myocardial infarction (ami) risk. outbursts of anger are associated with an abrupt increase in cardiovascular events; however, it remains unknown whether greater levels of anger intensity are associated with greater levels of ami risk or whether potentially modifiable factors can mitigate the short-term risk of ami. diary-based studies confirm that anger and other negative emotions can trigger potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmias. the hypothesis that intense anger experience may increase risk for or exacerbate cardiovascular diseases has been under active theoretical and empirical interest for decades. we also review recent studies addressing the association between anger and cardiovascular diseases, and we present potential neuroendocrine and behavioral mechanisms through which anger expression may increase risk for cardiovascular disease. suggestive evidence supports that anger is associated with increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. we investigated whether anger expression increases the risk of recurrent events in women with coronary heart disease (chd). each unit increase in the outward expression of anger increased by 42% the risk for cardiac death or a new ami (95% ci: 1.01-2.00). episodes of anger are capable of triggering the onset of acute myocardial infarction, but aspirin may reduce this risk. ',
 'Can capsules with omega-3 fatty acids from fish oil relieve depression? [SEP] dietary deficiencies in essential omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids derived from fish are associated with depression and some fish oils may have therapeutic benefits. we aimed to determine whether taking tuna fish oil confers any additional benefit to conventional outpatient treatment for major depression. a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled four-month trial comparing tuna fish oil versus placebo was conducted on 83 outpatients with major depression. this particular dose and type of fish oil conferred no additional benefit to conventional treatment of depression in this sample. converging evidence suggests that omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids have aetiological importance in depression. to determine the effect of adding fish oil to existing therapy in participants who were being treated for depression in a community setting, 77 participants were randomly assigned to receive 8 g of either fish or olive oil per day in addition to their existing therapy. there was no evidence that fish oil improved mood when compared to the placebo oil, despite an increase in circulating omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids. dietary supplementation with fish oils high in the omega-3 fatty acids, eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid, may have an antiinflammatory effect. studies have reported that countries with high rates of fish oil consumption have low rates of depressive disorder. the authors studied a specific omega-3 fatty acid, the ethyl ester of eicosapentaenoic acid (e-epa), as an adjunct to treatment for depressive episodes occurring in patients with recurrent unipolar depressive disorder who were receiving maintenance antidepressant therapy. ',
 'Does regular consumption of coffee increase the risk of heart disease such as heart attack or stroke? [SEP] in the current paper, we discuss the acute and long-term cardiovascular effects of coffee, and its major constituents, which could underlie such an association. for many years, an association between coffee consumption and the risk of coronary heart disease has been suspected. we examined prospectively the relation of coffee consumption with the risk of myocardial infarction, need for coronary-artery bypass grafting or angioplasty, and risk of stroke in a cohort of 45,589 u.s. men who were 40 to 75 years old in 1986 and who had no history of cardiovascular disease. these findings do not support the hypothesis that coffee or caffeine consumption increases the risk of coronary heart disease or stroke. heavy coffee consumption increases the incidence of acute coronary events in men with low but not high comt activity. in this work, we evaluated the association between coffee consumption and the risk of developing acute coronary syndromes, based on a random sample of 848 patients with their first coronary heart disease event and 1078 frequency-matched controls with no cardiovascular disease in their medical history, from the entire country. this review examines the effects of coffee on cardiovascular risk, outlines underlying biological mechanisms, and discusses implications for public health. in the past, coffee was often viewed as a cardiovascular risk-factor. in summary, for most healthy people, moderate coffee consumption is unlikely to adversely affect cardiovascular health. coffee is one of the most widely consumed beverages, and some studies have suggested it may be related to cardiovascular disease (cvd), the leading cause of poor health in the world. ',
 'Do cesarean babies have a higher risk of becoming overweight later in life? [SEP] to investigate whether birth by cesarean delivery rather than vaginal delivery is a risk factor for later childhood obesity. cesarean delivery may increase the risk of obesity in early childhood. cesarean delivery is associated with an increased risk of childhood obesity in offspring. this study suggests that women born by cesarean delivery may have a higher risk than women born by vaginal delivery of being obese and developing type 2 diabetes during adult life. to investigate whether children delivered by cesarean had a higher risk of being overweight from early until late childhood and whether they had a higher blood pressure in adolescence compared with children delivered vaginally. children born by cesarean delivery (n\u2009=\u2009236, 8.9%) had a 1.52 (95% ci 1.18, 1.96) higher odds of being overweight throughout childhood than children delivered vaginally. compared with children delivered vaginally, children delivered by cesarean had a 52% higher risk of being overweight throughout childhood, but this was not accompanied by a higher blood pressure in adolescence. a few small-scale studies suggest that caesarean section may be associated with later overweight and obesity, whereas little is known about the impact of caesarean delivery on maternal request. what this study adds caesarean section is associated with an increased risk of childhood overweight. children born by caesarean delivery on maternal request are also more likely to be overweight. ',
 'Do cesarean babies have a higher risk of asthma and allergies later in life? Do they have an increased risk of type 1 diabetes?? [SEP] studies have indicated that children delivered by cesarean section are at an increased risk of developing wheezing and asthma. children delivered by cesarean section had an increased likelihood of current asthma at 36 months of age (relative risk = 1.17, 95% confidence interval: 1.03, 1.32), and the association was stronger among children of nonatopic mothers (relative risk = 1.33, 95% confidence interval: 1.12, 1.58). in conclusion, children delivered by cesarean section may have an increased risk of current asthma at 36 months, but residual confounding cannot be excluded. caesarean section might be a risk factor for asthma because of delayed microbial colonisation, but the association remains controversial. a study was undertaken to investigate prospectively whether children born by caesarean section are more at risk of having asthma in childhood and sensitisation at the age of 8 years, taking into account the allergic status of the parents. children born by caesarean section have a higher risk of asthma than those born by vaginal delivery, particularly children of allergic parents. our findings suggest that cesarean delivery is associated with allergic rhinitis and atopy among children with a parental history of asthma or allergies. in particular, epidemiological studies have linked cesarean delivery with increased rates of asthma, allergies, autoimmune disorders, and obesity. this study suggests that women born by cesarean delivery may have a higher risk than women born by vaginal delivery of being obese and developing type 2 diabetes during adult life. epidemiological studies and meta-analyses have shown an increased risk of childhood asthma for children born by caesarean section (c-section). ',
 'Does the pregnancy hormone hCG help with weight loss? [SEP] women who have an overweight or obese pre-pregnancy body mass index (bmi) may be recommended to lose weight before pregnancy, however the association of preconception weight fluctuations and prenatal adherence to nutrition and exercise recommendations with gestational weight gain (gwg) have not been assessed. for women with bmi < 25 kg/m2 at conception, birth weight was significantly higher with weight loss than stable weight before pregnancy (β = 0.08 [95% ci 0.02; 0.14], p = 0.01), and this total effect was explained by a significant mediating effect through gwg. health professionals should be aware that gwg may offset the expected effect of weight loss before conception on fetal growth in overweight and obese women. pregnancy interventions to limit gestational weight gain (gwg) have been proposed as a means of preventing hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (hdp); however, it is currently unclear whether gwg has a causal influence on the development of hdp. recently, it has been observed that weight loss is accelerated by human chorionic gonadotropin (hcg) hormone preparation used for hypothalamic dysfunction in obesity treatment in both sexes. our aim was to observe the ultrastructural changes caused by local injections of hcg made for purpose of weight loss and to present them to inform those receiving such therapy. administering hcg in addition to diet had no advantage on weight reduction in rats. to investigate whether gestational weight loss (gwl) after the diagnosis of gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm) in overweight and obese women is associated with improved perinatal outcomes. in overweight and obese women with gdm, third trimester weight loss is associated with some improved maternal and neonatal outcomes, although this effect is lessened by increased odds of sga status and preterm delivery. even a small reduction in body weight can improve ovulatory function and pregnancy rate and reduce adverse obstetric outcomes. ',
 "Does cupping relieve chronic neck and back pain? [SEP] massage therapies such as cupping are often applied in patients with chronic neck and back pain with the assumption that they can reduce increased tissue stiffness and, therefore, improve pain. perspective: this article presents the results of a meta-analysis aimed to assess the effectiveness and safety of cupping with chronic pain. dry cupping therapy is a noninvasive treatment commonly used to reduce pain and promote the healing process in various populations, including those with nonspecific neck pain; however, no data are available to support most of this method's true physiological benefits. a single session of dry cupping therapy may be an effective short-term treatment method for immediately reducing pain and increasing oxygenated and total hemoglobin levels in patients with nonspecific neck pain. the objective of this study was to evaluate if a single session of real or placebo cupping therapy in patients with chronic low back pain would be enough to temporarily reduce pain intensity and functional disability, enhancing their mechanical threshold and reducing local skin temperature. as a traditional medicine practice, cupping therapy has been widely used to relieve symptoms like fatigue, tension, and muscle pain. in this pilot study, we investigated the effect of traditional cupping therapy on chronic nonspecific neck pain (cnp) and mechanical sensory thresholds. pain at rest (pr), pain related to movement (pm), quality of life (sf-36), neck disability index (ndi), mechanical detection (mdt), vibration detection (mdt), and pressure pain thresholds (ppt) were measured before and three days after a single cupping treatment. for this study, cupping was used to treat low back pain (lbp). chinese cupping may be a low-risk, therapeutic treatment for the prompt reduction of symptoms associated with subacute and chronic low back pain. ",
 'Can eating broccoli or broccoli sprouts improve gastritis symptoms? [SEP] we sought to determine whether orally consumed broccoli sprouts could eradicate helicobacter pylori infection in infected human volunteers. consumption of oral broccoli sprouts was temporally associated with eradication of h. pylori infection in three of nine patients. most patients found broccoli sprouts palatable. epidemiological and laboratory studies suggest that dietary broccoli may prevent or delay a variety of cancers. broccoli is a food often consumed for its potential health-promoting properties. cruciferous vegetables such as broccoli are a good source of dietary fiber and phytonutrients, including glucosinolates, which can be metabolized by gastrointestinal microbes. this study aimed to determine the impact of broccoli consumption on the gastrointestinal microbiota of healthy adults. these results reveal that broccoli consumption affects the composition and function of the human gastrointestinal microbiota. several studies have demonstrated that broccoli might be beneficial by reducing the risk for the development of certain forms of cancer. intervention with broccoli sprouts may enhance detoxication of airborne pollutants and attenuate their associated health risks. ',
 'Do Schuessler salts work? (alternative spellings: Schuessler salts or Schuessler salts) [SEP] there have been several studies concerning nacl salinity, however, little is known about the na(2)so(4) one. moreover, for both salts the 30-day-treatment reduced h(2)o(2) accumulation, unchanged rlr and tbars levels, and enhanced the levels of antioxidants and antioxidative enzymes, thus achieving an adaptation mechanism against reactive oxygen species. in basic ayurveda texts, susruta, caraka and vagbhata, some quite specific salts (lavanam) have been described and their properties and actions are enumerated. in several cases, inorganic salts have been used to induce partly structured states in protein folding. the presence of salts in a solution is known to affect sonochemistry, but until now no consensus has been reached in the literature on how and why a salt influences sonochemistry. aqueous solutions (0.2%, w/v) of scleroglucans from sclerotium rolfsii atcc 201126 from different cultivation time or purification protocol (eps i, eps ii, epsi) as well as a commercial scleroglucan (lscl) exhibited different sensitivity against thermal (65, 95 and 150°c), ultrasonic (1, 5 and 10 min; 20% amplitude) or alkaline (0.01-0.2 n naoh) treatments. salophens and salens are schiff bases generated through the condensation of two equivalents of salicylaldehyde with either 1,2-phenylenediamines or aliphatic diamines, respectively. both ligands have been extensively exploited as key building blocks in coordination chemistry and catalysis. through the modification of the phenol unit it is possible to tune the steric hindrance and electronic properties of salophen and salen. in addition, the redox properties of the salophen derivatives functionalized with ferrocene units in solution and on surface were unraveled by cyclic voltammetry. ',
 'Does pelvic floor training help women with stress-related urinary incontinence? [SEP] pelvic floor muscle training is the most commonly used physical therapy treatment for women with stress urinary incontinence. pelvic floor muscle training is the most commonly used physical therapy treatment for women with stress urinary incontinence. pelvic floor muscle training is the most commonly used physical therapy treatment for women with stress urinary incontinence (sui). pelvic floor muscle training is the most commonly used physical therapy treatment for stress urinary incontinence. the aim of this paper was to determine the effects of pelvic floor muscle training for women with urinary incontinence in comparison to no treatment, placebo or sham treatments, or other inactive control treatments. overall, the review provides support for the widespread recommendation that pelvic floor muscle training be included in first-line conservative management programs for women with stress, urge or mixed urinary incontinence. pelvic floor muscle training (pfmt) is an effective treatment for stress urinary incontinence in women. feedback or biofeedback may provide benefit in addition to pelvic floor muscle training in women with urinary incontinence. pelvic floor muscle training is effective and recommended as first-line therapy for female patients with stress urinary incontinence. the aim of this study was to assess the effect of a program of supervised pelvic floor muscle training (pfmt) on sexual function, in a group of women with urodynamically diagnosed stress urinary incontinence (sui), using a validated questionnaire. ',
 'Can methadone enhance the effects of chemotherapy or other cancer treatments and help cure cancer? [SEP] recently, the use of methadone in cancer patients has increased due to in vitro studies indicating that methadone is capable of inducing cell death. however, thus far there are no relevant clinical studies indicating that the use of methadone can prolong survival in cancer patients. based on low-quality evidence, methadone is a\xa0drug that has similar analgesic benefits to morphine and has a\xa0role in the management of cancer pain in adults. methadone can be used as a\xa0second- or third-line agent for severe cancer-related pain, but its use should be restricted to experts. here we report a\xa0series of cases of patients who developed problems when using methadone as an antitumor treatment, with a brief review on the role of methadone as a pain\xa0medication and the current lack of value as an anti-tumor therapy. methadone, which is used as maintenance medication for outpatient treatment of opioid dependence or as an analgesic drug, has been suggested by preclinical in vitro and mouse studies to induce cell death and sensitivity to chemo- or radiotherapy in leukemia, glioblastoma, and carcinoma cells. to examine the effects of oral low-dose methadone added to regular scheduled opioids in terminally ill patients with complex cancer-related pain. the analgesic drug methadone is able to sensitize various tumors to chemotherapy. recently, methadone has been proposed to be useful also for cancer therapy, including glioblastoma multiforme (gbm), the most severe form of brain cancer, because experiments on cultured glioma cells treated with doxorubicin showed promising results. while methadone has been established as a cheap and effective agent in treating cancer pain, specific studies are needed comparing methadone to other opioids in the management of cancer-related neuropathic pain. ',
 "Can treatment with tea tree oil relieve pimples (acne)? [SEP] tea tree oil is currently enjoying popularity as a 'cure-all' for a variety of skin conditions, from infections to psoriasis, and many household and personal products containing melaleuca oil are available. over-the-counter acne treatments containing tea tree oil from the plant melaleuca alternifolia are widely available, and evidence indicates that they are a common choice amongst those self-treating their acne. the aims of this review were to collate and evaluate the clinical evidence on the use of tea tree oil products for treating acne, to review safety and tolerability and to discuss the underlying modes of therapeutic action. this is the first study to show experimentally that tea tree oil can reduce histamine-induced skin inflammation. tea-tree oil possesses broad-spectrum antimicrobial activity, and is increasingly used for skin problems. one study has suggested the efficacy of tea tree oil in treatment of the acne vulgaris. to determine the efficacy of tea tree oil in mild to moderate acne vulgaris. topical 5% tea tree oil is an effective treatment for mild to moderate acne vulgaris. tea tree oil is popular for treating various cutaneous maladies. tea tree oil, a popular antimicrobial agent is recommended for the treatment of acne vulgaris, a disease of the pilosebaceous unit. ",
 'Does sugar consumption impair memory or other mental performance? [SEP] although high sugar intakes are recognised to increase the risk of obesity and related metabolic disturbances, less is known about how sugar might also impair cognition and learned behaviour. several studies have found that high-sugar diets can produce impaired performance by rats on tests assessing spatial learning and memory. the implications of these results for understanding of sugar-induced psychological deficits are discussed. background: sugar is widely consumed in malaysia, and the excessive intake of sugar has been associated with cognitive functions. purpose: the objective of this study was to evaluate the associations between types and sources of sugar intake and cognitive functions and to identify their risk in predicting cognitive impairment (mmse score <24). conclusion: excessive sugar consumption among older adults showed a notable association with poor cognitive functions, but longitudinal studies and clinical trials are further needed to clarify the direction of causality and to investigate the underlying mechanism. in recent years there has been increasing interest in studying cognitive effects associated with sugar consumption. further research should systematically assess effects of dietary sugars on other cognitive domains, such as memory, to give further insights on general cognitive effects of sugar consumption. high levels of sugar consumption have been associated with the development of obesity, however less is known about how sugar consumption influences behavioral control and high-order cognitive processes. these results suggest that consumption of high levels of sugar-sweetened beverages by adolescents may also impair neurocognitive functions affecting decision-making and memory, potentially rendering them at risk for developing mental health disorders. ',
 'Does extra folic acid in men help prevent birth defects in children? [SEP] it has been reported that paternal folic acid deficiency is correlated with male infertility and increased birth defects in the offspring. the anti-oxidation function of folic acid is one of possible mechanisms invovled in improving seminal parameters and pregnancy outcome. folic acid fortification and supplementation has increased folate intake and blood folate concentrations and successfully reduced the incidence of neural tube defects. supplementation of folic acid prior to and in the beginning of pregnancy may prevent neural tube defects (ntds) in newborns--such as spina bifida--and possibly other congenital malformations. background the effectiveness of folic acid in prevention of neural tube defects has been well established. fortification of food with folic acid to prevent neural-tube defects in babies also lowers plasma total homocysteine, which is a risk factor for vascular disease. it has been reported that folic acid supplementation before and/or during pregnancy could reduce the risk of congenital heart defects (chds). our study suggested that folic acid supplementation before pregnancy was associated with a reduced risk of chds, lower dietary folate intake during pregnancy was associated with increased risk. the effectiveness of maternal folate in reducing the risk of congenital malformations during pregnancy is well established. this systematic review and meta-analysis shows evidence of associations between paternal folate status and sperm quality, fertility, congenital malformations, and placental weight. ',
 'Does taking ginger reduce nausea and vomiting during pregnancy? [SEP] is there evidence that ginger is safe to use during pregnancy? although ginger is used in many cultures to treat the symptoms of nausea and vomiting, no trials have established its safety for use during pregnancy. although many alternative therapists support the use of ginger for nausea and vomiting of pregnancy, there is currently insufficient clinical evidence to support its use in this condition. the present study was performed to assess the effectiveness of ginger in the treatment of nausea and vomiting in pregnancy. ginger was effective for the relief of mild to moderate nausea and vomiting in pregnant women at less than 16 weeks gestation. to investigate the effect of ginger in nausea and vomiting during pregnancy in comparison with vitamin b6 and placebo. clinical questioncan ginger treat nausea and vomiting of pregnancy?bottom linein the first trimester ginger might improve nausea and vomiting by about 4 points on a 40-point scale or stop vomiting for 1 in 3 women at 6 days. this review suggests potential benefits of ginger in reducing nausea symptoms in pregnancy (bearing in mind the limited number of studies, variable outcome reporting and low quality of evidence). ginger did not significantly affect vomiting episodes, nor pose a risk for side-effects or adverse events during pregnancy. ginger (zingiber officinale) is often advocated as beneficial for nausea and vomiting. ',
 'Does taking ginger prevent motion sickness?? [SEP] the efficacy of ginger rhizome for the prevention of nausea, dizziness, and vomiting as symptoms of motion sickness (kinetosis), as well as for postoperative vomiting and vomiting of pregnancy, has been well documented and proved beyond doubt in numerous high-quality clinical studies. today, medicinal ginger is used mainly for prevention of the symptoms of travel sickness. ginger has long been used as an alternative medication to prevent motion sickness. we hypothesize that ginger ameliorates the nausea associated with motion sickness by preventing the development of gastric dysrhythmias and the elevation of plasma vasopressin. thirteen volunteers with a history of motion sickness underwent circular vection, during which nausea (scored 0-3, i.e., none to severe), electrogastrographic recordings, and plasma vasopressin levels were assessed with or without ginger pretreatment in a crossover-design, double-blind, randomized placebo-controlled study. ginger also prolonged the latency before nausea onset and shortened the recovery time after vection cessation. ginger effectively reduces nausea, tachygastric activity, and vasopressin release induced by circular vection. in this manner, ginger may act as a novel agent in the prevention and treatment of motion sickness. is there evidence that ginger is safe to use during pregnancy? ginger (zingiber officinale) is often advocated as beneficial for nausea and vomiting. ',
 'Are electric cigarettes less harmful than tobacco smoking? [SEP] electronic cigarettes (ecs) seem to be a less harmful alternative for conventional cigarettes. electronic cigarettes are devoid of many harmful constituents found in cigarette smoke and are therefore being positioned as safer alternative to tobacco smoke. there are even opinions that they are as harmful as regular cigarettes. however, this has not been proved, and theoretical premises suggest that e-cigarettes should be definitely less harmful as while using them, tobacco is not burned and harmful substances, in particular carcinogens are not produced. initially marketed for smoking cessation, electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes) are commonly regarded as safer than combustible cigarettes because they usually contain less nicotine and do not use combustion. we found a significant association between e-cigarette use and lung disease, which was significantly modified by tobacco use. it appears that electronic cigarettes (ec) are a less harmful alternative to conventional cigarette (cc) smoking, as they generate substantially lower levels of harmful carcinogens and other toxic compounds. electronic (e)-cigarette smoking is considered to be less harmful than traditional tobacco smoking because of the lack of a combustion process. electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes) are considered a preferable alternative to conventional cigarettes due to the lack of combustion and the absence of tobacco-specific toxicants. e-cigarettes provide nicotine in a vapor form, which is considered less harmful than the smoke from combustible cigarettes because it does not contain the toxins that are found in tobacco smoke. ',
 'Does parents licking the pacifier protect children from allergic diseases? [SEP] oral microbes may be transferred from parents to infants via pacifiers. we investigated whether pacifier cleaning practices affected the risk of allergy development. children whose parents "cleaned" their pacifier by sucking it (n = 65) were less likely to have asthma (odds ratio [or] 0.12; 95% confidence interval [ci] 0.01-0.99), eczema (or 0.37; 95% ci 0.15-0.91), and sensitization (or 0.37; 95% ci 0.10-1.27) at 18 months of age than children whose parents did not use this cleaning technique (n = 58). vaginal delivery and parental pacifier sucking yielded independent and additive protective effects against eczema development. the salivary microbiota differed between children whose parents cleaned their pacifier by sucking it and children whose parents did not use this practice. parental sucking of their infant\'s pacifier may reduce the risk of allergy development, possibly via immune stimulation by microbes transferred to the infant via the parent\'s saliva. is pacifier use safe in the first month of life? previous studies have suggested that pacifiers may get contaminated but only three studies have shown a possible association between the use of pacifiers and diarrhea or enteric infections. type and frequency of pacifier hygiene practices were not associated with diarrhea. pacifiers are nearly ubiquitous among children in the united states, and although safety regulations exist, the responsibility to choose and maintain a safe pacifier generally falls on the parents, many of whom are unaware of potential hazards. ',
 'Does calcium help with allergy? [SEP] several studies showed that calcium-binding proteins have a fixed place in the spectrum of allergenic substances. often the binding of a calcium ion induces conformational changes and affects immunoglobulin e-binding to the allergen. hence, the quantitative characterization of the binding to calcium is of importance to understand both the biologic and allergenic activity of these proteins. cd-monitored calcium-titration of protein solutions represents a fast and easy method for determining the binding characteristics of calcium-binding allergens. concern about calcium supplements, and mainly minor side effects (e.g. the function of the cells involved in the genesis of bronchial asthma is calcium dependent. the "ca2+ hypothesis of asthma" suggests that calcium channel blocking agents may have a beneficial effect in asthma. because calcium is critical for airway smooth muscle contraction, degranulation of mast cells and secretion of mucus, there has been great interest and hope in the use of calcium channel blockers in the treatment of asthma. several studies have shown that calcium may help maintain optimum function of immune system and metabolism in sle. curcumin inhibited antigen-mediated activation of mast cells and passive cutaneous anaphylaxis in mice. ',
 'Can taking vitamin D relieve chronic pain? [SEP] vitamin d supplementation is proposed as a potential treatment strategy to counteract functional decline in older adults. participants were supplemented daily with 10 µg 25(oh)d3, 20 µg vitamin d3, or a placebo capsule. we found a moderate beneficial effect of vitamin d plus calcium versus no therapy or calcium alone (9 trials) (effect size 0.60; 95% confidence interval [95% ci] 0.34, 0.85; p < 0.0001). vitamin d plus calcium is superior to no therapy or calcium alone in the management of corticosteroid-induced osteoporosis. vitamin d is less effective than some osteoporosis therapies. therefore, treatment with vitamin d plus calcium, as a minimum, should be recommended to patients receiving long-term corticosteroids. vitamin d is an anti-inflammatory molecule and has a role in prevention of arthritis development. musculoskeletal injury prevention and recovery are potentially affected by sufficient circulating levels of the storage form of vitamin d: 25-hydroxyvitamin d3, or 25(oh)d. vitamin d deficiency can exist among young, active, and healthy people, which may put them at increased risk for injury and prolonged recovery. increasing levels of vitamin d reduce inflammation, pain, and myopathy while increasing muscle protein synthesis, atp concentration, strength, jump height, jump velocity, jump power, exercise capacity, and physical performance. the reasoning behind vitamin d supplementation has been mostly derived from the role of vitamin d to promote intestinal calcium absorption and reduce bone resorption. ',
 'Does aloe vera relieve discomfort caused by psoriasis? [SEP] aloe\xa0vera is a traditional wound‑healing medicine used for the treatment of skin disorders. the conventional remedies used to treat psoriasis demonstrate limited effects; therefore, natural products, including aloe\xa0vera, are being taken into consideration. topical aloe vera (av) has been used to treat various skin conditions, including psoriasis, with good results. aloe vera l., is a plant used worldwide as folk remedy for the treatment of various ailments, including skin disorders. for this reason often psoriatic patients look for alternative treatments based on natural products containing aloe vera. we conducted a systematic review of clinical trials assessing effectiveness and safety of aloe for the treatment of psoriasis. we conclude that administration of aloe as cutaneous treatment is generally well tolerated, as no serious side effects were reported. the herbal preparation, aloe vera, has been claimed to have anti-inflammatory effects and, despite a lack of evidence of its therapeutic efficacy, is widely used by patients with inflammatory bowel disease. many previous studies reported the healing effects of aloe vera. aloe vera gel is widely used in the treatment of an array of disturbances, especially skin disorders. ',
 'Does aloe vera help with neurodermatitis, poorly healing or fresh wounds? [SEP] aloe vera is being used since ages by human kind for treating various ailments including various inflammatory conditions, but scientific validation has not been done for analgesic activity against neuropathic pain. these include wound and burn healing, and aloe is now used in a variety of commercially available topical medications for wound healing and skin care. our data indicated that both aloe vera gel (avg) and cape aloe extract (cae) significantly improved wound healing in human primary epidermal keratinocytes (hpeks) and a human skin equivalent model. aloe vera is sometimes used as a folk remedy for minor wounds and burns, but its mechanisms of action in wound healing are unclear. aloe vera has been traditionally used to treat skin injuries (burns, cuts, insect bites, and eczemas) and digestive problems because its anti-inflammatory, antimicrobial, and wound healing properties. various studies reported that aloe vera has useful effects on wounds especially cutaneous wounds healing. therefore in the current review, we examined the effect of aloe vera on cutaneous wound healing and concluded that although aloe vera improves the wound healing as well as other procedures both clinically and experimentally, more studies are still needed to approve the outcomes. aloe vera is a traditional medical plant whose gel has been widely used in skin care. the aloe vera plant has been used for an array of ailments, including skin diseases. aloe\xa0vera is a traditional wound‑healing medicine used for the treatment of skin disorders. ',
 'Does electromagnetic radiation from cell phone towers cause health problems such as headaches or sleep disorders? [SEP] background: electromagnetic pollution is a general health concern worldwide, as cell phone towers are ubiquitous and are located adjacent to or on the roof of schools, and hospitals. with the number of cellular phone users rapidly increasing, there is a considerable amount of public concern regarding the effects that electromagnetic fields (emfs) from cellular phones have on health. people with self-attributed electromagnetic hypersensitivity (ehs) complain of subjective symptoms such as headaches, insomnia, and memory loss, and attribute these symptoms to radio frequency (rf) radiation from cellular phones and/or base stations. the increased use of mobile phones worldwide has focused interest on the biological effects and possible health outcomes of exposure to radiofrequency fields from mobile phones, and their base stations. various reports suggest that mobile phone use can cause health problems like fatigue, headache, dizziness, tension, and sleep disturbances; however, only limited research data is available in medical literature regarding interaction between electromagnetic fields emitted by mobile phones and auditory function; and the possible impact on hearing. resulting from radio frequency (rf) radiation by cellular phones. there are several reports which indicate that electromagnetic radiation (such as from mobile phones) at non-thermal levels may elicit a biological effect in target cells or tissues. the debate regarding the health effects of low-intensity electromagnetic radiation from sources such as power lines, base stations, and cell phones has recently been reignited. abstract in the last years, it has been discussed frequently whether there are any harmful effects of electromagnetic fields on human health. with the increasing use of mobile communication, concerns have been expressed about the possible interactions of electromagnetic radiation with the human organism and, in particular, the brain. ',
 'Can antibiotic-resistant germs from animal husbandry be transferred to humans? [SEP] the intensive use of antimicrobials in animals may promote the fixation of antimicrobial resistance genes in bacteria, which may be zoonotic or capable to transfer these genes to human-adapted pathogens or to human gut microbiota via direct contact, food or the environment. this review summarizes the current knowledge of the use of antimicrobial agents in animal health and explores the role of bacteria from animals as a pool of antimicrobial resistance genes for human bacteria. resistant bacteria from animals may be passed to humans via the food chain or direct animal contact, and may result in resistant infections. moreover, resistant bacteria in animals can be transferred to people--usually through the consumption of food, but also through direct contact with food-producing animals or through environmental spread. in addition, concern has been raised for the potential transfer of resistance determinants from animals to humans through commensal bacterial flora such as escherichia coli. the development of resistance in some human pathogens, such as methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus and multi-drug resistant mycobacterium tuberculosis, is linked to the use of antimicrobials in man and there is no evidence for animal involvement. however, there are several good examples of transfer of resistant bacteria or bacterial resistance genes from animals to man via the food chain. the development of resistance in some human pathogens, such as methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus and multi-drug resistant mycobacterium tuberculosis, is linked to the use of antimicrobials in man and there is no evidence for animal involvement. antimicrobial resistance is a growing problem in human medicine, and concern has been expressed that use of antimicrobials in animals may be a contributing factor. a potential concern about the use of antibiotics in animal husbundary is that, as antibiotic resistant bacteria move from the farm into the human diet, they may pass antibiotic resistance genes to bacteria that normally reside in a the human intestinal tract and from there to bacteria that cause human disease (reservoir hypothesis). ',
 "Does the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry harm human health? [SEP] the overuse of antibiotics in animal husbandry is widespread and believed to significantly contribute to the selection of antibiotic resistance genes (args) in animals. antibiotics have been widely used for disease prevention and treatment of the human and animals, and for growth promotion in animal husbandry. antibiotics can disturb the intestinal microbial community, which play a fundamental role in animals' health. animals kept as companions or for sports often receive advanced care, and antibiotic resistance can lead to negative social and economic consequences for the owners. antibiotics have been widely used for the prevention and the treatment of diseases to humans and animals, and they have fed additives for agricultural animals to promote growth. the widespread use of antibiotics in animals is causing concerns about the growing risk for development and the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. in the last project, the relation between the use of biocides in animal husbandry and antibiotic resistance development are being studied. antibiotics are widely used in veterinary medicine to treat and prevent diseases and their residues can remain in food of animal origin causing adverse effects to human health. it is often proposed that the indiscriminate use of antimicrobial agents in the veterinary field leads to increased resistance in bacteria pathogenic to humans. studies suggest that there is a link between the agricultural use of antibiotics and antibiotic-resistant human infections. ",
 'Does regular vitamin D intake lower the risk of cancer in adults? [SEP] the potential role of vitamin d in cancer prevention has generated substantial interest, and laboratory experiments indicate several anti-cancer properties for vitamin d compounds. vitamin d intake has been hypothesized to reduce the risk of several types of cancer. studies that combine multiple sources of vitamin d or examine serum 25(oh)d3 usually find that above-average vitamin d intake and serum metabolite concentrations are associated with significantly reduced incidence of colorectal cancer. a number of mechanisms have been identified through which vitamin d may reduce the risk of colorectal and several other types of cancer. although studies that include vitamin d from all sources or serum 25(oh)d3 usually show significantly reduced incidence of colorectal cancer in association with vitamin d, analyses limited to dietary vitamin d tend to have mixed results. there is strong evidence from several different lines of investigation supporting the hypothesis that vitamin d may reduce the risk of colorectal cancer. a diversity of scientific literature supports a role for vitamin d in decreasing colorectal cancer incidence, but the available evidence provides only limited support for an inverse association between vitamin d status and the risk of other types of cancer. vitamin d has been hypothesized to reduce cancer mortality through its effects on incidence and/or survival. there has been substantial enthusiasm recently regarding the potential role of vitamin d in the primary and secondary prevention of cancer. in this cohort of women with elevated risk, high serum 25(oh)d levels and regular vitamin d supplement use were associated with lower rates of incident, postmenopausal breast cancer over 5 y of follow-up. ',
 'Does regular consumption of ground flaxseed harm health? [SEP] consumption of foods rich in phytoestrogens such as flaxseed has increased due to its chemoprotective effects, especially those related to the cardiovascular system. results showed that the use of flaxseed flour did not cause adverse effects on the penis morphology but increases the 17β-estradiol hormone, when consumed in integral form for a prolonged period. although maternal feeding of flaxseed during lactation appears to be safe with respect to reproductive indices among offspring, future investigation is required to elucidate whether there are any long-term implications with respect to fertility. flaxseed has been shown to have variable effects on plasma lipids. flaxseed has functional properties in the reduction of the risk of chronic non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes and cancer. twenty four healthy volunteers were allocated into 3 experimental groups, when they consumed flaxseed (fs), defatted flaxseed flour (ff), or flaxseed oil (fo). the intake of 70 g/day of fs and ff raised lipid and energy excretion, which may mitigated the effect of flaxseed consumption on body weight. it is also not known if long-term use of flaxseed in humans has deleterious effects on the hemopoietic system, serum glucose, and renal and kidney function. these results suggest that 4 weeks use of flaxseed does not have deleterious effects on the hemopoietic system or renal and hepatic function and does not lower blood pressure and serum lipids. however, flaxseed meal may be susceptible to oxidation by exposure to various storage conditions which is extremely undesirable and produces toxic compounds to human health. ',
 '1. can MMR vaccination cause autism? [SEP] the measles-mumps-rubella (mmr) vaccine has been postulated to cause a form of autism characterized by regression and bowel symptoms, and onset occurring shortly after vaccination. there is no proof that the overall risk of autism is higher in children who were vaccinated with mmr or of an increase in autism prevalence associated with the use of the mmr vaccine. we investigated whether mmr vaccination is associated with an increased risk of autism or other pervasive developmental disorders. it has been suggested that vaccination, particularly with measles-mumps-rubella (mmr) vaccine, may be related to the development of autism. currently, the weight of the available epidemiological and related evidence does not support a causal association between mmr vaccine, or any other vaccine or vaccine constituent, and autism. it has been suggested that vaccination with the measles-mumps-rubella (mmr) vaccine causes autism. case reports have described children who developed signs of both developmental regression and gastrointestinal symptoms shortly after mmr vaccination.a review of the literature revealed no convincing scientific evidence to support a causal relationship between the use of mmr vaccines and autism. the hypothesis that mmr vaccines cause autism was first raised by reports of cases in which developmental regression occurred soon after mmr vaccination. it has recently been suggested that mmr vaccine might cause autism, but that the induction interval need not be short. our results do not support this hypothesis, and provide further evidence against a causal association between mmr vaccination and autism. ',
 '3. does vaccination against rotavirus increase the risk of intestinal intussusception in infants? [SEP] intussusception, a rare adverse event associated with rotavirus vaccines in some settings, is a common cause of intestinal obstruction in infants and toddlers globally with a peak age of 4-6 months. in infants with intestinal failure, rotavirus vaccination appears to be safe and immunogenic. one concern about rotavirus vaccines is its possible association with intussusception. adenovirus has been associated with intussusception and slightly increased risk of intussusception with rotavirus vaccination has been found. we conducted a case-control study among children <2 years old in bangladesh, nepal, pakistan, and vietnam to evaluate infectious etiologies of intussusception before rotavirus vaccine introduction. currently available rotavirus vaccines have been associated with a small increased risk of intussusception (~1-2 cases per 100,000 vaccinated infants) in some populations. several studies have shown an association between vaccination with the rotavirus vaccine and the development of intussusception. we evaluated the plausibility of a causal association between natural rotavirus infection and intussusception. we describe the surveillance for intussusception in a phase iii clinical trial with an oral monovalent rotavirus vaccine developed from the neonatal 116e strain. possible relationship with a withdrawn tetravalent rotavirus vaccine was not confirmed by post-licensure studies and actually no increased risk of intussusception was found between infants vaccinated with both the recently licensed rotavirus vaccines. ',
 'Is ozone suitable for the treatment of tooth decay? [SEP] the hypothesis that ozone promotes remineralization of dentinal lesions was tested in vitro. artificial caries-like lesions in dentin were treated with ozone gas, with another potent oxidizer (sodium hypochlorite, naocl, 10%) or with water. there is growing interest in the use of ozone in oral healthcare and the national institute for clinical excellence (nice) is at present reviewing the evidence for its effectiveness in the management of occlusal and plain surface caries. the usage of ozone in dentistry has been proposed because of its antimicrobial, disinfectant, biocompatibility and healing properties. in the last decade a number of therapeutic protocols with ozone have been developed to address common dental infections associated with periodontal disease, rct and caries. the therapeutic application of ozone and its derivatives in the dental field has been used for many purposes. the keywords "ozone", "ozonated", "ozonation" "ozonized", "ozonization", "dentistry", "periodontology", "oral surgery", "oxygen-ozone therapy" were used to perform a literature review using pubmed, cochrane, google scholar, zotero databases with the temporal restriction for manuscripts published between 2010 and 2020. ozone has been proposed as an alternative antiseptic agent in dentistry based on reports of its antimicrobial effects in both gaseous and aqueous forms. to assess whether ozone is effective in arresting or reversing the progression of dental caries. these findings indicate that direct exposure to gaseous ozone seems to be a more effective microbicide compared with ozonated water, and that gaseous ozone can be clinically useful for disinfection of dentures. ',
 "Does the so-called blood group diet have any health benefits? [SEP] the 'blood-type' diet advises individuals to eat according to their abo blood group to improve their health and decrease risk of chronic diseases such as cardiovascular disease. matching the 'blood-type' diets with the corresponding blood group did not change the effect size of any of these associations. adherence to certain 'blood-type' diets is associated with favorable effects on some cardiometabolic risk factors, but these associations were independent of an individual's abo genotype, so the findings do not support the 'blood-type' diet hypothesis. diets that are based on the abo blood group system have been promoted over the past decade and claim to improve health and decrease risk of disease. to our knowledge, the evidence to support the effectiveness of blood type diets has not previously been assessed in the scientific literature. a systematic search was performed to answer the following question: in humans grouped according to blood type, does adherence to a specific diet improve health and/or decrease risk of disease compared with nonadherence to the diet? no evidence currently exists to validate the purported health benefits of blood type diets. however, little evidence is available regarding whether individuals with different blood types benefit from different diet recommendations. this healthier diet will reduce cardiovascular disease and is similar to the diet now being advocated for the prevention of some forms of cancer. although the dash (dietary approaches to stop hypertension) diet has been shown to lower blood pressure (bp) in short-term feeding studies, it has not been shown to lower bp among free-living individuals, nor has it been shown to alter cardiovascular biomarkers of risk. ",
 "Can pumpkin seeds or preparations from them help women and men with irritable bladder, bladder weakness or incontinence? [SEP] the pumpkin seed oil obtained from cucurbita pepo has been shown to be useful for the treatment of nocturia in patients with urinal disorders in several western countries. in this study, we evaluated the effect of the pumpkin seed oil from cucurbita maxima on urinary dysfunction in human overactive bladder (oab). the results from our study suggest that pumpkin seed oil extracts from c. maxima as well as from c. pepo are effective for urinary disorders such as oab in humans. pumpkin seeds are often used in traditional medicine in the management of erectile dysfunction. hence, this study investigated the influence of fluted pumpkin seed on critical enzymes involved in erectile function in isolated rats' corpus cavernosum in vitro. the\xa0positive\xa0modulatory effect of the fluted pumpkin seed on these critical markers of erectile function could be attributed to its polyphenolics and amino acid constituents. practical applications: this study brought to limelight the medicinal importance of fluted pumpkin seed in erectile functions. pumpkin seeds have been known in folk medicine as remedy for kidney, bladder and prostate disorders since centuries. the cell growth inhibition for fast growing cells together with the cell growth inhibition of prostate-, breast- and colon cancer cells corroborates the ethnomedical use of pumpkin seeds for a treatment of benign prostate hyperplasia. moreover, due to the lack of androgenic activity, pumpkin seed applications can be regarded as safe for the prostate. ",
 'Do products from bees like honey, propolis, royal jelly or bee venom help against cancer? [SEP] honeybees produce honey, royal jelly, propolis, bee venom, bee pollen, and beeswax, which potentially benefit to humans due to the bioactives in them. honey, propolis, bee pollen, bee bread, royal jelly, beeswax and bee venom are natural products which have been used in medicine since ancient times. honeybees products comprise of numerous substances, including propolis, bee pollen, and royal jelly, which have long been known for their medicinal and health-promoting properties. having regarded the importance of acquiring drugs from natural sources, this review is aimed at updating the current state of knowledge of antioxidant capacity of selected bee products, namely, propolis, bee pollen, and royal jelly, and of their potential antioxidant-related therapeutic applications. there are several health benefits that honeybee products such as honey, propolis, and royal jelly claim toward various types of diseases in addition to being food. in this paper, the effects of honey, propolis, and royal jelly on different metabolic diseases, cancers, and other diseases have been reviewed. an overview of honey, propolis, and royal jelly and their biological potentials was highlighted. bee products including honey and propolis have been introduced for malignancy treatment in recent decades. and purpose: apitherapists promote the medical use of products from the beehive (bee venom, propolis, pollen, honey, royal jelly, dead bees, apilarnil, wax, wax moths), the use of beehive air or therapeutic sleep on a beehive. however, anti-cancer activity of propolis obtained from trigona sirindhornae, a new species of stingless\nbee, has not yet been reported. ',
 'Do pumpkin seed preparations improve symptoms caused by a benign enlarged prostate? [SEP] the oil from the pumpkin (cucurbita pepo) seed is claimed to be useful in the management of benign prostatic hyperplasia. this investigation seeks to examine the effect of pumpkin seed oil on testosterone-induced hyperplasia of the prostate of rats. testosterone significantly increased prostate size ratio (p < .05), and this induced increase was inhibited in rats fed with pumpkin seed oil at 2.0 mg/100 g of body weight. we conclude pumpkin seed oil can inhibit testosterone-induced hyperplasia of the prostate and therefore may be beneficial in the management of benign prostatic hyperplasia. pumpkin seeds are often used in traditional medicine in the management of erectile dysfunction. the\xa0positive\xa0modulatory effect of the fluted pumpkin seed on these critical markers of erectile function could be attributed to its polyphenolics and amino acid constituents. practical applications: this study brought to limelight the medicinal importance of fluted pumpkin seed in erectile functions. pumpkin seeds have been known in folk medicine as remedy for kidney, bladder and prostate disorders since centuries. the cell growth inhibition for fast growing cells together with the cell growth inhibition of prostate-, breast- and colon cancer cells corroborates the ethnomedical use of pumpkin seeds for a treatment of benign prostate hyperplasia. moreover, due to the lack of androgenic activity, pumpkin seed applications can be regarded as safe for the prostate. ',
 "Can gels and ointments containing arnica, hawthorn, cypress, butcher's broom, Asian (or Indian) pennywort, and heparin, such as VaricoFix, relieve discomfort and secondary symptoms of varicose veins? [SEP] aescin + essential phospholipids (aepl) topical gels are used for local treatment of venous and microcirculatory alterations (varicose veins, chronic venous insufficiency). the aim of this new study was the evaluation of the efficacy of the effects of aepl gel on the microcirculation in subjects with chronic venous insufficiency, venous hypertension (cvh), and venous microangiopathy. a gel including aescin, essential phospholipids (epl), and heparin (eg) has been used for many years for local treatment of venous, microcirculatory alterations (varicose veins, chronic venous insufficiency). bruises, swelling, thrombophlebitis, and contusions are effectively treated with this compound. the aim of this study was the evaluation of the efficacy of the effects of an aepl (aescin+epl) gel on the microcirculation in subjects with chronic venous insufficiency, venous hypertension (cvh), and venous microangiopathy. plant species, st. john's wort, chamomile, calendula, yarrow, shepherd's purse and tea tree oil are all well known for their anti-inflammatory, antimicrobial and wound healing activity. this paper presents the results of a clinical study in which three herbal formulations/vagitories, based on extracts of st. john's wort, chamomile, calendula, yarrow, shepherd's purse and tea tree oil, were investigated for their effectiveness on vaginitis. vagitories based on tea tree oil showed better efficiency compared to vagitories with st. john's wort and vagitories based on extracts of five plants. essaven gel (eg) has been developed for local treatment of venous and microcirculatory alterations (varicose veins, chronic venous insufficiency, associated signs and symptoms). sport injuries (bruises, swelling secondary to sprains and contusions) respond favorably to eg, which is also indicated for varices in pregnancy. ",
 'Does putting onion bags help with acute otitis media? [SEP] otitis media predominantly occurs as coincident to viral upper respiratory tract infections and/or bacterial infections. antibiotic therapy does not significantly benefit most patients with aom, but long-term prophylactic antibiotic therapy can reduce the risk of otitis media recurrence among children at high risk. otitis media, including recurrent acute otitis media (aom) and otitis media with effusion (ome), is one of the most common reasons for an illness-related visit to the primary care clinician. current best practice recommends amoxicillin for uncomplicated aom; continuing or switching to an alternative antibiotic based on clinical response after 48 hours of therapy; and selection of second line antibiotics as first line choices when the patient has already been on an antibiotic within the previous month or is otitis prone. the goal of this study was to evaluate the effects of middle ear packing agents (mepa) on post-operative hearing improvement and complications after tympanoplasty in patients with adhesive otitis media (om). a prospective study was carried out to evaluate the prevalence and the etiology of acute otitis media (aom) in children with acute bronchiolitis. onion (allium cepa) is an immune-boosting food rich in fructans. acute otitis media (aom) is one of the most commonly diagnosed problems by primary care providers. acute otitis media is a disease with high global prevalence, that can lead to several acute complications and auditory sequelae. otitis media (om) is an infection localized in the middle ear: mastoid, middle ear cavity, eustachian tube. ',
 'Can serious problems occur after stopping antidepressants? [SEP] understanding the particular pharmacology of different antidepressant drugs can help explain their adverse effects when they are discontinued. serotonergic antidepressant drugs are sometimes associated with a distinct discontinuation syndrome characterized by dizziness, weakness, nausea, headache, lethargy, insomnia, anxiety, poor concentration, and paresthesias. adverse discontinuation effects can occur with all types of antidepressant drugs, but only rarely would they be considered serious. however, whether due to ignorance about the chronicity of depression, intolerable adverse effects, or an inappropriate fear of dependence, antidepressants are often discontinued after remission or recovery from an acute episode, which frequently leads to relapse or recurrence. patients with major depression discontinue taking their antidepressants for many reasons. the results suggest that the contribution of side effects to antidepressant discontinuation is more complex than previously suggested. because the symptoms of antidepressant discontinuation include changes in mood, affect, appetite, and sleep, they are sometimes mistaken for signs of a relapse into depression. rapid discontinuation of some psychotropic medications is followed by discontinuation symptoms as well as an increased risk of early illness recurrence. the authors compared illness recurrence after rapid versus gradual discontinuation of antidepressants. conclusions: our findings raise the possibility that, in the long-term, antidepressants may impair recovery and increase the risk of rehospitalisation in patients with both primarily affective and non-affective disorders. ',
 'Does self urine help with health problems? [SEP] historically, urine has been viewed primarily as a waste product with little biological role in the overall health of an individual. increasingly, data suggest that urine plays a role in human health beyond waste excretion. for example, urine might act as an irritant and contribute to symptoms through interaction with-and potential compromise of-the urothelium. to explore the concept that urine may be a vehicle for agents with potential or occult bioactivity and to discuss existing evidence and novel research questions that may yield insight into such a role, the national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney disease invited experts in the fields of comparative evolutionary physiology, basic science, nephrology, urology, pediatrics, metabolomics, and proteomics (among others) to a urinology think tank meeting on february 9, 2015. additionally, the manuscript presents speculative, and hopefully testable, ideas about the functional roles of urine constituents in health and disease. to determine the prevalence of self-help (which is widely available and can assist clinicians to educate and empower patients) for several urological diseases. using a structured interview, the prevalence of self-help use and awareness was assessed in patients with prostate cancer, interstitial cystitis, erectile dysfunction and urinary diversion. urinary retention without an identifiable urological cause presents a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge. patients with nonobstructive chronic urinary retention usually have to rely on intermittent self-catheterization or indwelling suprapubic or transurethral catheters, which significantly affect quality of life. human urine is an attractive and informative biofluid for medical diagnosis, which has been shown to reflect the (patho)-physiology of not only the urogenital system, but also others such as the cardiovascular system. ',
 'Do unsaturated fats (from plants and fish) reduce cardiovascular disease compared to saturated fats (from meat and dairy products)? [SEP] currently, diets higher in polyunsaturated fat are believed to lower blood cholesterol concentrations, and thus reduce atherosclerosis, greater than diets containing high amounts of saturated or possibly even monounsaturated fat. increased consumption of n-3 (omega-3) fatty acids decreases the incidence of coronary heart disease (chd). the fish diet resulted in decreased serum triglyceride and increased hdl-cholesterol concentrations (1.0 +/- 0.11 and 1.23 +/- 0.05 mmol/l, respectively) compared with the control diet (1.12 +/- 0.11 and 1.19 +/- 0.05 mmol/l, respectively) and the walnut diet (1.11 +/- 0.11 mmol/l, p < 0.05, and 1.18 +/- 0.05 mmol/l, p < 0.001, respectively). including walnuts and fatty fish in a healthy diet lowered serum cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations, respectively, which affects chd risk favorably. diets enriched with omega-3 unsaturated fatty acids are associated with decreased hypercholesterolemia and decreased risk of ischemic and atherosclerotic diseases. consumption of fish rich in n-3 highly unsaturated fas (i.e., epa and dha) has been suggested to decrease the risk of lifestyle-related diseases such as coronary heart disease, cancer, diabetes, and dementia. diets enriched with n-3 polyunsaturated fish oils, predominantly eicosapentaenoic acid, are associated with a lower risk of atherosclerotic vascular disease. dietary unsaturated fatty acids appear to reduce the incidence of these events, in particular polyunsaturated fatty acids (pufas), which exert markedly different effects on risk factors related to heart disease. accumulating evidence demonstrates that dietary intake of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (pufas) is associated with reduced incidence of cardiovascular events. diets high in unsaturated fatty acids have been recommended to lower the risk of cardiovascular disease. ',
 'Is a vegetarian diet including eggs and dairy products healthier than a diet that includes meat? [SEP] vegetarian diets do not contain meat, poultry or fish; vegan diets further exclude dairy products and eggs. in terms of nutrients, vegetarian diets are usually rich in carbohydrates, n-6 fatty acids, dietary fibre, carotenoids, folic acid, vitamin c, vitamin e and mg, and relatively low in protein, saturated fat, long-chain n-3 fatty acids, retinol, vitamin b(12) and zn; vegans may have particularly low intakes of vitamin b(12) and low intakes of ca. in western countries, vegetarian diets are associated with lower intakes of energy, saturated fatty acids and animal protein and higher intakes of fibre and phytochemicals, compared to omnivorous diets. the fat content of the vegan diet is significantly lower and the polyunsaturated:saturated fatty acid ratio higher than in the omnivore diet. some vegetarians also consume eggs and dairy foods. a growing body of scientific evidence indicates that wholesome vegetarian diets offer distinct advantages compared to diets containing meat and other foods of animal origin. a vegetarian diet is associated with many health benefits because of its higher content of fiber, folic acid, vitamins c and e, potassium, magnesium, and many phytochemicals and a fat content that is more unsaturated. compared with other vegetarian diets, vegan diets tend to contain less saturated fat and cholesterol and more dietary fiber. eggs and dairy products also provide protein for those following a lacto-ovo-vegetarian diet. the consumption of plant proteins rather than animal proteins by vegetarians may contribute to their reduced risk of chronic diseases such as diabetes and heart disease. ',
 "Can washing hands with antibacterial soaps or wash lotions containing triclosan or triclocarban prevent the risk of contracting diseases in the household? [SEP] triclosan and triclocarban (tcs) are broad-spectrum microbicides found in household and personal wash products. tcs from wash products, primarily liquid and bar soaps, did not affect thyroid function measures during pregnancy or babies' anthropometric measures at delivery. a double-blinded, randomized clinical trial of hands of primary caretakers in 238 inner city households was conducted in which effects of plain or antimicrobial (containing 0.2% triclosan) handwashing soap on bacterial counts of the hands were compared before and after a single wash and before and after handwashing following a year of product use. hand washing with soap is a practice that has long been recognized as a major barrier to the spread of disease in food production, preparation, and service and in health care settings, including hospitals, child care centers, and elder care facilities. we examined whether household use of antibacterial cleaning and hygiene products is an emerging risk factor for carriage of antimicrobial drug-resistant bacteria on hands of household members. antibacterial product use did not lead to a significant increase in antimicrobial drug resistance after 1 year (odds ratio 1.33, 95% confidence interval 0.74-2.41), nor did it have an effect on bacterial susceptibility to triclosan. triclosan and triclocarban (tcs) are broad-spectrum antimicrobials that, until recently, were found in a wide variety of household and personal wash products. although randomization to tc-containing wash products was not associated with decreased infectious disease reports by mothers, tcs were associated with decreased antibiotic prescriptions, suggesting a benefit against bacterial infection. effects of use of either soap, synthetic detergent, or triethanolamine (tea)-soap/ glycerin were compared at two water temperatures. additionally, both agents have a risk of bacterial resistance, which is higher for chlorhexidine than triclosan. ",
 'Can hand washing with antibacterial soaps or wash lotions containing other disinfectants reduce the risk of infection compared to regular soap??? [SEP] hand washing with non-antiseptic soap and water and all of the four used alcohol-based hand-rubs showed significant reduction of bacterial counts on the examined hands. however it is not conclusive that handwashing with soap is more effective at reducing contamination with bacteria associated with diarrhoea than using water only. handwashing with plain soap and water reduced the presence of bacteria to 8% (comparison of both handwashing arms: p < 0.001). handwashing with non-antibacterial soap and water is more effective for the removal of bacteria of potential faecal origin from hands than handwashing with water alone and should therefore be more useful for the prevention of transmission of diarrhoeal diseases. although it is recognized that antibacterial lotions are not a substitute for thorough hand washing and good hygienic practices, this work shows that antibacterial lotions can complement washing by providing consumers with a demonstrable reduction in bacterial levels on their skin. the objective of this study was to compare the effectiveness of washing with either soap and water or disposable wet wipes in reducing microorganisms in the groin and perineum of hospitalized patients, which could potentially reduce the risk of hospital-acquired urinary tract infections. antiseptic hand washing and the use of nonsterile gloves over unwashed hands confer similar reductions in the number of microorganisms. the purpose of this review was to understand whether adding antimicrobial agents to hand hygiene products could increase the health benefits of handwashing with plain soap (hwws) in low-income settings. an analysis of the effectiveness of antimicrobial soap in laboratory settings suggested that it was only more effective than hwws when handwashing frequency, duration, and product concentrations were above levels that could be expected in low-income settings. relevance of hand scrub with antiseptic liquid soap (e.g. ',
 'Does homeopathy work better than a placebo? [SEP] if true, this would support an effect of homeopathic medicines different from that of placebo. in this study a promising trend was observed that symptoms reported by some homeopaths may not be completely attributable to placebo. the complex of homeopathy tested in this study was not superior to placebo in reducing 24 h morphine consumption after knee ligament reconstruction. despite, a long debate is continuing whether homeopathy is just a placebo or more than it, homeopathy has been considered to be safe and cost-effectiveness therapeutic modality. to test whether homeopathic preparations produce different symptoms than placebo in healthy volunteers. homeopathic remedies produce different symptoms than placebo. recent meta-analyses of randomized controlled trials in homeopathy have suggested that homeopathy is more than a placebo response. an international multicenter, prospective, observational study in a real world medical setting comparing the effectiveness of homeopathy with conventional medicine. homeopathy appeared to be at least as effective as conventional medical care in the treatment of patients with the three conditions studied. conventional scientific wisdom dictates that homeopathy should have no effect above and beyond placebo but experiments on ultra-high dilutions of solutes together with some clinical data suggest the intriguing possibility that it might do in some circumstances. ',
 'Does toothpaste containing xylitol reduce the risk of caries? [SEP] an overview of studies about xylitol and dental caries suggests potential clinical dental applications for xylitol. data from recent studies indicate that xylitol can reduce the occurrence of dental caries in young children, schoolchildren, and mothers, and in children via their mothers. aside from decreasing dental caries, xylitol may also decrease the transmission of s. mutans from mothers to children. many mechanisms have been proposed to explain the caries preventive effect of xylitol as a total or partial dietary sugar substitute. xylitol is a safe dental caries preventive when incorporated into chewing gum or confections used habitually. the goal of this paper is to identify and assess the work on xylitol and other polyols and dental caries since 2008. one new completed trial confirmed that children of mothers who used xylitol lozenges after delivery had less dental caries than a comparison group. habitual xylitol gum-chewing may have a long-term preventive effect by reducing the caries risk for several years after the habitual chewing has ended. during the 5 years after habitual gum-chewing ended, xylitol gums reduced the caries risk 59% (rr, 0.41; 95% c.i., 0.23 to 0.75; p < 0.0034). xylitol-sorbitol gums reduced the caries risk 44% (rr, 0.56; 95% c.i., 0.36 to 0.89; p < 0.02). ',
 'Do other xylitol-containing products (e.g. chewing gums, sweets, mouth rinses) reduce the risk of caries in addition to normal dental care? [SEP] an overview of studies about xylitol and dental caries suggests potential clinical dental applications for xylitol. data from recent studies indicate that xylitol can reduce the occurrence of dental caries in young children, schoolchildren, and mothers, and in children via their mothers. habitual xylitol gum-chewing may have a long-term preventive effect by reducing the caries risk for several years after the habitual chewing has ended. during the 5 years after habitual gum-chewing ended, xylitol gums reduced the caries risk 59% (rr, 0.41; 95% c.i., 0.23 to 0.75; p < 0.0034). xylitol-sorbitol gums reduced the caries risk 44% (rr, 0.56; 95% c.i., 0.36 to 0.89; p < 0.02). xylitol is a safe dental caries preventive when incorporated into chewing gum or confections used habitually. the authors provide an overview of chewing gum as a delivery vehicle for dental-protective agents, highlighting xylitol and its potential application in caries-prevention programs for children. the use of chewing gum containing dental-protective substances, particularly xylitol, in caries-prevention programs can reduce the tooth decay epidemic. essentially all clinical studies concerning the effect of xylitol on caries development consent to its non-cariogenicity and to the beneficial effect of substituting sucrose with xylitol in chewing gums and sweets. xylitol, an over-the-counter sweetener, has shown some potential as a caries preventive agent, but the evidence for its effectiveness is not yet conclusive and is based largely on studies in child populations. ',
 "Are paper towels or electric dryers more hygienic after washing hands? [SEP] paper towels are generally accepted as the most hygienic means of drying hands and are often distributed from generic dispensers. in this study, a method to identify potential exposure routes for hand contamination and evaluate the efficiency of paper-towel dispensing is described and applied to 5 different folded paper towels using a generic wall-mounted dispenser. our study demonstrated that the use of jet air dryers is the best method to eliminate bacteria on hands, whereas drying hands on one's own clothes is the least effective. no significant difference in bacteria reduction was detected between the use of one or two paper towels for hand drying; therefore, using fewer resources is recommended to maintain environmental sustainability. we compared the efficiency of paper, cloth, and electric warm air drying in eliminating rotaviruses and escherichia coli remaining on finger pads washed with 70% isopropanol, a medicated liquid soap, an unmedicated liquid soap, or tap water alone. irrespective of the hand-washing agent used, electric air drying produced the highest and cloth drying the lowest reduction in the numbers of both test organisms. these dryers offer quick and clean hand drying, and are seen as being an environment-friendly alternative to paper towels. for palms and fingers, log reductions were greater with warm air drying while holding hands stationary, paper towels, and warm air drying while rubbing hands. for fingertips, the log reduction was often greater with paper towels than with warm air. to perform a multi-centre, internal-crossover study comparing bacterial contamination levels in washrooms with hand-drying by either paper towels (pt) or jet air dryer (jad; dyson). ",
 'Are soy foods risky for people with unremarkable, or subclinical, hypothyroidism? [SEP] soy consumption is associated with thyroid disorders such as hypothyroidism, goiter, and autoimmune thyroid disease (atd) as well as increased iodine requirement in certain cases. soy protein with isoflavones appears to have an adverse effect on thyroid function, but it is not known whether it is the protein or isoflavone component that is deleterious. the effect of isoflavone-free soy on thyroid function was determined in patients with subclinical hypothyroidism, with a secondary aim of assessing its effect on cardiovascular risk indices. nevertheless, there are some concerns that soy can have a negative effect on thyroid function and can alter the levels of thyroid hormones. the aim of this systematic review was to investigate the link between soy or soy product consumption and thyroid function via the measurement of thyroid hormone levels. soy supplementation has no effect on the thyroid hormones and only very modestly raises tsh levels, the clinical significance, if any, of the rise in tsh is unclear. there is concern whether soy phytoestrogens may affect thyroid function. if true, soy phytoestrogens may be expected to have a greater impact in subjects with subclinical hypothyroidism. the primary aim was to determine the effect of soy phytoestrogen supplementation on thyroid function, with a secondary aim of assessing the effects on cardiovascular risk indices in patients with subclinical hypothyroidism. there is a 3-fold increased risk of developing overt hypothyroidism with dietary supplementation of 16 mg soy phytoestrogens with subclinical hypothyroidism. ',
 'Does taking vitamin B3 prolong life? [SEP] vitamin b3, or niacin, is one of the most important compounds of the b-vitamin complex. recent reports have demonstrated the involvement of vitamin b3 in a number of pivotal functions which ensure that homeostasis is maintained. during the last decades, many basic and clinical research have pointed to the role of b vitamins (folate, vitamins b6 and b12) and n-3 fatty acids as nutritional factors that might have a protective effect on the development of cardiovascular diseases (cvd). the su.fol.om3 (supplementation with folate, vitamin b6 and b12 and/or omega-3 fatty acids) trial is a randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled, secondary-prevention trial designed to test the efficacy of 5-methyl tetra-hydro-folates (5-mthf) supplementation, in combination with vitamin b6 and b12 and/or n-3 fatty acids, at nutritional doses, on fatal and non fatal ischemic cvd in a 2 x 2 factorial design. however, there is little robust evidence on the effect of vitamin b-12 supplementation on neurologic and cognitive outcomes in later life. we investigated whether vitamin b-12 supplementation benefits neurologic and cognitive function in moderately vitamin b-12-deficient older people. results of the trial do not support the hypothesis that the correction of moderate vitamin b-12 deficiency, in the absence of anemia and of neurologic and cognitive signs or symptoms, has beneficial effects on neurologic or cognitive function in later life. higher intake of vitamin b12 shows positive association with the low-risk diet and lifestyle. whether higher b vitamin intake (ie, b-6, b-12, and folate) is protective against cognitive decline in later life remains uncertain. several prospective, observational studies find higher b vitamin intake to be associated with lower risk of dementia; other studies, including most trials of b vitamin supplementation, have observed no effect on cognition. ',
 'Can taking Ribose help with heart conditions such as heart failure, narrowing of the coronary arteries (coronary artery disease), or heart attack? [SEP] ribose can aid the recovery of atp levels and, hence, diastolic function. clinical trials have shown that ribose supplementation improves ischemic threshold and enhances diastolic function in congestive heart failure. ribose has been used successfully in the treatment of ischemic heart disease and muscular enzyme deficiencies, and its administration also facilitates the diagnosis of coronary artery disease by influencing thallium-201 scintigraphy. ribose, a pentose monosaccharide, has shown to replenish low myocardial energy levels, improving cardiac dysfunction following ischemia, and improving ventilation efficiency in patients with heart failure. ribose improved the ventilatory exercise status in advanced heart failure patients. d-ribose has been shown in animal models to improve cardiac energy metabolism and function following ischaemia. this feasibility study in patients with coronary artery disease in chf revealed the beneficial effects of d-ribose by improving diastolic functional parameters and enhancing quality of life. we therefore tested whether ribose would be beneficial in chronic heart failure in control mice and in mice with elevated myocardial creatine due to overexpression of the creatine transporter (crt-oe). ribose improves the function of the rat heart in various pathological conditions through its effects on cardiac energy metabolism, while having no direct haemodynamic actions. ribose administration for 24 h at 200 mg.kg-1.h-1 did not affect heart function but increased the available pool of 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyrophosphate in heart (four fold) and skeletal muscle (1.7-fold), as assessed by the incorporation of 14c-adenine into the adenine nucleotides. ',
 'Are vitamins and minerals effective and safe in lowering cholesterol? [SEP] dietary phytosterols have been reported to lower total and low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol. studies have shown that several vitamins and nutritional supplements may contribute to a reduction in total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. this goal of this study was to document the use of vitamins and nutritional supplements that may treat or prevent hypercholesterolemia. of those individuals with a known diagnosis of hypercholesterolemia, 3.6% were taking at least one vitamin or nutritional supplement to decrease cholesterol levels. for individuals trying to prevent hypercholesterolemia, 1.2% were using one of these vitamin or nutritional supplements. we used multivariate analysis to control for several factors, and individuals with a diagnosis of hypercholesterolemia had an adjusted odds ratio of 2.10 (95% confidence interval, 1.38-3.21) for vitamin use compared with those without or trying to prevent high cholesterol. those trying to prevent hypercholesterolemia had an adjusted odds ratio of 0.69 (95% confidence interval, 0.48-1.00) for vitamin use compared with those without or trying to prevent high cholesterol. the use of vitamins and nutritional supplements that may reduce total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels is low in the united states. certain dietary practices are valid methods of lowering the risk of disease. cholesterol-lowering nutraceuticals are useful in the management of moderate hypercholesterolemia. ',
 'Is fasting effective and safe in the long term for arthritis and other diseases? [SEP] both traditional and modern healthcare systems recommend fasting as a therapeutic intervention for the management of several chronic, non-infectious diseases. clinical experience suggests that fasting followed by vegetarian diet may help patients with rheumatoid arthritis (ra). thirty-one reports of fasting studies in patients with ra were found. thus, available evidence suggests that fasting followed by vegetarian diets might be useful in the treatment of ra. fasting is increasingly practiced to improve health and general well-being, as well as for its cytoprotective effects. otherwise healthy and well-nourished patients with rheumatoid arthritis show significant clinical improvement from practising prolonged fasting for 7 to 10 days. previous studies have shown that fasting produces a potential effect in the prevention and treatment of many diseases. total fasting induces within a few days a substantial reduction of joint pain, swelling, morning stiffness, and other arthritic symptoms in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. therapeutic fasting improves joint pain in patients with osteoarthritis (oa), but the underlying mechanisms are unknown. fasting regimens can promote health, mitigate chronic immunological disorders, and improve age-related pathophysiological parameters in animals and humans. ',
 "Do green smoothies promote health? [SEP] hence, green products offer potential benefits to the environment and human health. several studies have shown a positive relationship between local greenspace availability and residents' health, which may offer opportunities for health improvement. researchers are increasingly exploring how neighborhood greenness, or vegetation, may affect health behaviors and outcomes. greenness may influence health by promoting physical activity and social contact; decreasing stress; and mitigating air pollution, noise, and heat exposure. research suggests greenness is protective against adverse mental health outcomes, cardiovascular disease, and mortality, though most studies were limited by cross-sectional or ecological design. recent research suggests that urban greenness has important beneficial effects on health. our findings have important public health implications as they suggest that access to urban green environments contributes to increased participation in leisure-time physical activity which has demonstrable health benefits. smoothies represent an excellent and convenient alternative to promote the daily consumption of fruit and vegetables in order to obtain their health-promoting benefits. accordingly, a green fresh vegetables smoothie (77.2% cucumber, 12% broccoli and 6% spinach) rich in health-promoting compounds was developed. the smoothie presented a viscoelastic behaviour. ",
 "Does chocolate have a mood-lifting effect? [SEP] we review chocolate's properties and the principal hypotheses addressing its claimed mood altering propensities. participants who were instructed to mindfully eat chocolate had a greater increase in positive mood compared to participants who were instructed to eat chocolate non-mindfully or crackers either mindfully or non-mindfully. chocolate appears to increase positive mood, but particularly when it is eaten mindfully. the effect of chocolate on mood too has long been recognised. chocolate is thought to have interactions with neurotransmitters which contribute to mood modulation and appetite regulation. the relationship between chocolate and mood are highly complex, combining psychopharmacological components, nutritional and sensory characteristics of the food. eating chocolate reduced negative mood compared to drinking water, whereas no or only marginal effects were found on neutral and positive moods. experiment 2 (113 normal-weight and healthy women and men) compared effects of eating palatable and unpalatable chocolate on negative mood, and examined the duration of chocolate-induced mood change. in both experiments, chocolate-induced mood improvement was associated with emotional eating. the present studies demonstrate that eating a small amount of sweet food improves an experimentally induced negative mood state immediately and selectively and that this effect of chocolate is due to palatability. ",
 'Do sprouts or buds have a healing effect? [SEP] this study provides evidence that the mechanism of injury does influence wound healing and the resultant scarring. these plants can resprout from aerial buds and by recruiting belowground bud bank using carbohydrates allocated in roots as resource. somatic plant cells can regenerate shoots and/or roots or adventitious embryonic calluses, which may induce organ formation under certain conditions. our findings thus provide insights into the development and regeneration of plant shoot stems. wound healing is a natural process to restore the structure and function of injured or diseased tissues. adventitious buds or protocorm-like bodies were regenerated directly from excised explants without intervening callus. differences in the ability of regeneration were observed among different plant organs with bulbils showing the highest regenerative ability followed by leaf blade and petiole. concentration of ms salts, naa and sucrose influenced not only root formation from the differentiated adventitious buds, but also root number and length. neurons whose axons had been crushed and allowed to regenerate exhibited sprouts that arose mainly from the axon hillock and initial segment of the axon. sprouting was apparent by 5-7 days and reached maximal values by 14-21 days, but had decreased to control levels by 42-49 days after injury. ',
 "Is belly fat or is a large abdominal girth particularly dangerous for health? [SEP] although overall obesity does confer a significant threat to the health of individuals, the distribution of body fat, especially abdominal/central obesity is of greater importance. the problem exists in most overweight and obese individuals and can also occur in those who are normal-weight and non-obese, often due to excess abdominal fat. the prevalence of overfat populations in 30 of the world's most developed countries is substantially higher than recent global estimations, with the largest growth due to a relatively recent increased number of people with excess abdominal fat. abdominal overfat is the most unhealthful form of this condition, so it is concerning that average waist circumference measures, generally indicative of abdominal overfat, have increased. abdominal and, in particular, visceral adiposity is strongly linked to insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidaemia, sleep apnea, and other complications of obesity. human adiposity has long been associated with insulin resistance and increased cardiovascular risk, and abdominal adiposity is considered particularly adverse. however, some studies suggest that deep sc abdominal fat may have adverse properties. obesity, defined as excess fat mass, increases risks for multiple chronic diseases, such as type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and several types of cancer. abdominal obesity, also known as central obesity, refers to the presence of excess fat in the abdominal area. obesity, especially abdominal obesity, contributes to many metabolic disorders including metabolic syndrome (mets), type 2 diabetes (t2dm) and cardiovascular diseases (cvd). ",
 'Can choline ingested with food - alone or in the form of lecithin, for example - improve memory? [SEP] choline is abundant in for example eggs and shrimps and many animal studies suggest that it serves as a cognitive enhancer. choline is a dietary component and precursor of acetylcholine, a crucial neurotransmitter for memory-related brain functions. in two double-blind, placebo-controlled cross-over experiments, we investigated whether the food supplement choline bitartrate improved declarative memory and working memory in healthy, young students one to two hours after supplementation. we found that choline did not significantly enhance memory performance during any of the tasks. these results are in contrast with animal studies suggesting that choline supplementation boosts memory performance and learning. indications from preliminary investigations that administration of choline or lecithin might alleviate some neurological disturbances, prevent hypercholesteremia and atherosclerosis, and restore memory and cognition have resulted in much research and public interest. animal studies demonstrate increased choline metabolites in brain following oral administration. consumption of a single meal containing lecithin, the major source of choline occurring naturally in the diet, increased the concentrations of choline and acetylcholine in rat brain and adrenal gland. studies with animal models indicate that the availability of choline during the prenatal period influences neural and cognitive development. specifically, prenatal choline supplementation has been shown to enhance working memory and hippocampal long-term potentiation (ltp) in adult offspring. ',
 'Does white sugar cause cancer? [SEP] previously, we reported a positive association between sugar-sweetened soft drink consumption and obesity-related cancer, but this association was not fully explained by obesity; in contrast, we found no association for consumption of artificially sweetened soft drinks. our aim was to determine whether the consumption of sugar-sweetened or artificially sweetened soft drinks was associated with cancers other than those currently identified as being related to obesity. there was no association between frequency of consuming sugar-sweetened soft drinks and the risk of these cancers, but an unexpected positive association was observed for consumption of artificially sweetened soft drinks. experimental data suggest that sugars could play a role in cancer etiology through obesity but also through inflammatory and oxidative mechanisms and insulin resistance, even in the absence of weight gain. total sugar intake was associated with higher overall cancer risk (n\xa0=\xa02503 cases; hr for quartile 4 compared with quartile 1: 1.17; 95% ci: 1.00, 1.37; ptrend\xa0=\xa00.02). in addition, significant associations with cancer risk were also observed for added sugars, free sugars, sucrose,\xa0sugars from milk-based desserts, dairy products, and sugary drinks (ptrend\xa0≤\xa00.01). background: higher sugar consumption may increase cancer risk by promoting insulin-glucose dysregulation, oxidative stress, hormonal imbalances, and excess adiposity. high sugar intake may increase cancer risk by promoting insulin-glucose dysregulation, oxidative stress, inflammation, and body adiposity, but epidemiologic evidence is unclear. associations between dietary sugars and lifestyle-related cancer risk from longitudinal studies were evaluated. in two of five studies on added sugars, a 60-95% increased cancer risk was observed with higher intakes. ',
 'Do wound care products with sodium hypochlorite such as ActiMaris promote the healing process of wounds? [SEP] hypochlorous acid has both anti-microbial and wound healing properties with a growing role for use in pre-procedural care on the face. a mixture of high molecular weight ha with the iodine complex ki(3) (hyiodine) was reported to accelerate wound healing in patients with diabetes and patients after surgery. we investigated how this mixture affects wound contraction, granulation tissue (gt) and wound edges in excision skin wounds in rats. hyiodine accelerated wound contraction significantly in the first 5 days of healing. hyiodine supports wound healing by stimulating wound contraction and epidermal proliferation and by keeping the wound moist through increased exudation. hypochlorite solutions are thought to be efficacious when used to topically decontaminate intact skin. therefore, we compared the decontamination efficacy of sodium hypochlorite (0.5% and 2.5% solutions), calcium hypochlorite (0.5% and 2.5% solutions) and sterile water to untreated controls in wounds exposed to sulfur mustard (hd). to evaluate the wound-healing activity of a commercially available hydrocolloid wound dressing (avery h2460, avery dennison, turnhout, belgium) in comparison with a control treatment (fucidine cream with cutiplast sterile dressing) in superficial wounds after surgical removal of seborrheic keratoses. in a single-blinded, randomized, controlled trial, the hydrocolloid wound dressing (avery h2460) was compared with healing by secondary intention as a control. the faster healing in comparison with the control treatment supports the use of the hydrocolloid wound dressing (avery h2460) for the treatment of superficial surgical wounds. ',
 'Does the dietary supplement MSM help with osteoarthritis? [SEP] methylsulfonylmethane (msm) is a commonly used diet supplement believed to decrease the inflammation in joints and fastens recovery in osteoarthritis, gastric mucosal injury, or obesity-related disorders. methylsulfonylmethane (msm) is a popular dietary supplement used as a single agent and in combination with other nutrients, and purported to be beneficial for arthritis. the aim of this study was to determine the efficacy of methylsulfonylmethane (msm) in treating patients with knee oa. forty nine men and women 45-90 (mean 68 ± sd 7.3) years of age with knee oa according to the american college of rheumatology clinical criteria for oa of the knee and with radiographic confirmed knee oa were enrolled in the study and randomly assigned into 2 groups: one received msm in doses of 1.125 grams 3 times daily for 12 weeks and the other received a placebo in the same dosing frequency. patients with oa of the knee taking msm for 12 weeks showed an improvement in pain and physical function. methylsulfonylmethane (msm) is an organic sulfur-containing compound which has been used as a dietary supplement for osteoarthritis. mega msm is a nutritional supplement that may provide potential relief for joint problems associated with joint degeneration. the objective of the study was to determine whether the daily use of mega msm capsules could improve joint function, relieve symptoms of joint degeneration and improve the quality of life in aging populations. in this study, mega msm shows positive effects in improving joint function, relieving symptoms associated with joint degeneration and improving the quality of life in aging populations. previous studies using msm as an oral supplement to improve pain in those patients with knee osteoarthritis have shown superiority compared to placebo. ',
 "Is wheat lectin, which is found in high amounts especially in whole wheat, harmful to health? [SEP] allergic reactions to wheat may be caused by ingestion of wheat containing foods or inhalation of flour (bakers asthma). wheat is a common food causing allergy which has implications on the quality of life. wheat is one of the most consumed foods in the world and unfortunately causes allergic reactions which have important health effects. wheat is one of the most important crops in the world in terms of human nutrition. with regards to health, some individuals exhibit wheat-related disorders such as food allergy to wheat (faw). wheat is an important part of the daily diet of millions of people. owing to its extensive use in the human diet, wheat is among the most common causes of food-related allergies and intolerances. allergies to wheat are provoked by ingestion, inhalation or contact with either the soluble or the insoluble gluten proteins in wheat. for a small proportion of the population, specific wheat proteins can trigger adverse immune responses and clinical manifestations such as celiac disease, wheat allergy, baker's asthma, and wheat-dependent exercise-induced anaphylaxis (wdeia). wheat is one of the world's most widely consumed staple food. ",
 'Is it harmful to health to regularly eat large quantities of fish contaminated with dioxins and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs)? [SEP] compared with other types of foods of animal origin, fish contain the highest levels of polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs), polychlorinated dibenzo- p-dioxins, and polychlorinated dibenzofurans, all of which are classified as highly toxic organochlorine compounds. consumption of fish and shellfish from contaminated areas may be an important source of human exposure to persistent organohalogen compounds such as polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs), polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (pcdds), and polychlorinated dibenzofurans (pcdfs). there is evidence showing that fish in the human diet contributes at a significant proportion to the total intake of pcbs and other organochlorine compounds, particularly fish with higher fat levels. fish is an important source of dietary intake of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (pcdd/fs) and polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs). farmed fish can be exposed to persistent organic contaminants--such as polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs), dibenzodioxins (pcdds), and dibenzofurans (pcdfs)--via feed, this eventually resulting in accumulation levels of health concern. dietary intake of fish containing organic contaminants poses a potential threat to human health. in the present work, an assessment has been carried out to look at the human health risk associated with consumption of fish contaminated with organochlorine pesticides (ocps) and polychlorinated biphenyles (pcbs) in certain fish species collected from lake hawassa, ethiopia. humans are mainly exposed to these pollutants through ingestion of contaminated fish and fishery products; the consumption of fatty fish such as european catfish can contribute considerably to the intake of dioxins and pcbs. food consumption is by far the main exposure route for polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs) for the general population, and fish and fishery products seem to be the main contributors to the total dietary intake of these pollutants. this study measured the levels of pcbs in wild and farmed sea bass (dicentrarchus labrax l.), one of the most valuable and popular fish in the italian diet, and assessed the exposure to these pollutants through fish intake. ',
 'Is the DMPS test suitable to reliably indicate mercury poisoning? [SEP] the chelating agent 2,3 dimercaptopropane-1-sulfonate (dmps) has been used in a mercury mobilization test for diagnoses in illnesses allegedly associated with the presence of amalgam restorations. in some patients, the diagnosis of mercury poisoning has been made based on urine mercury excretions following oral dosing of meso-dimercaptosuccinic acid (dmsa), a metal chelator. this study assessed diagnostic chelation challenge with dimercaptosuccinic acid (dmsa) as a measure of mercury body burden among mercury-exposed workers. these results provide normative values for urinary mercury excretion both before and after dmsa challenge, and suggest that dmsa chelation challenge is not useful as a biomarker of past mercury exposure. the aim of the study was to evaluate the efficacy of dmps (sodium-2,3-dimercapto-1-propane sulfonate) (dimaval) administration for mobilizing mercury from the body in occupationally exposed people and experimental animals. two doses of dmps were administered at a 24-h interval to: (a) groups of people occupationally exposed to merkury--workers of the chloralkali industry (n = 43), and dentists (n = 12), (b) non-exposed individuals (n = 20), and (c) rats chronically exposed to mercury vapour at the concentration of 0.8 mg/m3 hg degree (6 h/day, 5 days/week) for 15 weeks. in rats, two consecutive doses of dmps decreased kidney content of mercury by about 30% and 50% after oral and intraperitoneal administration, respectively. it was estimated that two doses of dmps mobilized 17-20% (after oral administration) and 25-30% (after intramuscular administration) of kidney mercury burden, both in the control and exposed subjects. dmps (2,3-dimercaptopropane-1-sulfonate, na salt), when used as a challenge test for mercury in workers involved in the production of a calomel skin-bleaching lotion and in direct contact with mercurous chloride, elevated urine levels of mercury. dmps treatment was effective in lowering the body burden of mercury and in decreasing the urinary mercury concentration to normal levels. ',
 "Can stevia lower high blood pressure? [SEP] the regulation of blood pressure by dietary means represents an important approach toward the reduction of morbidity and mortality of heart disease. reduction of high blood pressure has an effect on coronary mortality and morbidity lower than expected. antihypertensive and antidiabetic effects of stevia, stevia rebaudiana (asteraceae), have been demonstrated in several human and animal models. the current study aims to define stevia's role in modifying the electrophysiological and mechanical properties of cardiomyocytes, blood vessels, and gastrointestinal smooth muscle. in cardiomyocytes, stevia attenuated the force of contraction, decreased the average peak amplitude, and shortened the repolarisation phase of action potential - repolarisation phase of action potential20 by 25 %, repolarisation phase of action potential50 by 34 %, and repolarisation phase of action potential90 by 36 %. stevia caused relaxation of aortic tissues which was significantly potentiated in the presence of verapamil. in mesenteric arteries, incubation with l-name failed to block stevia-induced relaxation indicating the mechanism of action may not be fully via nitric oxide-dependent pathways. this study is the first to show the effectiveness of stevia in reducing cardiac action potential duration at 20 %, 50 %, and 90 % of repolarisation. stevia also showed beneficial modulatory effects on cardiovascular and gastrointestinal tissues via calcium channel antagonism, activation of the m2 muscarinic receptor function, and enhanced nitric oxide release. this paper reviews the evidence for the blood pressure-lowering effects of a vegetarian diet on those with elevated blood pressure. ",
 'Is eating genetically modified corn a health concern? [SEP] widely consumed by populations of all socioeconomic classes worldwide, corn is one of the few food sources of lutein and zeaxanthin. genetically modified corn has been approved as an animal feed in several countries, but information about the fate of genetically modified dna and protein in vivo is insufficient. in the recent past, it has been suggested that consumption of mycotoxin contaminated sorghum/corn may be involved in the development of pellagra in a sorghum/corn eating population. corn is a major ingredient of mixed feed, and it has been reported that corn may be contaminated with deoxynivalenol (don). fresh and cooked baby corn, sweet corn, dent corn and industrially processed and cooked popcorn, corn grits, corn flour and corn flakes were analysed for the determination of proximate, minerals, xanthophylls and phenolic acids content. corn is an attractive host for vaccine production and oral delivery. since the beginning of the development of plant-based vaccines, corn was explored for the production and delivery of vaccines. insecticide use, grower preferences regarding genetically engineered (ge) corn resistant to corn rootworm (crw), and the health effects of using various crw insecticides (organophosphates, pyrethroids, fipronil and carbamates) are reviewed for current and future farm practices. in this study, we hypothesized that adequate intake of corn fractions (aleurone, endosperm and germ) can modify lipid profiles in relation to atherosclerotic lesion development in low-density lipoprotein receptor knockout (ldlr-ko) mice. four groups of male ldlr-ko mice were fed with the experimental diets supplemented with (3 treated) or without (control) 5% (wt/wt) of each of corn fractions for 10 weeks. ',
 'Are privately performed IgG tests to clarify food intolerances meaningful? [SEP] since many patients believe that their symptoms are related to food ingestion without diagnostic confirmation of a causal relationship, tests for food-specific igg4 represent a growing market. specific igg4 dosing against food is proposed to the public by a lot of commercial laboratories as a reliable method to diagnose food intolerance. in this study we evaluated the clinical utility of specific igg4 dosing against food in adult patients with suspected food allergy/intolerance. a case series of 73 adult patients with suspected food allergy and clinical manifestations of chronic urticaria or other allergy-supposed skin symptoms were tested for specific igg4 against foods. in adult patients, testing for specific igg4 lacks clinical utility for the diagnosis of food allergy or intolerance. serum igg and iga food antibodies have been used for dietary advice to subjects with gastrointestinal symptoms and perceived food intolerance, but the role of these antibodies in mediating intolerance is controversial. the usefulness of serum antibodies to common food antigens (immunoglobulin g4; igg4) assay in management of patients suffering from food intolerance was assessed. to understand the causes of food intolerance, it is important to investigate sensitization patterns of food-specific iggs (sigg) in relation to dietary patterns and physical conditions. diagnostic food-specific ige levels might assist in diagnosing food allergies and circumventing the need for food challenges. quantification of food-specific ige is a valuable tool that will aid in the diagnosis of symptomatic food allergy and might decrease the need for double-blind, placebo-controlled food challenges. ',
 'Is a gluten-free diet recommended for people who do not have celiac disease? [SEP] individuals with celiac disease generally are advised to follow a lifelong gluten-free diet and avoid consumption of the prolamins gliadin (wheat), secalin (rye), and hordein (barley). despite increased prescription of a gluten-free diet for gastrointestinal symptoms in individuals who do not have celiac disease, there is minimal evidence that suggests that gluten is a trigger. a gluten-free diet is the safest treatment for the treatment of patient with celiac disease (cd) and other gluten-related disorders. however, in the last years, gluten-free diet is one of the most popular diet followed by the general population and by patients affected from others clinical conditions, such as non-celiac gluten sensitivity (ncgs), irritable bowel syndrome (ibs), autism, neurological, psychiatric and rheumatologic diseases and for improving sports practice. many health-conscious individuals practice a gluten-free diet, even if they do not have celiac disease. a gluten-free diet (gfd), the mainstay of treatment for celiac disease, is being increasingly adopted by people without this condition. it is essential for patients with celiac disease (cd) to be on a gluten-free diet (gfd) but said diet has also been reported to increase the risk for metabolic syndrome. patients with non-celiac gluten sensitivity (ncgs) do not have celiac disease but their symptoms improve when they are placed on gluten-free diets. such a gluten-free diet (gfd) is recommended irrespective of the presence of symptoms. a gluten-free diet (gfd) is recommended for all patients with coeliac disease (cd). ',
 'Does the plant substance nobiletin contained in mandarins protect against weight gain? [SEP] naringenin, a citrus flavonoid, prevents diet-induced weight gain and improves glucose and lipid metabolism in rodents. there is evidence that naringenin activates brown fat and increases energy expenditure in mice, but little is known about its effects in humans. however, in these models, a significant effect of naringenin supplementation is the prevention of weight gain, which in itself can confer metabolic protection. these studies highlight the potential therapeutic utility of naringenin and suggest that this flavonoid maintains potent metabolic properties in the absence of obesity or a high-fat diet. nobiletin, one of the polymethoxylated flavonoids isolated from citrus peels, is reported to possess various biological activities. the current study investigates the effect and possible mechanisms of nobiletin on nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (nafld) in high-fat diet (hfd)-fed rats. treatment of hfd-fed rats with nobiletin significantly reduced systolic blood pressure, adiposity, hyperlipidemia, insulin resistance, hepatic lipids content, nafld activity score and liver fibrosis. nobiletin significantly increased plasma adiponectin levels, together with up-regulation of liver adiponectin receptor 1 (adipor1) expression. these findings suggest that nobiletin alleviates hfd-induced nafld and metabolic dysfunction in rats. stamens of nelumbo nucifera gaertn have been used as a chinese medicine due to its antioxidant, hypoglycemic, and antiatherogenic activity. ',
 'Does consumption of dairy products in middle and advanced age protect against bone fractures? [SEP] milk, cheese, yogurt) is advocated for bone health across the lifespan to reduce the risk of low-trauma fractures. we evaluated the association between intake of dairy foods and peripheral bone structure and muscle mass in 564 elderly women aged 80 to 92 (mean 84.7) years, who were participants of the calcium intake fracture outcome study/caifos aged extension study (caifos/cares) cohort and attended the 10-year follow-up. our results suggest a positive association of dairy intake with appendicular bone mineralization and muscle mass in elderly women. because many fractures in this age group are of the appendicular skeleton often associated with falls, dairy intake may be a modifiable lifestyle factor contributing to healthy aging. the objective of this review was to determine whether scientific evidence supports the recommendation that dairy foods be consumed daily for improved bone health in the general us population. some previous evidence have linked dairy products with greater muscle mass, bone mineral density and lower risk of osteoporosis. dairy foods are rich in bone-beneficial nutrients, yet the role of dairy foods in hip fracture prevention remains controversial. participants with medium (>1 and <7 servings/wk) or higher (≥7 servings/wk) milk intake tended to have lower hip fracture risk than those with low (≤1 serving/wk) intake (high versus low intake hr 0.58, 95% confidence interval [ci] 0.31-1.06, p\u2009=\u20090.078; medium versus low intake hr 0.61, 95% ci 0.36-1.08, p\u2009=\u20090.071; p trend\u2009=\u20090.178]. these results suggest that greater intakes of milk and milk\u2009+\u2009yogurt may lower risk for hip fracture in older adults through mechanisms that are partially, but not entirely, attributable to effects on bone mineral density. background: previous studies showed beneficial effects of specific dairy foods on bone health in middle-aged adults.objective: we examined the association of milk, yogurt, cheese, cream, fluid dairy (milk + yogurt), and milk + yogurt + cheese intakes with bone mineral density (bmd) and 4-y percentage of change in bmd [▵%bmd; femoral neck, trochanter, and lumbar spine (ls)]. ',
 "Is the milk of horn-bearing cows less rich in allergens and more easily tolerated by lactose-intolerant individuals? [SEP] it has been hypothesized that certain consumers tolerate untreated cow's milk, but react to processed (i.e. homogenized and pasteurized) cow's milk although they do not suffer from ige-mediated cow's milk allergy or lactose intolerance. the aim of the study was to compare the tolerance of unhomogenized and homogenized cow's milk in lactose tolerant adults who had repeatedly experienced better tolerance of unhomogenized than homogenized milk. the results of this study show no difference in the tolerance of homogenized and unhomogenized milk in adults with self-reported symptoms suggestive of hypersensitivity to homogenized milk. true lactose intolerance (symptoms stemming from lactose malabsorption) is less common than is widely perceived, and should be viewed as just one potential cause of cows' milk intolerance. there is increasing evidence that a1 beta-casein, a protein produced by a major proportion of european-origin cattle but not purebred asian or african cattle, is also associated with cows' milk intolerance. the major cow's milk allergen beta-lactoglobulin (beta-lg) is relatively resistant to enzymatic degradation and may therefore be involved in non-immunoglobulin (ig)e-mediated cow's milk allergy (cma) with delayed gastrointestinal symptoms. individuals with lactose intolerance (li) tend to exclude milk from their diet since this behavior seems to relieve the symptoms caused by the disease. however, milk is a food of high nutritional value, and complete exclusion of dairy products may favor the development of bone diseases such as osteopenia and osteoporosis. the utilization of immunoglobulins (ig) for colostrogenesis might impair humoral immunity in peripartal dairy cows; therefore this study investigated the effects of a cla supplement, parity and different dietary energy levels on plasma and colostrum igg1, igg2 and igm levels in dairy cows and their calves. ",
 'Does daily flossing protect against tooth decay, periodontitis and tooth loss? [SEP] consistent good dental hygiene can help prevent gingivitis and periodontitis. mechanical removal of plaque through frequent and efficacious brushing and flossing is the principal means of preventing periodontal diseases and diminishing the risk of caries. this review is to determine the effectiveness of flossing in addition to toothbrushing for preventing gum disease and dental caries in adults. to assess the effects of flossing in addition to toothbrushing, as compared with toothbrushing alone, in the management of periodontal diseases and dental caries in adults. there is some evidence from twelve studies that flossing in addition to toothbrushing reduces gingivitis compared to toothbrushing alone. to assess the effects of flossing in addition to toothbrushing, as compared with toothbrushing alone, in the management of periodontal diseases and dental caries in adults. there is some evidence from twelve studies that flossing in addition to toothbrushing reduces gingivitis compared to toothbrushing alone. effective daily plaque control promotes gingival/periodontal health. recent meta-analyses and other reviews have found inconclusive evidence to support that tooth flossing promotes gingival/periodontal health. we assert that effective flossing between specific teeth can promote gingival/periodontal health. ',
 'Do protein supplements help build muscle? [SEP] protein supplementation can enhance muscle protein synthesis after exercise and may preserve skeletal muscle mass and function in aging adults. athletes as well as elderly or hospitalized patients use dietary protein supplementation to maintain or grow skeletal muscle. it is recognized that high quality protein is needed for muscle accretion, and can be obtained from both animal and plant-based sources. protein ingestion following endurance exercise does facilitate an increase in skeletal mps, supporting muscle repair, growth and remodeling. in this way, consuming dietary protein can complement intense exercise training and facilitate the skeletal muscle adaptive response. protein supplementation has been suggested to augment endurance training adaptations by increasing mixed muscle and myofibrillar protein synthesis and lean body mass. increased amino acid availability stimulates muscle protein synthesis (mps), which is critical for maintaining or increasing muscle mass when combined with training. evidence has shown that protein supplementation following resistance exercise training (ret) helps to further enhance muscle mass and strength. it is now well established that protein supplementation after resistance exercise promotes increased muscle protein synthesis, which ultimately results in greater net muscle accretion, relative to exercise alone or exercise with supplementary carbohydrate ingestion. whey protein is a supplemental protein source often used by athletes, particularly those aiming to gain muscle mass; however, direct evidence for its efficacy in stimulating muscle protein synthesis (mps) is lacking. ',
 'Does music therapy promote recovery from severe limitations of consciousness after severe brain injury? [SEP] musical training and music-based rehabilitation have been shown to enhance cognitive functioning and neuroplasticity, but the potential rehabilitative effects of music in tbi are still largely unknown. music-based therapy for rehabilitation induces neuromodulation at the brain level and improves the functional recovery. music therapy has been used in rehabilitation to stimulate brain functions involved in movement, cognition, speech, emotions and sensory perceptions. randomized and quasi-randomized controlled trials that compared music therapy interventions and standard care with standard care alone or combined with other therapies for people older than 16 years of age who had acquired brain damage of a non-degenerative nature and were participating in treatment programs offered in hospital, outpatient or community settings. this review presents an overview of the use of music therapy in neurological early rehabilitation of patients with coma and other disorders of consciousness (doc) such as unresponsive wakefulness syndrome (uws) or minimally conscious state (mcs). the purpose of this paper is to present the theory for therapeutic music training (tmt) and to provide a pilot case study investigating the potential efficacy of tmt to remediate cognitive impairment following an abi. what is the state of knowledge and evidence for a role of music in supporting the rehabilitation of movements after stroke? the aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of music on cerebral processing in patients with disorders of consciousness. these findings demonstrate for the first time that music has a beneficial effect on cognitive processes of patients with disorders of consciousness. the psychological and neural mechanisms potentially underlying the rehabilitating effect of music after stroke are discussed. ',
 'Can eating grapefruit in combination with some medications lead to harmful interactions? [SEP] prominent medications known to interact with grapefruit include statins, antiarrhythmic agents, immunosuppressive agents, and calcium channel blockers. these alternative drugs may be substituted if a patient experiences or is at risk of a grapefruit-drug interaction. in spite of known health benefits of grapefruit juice, its consumption in combination with drugs requires caution. biomedical evidence in the last 10 years has, however, shown that consumption of grapefruit or its juice is associated with drug interactions, which, in some cases, have been fatal. however, since the early 1990s, the potential health benefits of grapefruit have been overshadowed by the possible risk of interactions between drugs and grapefruit and grapefruit juice. this review is designed to provide a comprehensive summary of underlying mechanisms of interaction and human clinical trials performed in the area of grapefruit drug interactions and to point out possible replacements for drugs with a high potential for interactions. several serious adverse effects involving drug interactions with grapefruit juice have been published in detail. drugs interacting with grapefruit and inducing serious clinical consequences (confirmed or very probable) include: immunosuppressants, some statins, benzodiazepines, most calcium channel blockers, indinavir and carbamazepine. in practice, numerous drugs interact with grapefruit juice. although only a few reports involving severe clinical consequences have been published, they suggest that grapefruit juice should be avoided during drug therapy, especially when the drug has a narrow therapeutic margin or carries a risk of serious dose-dependent adverse effects. ',
 "Can regular consumption of chocolate prevent cardiovascular disease? [SEP] consumption of chocolate has been often hypothesized to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease (cvd) due to chocolate's high levels of stearic acid and antioxidant flavonoids. the body of short-term randomized feeding trials suggests cocoa and chocolate may exert beneficial effects on cardiovascular risk via effects on lowering blood pressure, anti-inflammation, anti-platelet function, higher hdl, decreased ldl oxidation. thus, we sought to examine whether chocolate consumption is associated with calcified atherosclerotic plaque in the coronary arteries (cac). there is a substantial interest in the potential role of chocolate in the prevention of cardiovascular diseases. supported by epidemiological evidence, chocolate has emerged as a possible modulator of cardiovascular risk. accumulating evidence suggests potential preventive effects of chocolate/cocoa on the risk of cardio vascular disease (cvd). observational studies have associated reduced cardiovascular mortality with chocolate consumption. the consumption of chocolate and cocoa has established cardiovascular benefits. weekly chocolate intake may be of benefit to arterial stiffness. recently, several studies have demonstrated the beneficial effects of chocolate, primarily on hypertension and other conditions such as coronary artery disease and hyperlipidemia. ",
 'Is barley grass good for health? [SEP] <b>introduction and objective.</b> barley (hordeum vulgare l.) is known as a rich source of different bioactive compounds. at present, considerable attention of researchers is focused on young barley grass. <b>conclusions.</b> the obtained results indicate a cancer chemopreventive potential of young barley as a safe dietary agent in colon carcinoma. barley seeds are considered to possess high nutritional value and antioxidant properties. the grass of barley is also considered as a part of health drink in many parts of india. results indicated that barley grass juice (hordeum vulgare l.) exhibited potent in vitro antioxidant activity. our study demonstrates the antiobesity activity of barley grass juice and it may be concluded that barley grass juice can be an effective nutraceutical in the management of obesity. barley grass (bg) is young green barley leaves. barley is one of the most important cereals, which is used for breweries, animal and human feeds. barley (hordeum vulgare l.) is a cereal crop that has been cultivated since ancient times. ',
 'Are diets with reduced carbohydrate content better for weight loss than other weight loss programs? [SEP] both low-fat and low-carbohydrate diets have been shown to induce weight loss and reduce obesity-related comorbidities. low-carbohydrate diets cause greater short-term (up to 6 months) weight loss than low-fat diets, but the long-term clinical safety and efficacy of these diets has not been studied. very low-carbohydrate diets are widely used for weight loss yet few controlled studies have determined how these diets impact cardiovascular risk factors compared to more traditional low-fat weight loss diets. low carbohydrate diets, which restrict carbohydrate in favour of increased protein or fat intake, or both, are a popular weight-loss strategy. low carbohydrate diets are gaining popularity, however there is no clear consensus regarding their safety and efficacy for weight loss. evidence from randomized controlled trials suggests that low carbohydrate diets may enable short-term weight loss by facilitating reduced energy intakes, however poor dietary compliance may prevent long-term success. low-carbohydrate diets may promote greater weight loss than does the conventional low-fat, high-carbohydrate diet. low-carbohydrate diets have been advocated as an effective method for promoting weight loss in overweight and obese individuals and preventing and treating type 2 diabetes. the probability of greater weight loss associated with low carbohydrate was >99% while the reduction in predicted risk favoring low carbohydrate was >98%. studies with low-carbohydrate diets demonstrate a rapid weight loss, being more pronounced after 3 and 6 months compared to low-fat diets. ',
 'Does taking probiotics during pregnancy and early life protect children from atopic dermatitis? [SEP] previous reports have suggested that certain probiotics given to mothers and children at risk of atopy halves the incidence of atopic dermatitis (ad) at 2 years of age. we undertook a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials to investigate whether probiotic use during pregnancy and early life decreases the incidence of atopic dermatitis and immunoglobulin e (ige)-associated atopic dermatitis in infants and young children. meta-analysis demonstrated that probiotic use decreased the incidence of atopic dermatitis (rr = 0.79 [95% ci = 0.71-0.88]). this meta-analysis provided evidence in support of a moderate role of probiotics in the prevention of atopic dermatitis and ige-associated atopic dermatitis in infants. we sought to assess whether consumption of probiotic milk products protects against atopic eczema, rhinoconjunctivitis, and asthma in early childhood in a large population-based pregnancy cohort (the norwegian mother and child cohort study). we examined associations between consumption of probiotic milk products in pregnancy and infancy with questionnaire-reported atopic eczema, rhinoconjunctivitis, and asthma in 40,614 children. consumption of probiotic milk in pregnancy was associated with a slightly reduced relative risk (rr) of atopic eczema at 6 months (adjusted rr, 0.94; 95% ci, 0.89-0.99) and of rhinoconjunctivitis between 18 and 36 months (adjusted rr, 0.87; 95% ci, 0.78-0.98) compared with no consumption during pregnancy. we investigated whether supplementation of probiotics prevents the development of eczema in infants at high risk. the authors systematically reviewed the literature to investigate whether probiotic supplementation prenatally and/or postnatally could reduce the risk of atopy and food hypersensitivity in young children.pubmed, embase, the cochrane central register of controlled trials, and 4 main chinese literature databases (wan fang, vip, china national knowledge infrastructure, and sinomed) were searched for randomized controlled trials regarding the effect of probiotics on the prevention of allergy in children. maternal probiotic supplementation has been shown to prevent the development of atopic dermatitis in the offspring. ',
 "Is Bulletproof Coffee recommended? [SEP] coffee is one of the most popular beverages in the world. the high production and health properties of coffee make it one of the best among daily drinks. coffee is one of the most widely consumed beverages in the world. coffee, being one of the world's most popular beverages, is a rich source of dietary antioxidants. coffee is a popular drink; it is one of the most commercialized food products and a rich source of biologically active compounds that are important for human health. coffee is one of the most widely consumed beverages in the world, because of its unique sensory properties and physiological properties. coffee is a popular beverage throughout the world. coffee is one of the most popular beverages worldwide. coffee is among the most widespread and healthiest beverages in the world. coffee is a commonly consumed beverage with potential health benefits. ",
 'Do apples help with smoking cessation? [SEP] apples are one of the largest contributors of fruit phenolics of all fruits consumed by americans and contain a variety of bioactive compounds, which have health benefits. consumption of apples has been linked to reduced risk of chronic diseases such as cancer and cardiovascular disease. epidemiological studies have linked the consumption of apples with reduced risk of some cancers, cardiovascular disease, asthma, and diabetes. the cardioprotective effects of apples are primarily attributed to flavonoids, found predominantly in the skin. a lower risk of cvd with higher apple consumption could be mediated by the beneficial effect of apple skin on endothelial function, both acutely and chronically. apples contain significant amounts of flavonoids that are potentially cancer risk reducing by acting antioxidative or antiproliferative and by favorably modulating gene expression. apple fruits are favored by consumers because of their antioxidative, anti-inflammatory, and antitumor effects as well as their protective effects against cardiovascular diseases and other health benefits. apples play an important role in the american diet. increasing evidence from in vitro, in vivo, and epidemiologic studies suggest that flavonoids found in apples may be protective against cancer, heart disease, and other chronic diseases. several studies suggested that apple polyphenols could play a role in prevention of degenarative diseases. ',
 'Do products made from fenugreek seeds help you lose weight? [SEP] we have previously shown that the antidiabetic property of fenugreek seeds (trigonella foenum graecum l.) is associated with the defatted seed material which is rich in fibers, saponins, and proteins. the seeds of fenugreek (trigonella foenum-graecum l.) have medicinal uses as hypoglycemic, antinociceptive and anti-inflammatory agents. processing of fenugreek seeds improved in vitro starch digestibility and in vitro protein digestibility. fenugreek seed ( trigonella foenum-graecum l.) is used as an herbal medicine for treating metabolic and nutritive dysfunctions. overall, this study reveals that fenugreek seed dietary supplementation has a positive effect on the activities of the hepatic antioxidant defense enzymes in the aged mice. several investigations have suggested that fenugreek seeds may have a hypocholesterolemic activity, and thus be efficient in the treatment of egg yolk cholesterol. fenugreek seeds have been used in traditional medicines as a remedy for diabetes. rich in protein, fenugreek seeds contain the unique major free amino acid 4-hydroxyisoleucine (4-oh-ile), which has been characterized as one of the active ingredients for blood glucose control. we have recently shown that a fenugreek seed extract containing steroid saponins increased food consumption and induced hypocholesterolemia in rats. fenugreek (trigonella foenum-graecum) seeds, used as a condiment, are documented for health benefits including amelioration of abnormalities in lipid homeostasis due to its hypolipidemic properties. ',
 'Does skipping breakfast increase heart attack risk? [SEP] skipping breakfast has been associated with a higher risk of obesity and cardiovascular (cv) risk factors. the present study estimated the prevalence of skipping breakfast and its association with cardiometabolic risk factors. skipping breakfast was associated with cardiometabolic risk factors in adolescence. several studies have associated skipping (not having) breakfast with cardiometabolic risk factors such as obesity, high blood pressure, unfavorable lipid profiles, diabetes, and metabolic syndrome. we examined the available evidence regarding the effect of skipping breakfast on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, as well as all-cause mortality. the pooled data suggested that people who regularly skipped breakfast were about 21% more likely (hazard ratio (hr) 1.21, 95% confidence interval (ci) 1.08-1.35; i2 = 17.3%, p = 0.304) to experience incident cvd or die from it than people who regularly consumed breakfast. this meta-analysis provides evidence that breakfast skipping is associated with an increased risk of type 2 diabetes, and the association is partly mediated by bmi. to determine whether skipping breakfast is associated with heart disease, the first meta-analysis of currently available epidemiological studies was performed. the primary meta-analysis combining hrs for q1 (first quartile, most skipping breakfast) versus q4 (fourth quartile, least skipping breakfast) from 3 studies together with other hrs/ors demonstrated that skipping breakfast was associated with the significantly increased risk of heart disease (pooled hr/or 1.24; 95% ci 1.09 to 1.40; p\u202f=\u202f0.001). in conclusion, skipping breakfast is associated with the increased risk of heart disease. ',
 "Does wheat make you fat and sick? [SEP] wheat is one of the most important crops in the world in terms of human nutrition. wheat is one of the world's most widely consumed staple food. however, it is unclear whether these wheat-related disorders lead to adverse health effects such as cardiovascular risk, nutritional deficiencies etc. the objective of the study was to explore the lipid profiles and the nutritional status of subjects with wheat-related disorders to understand the potential threat of wheat on cardiovascular risk and nutritional deficiency. the role of wheat in our diet, however, has recently been scrutinized by pseudoscientific books and media reports promoting the overall impression that wheat consumption makes people sick, stupid, fat, and addicted. based on all available scientific knowledge, wheat consumption is safe and healthy for the vast majority of people. wheat-related disorders, a spectrum of conditions induced by the ingestion of gluten-containing cereals, have been increasing in prevalence. wheat is a staple food throughout the temperate world and an important source of nutrients for many millions of people. this relates to two concerns: that wheat products are disproportionally responsible for increases in obesity and type 2 diabetes and that wheat gluten proteins cause a range of adverse reactions, including allergies, coeliac disease and 'non-coeliac gluten sensitivity'. owing to its extensive use in the human diet, wheat is among the most common causes of food-related allergies and intolerances. ",
 'Do whole grains lower the likelihood of dying early? [SEP] intake of whole grains is inversely associated with risk of diabetes and ischemic heart disease in observational studies. although breakfast cereals are a major source of whole and refined grains, little is known about their direct association with the risk of premature mortality. we prospectively evaluated the association between whole- and refined-grain breakfast cereal intakes and total and cvd-specific mortality in a cohort of us men. whole-grain breakfast cereal intake was inversely associated with total and cvd-specific mortality, independent of age; body mass index; smoking; alcohol intake; physical activity; history of diabetes, hypertension, or high cholesterol; and use of multivitamins. compared with men who rarely or never consumed whole-grain cereal, men in the highest category of whole-grain cereal intake (> or = 1 serving/d) had multivariate-estimated relative risks of total and cvd-specific mortality of 0.83 (95% ci: 0.73, 0.94; p for trend < 0.001) and 0.80 (0.66, 0.97; p for trend < 0.001), respectively. both total mortality and cvd-specific mortality were inversely associated with whole-grain but not refined-grain breakfast cereal intake. epidemiological evidence supports that a diet high in whole grains is associated with lowered risk of chronic diseases included coronary heart disease, obesity, type 2 diabetes, and some types of cancer. increasing evidence shows that grains may play a role in disease prevention beyond the simple provision of energy and nutrients. epidemiological studies have shown that consumption of whole grains and grain-based products is associated with reduced risk of chronic diseases. epidemiologic studies support the theory that whole grains are protective against cancer, especially gastrointestinal cancers such as gastric and colon can-cer, and cardiovascular disease. ',
 "Does the consumption of dairy products promote mucus and diseases of the ear, nose and throat? [SEP] a commonly held public belief is that cow's milk products increase mucus production and respiratory symptoms. our objective was to investigate whether a single exposure to cow's milk is associated with respiratory symptoms and changes in pulmonary functions in asthmatic and non-asthmatic children. a single exposure to cow's milk is not associated with symptoms, bronchial inflammation, or bronchial constriction in both non-asthmatic and asthmatic children. our findings do not support the strict elimination of dairy products from a child's diet for the prevention of respiratory symptoms. the consumption of dairy products may influence the risk of cardiovascular disease (cvd) and total mortality, but conflicting findings have been reported. mastitis is one of the most prevalent diseases in dairy farming worldwide. we found that there was no strong evidence that high levels of dairy consumption are associated with risk of tc, conflicting evidence of a dose-response relationship, inconsistent evidence on whether certain types of dairy are more strongly associated with tc than others, and conflicting evidence that exposure during certain life-course periods affects tc risk more than other periods. there is no consistent evidence to support the premise that dairy product consumption is associated with the risk of tc development. dairy working increases the prevalence of lower airway respiratory diseases, especially copd and asthma. the totality of available scientific evidence supports that intake of milk and dairy products contribute to meet nutrient recommendations, and may protect against the most prevalent chronic diseases, whereas very few adverse effects have been reported. ",
 'Does regular consumption of energy drinks harm heart health? [SEP] despite the growing popularity of energy drinks, many do not realize the negative effects on the cardiovascular system. higher doses and consumption of energy drinks leads to cardiovascular effects and potential consequences. we evaluated the effects of acute energy drink consumption on systolic and diastolic blood pressure (sbp and dbp) and heart rate (hr). prospective clinical studies assessing the effects of commercially available energy drinks on bp and hr were included. conclusion regular consumption of energy drinks could contribute to dental erosion and the development of obesity. energy drink consumption has been anecdotally linked to the development of adverse cardiovascular effects in consumers, although clinical trials to support this link are lacking. energy drink consumption has been anecdotally linked with sudden cardiac death and, more recently, myocardial infarction. mean arterial pressure significantly increased following energy drink consumption, compared with control (p <.05). energy drink consumption acutely increases platelet aggregation and decreases endothelial function in healthy young adults. energy drinks have become very popular, yet they present health concerns and workplace safety issues related to mental and physical effects of the drinks, which are mainly related to the central nervous system and include heightened alertness, altered sleep patterns, arrhythmias and, rarely, seizures. ',
 "Do light drinks promote obesity? [SEP] low-calorie sweetened (lcs) beverages may help consumers to satisfy hedonic food cravings without violating dieting goals, however this remains unexplored. the present research investigated the effect of priming hedonic eating motivations on ad libitum energy intake in frequent and non-consumers of lcs beverages. it was hypothesised that energy intake would be greater after the hedonic eating prime relative to a control prime in non-consumers, but that frequent lcs beverage consumers would be protected from this effect. early studies showed that when consumed alone in a beverage appetite and food intake were increased. light-to-moderate alcohol consumption may increase circulating high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (hdl-c) levels and decrease low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c) levels. consumption of the 2 high energy preload drinks ('alcohol', 0.91 mj; 'cho', 0.72 mj) did not result in a compensatory decrease in the amount of energy subsequently eaten (ad lib intake: 'alcohol' = 2.62 mj, 0.32 sem; 'no alcohol' = 2.98 mj, 0.28 sem; 'cho' = 2.93 mj, 0.21 sem; 'water' = 2.82 mj, 0.25 sem), suggesting either no physiological recognition or no regulation of energy consumed within a drink in quantities of less than 1 mj. consumption of an energy drink containing 6% alcohol by volume negatively influenced performance on a global measure of cognitive functioning. it has been suggested that the effects of alcohol on body weight and fat distribution may be influenced by the quantity and type of drink and may differ according to whether the alcohol is consumed with meals or not. men who consumed > or = 21 units/week showed higher levels of central adiposity (whr, wc) and general adiposity (bmi, %bf) than nondrinkers and lighter drinkers, irrespective of the predominant type of drink consumed (wine, beer, spirits or mixed). among drinkers, a positive association was seen between alcohol intake and the adiposity variables irrespective of whether the alcohol was drunk with or separately from meals. ",
 "Does coffee reduce the risk of dementia? [SEP] epidemiological studies have shown that coffee consumption may be associated with a lower risk of developing several neurological disorders, including alzheimer's disease (ad). epidemiological studies have found that habitual coffee consumption may reduce the risk of alzheimer's disease. coffee consumption has been correlated with a decreased risk of developing alzheimer's disease (ad) and parkinson's disease (pd), but the mechanism by which coffee may provide neuroprotection in humans is not fully understood. coffee and its components have several neuroprotective properties that lower the risk of cognitive decline and other neurodegenerative diseases. many epidemiological studies in this literature review have shown coffee to reduce the risk of developing dementia, stroke, and alzheimer's disease. coffee drinking is associated with many sociodemographic and health variables, but our results do not support an independent role of coffee in the pathogenesis of cognitive decline and dementia. coffee consumption has been frequently reported for its protective association with incident dementia. studying the long-term effect of coffee consumption on dementia with stratified follow-up time may help resolve this issue. there is accumulating evidence that coffee consumption may reduce risk for type 2 diabetes, a known risk factor for alzheimer's and other neurological diseases. coffee consumption is also associated with reduced risk for alzheimer's disease and non-alzheimer's dementias. ",
 'Does sugar consumption increase the risk of developing type 2 diabetes regardless of obesity? [SEP] dietary added sugars are associated with a greater risk for t2d; however, it is unclear if added sugars influence t2d risk directly or if their effects are mediated by excess caloric intake and weight gain. while experimental and observational studies suggest that sugar intake is associated with the development of type 2 diabetes, independent of its role in obesity, it is unclear whether alterations in sugar intake can account for differences in diabetes prevalence among overall populations. using econometric models of repeated cross-sectional data on diabetes and nutritional components of food from 175 countries, we found that every 150 kcal/person/day increase in sugar availability (about one can of soda/day) was associated with increased diabetes prevalence by 1.1% (p <0.001) after testing for potential selection biases and controlling for other food types (including fibers, meats, fruits, oils, cereals), total calories, overweight and obesity, period-effects, and several socioeconomic variables such as aging, urbanization and income. duration and degree of sugar exposure correlated significantly with diabetes prevalence in a dose-dependent manner, while declines in sugar exposure correlated with significant subsequent declines in diabetes rates independently of other socioeconomic, dietary and obesity prevalence changes. the intake of sugar-sweetened soft drinks has been reported to be associated with an increased risk of type 2 diabetes, but it is unclear whether this is because of the sugar content or related lifestyle factors, whether similar associations hold for artificially sweetened soft drinks, and how these associations are related to bmi. it has been proposed that simple sugar consumption is one of the major risk factors in the development of diabetes. to investigate prospectively whether intake of total or type of sugar is associated with the risk of developing type 2 diabetes. type 2 diabetes increases the risk of cardiovascular disease two- to fourfold compared to the risk in nondiabetic subjects. our objective was to examine the association between consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages, weight gain, and incidence of type 2 diabetes mellitus in african american women. regular consumption of sugar-sweetened soft drinks and fruit drinks is associated with an increased risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus in african american women. ',
 'Does a lower salt diet reduce the likelihood of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] low-salt diets have potential for prevention and treatment of hypertension, and may also reduce risk for stroke, left ventricular hypertrophy, osteoporosis, renal stones, asthma, cataract, gastric pathology, and possibly even senile dementia. current epidemiology indicates that lower-salt diets tend to reduce coronary risk quite markedly in obese subjects, whereas the impact of such diets on leaner subjects (who are less likely to be salt sensitive) is equivocal--seemingly consistent with the possibility that salt restriction can exert countervailing effects on vascular health. further clinical studies should determine whether a moderately salt-restricted diet supplemented with organic sodium salts has a better and more uniform impact on hypertension than salt restriction alone, while rodent studies should examine the comparative impact of these regimens on rodents prone to vascular disease. dietary salt restriction lowers blood pressure and has been advocated as a population-based strategy to reduce the cardiovascular morbidity associated with hypertension. in the light of the proposal that dietary salt intake should be reduced as a community health care measure designed to lower blood pressure and consequently mortality and morbidity from stroke and heart disease, the evidence that there is a link between salt intake and blood pressure is reviewed. in chronic kidney disease (ckd) patients, observational and recent interventional studies investigating the relationship between sodium intake and renal outcomes suggest that low salt diet is warranted in this high risk category of patients. one of the controversies in preventive medicine is, whether a general reduction in sodium intake can decrease the blood pressure of a population and thereby reduce cardiovascular mortality and morbidity. one of the controversies in preventive medicine is, whether a general reduction in sodium intake can decrease the blood pressure of a population and thereby reduce cardiovascular mortality and morbidity. we conducted a prospective cohort study to investigate whether an intensive low-salt diet education program effectively attenuated the rate of renal function decline in hypertensive patients with ckd. this cohort study demonstrated that an intensive low-salt diet education program attenuated the rate of renal function decline in hypertensive ckd patients independent of its effect on lowering salt intake or albuminuria during the 36 months of follow-up. ',
 'Is less eaten from red plates? [SEP] recent literature suggests that individuals may consume less food when this is served on red plates. results confirmed that red plates reduce taste-related consumption and extended this effect to the touch-related consumption of moisturizing cream. suggesting that the effect was not due to a decrease in the consciously experienced appeal of products on red plates, overall appreciation of the foods or cream did not differ according to plate color. does the size of a plate influence the serving of all items equally, or does it influence the serving of some foods - such as meat versus vegetables - differently? this study revealed some potential moderators for the plate-size-effect, such as the type of dish, and its associated appeal and familiarity, and provided useful indications about the effectiveness of small plates for food reduction. plate colour was previously shown to alter the amount of food consumption due to its environmental effect on food intake. in light of this finding, the main objective of this study was to determine whether food consumption during an open buffet meal was different when using same-sized white, red or black plates. the results showed that plate colour exerted a significant effect on food intake during the test days (p\u2009=\u20090.021). the average total energy intake with red (1102.16\u2009±\u200947.12\xa0kcal, p\u2009=\u20090.05) and black plates (1113.19\u2009±\u200947.12\xa0kcal, p\u2009=\u20090.034) was significantly increased when compared to that with white plates (945.72\u2009±\u200947.12\xa0kcal). plate colour may be a crucial determinant of energy intake. ',
 'Does red wine protect better against cardiovascular disease than white wine? [SEP] to test the hypothesis that red wine, by virtue of its relatively high concentration of polyphenols, is more protective against atherosclerosis and coronary heart disease (chd) than white wine, and that grape juice enriched in one of these, trans-resveratrol, may share some of these properties, studies were performed on 24 healthy males aged 26-45 years. the role of red wine in cardiovascular risk prevention has been documented by several epidemiological studies in patients and normocholesterolemic healthy individuals. a number of lines of evidence suggest that red wine may be more effective than other alcoholic beverages in decreasing the risk of coronary heart disease (chd) mortality. levels of anti-oxidant polyphenols are higher in red than in white wine and are thought to contribute to the reduced cardiovascular risk associated with moderate consumption of wine observed in epidemiological studies. to compare the acute effects of acute ingestion of white and red wine on endothelial function in subjects with coronary artery disease (cad). moderate consumption of red wine has been widely associated with reduced cardiovascular risk, mainly due to its composition in phenolic compounds with antioxidant activity, such as resveratrol. low to moderate consumption of red wine reportedly has a relatively greater benefit than other alcoholic beverages in the prevention of atherosclerosis and coronary heart disease (chd). moderate red wine has been shown to reduce cardiovascular disease (cvd) risk, however the effects on certain cvd risk factors are unclear. because all types of red wine contain varying amounts of alcohol and antioxidants, it is likely that the cardioprotective effect of red wine is due to both these constituents. the antioxidant components of red wine may provide cardioprotection by their ability to reduce oxidative stress in the heart under different pathological conditions. ',
 "Do azo food dyes cause attention deficit disorder and hyperactivity in children? [SEP] this review examines the research on mechanisms by which artificial food colors (afcs) and common foods may cause behavioral changes in children with and without attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (adhd). the consumption of artificial food dye (afd) during childhood and adolescence has been linked to behavioural changes, such as hyperactivity. the question of the possible role of food additives, and specifically food colours, in elevating hyperactive behaviour in children has been long debated. it has been proposed that developmental exposure to pesticides contributes to increasing prevalence of neurodevelopmental disorders in children, such as attention deficit with hyperactivity (adhd) and to alterations in coordination skills. consumption of fd&c dyes has been associated with neurobehavioral behavior in some children. due to the high amount of artificial food colorants present in infants' diets, their adverse effects have been of major concern among the literature. artificial food colorants have been suggested to affect children's behavior, being hyperactivity the most common disorder. the proposition that synthetic food colors can induce adverse behavioral effects in children was first enunciated in 1975 by feingold [why your child is hyperactive. new york:random house (1975)], who asserted that elevated sensitivity to food additives underlies the signs of hyperactivity observed in some children. food additives and hyperactive behaviour in 3-year-old and 8/9-year-old children in the community: a randomised, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial. ",
 'Does turmeric prevent or cure cancer? [SEP] dietary turmeric (1%) led to decrease in dmba-induced tumor burden and multiplicity, and enhanced the latency period in parallel, to its modulatory effects on oncogene products and various cellular responses during hbp tumorigenesis. together, the protective effects of dietary turmeric converge on augmenting apoptosis of the initiated cells and decreasing cell proliferation in dmba-treated animals, which in turn, is reflected in decreased tumor burden, multiplicity and enhanced latency period. the incidence of cancer is significantly lower in regions where turmeric is heavily consumed. whether lower cancer incidence is due to turmeric was investigated by examining its effects on tumor cell proliferation, on pro-inflammatory transcription factors nf-κb and stat3, and on associated gene products. turmeric enhanced the production of ros, and suppressed the growth of tumor cell lines. our results indicate that turmeric can effectively block the proliferation of tumor cells through the suppression of nf-κb and stat3 pathways. these data indicate that the protection against genomic damage by turmeric extract and its components tested could be necessary for some aspects of its cancer chemoprevention. curcumin, the active principle of turmeric, is known to act as an anti-oxidant, anti-mutagen and anti-carcinogen in experimental animals. these results indicate that dietary turmeric is an effective anti-mutagen and it may be useful in chemoprevention. curcumin, the active constituent of dietary spice turmeric, possesses a strong potential for cancer prevention and treatment. ',
 "Does breastfeeding reduce the risk of sudden infant death syndrome? [SEP] sudden infant death syndrome (sids) is a leading cause of postneonatal infant mortality. our previous meta-analyses showed that any breastfeeding is protective against sids with exclusive breastfeeding conferring a stronger effect.the duration of breastfeeding required to confer a protective effect is unknown. however, it is unclear whether breastfeeding specifically lowers sudden infant death syndrome (sids) risk, because study results have been conflicting. because breastfeeding is thought to be protective against sudden infant death syndrome (sids), environmental or child care factors that promote breastfeeding might reduce infant vulnerability to sids. breastfeeding benefits both infant and mother, including reducing the risk of sudden infant death syndrome (sids). epidemiological studies indicate that breast-fed infants are at a decreased risk of sudden infant death syndrome (sids) compared to formula-fed infants. breast feeding is known to protect an infant against gastrointestinal pathogens and epidemiological studies indicate that compared to breast fed infants, formula fed infants are at a greater risk of dying from sudden infant death syndrome (sids). epidemiological studies have shown that breast feeding reduces an infant's risk of sids. factors such as sleeping position, bed sharing, pillow use, smoking during pregnancy and the breastfeeding period constitute risk factors for sudden infant death syndrome. this study aims to identify the risky behaviors of mothers with infants that may put their children at risk for sudden infant death syndrome. ",
 'Do boron preparations such as borax, boric acid, or calcium fructoborate relieve pain associated with age-related joint wear (osteoarthritis)? [SEP] since 1963, evidence has accumulated that suggests boron is a safe and effective treatment for some forms of arthritis. the initial evidence was that boron supplementation alleviated arthritic pain and discomfort of the author. these findings included a) analytical evidence of lower boron concentrations in femur heads, bones, and synovial fluid from people with arthritis than from those without this disorder; b) observation evidence that bones of patients using boron supplements are much harder to cut than those of patients not using supplements; c) epidemiologic evidence that in areas of the world where boron intakes usually are 1.0 mg or less/day the estimated incidence of arthritis ranges from 20 to 70%, whereas in areas of the world where boron intakes are usually 3 to 10 mg, the estimated incidence of arthritis ranges from 0 to 10%; d) experimental evidence that rats with induced arthritis benefit from orally or intraperitoneally administered boron; e) experimental evidence from a double-blind placebo-boron supplementation trial with 20 subjects with osteoarthritis. the preceding data indicate that boron is an essential nutrient for healthy bones and joints, and that further research into the use of boron for the treatment or prevention of arthritis is warranted. dietary boron (b) may be beneficial for optimal calcium metabolism and, as a consequence, optimal bone metabolism. the present study evaluated the effects of boron, in the form of boric acid, with or without 17beta-estradiol (e2) supplementation (via subcutaneous implant), in ovariectomized (ovx) aged 13- mo-old f-344 rats. boric acid was administered by gavage at a subtoxic dose (8.7 mg b/kg/d) for 40 d. results indicate that serum level of minerals as well as osteocalcin (a marker of bone resorption) are dependent to a greater extent on the hormonal status of the animals than on boron supplementation. boron treatment increased the e2-induced elevation of urinary calcium and magnesium. at the levels given, boron alone provided no protection against ovx-induced osteopenia. in vitro, animal, and human experiments have shown that boron is a bioactive element in nutritional amounts that beneficially affects bone growth and central nervous system function, alleviates arthritic symptoms, facilitates hormone action and is associated with a reduced risk for some types of cancer. ',
 "Can glutamate in food cause intolerance symptoms? [SEP] food intolerance/malabsorption is caused by food ingredients, carbohydrates (mainly lactose and fructose), proteins (gluten), and biogenic amines (histamine) which cause nonspecific gastrointestinal and extra-intestinal symptoms. the ingestion of gluten has been associated with gastrointestinal symptoms even in the absence of detectable immune responses. we aimed to assess whether the ingestion of gluten leads to an impairment of the physiological mechanisms of gastric emptying, gallbladder contraction and relaxation. the most frequently encountered food excitotoxin is glutamate (glu) which is commercially added to many foods despite evidence that it can freely penetrate certain brain regions and rapidly destroy neurons by hyperactivating the nmda subtype of glu receptor. glutamate is a crucial neurotransmitter of the mammalian central nervous system, a molecular component of our diet, and a popular food-additive. however, for decades, concerns have been raised about the issue of glutamate's safety as a food additive; especially, with regards to its ability (or otherwise) to cross the blood-brain barrier, cause excitotoxicity, or lead to neuron death. results of animal studies following glutamate administration via different routes suggest that an array of effects can be observed. this review draws from the research experiences of the authors and other researchers regarding the effects of exogenous glutamate on the brain of rodents. dietary gluten causes severe disorders like celiac disease in gluten-intolerant humans. food intolerant symptoms can have various causes, including enzyme deficiencies (of lactase or aldehyde dehydrogenase) and pharmacological effects (e.g., caffeine, salicylates). ",
 "Does the Orthopulse device accelerate the orthodontic correction of malocclusions? [SEP] periodontally accelerated osteogenic orthodontics (paoo) combines alveolar corticotomy, bone graft materials, and the application of orthodontic forces for rapid correction of malocclusions. these techniques have allowed the orthodontist to move teeth against a rigid fixation, allowing for more focused movements of teeth and for orthopedic growth modification. periodontally accelerated osteogenic orthodontics is a relatively new procedure designed to minimize the time taken for orthodontic treatment. the orthodontist avails of the aid of a periodontist to perform decortication of the bone and places bone graft for rapid orthodontic correction of malocclusion. periodontally accelerated osteogenic orthodontics (paoo) is a somewhat new surgical procedure which allows faster tooth movement via combining orthodontic forces with corticotomy and grafting of alveolar bone plates. in patients with clefts of the secondary palate, do can also be used to aid in vertical alveolus augmentation and rapid orthodontic tooth movement. to evaluate if the improved accelerated osteogenic orthodontics (iaoo) procedure could speed class iii surgical patients' preoperative orthodontic treatment duration and, if yes, to what extent. the iaoo can reduce the surgical orthodontic treatment time for the skeletal class iii surgical patient by more than half a year on average. orthodontics and orthodontics combined with anterior segmental osteotomy are the common treatment strategies for this deformity. do cyclic forces accelerate the rate of tooth movement and hence the speed of orthodontic treatment? ",
 'Is it harmful for the mental development of the unborn child if the mother regularly eats fish contaminated with mercury during pregnancy? [SEP] the most common form of prenatal exposure is maternal fish consumption, but whether such exposure harms the fetus is unknown. findings of developmental neurotoxicity following high-level prenatal exposure to mehg raised the question of whether children whose mothers consumed fish contaminated with background levels during pregnancy are at an increased risk of impaired neurological function. because exposure to methylmercury is primarily through fish, concern has been expressed that the consumption of fish by pregnant women could adversely affect their fetuses. previous studies of the effects of acute prenatal mercury exposure identified delays in achieving developmental milestones among exposed children. this led to public health concern that prenatal low-dose exposure from fish consumption could adversely affect the fetus. maternal fish consumption brings both risks and benefits to the fetus from the standpoint of methylmercury (mehg) and n-3 pufa (polyunsaturated fatty acids). neurotoxicity due to acute prenatal exposure to high-dose of mercury (hg) is well documented. maternal fish consumption during pregnancy exposes the fetus simultaneously to methylmercury (mehg) and long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (lcpufa). conflicting evidence concerning possible harm from mercury (hg) in regard to offspring cognition if the woman eats fish has prompted this study to examine evidence from a british pre-birth cohort to investigate the relationship between the two. the relationship between intrauterine exposure to mercury and offspring iq appears to be benign provided the mother consumes fish. ',
 'Can the consumption of caffeine during pregnancy harm the unborn child? [SEP] it is now known that over-consumption of caffeine by pregnant mothers could have detrimental effects on normal fetal development. high-maternal caffeine intake during pregnancy may be harmful for perinatal outcomes and future child health, but the level of fetal cumulative exposure has been difficult to measure thus far. epidemiological studies, however, have suggested that maternal caffeine exposure during pregnancy is associated with increased abnormalities, including decreased fertility, delayed conception, early spontaneous abortions, and low birth weight. collectively, our data revealed that caffeine exposure during early pregnancy impaired oviductal embryo transport, embryonic development, and uterine receptivity, which are responsible for abnormal implantation and pregnancy loss. the study raises the concern of caffeine consumption during early stages of pregnancy. because caffeine might be harmful to the fetus, the food and drug administration of the united states recently urged that "pregnant women should avoid caffeine-containing food and drugs, if possible, or consume them sparingly". in this paper, the potential reproductive and teratological risks of caffeine are briefly reviewed. caffeine consumption during pregnancy is reported to increase the risk of in utero growth restriction and spontaneous abortion. the potential harmful effects of caffeine in pregnant women aroused public interests due to its possibility to jeopardize fetal development. caffeine could result in defect of neural tube closure and induce disorder of serotonergic system development, which may increase teratogenic rate of embryos. ',
 'Are vegetables prepared in a microwave oven less healthy than those prepared in other ways? [SEP] vegetables in the diet contribute to disease prevention. cooking as a domestic processing method has a great impact on food nutrients. most brassica (brassicaceae, cruciferae) vegetables are mainly consumed after being cooked, and cooking considerably affects their health-promoting compounds (specifically, glucosinolates, phenolic compunds, minerals, and vitamin c studied here). the microwave cooking process presents controversial results in the literature due to the different conditions that are employed (time, power, and added water). therefore, the aim of this work was to study the influence of these conditions during microwave cooking on the human bioactive compounds of broccoli. in general, the longest microwave cooking time and the higher volume of cooking water should be avoided to minimize losses of nutrients. the nutrient retention and sensory quality factors of vegetables blanched by two methods and solar-dried or dried in the cabinet dryer were evaluated. the sun-dried vegetables had inferior colour, texture and acceptibility compared to the vegetables dried in the cabinet dryer. consuming raw vegetables offers essential nutrients that one may not get when such vegetables are usually cooked. such risks may be influenced by the sources of the vegetables and washing techniques used. ',
 'Can garlic extract reduce high blood pressure and thus the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] garlic is widely used by patients for its blood pressure lowering effects. a meta-analysis published in 2008 concluded that garlic consumption lowers blood pressure in hypertensive and normotensive patients. therefore, it is important to review the currently available evidence to determine whether garlic may also have a beneficial role in the reduction of cardiovascular events and mortality rates in patients with hypertension. to determine whether the use of garlic as monotherapy, in hypertensive patients, lowers the risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality compared to placebo. garlic indirectly effects atherosclerosis by reduction of hyperlipidemia, hypertension, and probably diabetes mellitus and prevents thrombus formation. animal studies have suggested that garlic reduces blood pressure, but primary studies in humans and non-systematic reviews have reported mixed results. garlic supplements have shown effectiveness in reducing blood pressure in hypertensive patients, similarly to first-line standard anti-hypertensive medications. this article systematically reviews previously published trials investigating the effects of garlic on blood pressure, and provides an updated meta-analysis of hypertensive participants. preclinical and clinical evidence has shown that garlic reduces risks associated with cvd by lowering cholesterol, inhibiting platelet aggregation, and lowering blood pressure. epidemiologic studies suggest that garlic may have beneficial effects on risk factors associated with cardiovascular disease (cvd). ',
 'Can fructose damage the liver? [SEP] these studies emphasize the important role of fructose in the development of fatty liver and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. we have proposed that the selective metabolism of fructose by the liver can, under conditions of elevated fructose delivery, inflict a metabolic insult that is localized to the hepatocyte. the increase consumption of fructose in diet is associated with liver inflammation. animal studies have suggested that fructose impairs intestinal integrity and leads to hepatic steatosis (hs). even in the absence of weight gain, fructose rapidly causes liver damage that we suggest is secondary to endotoxemia and mt. high fructose intake has been shown to increase circulating alanine transaminase in humans, which could reflect damage to the liver by fructose but could also be linked to higher level of transamination of amino acids in liver. fructose consumption predicts increased hepatic fibrosis in those with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (nafld). excessive intake of fructose increases lipogenesis in the liver, leading to hepatic lipid accumulation and development of fatty liver disease. metabolic alterations in the liver due to fructose intake have been reported in many studies, but the effect of fructose administration on hepatic gluconeogenesis is not fully understood. this result, which supports our hypothesis, is evidence in favour of the possibility that dietary fructose is associated with hepatotoxicity. ',
 'Can green tea affect the likelihood of dying early and reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] this study was designed to determine whether the consumption of green tea is proportionately associated with a decreased incidence of coronary artery disease (cad) and the cardiovascular and cerebrovascular prognosis. consumption of green tea is associated with a decrease in cardiovascular mortality. previous studies have reported that green tea consumption is associated with a lower risk of diseases that cause functional disability, such as stroke, cognitive impairment, and osteoporosis. green tea contains polyphenolic catechins which can act as antioxidants and thus decrease the risk for cardiovascular diseases. consumption of green tea has been inversely associated with the development and progression of cardiovascular diseases and cardiovascular risk factors. green tea represents a promising tool for the prevention of cardiovascular disorders. green tea consumption has been inversely associated with cardiovascular disease (cvd) in epidemiological studies. this study suggests that the consumption of green tea ≥2 times/d is associated with a reduced risk of copd in korean populations. animal and epidemiological studies suggest that green tea catechins may reduce the risk of cardiovascular diseases [e.g., coronary heart disease (chd)]. the health benefit of green tea has been attributed to its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties; however, considerable evidence suggests that green tea and its catechins may reduce the risk of chd by lowering the plasma levels of cholesterol and triglyceride. ',
 'Is matcha tea particularly healthy? [SEP] matcha tea is gaining popularity throughout the world in recent years and is frequently referred to as a mood-and-brain food. previous research has demonstrated that three constituents present in matcha tea, l-theanine, epigallocatechin gallate (egcg), and caffeine, affect mood and cognitive performance. the present study investigates these effects by means of a human intervention study administering matcha tea and a matcha containing product. this study suggests that matcha tea consumed in a realistic dose can induce slight effects on speed of attention and episodic secondary memory to a low degree. recently, it has been suggested that matcha has greater potential health benefits than other green teas. matcha is a special powdered green tea used in the japanese tea ceremony. recently, a special green tea, matcha tea, is rapidly gaining popularity throughout the world and is frequently referred to as a mood- and brain food. matcha tea consumption leads to much higher intake of green tea phytochemicals compared to regular green tea. matcha, a powdered green tea produced by grinding with a stone mill, has been popularly used in the traditional tea ceremony and foods in japan. matcha is well known to be richer in some nutritional elements and epigallocatechin 3-o-gallate than other green teas. ',
 "Can acupuncture prevent migraines and tension headaches? [SEP] the purpose of this review is to discuss the current evidence for acupuncture in migraine and to provide insight into which patients may benefit most from acupuncture. multiple studies support acupuncture as a validated modality for the prevention of episodic migraine. acupuncture is commonly used to treat migraine and has gained popularity as a validated non-pharmaceutical option. although the specific mechanisms of acupuncture are not clearly understood, there is evidence for its effectiveness in treating migraine. acupuncture has a therapeutic effect similar to that of prophylactic drugs and can be considered a treatment option for migraineurs. recently, a cochrane review on its use in migraine concluded that acupuncture is effective and should be considered as a prophylactic measure for patients with frequent or insufficiently controlled migraine attacks. the purpose of the current study was to evaluate whether a standardized set of acupuncture points, when used to deliver treatment over a predefined period of time, could reduce the frequency and intensity of migraines. acupuncture significantly influenced migraine frequency and intensity in the study's participants when preintervention measurements were compared to postintervention measurements. these results indicate that not only did acupuncture decrease both the frequency and intensity of migraines, but also the benefit had not subsided for 12 wks after the final acupuncture session. we aim to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of acupuncture for both episodic migraine and chronic migraine by meta-analysis and explore the possible factors influencing the specific effect of acupuncture for migraine by meta-regression. ",
 'Can green tea reduce the likelihood of dying from cancer ? [SEP] there is epidemiological evidence showing that drinking green tea can lower the risk of esophageal cancer (ec). recently, an epidemiological study showed a lower risk of gastric cancer among people who consume a large amount of green tea. experimental evidence suggests that green tea (camellia sinesis) may reduce the risk of lung cancer through several hypothesized mechanisms including scavenging oxidative radicals, inhibition of tumor initiation, and modulation of detoxification enzymes. daily green tea consumption was associated with a non-significant reduction in lung cancer risk. the consumption of green tea is associated with a lower risk of several types of human carcinomas. epidemiological evidence shows that green tea may be a factor in lowering cancer risk. based on recent evidence that tea consumption contributes to a decreased incidence of human carcinomas, a number of investigators have focused on the mechanisms of cancer prevention by tea extracts, especially green tea polyphenols. human and animal studies have shown that green tea consumption is associated with a reduced risk of some cancers. an epidemiological study showed that green tea consumption is associated with a reduced risk of hematopoietic malignancy. green tea consumption has been linked to a reduced occurrence of some tumor types. ',
 'Can plant sterols or foods with them reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] in conclusion, plant sterols and stanols effectively reduce serum ldl cholesterol and atherosclerotic risk. consumption of plant sterols or stanols (collectively referred to as phytosterols) and their esters results in decreased low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, which is associated with decreased atherosclerotic risk. lowering of ldl cholesterol levels by plant sterols and stanols is associated with decreased risk of cardiovascular disease in humans. beneficial in vivo effects of plant sterols and stanols on lipid and lipoprotein metabolism are well recognized. plant sterols and stanols (phytosterols/phytostanols) are known to reduce serum low-density lipoprotein (ldl)-cholesterol level, and food products containing these plant compounds are widely used as a therapeutic dietary option to reduce plasma cholesterol and atherosclerotic risk. it is unclear whether plant sterols regulate lipoprotein metabolism in the liver and intestines, thereby decreasing the levels of circulating atherogenic lipoproteins. plant sterol-enriched foods are an effective dietary adjuvant in reducing cardiovascular risk by lowering total cholesterol and low density lipoprotein-cholesterol (ldl-c) in serum by up to approximately 15%. combining plant sterols with other dietary components known to reduce cholesterol in a portfolio approach has proven to be most effective for reduction of hypercholesterolemia and provide an alternative treatment option for clinicians. plant sterol-enriched foods provides clinicians with a relatively cheap, safe, and effective way to help patients manage their cardiovascular risk. dietary plant sterols, such as campesterol and sitosterol, reduce plasma cholesterol concentrations, but any relationship to plaque development and cvd remains unclear. ',
 "Can too much iodine cause autoimmune thyroid disease and consequently hypothyroidism? [SEP] iodine is an essential component of thyroid hormones; high intake may lead to thyroid disease. epidemiologic researches have shown that exposure to iodine may be involved in the onset and development of autoimmune thyroiditis. iodine may induce hypothyroidism in patients with autoimmune thyroiditis in a dose-dependent manner. excessive iodine intake is known to induce hypothyroidism in people who have underlying thyroid disorders. by interacting with the immune system, iodine excess may trigger the development of autoimmune thyroid disease such as lymphocytic hashimoto's thyroiditis (lt). chronic iodine deficiency leads to hypothyroidism, but iodine excess also impairs thyroid function causing hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, and/or thyroiditis. iodine deficiency has been reported to facilitate the development of toxic nodular goitre, whereas a high iodine intake may increase the prevalence of autoimmune hypothyroidism. we observed an increase in the prevalence of overt hypothyroidism, subclinical hypothyroidism, and autoimmune thyroiditis with increasing iodine intake in china in cohorts from three regions with different levels of iodine intake: mildly deficient (median urinary iodine excretion, 84 microg per liter), more than adequate (median, 243 microg per liter), and excessive (median, 651 microg per liter). more than adequate or excessive iodine intake may lead to hypothyroidism and autoimmune thyroiditis. these in vitro findings suggest that iodide at high concentrations may induce thyroid dysfunction through not only biochemical but also immunological mechanisms, particularly in patients with autoimmune thyroid disorders. ",
 "Is the sweetener aspartame harmful to health? [SEP] aspartame (n-l-α-aspartyl-l-phenylalanine-1-methyl ester) (asp) is a synthetic sweetener used in foods and its safety remains controversial. aspartame is an artificial sweetener used as an alternate for sugar in several foods and beverages. the study reports that consumption of aspartame containing product could lead to cancer. this report examines the safety issues related to the nutritive sweetener aspartame, including possible toxic effects of aspartame's component amino acids, aspartic acid and phenylalanine, and its major decomposition products, methanol and diketopiperazine, and the potential synergistic effect of aspartame and dietary carbohydrate on brain neurochemicals. available evidence suggests that consumption of aspartame by normal humans is safe and is not associated with serious adverse health effects. aspartame is an artificial sweetner added to many low-calorie foods. aspartame (asp), an artificial sweetener abundantly consumed in recent years in an array of dietary products, has raised some concerns in terms of toxicity, and it was even suggested a link with the risk of carcinogenesis (colorectal cancer), though the present scientific data are rather inconclusive. the non-caloric sweetener aspartame can be potentially harmful to the developing brain, as some studies suggest an association between aspartame intake and adverse neural effects. aspartame is one of the most commonly consumed artificial sweeteners that is widely used in foodstuffs. aspartame (asp) is one of the commonest artificial sweetener used all over the world and considered as an extremely risky compound and raises a lot of controversy. ",
 'Does coffee affect cancer death risk? [SEP] evidence regarding the influence of coffee drinking on colorectal cancer (crc) is limited, and it remains unclear whether coffee consumption is associated with the risk of the disease. consumption of coffee, a popular beverage worldwide, has been associated with lower colorectal cancer (crc) risk. these findings suggest that coffee consumption might impact the prevention of crc, especially distal colon cancer. results from the recent meta-analysis suggested a moderate favorable effect of coffee consumption on colorectal cancer risk, especially for colon cancer. the results suggested that a significant association was found between coffee consumption and decreased risk of colorectal and colon cancer among subjects consuming ≥4 cups of coffee per day. previous observational studies have suggested that coffee intake may be associated with a reduction in cancer risk. here we evaluated whether coffee intake is associated with: (i) overall risk of being diagnosed with/dying from any cancer; and (ii) risk of individual cancers. there was no observational association between coffee intake and overall cancer risk [odds ratio (or) per one\u2009cup/day increase = 0.99, 95% confidence interval (ci) 0.98, 1.00] or cancer death (or = 1.01, 0.99, 1.03); the estimated or from mr is 1.01 (0.94, 1.08) for overall cancer risk and 1.11 (0.95, 1.31) for cancer death. we examined the relationship between intake of coffee and hormone-related cancer risk among japanese women using data from the hospital-based epidemiological research program at aichi cancer center (herpacc). epidemiological studies suggest that coffee consumption reduces the risk of cancers, including colon cancer, but the molecular mechanisms and target(s) underlying the chemopreventive effects of coffee and its active ingredient(s) remain unknown. ',
 'Do diets with primarily or exclusively uncooked foods have health benefits? [SEP] diets rich in whole and unrefined foods, like whole grains, dark green and yellow/orange-fleshed vegetables and fruits, legumes, nuts and seeds, contain high concentrations of antioxidant phenolics, fibers and numerous other phytochemicals that may be protective against chronic diseases. this study compared the effects of a phytochemical-rich diet versus a refined-food diet on lipoproteins, antioxidant defenses and colon function. a diet abundant in phytochemically-rich foods beneficially affected lipoproteins, decreased need for oxidative defense mechanisms and improved colon function. recent population dietary studies indicate that diets rich in ultra-processed foods, increasingly frequent worldwide, are grossly nutritionally unbalanced, suggesting that the dietary contribution of these foods largely determines the overall nutritional quality of contemporaneous diets. the average content of protein, fiber, vitamins a, c, d, and e, zinc, potassium, phosphorus, magnesium, and calcium in the us diet decreased significantly across quintiles of the energy contribution of ultra-processed foods, while carbohydrate, added sugar, and saturated fat contents increased. an inverse dose-response association was found between ultra-processed food quintiles and overall dietary quality measured through a nutrient-balanced-pattern pca-derived factor score characterized by being richer in fiber, potassium, magnesium and vitamin c, and having less saturated fat and added sugars. this study suggests that decreasing the dietary share of ultra-processed foods is a rational and effective way to improve the nutritional quality of us diets. the aim of this study was to investigate the associations between the energy contribution from ultra-processed foods and the intake of nutrients related to chronic non-communicable diseases in mexico. an increased energy contribution from ultra-processed foods was positively associated with intake from added sugar (q1: 7.4% kcal; q5: 17.5% kcal), total fat (q1: 30.6% kcal; q5: 33.5% kcal) and saturated fat (q1: 9.3% kcal; q5: 13.2% kcal), as well as dietary energy density (q1: 1.4 kcal/g; q5: 2.0 kcal/g) (p≤0.001); and inversely associated with intake from protein (q1: 15.1% kcal; q5: 11.9% kcal) and dietary fiber (q1: 16.0 g/1,000 kcal; q5: 8.4 g/1,000 kcal) (p≤0.001). in the mexican population, an increased energy contribution from ultra-processed foods was associated with a lower dietary quality with regard to intake of nutrients related to chronic non-communicable diseases. ',
 "Can increased water consumption prevent migraines or other headaches? [SEP] the water intake is the best intervention to reduce or prevent headache pain. the present study aimed to evaluate the relation between water intake and headache properties in migraine. the results showed that the severity of migraine disability (p\xa0<\xa00.001), pain severity (p\xa0<\xa00.001), headaches frequency (p\xa0<\xa00.001), and duration of headaches (p\xa0<\xa00.001) were significantly lower in those who consumed more water or total water. the present study found a significant negative correlation between daily water intake and migraine headache characteristics but further clinical trials are needed to interpret the causal relationship. dehydration is commonly believed to result in headache, but the effectiveness of increasing the water intake in patients who frequently suffer from headaches has not been studied thus far. in a pilot study, we examined the possible effects and feasibility of increased water intake in headache patients. the data of the present study suggest a reduction in the total number of hours and intensity of headache episodes after increased water intake. water intake is a cost effective, non-invasive and low-risk intervention to reduce or prevent headache pain. 'a randomized trial on the effects of regular water intake in patients with recurrent headaches.' drinking more water resulted in a statistically significant improvement of 4.5 (confidence interval: 1.3-7.8) points on migraine-specific quality of life (msqol). ",
 "Offer the following herbal appetite suppressants effective and safe weight loss support: Devil's Tongue (Konjac Root), Caralluma fimbriata, Garcinia cambogia, Gymnea sylvestre, Ephedra, Irvinia gabonensis, Fenugreek, Hoodia gordonii, Common Bean, Bitter Orange? [SEP] rhizoma dioscorea, lycium barbarum, prunella vulgaris and hawthorn are well known in both traditional food and folk medicine. each of these plants reportedly possesses beneficial effects in the treatment of diabetes. berberis aristata, cyperus rotundus, cedrus deodara, emblica officinalis, terminalia chebula and terminalia bellirica is mentioned as an effective anti-hyperglycemic agent in 'charaka samhita', the classical text of ayurveda. an increasing number of patients are taking herbal medicines such as echinacea, garlic, ginkgo biloba, ginseng, st john's wort, valerian, ephedra, kava, grapefruit juice and ginger. jia-wei-jiao-tai-wan (jwjtw), composed of jiao-tai-wan (cinnamomum cassia and rhizoma coptidis) and other antidiabetic herbs, including astragalus membranaceus, herba gynostemmatis, radix puerariae lobatae, folium mori and semen trigonellae, is widely used to treat diabetes and has demonstrated a curative effect in the clinic, but the potential mechanism is unknown. the results showed that the administration of jwjtw could ameliorate impairments in glucose tolerance, insulin release function and insulin tolerance in diabetic rats. hoodia gordonii is a 'weight loss' herb, which has gained popularity in the western countries as an appetite suppressant dietary supplement. the present paper briefly reviews the most relevant experimental data on the reducing effect of some medicinal herbs on voluntary alcohol intake in animal models of alcoholism. pueraria lobata, tabernanthe iboga, panax ginseng, salvia miltiorrhiza and hypericum perforatum proved to be effective in decreasing alcohol consumption. these data suggest that medicinal plants may constitute novel and effective pharmacotherapies for alcoholism. ",
 'Are there health benefits to screening the general population for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) as a precaution? [SEP] to discuss whether screening for early chronic obstructive lung disease (copd) is justifiable. general practitioners are these days encouraged, from several quarters, to screen their smoking patients for early copd. until such a study has shown convincing results, and has been followed by a cost-benefit analysis in favour of screening, screening for pre-clinical copd in general practice should not be recommended. early detection of copd may reduce the future burden of the disease. we aimed to investigate whether prescreening with a copd-6 screening device (measuring fev1 and fev6) facilitates early detection of copd in primary care. in primary care, individuals at high risk of copd (ie, age ≥35 years, relevant exposure, and at least one respiratory symptom) and no previous diagnosis of obstructive lung disease were examined with a copd-6 screening device. copd is a treatable disease and it is important to identify copd subjects, highlighting the need for an efficient screening measure. people with known risk factors for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) are important targets for screening and early intervention. patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) are at increased risk of developing lung cancer and may benefit from screening at lower pack-year thresholds. current and former smokers with copd may disproportionately benefit from lung cancer screening. ',
 "Can cow's milk cause iron deficiency in babies in the first year of life? [SEP] early introduction of whole cow's milk may lead to iron deficiency anemia. introduction of pasteurised cows' milk to the diet of preterm infants before 36 weeks' postnatal age caused iron deficiency without anaemia. cows' milk before 24 weeks was associated with iron deficiency and anaemia. early introduction of cow's milk is a risk factor for the development of anaemia and iron deficiency, which is associated with lower childhood developmental scores. a substantial proportion of southern ontario infants are receiving cow's milk before the recommended age, putting them at increased risk for iron deficiency and the resulting sequelae. the feeding of cow's milk has adverse effects on iron nutrition in infants and young children. in this pooled analysis, cow's milk intake in late infancy associated negatively, and follow-on formula positively, with iron status. the use of fresh cow's milk in early infancy, a common practice, is associated with the development of measurable degrees of iron deficiency. in many instances excessive amounts of milk produce severe iron deficiency anemia during the second year of life in infants of greater than average birth weight. consumption of fresh cow's milk and of unfortified cow's milk formulas and cereal products predispose to iron deficiency. ",
 "Does cow's milk for babies have other health disadvantages?? [SEP] human milk contains nutrients which are necessary to provide proper growth of a child. cows' milk before 24 weeks was associated with iron deficiency and anaemia. whole bovine milk should not be fed to infants during the first year of life because of its association with occult gastrointestinal bleeding, iron deficiency anemia, and cow's milk allergy. the consumption of whole milk after the first year of life should be discouraged because of its potential role in a variety of disorders including atherosclerosis, recurrent abdominal pain of childhood, cataracts, milk-borne infections, and juvenile delinquency. the results reveal a risk for malnutrition in children on cows' milk-free diets, unless precautions are taken to replace the valuable nutrients from milk in the diet. cow's milk is a major food for young children. whole cow's milk is known to be detrimental to infants, mainly due to its low iron content. more recently, the literature suggests that consuming whole cow's milk in infancy has unfortunate effects on growth, especially weight acceleration and development of overweight in childhood. other suggested reasons for the avoidance of whole cow's milk in infancy are touched upon, such as milk protein allergy and high renal solute load. several aspects of consuming whole cow's milk in infancy can be found in recent reviews. ",
 "Does drinking breast milk as a baby have a positive effect on later health and development? [SEP] concerning its long-term consequences, it has been reported that subjects who had been breastfed would have a better performance in intelligence tests. in the present review, we identified two studies that reported that duration of breastfeeding was positively associated with iq in childhood, whereas another study reported that cognitive score at 67.9 years of age was higher among those subjects who had been breastfed for at least 6 months. in addition, this association between breastfeeding and development has long-term consequences on human capital, increasing earning ability. breast milk has a nutrient composition that matches the nutritional needs of children and is believed to be able to have a positive influence on the infant's growth. breast milk confers many benefits to the newborn and developing infant. more short-term outcomes, such as incidence and duration of illness, nutrient status, and cognitive development during the first year of life also demonstrate benefits of breastfeeding. breastfeeding has been associated with improved neurodevelopment in children. a high percentage of breastfeeds among all milk feeds accumulated during the first 14 months was positively related with child mental development (0.37 points per month of full breastfeeding [95% confidence interval: 0.06-0.67]). greater levels of accumulated breastfeeding during the first year of life were related to higher mental development at 14 months, largely independently from a wide range of parental psychosocial factors. beyond somatic growth, breast milk as a biologic fluid has a variety of other benefits, including modulation of postnatal intestinal function, immune ontogeny, and brain development. ",
 'Does Almased help with excess weight better than other diets? [SEP] these findings suggest that the absence of a compensatory increase in hunger in conjunction with an increase in sensations of fullness may contribute to the weight loss efficacy of an 8-week adf regimen. while low-carbohydrate diets have been suggested to partially subvert these processes by increasing energy expenditure and promoting fat loss, our meta-analysis of 32 controlled feeding studies with isocaloric substitution of carbohydrate for fat found that both energy expenditure (26 kcal/d; p <.0001) and fat loss (16 g/d; p <.0001) were greater with lower fat diets. limited research suggests that selected approaches, such as low-carbohydrate diets, augment weight loss and offer an advantage over conventional low-fat diets. dash diet is a good choice for weight management particularly for weight reduction in overweight and obese participants. the inclusion of almonds in an energy-restricted diet has been reported both to enhance or to have no effect on weight loss. we evaluated the effects of consuming almonds as part of an energy-restricted diet on body composition, specifically visceral adipose tissue (vat) and bp, compared to a nut-free energy-restricted diet. moderate almond consumption by compliant overweight and obese individuals during energy restriction results in greater proportional reductions of truncal and total body fat as well as diastolic bp and hence may help to reduce metabolic disease risk in obesity. even a normoenergic diet can produce the desired reduction of overweight if it is combined with physical exercise. a moderately reducing diet has a number of advantages over the very low-energic ones, as it leads to the preservation of the lean body mass, especially when the diet is accompanied by a regime of high physical activity. increasing intake of low energy density (ed) foods in place of high ed foods has been proposed as a strategy for preventing or treating obesity. ',
 'Do products with talc, such as baby powder, increase the risk of ovarian cancer? [SEP] over the past four decades, there has been increasing concern that perineal use of talc powder, a commonly used personal care product, might be associated with an increased risk of ovarian cancer. to critically review all available human epidemiological data on the relationship between perineal use of talc powder and ovarian cancer, with consideration of other relevant experimental evidence. a positive association between perineal use of talc powder and ovarian cancer was found [or: 1.28 (95% ci: 1.20-1.37)]. perineal use of talc powder is a possible cause of human ovarian cancer. genital powder use has been associated with risk of epithelial ovarian cancer in some, but not all, epidemiologic investigations, possibly reflecting the carcinogenic effects of talc particles found in most of these products. this study was prompted by epidemiological observations suggesting that perineal use of talc powder is associated with increased risk of ovarian cancer, particularly in a milieu with higher estrogen. clinical and epidemiologic studies have indicated the possible existence of an association between ovarian carcinoma and talcum powder use. this investigation supports previous contentions that exposure to talc may increase risk of ovarian carcinoma. prior work suggests an association between perineal use of cosmetic talc and increased ovarian cancer risk. case-control studies have reported an increased risk of ovarian cancer among talc users; however, the only cohort study to date found no association except for an increase in serous invasive ovarian cancers. ',
 'Do large portions, large plates or glasses, and larger packaging cause us to eat and drink more? [SEP] portion sizes for certain foods have been increasing dramatically in recent years alongside obesity rates, concurring with the phenomenon of the portion size effect (more is consumed when more is offered). this review of studies into the effects of portion size on energy intake shows that increased food portion sizes lead to increased energy intake levels. large portions increase intake and are hypothesized to contribute to the obesity epidemic. while it is well-known that larger food portions lead to increased consumption (i.e., the portion size effect), previous studies confound the effect of the size and the number of food units making up the larger portion. relative consumption ratios are higher when participants were served portions made up of enlarged food units compared to more food units. study 3 (n\u202f=\u202f189) considers both perceived quantity and consumption and demonstrates that perceived quantity indeed mediates the effect of food portion size on consumption. portion distortion (perceiving large portion sizes as appropriate amounts to eat at a single eating occasion) may contribute to increasing energy intakes and expanding waistlines. the effect of container size of food and drinks as well as the effect of the variety of drinks on the selecting behaviors of male and female undergraduates were investigated in this research by manipulating the sizes of plates and glasses. portion size is a key environmental driver of energy intake, and larger-than-appropriate portion sizes could increase the risk of weight gain. in the past decades, portion sizes of high-caloric foods and drinks have increased and can be considered an important environmental obesogenic factor. ',
 "Does taking coconut oil improve mental abilities in dementia like Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] in particular, coconut oil has received attention as having potentially having benefits in lessening the cognitive deficits associated with alzheimer's disease. virgin coconut oil (vco) has been the subject of several studies which have aimed to alleviate alzheimer's disease (ad) pathology, focusing on in vitro antioxidant and acetylcholinesterase (ache) inhibitory activities. the aim of this study is to detect changes in the main cognitive functions of patients with ad after following a coconut oil enriched mediterranean diet, and to determine whether there are differences in function of stage or sex. after intervention with coconut oil, improvements in episodic, temporal orientation, and semantic memory were observed, and it seems that the positive effect is more evident in women with mild-moderate state, although other improvements in males and severe state were also shown. the isocaloric coconut oil enriched mediterranean diet seems to improve cognitive functions in patients with ad, with differences according to patient sex and degree of severity of the disease, although more studies in this line are needed. we undertook this pilot study to investigate the effects of coconut oil supplementation directly on cortical neurons treated with amyloid-β (aβ) peptide in vitro. epidemiological studies have suggested a beneficial effect of fish oil supplementation in halting the initial progression of alzheimer's disease. however, it remains unclear whether fish oil affects cognitive function in older people with mild cognitive impairment (mci). this study investigated the effects of fish oil supplementation on cognitive function in elderly person with mci. this study suggested the potential role of fish oil to improve memory function in mci subjects. ",
 'Does the preparation "CAPS immu" from Ringana reduce the risk of infections in healthy people? [SEP] previous animal and human studies have shown protective effects of ca on the resistance to enteropathogenic infections. therefore, we investigated the efficacy of several ca salts to enhance intestinal resistance to salmonella enteritidis infection. all ca salts decreased infection-induced intestinal permeability and persistence of salmonella. larch arabinogalactan (resistaid * ) may prevent cold infections due to its immune-stimulatory properties. in a placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized clinical trial, the effect of a proprietary larch arabinogalactan preparation on the incidences of common colds and its effect on cold symptoms, as a well established model for immune function, was compared to placebo. a total of 199 healthy participants who had a self reported cold infection rate of three in 6 months were randomly assigned to receive a total of either 4.5\u2009g of an arabinogalactan preparation (n\u2009=\u2009101) or placebo (n\u2009=\u200998) over a period of 12 weeks. in the full analysis set (fas), arabinogalactan tended to decrease the incidence of common cold (p\u2009=\u20090.055). the number of participants affected by a cold was significantly reduced by arabinogalactan supplementation (p\u2009=\u20090.038). the present study demonstrated that larch arabinogalactan increased the body\'s potential to defend against common cold infection. combined oral and intravenous antimicrobial prophylaxis in patients with crohn disease contributed to the prevention of ssi. ',
 'Do extracts from grape seeds have a health-promoting effect? [SEP] antioxidant and antiplatelet properties of grape products are thought to be responsible for observed antiatherosclerotic effects. red grape seed extract containing proanthocyanidins and other antioxidants are being used as nutritional supplements by many health conscious individuals. the beneficial effects of grape seed proanthocyanidins (gspe) have been reported, however, little is known about their mechanism(s) of action. grapes are polyphenol-rich, and grape juice intake has shown cognitive benefits in middle-aged females and older adults with mild cognitive impairment. extracts obtained from grape seeds have similarly been associated with cognitive benefits in older adults. the aim of this research was to investigate whether a highly purified grape seed-derived polyphenol extract was associated with cognitive benefits in healthy young adults following a single acute dose, and chronically following repeated daily dosage over 12 weeks. the biological and chemopreventive activities of grape seed polyphenols have been demonstrated, while similar information regarding crude polyphenolic extracts from whole grapes and their components (pulp plus skin, seeds), particularly the seedless varieties, is lacking. the results suggest that the chemopreventive activity of polyphenols extracted from seedless grape cultivars was as effective as that of the seeded variety and these may have beneficial effects in disease states, especially cancer. a question worth addressing is the potential of dietary grape consumption to positively modulate human health. whether future specific health claims will be sought from or allowed by regulatory authorities is not known, but based on existing data, it is clear that grapes should be considered an integral component of fruit and vegetable enriched diets that are recommended by health authorities and widely accepted as beneficial for human health and disease prevention. ',
 'Is the administration of magnesium through the skin effective? [SEP] subcutaneous infiltration of magnesium along with local anaesthetic prolongs the analgesic efficacy of local anaesthetic and is not associated with any significant adverse effects. topical magnesium delivery is one of the oldest forms of therapy for skin diseases, for example dead sea therapy and epsom salt baths. some anecdotal evidence and a few published reports have attributed amelioration of inflammatory skin conditions to the topical application of magnesium. our primary aim in this study was to estimate the extent of magnesium ion permeation through human skin and the role of hair follicles in facilitating the permeation. upon topical application of magnesium solution, we found that magnesium penetrates through human stratum corneum and it depends on concentration and time of exposure. we evaluated the efficacy of intravenous infusion of 1 gram of magnesium sulfate (mgso4) for the treatment of patients with headaches and attempted to correlate clinical responses to the basal serum ionized magnesium (img2+) level. magnesium, an n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist and calcium-channel blocker, has previously been investigated for its analgesic properties. intrathecal magnesium has been found to prolong the duration of analgesia in various surgical procedures like lower limb surgeries and as adjuncts to general anesthesia for pain management. magnesium can act as an adjuvant in analgesia due to its properties of calcium channel blocker and n-methyl-d-aspartate antagonist. we conducted a pilot study to evaluate appropriate methods for assessing responses to the ingestion of oral magnesium supplements, including ionized magnesium in whole blood (img2+) concentration, serum total magnesium concentration, and total urinary magnesium content. ',
 'Do kava kava supplements help with anxiety disorders? [SEP] kava (piper methysticum), a perennial shrub native to the south pacific islands, has been used to relieve anxiety. kava and kava extracts have shown great potential as a way to minimize anxiety-associated symptoms and to help alleviate pain. kava has been introduced into the mainstream u.s. market principally as an anti-anxiety preparation. kava extract (piper methysticum) is a phytotherapic mainly used for the treatment of anxiety. recent clinical trials suggest that kava has therapeutic value for the treatment of anxiety. kava kava (piper methysticum), an herbal remedy, is widely used for the treatment of mild to moderate cases of anxiety. kava has several advantages over conventional pharmacologic treatments for anxiety--in clinical settings it has been associated with better tolerability and lack of physiologic dependence and withdrawal. in this report, the safety profile for kava is provided, including findings from a study of its use in generalized anxiety disorder. the data support the safety of kava in treating anxiety at 280 mg kava lactones/day for 4 weeks. (kava), which is a widely used dietary supplement for the treatment of anxiety, insomnia, and stress. ',
 'Do ultrasound devices help against dust mites? [SEP] background: ultrasonic cleaners are used for fine cleaning of medical devices, removing soil from joints, crevices, lumens, and other areas that are difficult to clean using other methods. conclusion: cavitation is an important and necessary function of all ultrasonic cleaners. airborne ultrasound has been used for various purposes, including object detection and pest repellent systems. the safety of exposure to airborne ultrasound has been studied as its use has increased. although airborne ultrasound cannot be directly perceived by humans, some research has found that exposure to very high sound pressure levels can harm the human body. thus, quantitative characterization of airborne ultrasound is essential. to contribute to the safe use of airborne ultrasound, this paper established the acoustic standards in japan in terms of sound pressure from 20 to 100\u2009khz. audible sound is noisy and uncomfortable, and ultrasound may have bed effects on adjacent equipment. it is shown in this study that radiated ultrasound contains lots of useful information. a new type of ultrasonic washer-disinfector-sterilizer, able to clean, disinfect and sterilize most kinds of reusable medical devices, has been developed by using the ultrasonic levitation function with umbrella-shape oscillators and ozone bubbling together with sterilization carried out by silver electrolysis. ',
 "Does the risk of food allergy decrease if babies are fed potentially allergenic foods (cow's milk, peanuts, chicken egg) as late as possible for the first time? [SEP] question i have been under the impression that infants should avoid potential allergenic foods such as nuts, cow's milk, and eggs in order to avoid developing allergic reactions. answer there is no evidence that delaying the introduction of any specific food beyond 6 months of age helps to prevent allergy. recent research also appears to suggest that early introduction of potentially allergenic foods (at 4 to 6 months of age) might actually provide a form of protection and help prevent allergy, but more research is needed. overall early exposure to allergenic foods in the infant's diet is a new strategy for preventing food allergy to that allergen, but the optimal timing of exposure for different allergens is not known. exposure to cow's milk protein in the first 3\xa0months of life was associated with a reduced risk of cow's milk allergy. this review focuses on the timing of food introduction as a preventative strategy for food allergy and also discusses other aspects of the infant diet that may provide opportunities for prevention of atopic disease. the conventional wisdom is that early exposure to allergenic food proteins during pregnancy, lactation, or infancy leads to food allergies, and that prevention strategies should therefore aim to eliminate allergenic food proteins during pregnancy, breastfeeding, and early childhood. introduction of allergenic solid foods, especially peanut and hen's egg reduces the risk of food allergy development in early childhood. we evaluated whether the early introduction of allergenic foods in the diet of breast-fed infants would protect against the development of food allergy. in high risk infants, a combined approach, where breastfeeding with maternal avoidance of highly allergenic foods, supplemented by extensively hydrolysed formula during the first 6 months of life, in addition to the delayed introduction of solid foods, has been shown to reduce the development of food allergy in infants. ",
 'for fish, sesame, wheat? [SEP] with the aim of evaluating long-term effects of vegetable diets on growth and intestinal status of the on-growing gilthead seabream (initial weight\u2009=\u2009129\xa0g), three experimental diets were tested: a strict plant protein-based diet (vm), a fishmeal based diet (fm) and a plant protein-based diet with 15% of marine ingredients (squid and krill meal) alternative to fishmeal (vm+). presently, plant materials including wheat and legumes make up the largest part of aquafeeds, so evaluation of the transfer capabilities of typical toxic metabolites from plant-infesting fungi and of vegetable phytoestrogens into fish products is of great importance. this new method was considered as fit-for-purpose and applied for the analysis of customised fish feed containing wheat gluten, soy, or pea protein concentrate as well as salmon and zebrafish fed on diets with these ingredients for a period of up to eight weeks. the objective of this work was to study the effects of partial substitution of fish meal with lupin and rapeseed meals on gut microbiota of the gilthead sea bream (sparus aurata) and in goldfish (carassius auratus). fish has several benefits that make it a desirable part of a healthy diet. both from a health and sustainability perspective, however, it is important to consider the optimum number of fish servings per week and to examine whether fish and plant protein can be brought under the same heading of alternative protein sources. the results showed that the hypothesis needed to be nuanced: fish consumption was associated exclusively with affinity with spicy meals based on authentic plant protein sources (e.g. the results are in line with current dutch recommendations that encourage consumers to eat one serving of fish per week and that stimulate those who already eat more than one serving of fish to replace the rest by plant-based protein sources. these results support the strategy of developing eco-innovative biofortified farmed fish using sustainable, natural, safe and high-quality ingredients in feeds, to enable consumers to overcome nutritional deficiencies without significantly increased feed costs. soybean meal (sbm) and fish meal (fm) were used as positive and negative controls for enteritis, respectively. ',
 "Can willow bark tea help with inflammation, pain or fever? [SEP] tea consumption has protective influence on bp and presence of hypertension. tea, an extract of the leaves of the plant camellia sinensis, has been considered a medicine and healthful beverage for ages. anti-inflammatory effects of tea have also been depicted in the available literature. therefore, we designed this study to examine the potential immunemodulatory and anti-inflammatory activities of black tea in a rat model and in human peripheral mononuclear cells. the purpose of the study was to determine (1) evaluation of anti-inflammatory effects of black tea on rats, (2) evaluation of immunemodulator effects of black tea on rats, and (3) evaluation of immunemodulator effects of black tea on human peripheral mononuclear cells. acute anti-inflammatory activity of tea decoction was evaluated using carrageenan and dextran whereas chronic anti-inflammatory (immunomodulatory) effects were evaluated in a complete freunds' adjuvant-induced arthritis model. black tea decoction (10% and 20%) strength has shown significant anti-inflammatory effects (64.8% and 77% reduction, respectively), on carrageenan-induced acute inflammatory models (rat paw edema) which can be comparable with the standard drug indomethacin (89.1%). in a chronic anti-inflammatory model, black tea decoction (10% and 20%) has shown significant suppressive effects on rat paw edema (38.56% and 69.53%) observed on 21(st) day. taken together, our data indicate that black tea has potential anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory action and this corroborates with the current trend of tea being promoted as a 'health drink'. the plant is also used to manufacture a sweet herbal infusion used for restorative properties such as soothing coughs and alleviating bronchial complaints including tuberculosis, pneumonia, and catarrh. ",
 'Can a supposedly "high acid" diet weaken bones? [SEP] while it is clear that a high acid-producing diet generates increased urinary acid and calcium excretion, the effect of diet does not always have the expected results on bmd, fracture risk and markers of bone formation and resorption, suggesting that other factors are influencing the effect of acid/alkali loading on bone. chronic acid loads result in hypercalciuria and negative calcium balance often associated with loss of bone mineral. in vitro studies demonstrate that bone is degraded in an acidic environment due to chemical reactions and through effects on bone cells. acidifying constituents such as animal proteins may negatively affect calcium metabolism and accelerate bone resorption, thus representing an aggravating factor for osteoporosis. this hypothesis posits that foods associated with an increased urinary acid excretion are deleterious for the skeleton, leading to osteoporosis and enhanced fragility fracture risk. notwithstanding this questionable role of bone mineral in systemic acid-base equilibrium, not only in ckd but even more in the absence of renal impairment, it is postulated that, in healthy individuals, foods, particularly those containing animal protein, would induce \'latent\' acidosis and result, in the long run, in osteoporosis.thus, a questionable interpretation of data from patients with ckd and the subsequent extrapolation to healthy subjects converted a hypothesis into nutritional recommendations for the prevention of osteoporosis. it is known that a dietary acid load is harmful to bone, and sulfur-containing amino acids are metabolized to provide such an acid load. evidence exists that a more acidic diet is detrimental to bone health. on a more chronic basis metabolic acidosis alters bone cell function; there is an increase in osteoclastic bone resorption and a decrease in osteoblastic bone formation. we hypothesize that a slight, but significant, metabolic acidosis leads to greater loss of bone mineral and increase potential to fracture. ',
 'Does a supposedly "alkaline-rich" diet prevent chronic diseases? [SEP] in response, alkaline diets and products are marketed to avoid or counteract this acid, help the body regulate its ph to prevent and cure disease. a causal association between dietary acid load and osteoporotic bone disease is not supported by evidence and there is no evidence that an alkaline diet is protective of bone health. this review defines the relationship between dietary lifestyle and acid-base balance and discusses the potential consequences of diet-induced acidosis and cancer occurrence or progression. alkali-enriched diets are recommended for humans to diminish the net acid load of their usual diet. here we explore the role of nutritional alkali in experimentally induced chronic metabolic acidosis. this review looks at the role of an alkaline diet in health. there may be some value in considering an alkaline diet in reducing morbidity and mortality from chronic diseases and further studies are warranted in this area of medicine. several studies suggest that neutralizing acid load in the diet with alkali had favorable effects on intermediate markers of musculoskeletal health. we hypothesized that (1) a normal-protein diet with high amount of vegetables and fruits (hv) induces more alkaline acid-base balance compared with a high-protein diet with no vegetables and fruits (hp) and (2) diet composition has a greater impact on acid-base balance in the elderly (eld). the public is advised by various media to follow an alkaline diet to lower their acidic ion intakes. ',
 'Can a blood test detect mental illness? [SEP] tests with potential clinical utility in affective illness (unipolar and bipolar depression and mania), panic disorder, and schizophrenia are discussed. we used a bioinformatics approach to examine whether the gene expression signature in whole blood contains enough information to make a specific diagnosis of schizophrenia. these results suggest analysis of a blood-based gene expression signature with the supervised classifier, anns, might be a diagnostic tool for schizophrenia. immunological and vascular markers may play a role in the pathophysiology of mood disorders and mood changes. over the past decade, psychiatric research has been on an important hunt for biomarkers of psychiatric disease. we measured the fluorescence intensity of a dye sensitive to membrane potential in whole blood samples from bipolar i, unipolar, schizophrenic patients, and psychiatrically normal controls. these results indicate that the membrane potential of blood cells can be used as a diagnostic marker to augment the dsm-iv diagnosis of bipolar disorder i. background: at present, laboratory blood tests to support major depressive disorder (mdd) diagnosis are not available. for decades psychiatrists have been looking for biological state markers measurable by easy blood test in order to follow up and predict early on treatment response in patients with major depression. objective: transcriptomic biomarkers of psychiatric diseases obtained from a query of peripheral tissues that are clinically accessible (e.g., blood cells instead of post-mortem brain tissue) have substantial practical appeal to discern the molecular subtypes of common complex diseases such as major psychosis. ',
 'Is surgery for an anterior cruciate ligament tear (by replacing the broken anterior cruciate ligament with tendon tissue from another part of the leg) followed by physical therapy better than physical therapy alone? [SEP] the standard treatment of acl injury remains ligament reconstruction followed by a postoperative physiotherapeutic procedure. anterior cruciate ligament (acl) injuries are currently treated by removing the injured ligament and replacing it with a tendon graft. evaluation of the effect of surgical treatment compared with conservative treatment of anterior cruciate ligament (acl) rupture. one quasi-randomised trial of 167 people with a complete acl rupture treated with repair or augmented repair versus conservative treatment found no difference in the return to sports activities between people treated surgically and those treated conservatively. the current gold standard for the treatment of an anterior cruciate ligament (acl) rupture is reconstruction with tendon graft. injuries to the anterior cruciate ligament (acl) are currently treated with replacement of the torn ligament with a graft of tendon harvested from elsewhere in the knee. we compared anterior cruciate ligament function in skeletally mature patients after treatment of tibial eminence fractures with that of patients in two other groups: patients who had anterior cruciate ligament deficiency and patients who had undergone anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction using bone-patellar tendon-bone autografts. whether surgical or conservative treatment is more effective in allowing patients to return to physical activity after anterior cruciate ligament (acl) injury is controversial. our data suggest that early surgical reconstruction may not be a prerequisite to returning to recreational physical activities after injury in patients with acl tears. a standard treatment option for acl complete rupture in active young patients is debridement of remnant tissue and reconstruction with various types of tendon graft. ',
 "Can motherwort reduce migraine attacks? [SEP] motherwort (yimucao), a traditional chinese herb, has been shown beneficial effects for women's diseases. we hypothesized that these beneficial effects of motherwort may be related to angiogenesis. acupuncture may be a choice for menstrual-related migraine, when pharmacological prophylaxis is not suitable. we design and perform a randomized controlled clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of acupuncture compared with naproxen in menstrual-related migraine patients. motherwort has been used as medicinal herb for many years in both china and europe. however, treatment of motherwort ethanol extract in vivo markedly suppressed the development of uterine adenomyosis and mammary cancers in mice. acute and preventive treatment of migraine during pregnancy and lactation is discussed, with an emphasis on safety to the fetus and nursing infant. most epidemiological studies demonstrate that women suffering from migraine note significant improvement of their headaches during pregnancy. most epidemiological studies demonstrate that women suffering from migraine note a significant improvement in their headaches during pregnancy. a review of treatment options for menstrual migraine. ",
 'Does metal in bed disturb sleep? [SEP] despite growing acknowledgement that bedpartners are important determinants of sleep quality, few studies have explored mental health as a risk factor for disrupted sleep of the bedpartner. we examined whether anxiety or depression symptoms predicted an individual\'s sleep or their bedpartner\'s sleep, in couples where one partner experienced insomnia and in couples without sleep disorders. fifty-two bed-sharing couples where one individual had insomnia ("patient"), and 55 non-sleep-disordered couples completed the beck anxiety inventory, patient health questionnaire-9, and insomnia severity index (isi). actor-partner interdependence models assessed whether anxiety or depression symptoms predicted individual or dyadic sleep (wake transmission). greater anxiety symptoms predicted increased vulnerability to being woken by their bedpartner, as well as increased frequency of waking their bedpartner up during the night in patients with insomnia, but not in non-sleep-disordered couples. anxiety may help reveal social determinants of sleep in couples experiencing insomnia. these data underscore the importance of considering sleep, the bedpartner, and affective symptoms in mental health and sleep assessments. cognitive intrusions following stress creates a depressogenic mindset, and nocturnal wakefulness may augment the effects of cognitive arousal on depression development. sleep disorders and the use of sleep medication are major health issues. we also discuss whether the rem sleep changes in depression may contribute themselves to the development of central symptoms of depression such as cognitive distortions including negative self-esteem and the overnight consolidation of negatively toned emotional memories. ',
 'Does heat treatment (radiofrequency ablation or radiofrequency heat ablation of benign nodules of the thyroid gland work as well as conventional surgical methods? [SEP] nonsurgical minimally invasive ablative therapy such as radiofrequency ablation (rfa) has been reported to be a safe and efficient treatment option in managing symptomatic cold thyroid nodules or hyperfunctioning thyroid nodules. thermal radiofrequency ablation is a relatively new, minimally invasive modality employed as an alternative to surgery in patients with benign thyroid nodules and recurrent thyroid cancers. radiofrequency ablation has been advocated as an alternative to radioiodine and/or surgery for the treatment of autonomously functioning benign thyroid nodules. the aim of this work was to evaluate the 12-month efficacy of a single session of radiofrequency ablation (performed with the moving shot technique) on solitary autonomously functioning benign thyroid nodules. thermal ablation is a novel treatment alternative for benign thyroid nodules, and one of the most promising thermal ablation techniques is radiofrequency ablation (rfa). several minimally invasive thermal techniques have been developed for the treatment of benign thyroid nodules. background: thermal ablation is a minimally invasive technique that is gradually acknowledged as an effective alternative to surgery to treat thyroid nodules. objective: to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the two main techniques (rfa and laser ablation) for the treatment of benign thyroid nodules. minimally invasive image-guided thermal ablation has been proposed as alternative to surgery for treatment of benign thyroid nodules and recurrent differentiated thyroid carcinoma. radiofrequency ablation (rfa) has been recently advocated as an effective technique for the treatment of symptomatic benign thyroid nodules. ',
 "Does Imunoglukan strengthen the immune system? [SEP] igm preferentially enhances responses to large antigens such as erythrocytes, malaria parasites, and keyhole limpet hemocyanine. the ability to influence an individual's immune state by administering immunoglobulin of the appropriate specificity may provide a powerful approach to disease control and prevention. compared with immunoglobulin from other species, human immunoglobulin (ig) might be best for such therapeutic intervention; it might function better with the recipient's effector cells and should itself be less immunogenic. taken together, these results suggest that macrophage-derived igf-1 might play an important role in the vaccine-triggered immune response by regulating immune cell homeostasis. immunoglobulin g (igg) for intravenous use (ivig) selectively stimulates production of interleukin-1 receptor antagonist protein (il-1ra) by mononuclear cells in vitro and has been proposed to stimulate il-1ra production in vivo as part of the therapeutic effect. ivig, 0.01-0.5 mg/ml, increased the il-1ra liberation from mnc 10-15 times over that of untreated controls. three days of high-dose igg infusion had no significant effect on the serum levels of il-1ra. interferon-gamma-inducing factor (igif) is a novel cytokine that stimulates t-cell proliferation, augments natural killer (nk) cell lytic activity, and induces interferon-gamma (ifn-gamma) production in established type 1 t-helper (th1) cells in the presence of anti-cd3 antibody. the in vitro induction of ifn-gamma by recombinant murine igif in these cells was more potent than that induced by murine interleukin-12 (il-12) and occurred apparently independent of murine il-12. taken together, our results show that murine igif can elicit t-cell-dependent antitumor immunity associated with ifn-gamma induction. ",
 "Do cell phones promote the development and growth of tumors in the head? [SEP] we conducted a systematic review of scientific studies to evaluate whether the use of wireless phones is linked to an increased incidence of the brain cancer glioma or other tumors of the head (meningioma, acoustic neuroma, and parotid gland), originating in the areas of the head that most absorb radiofrequency (rf) energy from wireless phones. some concern has arisen about adverse health effects of cell phones, especially the possibility that the low power microwave-frequency signal transmitted by the antennas on handsets might cause brain tumors or accelerate the growth of subclinical tumors. there was a significant correlation between number of cell phone subscriptions and brain tumors in nineteen us states (r = 0.950, p < 0.001). however, there is public concern about the possibility that mobile phones might cause cancer, especially brain tumors. methodological defcits limit the conclusions that can be drawn from the interphone study, but its results, along with those from other epidemiologic, biological, and animal studies and brain tumor incidence trends, suggest that within about 10–15 years after first use of mobile phones there is unlikely to be a material increase in the risk of brain tumors in adults. the objective of this case-control study was to assess whether the use of wireless phones is associated with an increased risk of tumour at this site. in conclusion, our data add to the evidence against there being an increased risk for parotid gland tumours associated with light-to-moderate use of wireless phones and for less than 10 years of use but offers little information on risk related to more prolonged and/or heavy use. the issue of whether cell phone usage can contribute toward the development of brain tumors has recently been reignited with the international agency for research on cancer classifying radiofrequency electromagnetic fields as 'possibly' carcinogenic to humans in a who report. there have been some reports of an association of use of these phones with brain tumours. some epidemiological studies indicate that mobile phones cause glioblastomas in humans. ",
 'Does wearing bras promote breast cancer risk? [SEP] despite the widespread use of bras among u.s. women and concerns in the lay media that bra wearing may increase breast cancer risk, there is a scarcity of credible scientific studies addressing this issue. the goal of the study was to evaluate the relationship between various bra-wearing habits and breast cancer risk among postmenopausal women. information on bra-wearing habits and other breast cancer risk factors was collected from study participants through in-person interviews. our results did not support an association between bra wearing and increased breast cancer risk among postmenopausal women. women with benign breast disease (bbd) have an increased risk of subsequent breast cancer. however, whether conventional breast cancer risk factors influence risk of breast cancer among women with bbd is unclear. in this study, we investigated the associations of lifestyle, menstrual/reproductive, and histological factors with risk of breast cancer among women biopsied for bbd. we calculated crude and multivariable or and 95% ci for the associations between lifestyle, menstrual/reproductive, and histological factors and breast cancer risk using conditional logistic regression. this study suggests that use of hrt and having atypical hyperplasia are associated with increased risk of breast cancer among women with bbd, while postmenopausal women with bbd have a reduced risk. body mass index (bmi), a known breast cancer risk factor, could influence breast risk through mechanistic pathways related to sex hormones, insulin resistance, chronic inflammation, and altered levels of adipose-derived hormones. ',
 'Are tattoo inks harmful to health? [SEP] background: tattoos have become increasing popular; however, medical complications and health risks can occur when getting a tattoo. however, tattoo inks contain a complex mixture of chemical impurities that may pose a long-term risk for human health. the studied tattoo inks, which were extracted with hexane as a proxy for the bioavailable fraction, caused effects in all bioassays, with the red and yellow tattoo inks having the greatest response, particularly inducing genotoxicity and oxidative stress response endpoints. the study indicates that currently available tattoo inks contain components that induce adaptive stress response pathways, but to evaluate the risk to human health further work is required to understand the toxicokinetics of tattoo ink chemicals in the body. historically, tattoo inks were comprised of metallic pigments, which have the potential to cause allergic contact dermatitis. since the biocompatibility of tattoo dyes has not been well researched, we studied the toxicity of a commercial tattoo ink, commonly used in tattoo lab and esthetic centers, on human fibroblasts. a possible connection of the influence of the tattoo ink with clinical effects is discussed. allergic reactions to tattoos are amongst the most common side effects occurring with this permanent deposition of pigments into the dermal skin layer. are there specific risks associated with tattoo dyes and epidural needle placement? tattooing is a tremendous exposure of the human body to needle operation, particles, and chemicals. ',
 'Do plant hormones (phytoestrogens) other than genistein reduce the number and intensity of hot flashes during menopause? [SEP] phytoestrogens appear to be an effective treatment during perimenopause where symptoms, such as hot flashes are reduced. the results from this study indicate that consumption of dietary phytoestrogens alters the neuroendocrine mechanism of core body temperature regulation that may help explain, in part, the beneficial effects of phytoestrogens for hot flashes. in recent years plants with high phytoestrogen content are recommended as therapeutic agents for postmenopausal hormonal treatment. phytoestrogens have recently been claimed to positively influence menopausal discomforts, including hot flashes. previously published findings showed that phytoestrogens could relieve menopausal complaints, thus, the present review was aimed at assessing the effects of phytoestrogens on thermoregulatory mechanism during menopausal transition. the phytoestrogens are capable of reducing hot flashes via their oestrogen-like hormone actions. the potential effects of phytoestrogens on hot flashes and their molecular mechanisms of action on thermoregulatory centre are discussed in this review. the effects of phytoestrogens on these mechanisms may help explain their beneficial effects in alleviating hot flashes and other menopausal discomforts. phytoestrogens and other plant-derived compounds and extracts have been developed for the treatment of menopause-related complaints and disorders, e.g. phytoestrogens such as those derived from red clover may help with hot flushes, which are a common menopausal complaint. ',
 'Does the herbal hormone genistein reduce the number and intensity of hot flashes during menopause??? [SEP] various non-hormonal agents have been used for the treatment of hot flashes in women with menopause. genistein, a naturally occurring isoflavonic phytoestrogen associated with reduced incidence of heart disease, may be a possible alternative treatment for postmenopausal women with heart disease. despite the lack of significant changes in physical characteristics, 2-day treatment with genistein was associated with significant cardioprotective effects in ovx rats, suggesting a potential therapeutic role in postmenopausal women. genistein is a plant estrogen promoted as an alternative to post-menopausal hormone therapy because of a good safety profile and its promotion as a natural product. importantly, genistein lacks some of the detrimental effects associated with post-menopausal estrogen treatment and may provide an alternative to hormone therapy in those patients at risk for ischemic events. the aim of the study was to evaluate the haemostatic effects of genistein in postmenopausal women. the results of our study do not confirm effects of genistein on activation of the haemostatic system, but on the contrary the significant decrease of dd could indicate a possible cardioprotective role of genistein in postmenopausal women. we investigated the efficacy and tolerability of gabapentin for treating menopausal hot flushes via a meta-analysis. genistein has a preventive role against bone mass loss during menopause. this post-hoc analysis is a proof-of concept study suggesting that genistein may be useful not only in postmenopausal osteopenia but also in osteoporosis. ',
 'Does bloodletting according to Hildegard von Bingen have health benefits? [SEP] renewed interest in the age-old concept of "bloodletting", a therapeutic approach practiced until as recently as the 19th century, has been stimulated by the knowledge that blood loss, such as following regular donation, is associated with significant reductions in key hemorheological variables, including whole blood viscosity (wbv), plasma viscosity, hematocrit and fibrinogen. in addition to wbv reduction, phlebotomy may reduce an individual\'s cardiovascular risk through reductions in excessive iron, oxidative stress and inflammation. reflecting these findings, blood donation in males has shown significant drops in the incidence of cardiovascular events, as well as in procedures such as percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and coronary artery bypass grafting. collectively, the available data on the benefits of therapeutic phlebotomy point to the importance of monitoring wbv as part of a cardiovascular risk factor, along with other risk-modifying measures, whenever an increased cardiovascular risk is detected. bloodletting has been practised in most cultures for the past two millennia. bloodletting declined in the 19th century at a time of revolution in medical thought, and examining its decline illustrates the forces that have shaped modern medicine. in the hirudin group, a highly statistically and clinically significant improvement were noted. the health theories of nordenfelt and boorse are compared. blood-sucking leeches like the medicinal leech, hirudo medicinalis, have been used for medical purposes since ancient times. is well known as a treatment for liver disease. ',
 'Can FGXpress Power Strips reduce pain or improve wound healing? [SEP] this paper reviews applications of therapeutic electrical stimulation (es) specific to wound healing and pressure sore prevention. the application of es for wound healing has been found to increase the rate of healing by more than 50%. electrical stimulation therapy is recommended for wound contraction, and some clinical studies have shown that the application of a monophasic pulsed microcurrent can help to reduce the treatment period. previous studies suggested that pulsed electromagnetic field (pemf) therapy can decrease pain. electrical current has been recommended for use on chronic pressure ulcers; however, the ability of this modality to improve healing of other types of chronic ulcers is less well established. the purpose of this study was to examine the effect of high-voltage pulsed current (hvpc) on healing of chronic leg ulcers. in this preliminary study, gauze-based negative pressure wound therapy (npwt) was used to accelerate granulation tissue forma- tion and promote closure in a number of wound types. the authors aimed to evaluate the efficacy of gauze-based npwt using the chariker-jeter technique for wounds requiring delayed closure. the gauze-based npwt was found to be a safe and cost-effective method in temporary soft-tissue management of chronic nonhealing wounds suitable delayed closure. clinical and experimental studies of pressure under elastic bandages are performed in order to assess their effectiveness in compressing wounds to prevent edema in burn wounds. ',
 'Does treatment according to the fascial distortion model help with chronic shoulder pain? [SEP] shoulder pain is a common problem imposing a considerable burden on the affected person and society. to examine current evidence associated with myofascial origin of shoulder pain, with emphasis on diagnosis, prevalence and treatment efficacy. the reviewed interventions seem to be effective in reducing pain, increasing range of motion and improving function of the painful shoulder. shoulder pain is a common musculoskeletal problem that is often chronic or recurrent. the aim of this study was to assess the effectiveness of multimodal treatment of mtrps in patients with chronic shoulder pain. the results of this study show that 12-week comprehensive treatment of mtrps in shoulder muscles reduces the number of muscles with active mtrps and is effective in reducing symptoms and improving shoulder function in patients with chronic shoulder pain. the objective of the study was to evaluate the role of experimentally-induced sub-acromial pain on shoulder isokinetic rotational strength and throwing accuracy. a case then exists for the use of treatments aimed at reversing these changes, training the brain to reduce chronic shoulder pain. to study the effectiveness of manipulative therapy for the shoulder girdle in addition to usual medical care for relief of shoulder pain and dysfunction. manipulative therapy for the shoulder girdle in addition to usual medical care accelerates recovery of shoulder symptoms. ',
 'Are there effective alternatives to the breathing mask (CPAP) for sleep apnea? [SEP] although continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) is a highly efficacious treatment for obstructive sleep apnea (osa), there is a need for alternative treatment options, such as sleep surgeries and mandibular advancement devices (mads), to overcome the limitations of cpap.this study aimed to analyze the therapeutic outcomes of osa subjects who were treated with a mad, and to estimate the clinical impact of mad as a first-line treatment for osa.forty-seven patients diagnosed with osa received an adjustable mad as an initial treatment. a number of therapeutic alternatives to continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) and surgery have been proposed to treat sleep apnea syndrome. the treatment of obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (osas) is still a matter of debate; among the different therapeutic alternatives, both surgical and conservative, treatment with continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) is considered the "gold standard". the treatment of choice for moderate to severe obstructive sleep apnoea (osa) is continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) via a mask during sleep. drug therapy has been proposed as an alternative to cpap in some patients with mild to moderate sleep apnoea. it is unclear whether continuous positive airway pressure (cpap), the treatment of choice for severe obstructive sleep apnoea (osa), is effective at improving outcomes in mild osa. continuous positive airways pressure (cpap) is the accepted therapy for obstructive sleep apnoea (osa), but compliance is variable. ventilation with continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) is the gold standard therapy for obstructive sleep apnea (osa). although continuous positive airway pressure therapy (cpap) is the treatment of choice for obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (osas), there is a portion of patients in which cpap is not usable. continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) delivered by nasal mask is the gold standard treatment for obstructive sleep apnea (osa). ',
 'Does closure of the foramen ovale prevent further strokes in people who have had a stroke of unknown cause? [SEP] the effect of foramen ovale closure on the risk for subsequent strokes is unknown. whether closure of a patent foramen ovale is effective in the prevention of recurrent ischemic stroke in patients who have had a cryptogenic stroke is unknown. detecting a benefit from closure of patent foramen ovale in patients with cryptogenic stroke is hampered by low rates of stroke recurrence and uncertainty about the causal role of patent foramen ovale in the index event. patent foramen ovale (pfo) closure may prevent recurrent stroke after cryptogenic transient ischemic attack (tia) or stroke (tia/stroke) in patients aged 60 years or younger. patent foramen ovale is associated with cryptogenic stroke in the older population, but risk of recurrence is unknown. we aimed to determine whether patent foramen ovale closure reduces the risk of stroke, also assessing some safety outcomes. the clinical benefit of closing a patent foramen ovale after a cryptogenic stroke has been an open question for several decades, so that it is necessary to review the current state of published medical data in this regard. the role of surgical closure of patent foramen ovale (pfo) for cerebral infarction (ci) or transient ischemic attack (tia) resulting from paradoxical embolism is unclear, and its effect on recurrence is unknown. patent foramen ovale is associated with ischemic stroke in patients without a clearly identifiable etiology for stroke (cryptogenic stroke). however, patent foramen ovale is also found in patients with known cause of stroke. ',
 'Does stimulation current therapy (TENS - Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation) help with worn knee joints (knee osteoarthritis)? [SEP] randomized controlled trials assessing the effect of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation on patients with total knee arthroplasty were included. some have proposed the use of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (tens) as an adjunct to the current standard of care in treatment of osteoarthritis knee pain. in conclusion, the use of tens for 3 months has shown encouraging results to improve pain, function, and qol in patients with painful osteoarthritic knees, and could positively contribute as an adjunct to current nonoperative treatment of knee arthritis. transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation has been proposed as a nonoperative treatment for osteoarthritis. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the outcomes of a novel transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation device compared with those of other standard nonoperative modalities for the treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee. transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (tens) has been reported to relieve pain and improve function in patients with knee osteoarthritis. the purpose of this systematic review and meta-analysis was to evaluate the efficacy of tens for the management of knee osteoarthritis. tens might relieve pain due to knee osteoarthritis. to determine the additional effects of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (tens) for knee osteoarthritis (oa) when combined with a group education and exercise program (knee group). : according to a recent metaanalysis study, there is strong evidence to support the view that transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (tens) is an effective treatment for managing osteoarthritis (oa) knee pain. ',
 'Does taking magnesium salts decrease the frequency and intensity of muscle cramps with unknown cause? [SEP] we also describe a new, noninvasive method to assess magnesium-induced neuromuscular block when curariform muscle relaxant was given simultaneously. rigidity and mild spasms were controlled with magnesium therapy alone in six patients; all were grades i or ii. a large body of literature suggests a relationship between magnesium deficiency and mild and moderate tension-type headaches and migraines. here, we discuss the cellular and molecular effects of magnesium deficiency in the brain and the clinical evidence supporting the use of magnesium for the treatment of headaches and migraines. to evaluate the effects of intravenous magnesium on acute migraine attacks and oral magnesium supplements on migraine prophylaxis. oral magnesium significantly alleviated the frequency and intensity of migraine (ors = 0.20 and 0.27). magnesium salts have been used for decades for the empiric treatment of arrhythmias, particularly torsades de pointes, associated with long qt syndrome. previous studies have reported that magnesium (mg) deficiency is associated with coronary spasm. the present study investigated whether mg prevents coronary spasm in patients with vasospastic angina (vsa). magnesium treatment suppresses ventricular arrhythmias in acute myocardial infarction and possibly mortality after infarction, but the underlying mechanisms are inadequately understood. ',
 'Does taking magnesium salts reduce the frequency and intensity of exercise-induced muscle cramps during sports? [SEP] the causes of, and cures for, the cramps that occur during or soon after exercise remain uncertain, although there is evidence that some cases may be associated with disturbances of water and salt balance, while others appear to involve sustained abnormal spinal reflex activity secondary to fatigue of the affected muscles. these studies show that dehydration has no effect on the stimulation frequency required to initiate cramping and confirm a role for spinal pathways, but their relevance to the spontaneous cramps that occur during exercise is questionable. magnesium is essential for optimal sport performance, generating an interest to monitor its status in athletes. therefore, we measured the effect of an acute bout of exercise on ionized (img) and total plasma magnesium (tmg) in blood obtained from 18 healthy well-trained endurance athletes (age, 31.1 ± 8.1 yr.; vo2max, 50.9 ± 7.5 ml/kg/min) at multiple time points, and compared this with a resting situation. exercise-associated muscle cramping (eamc) is a poorly understood problem that is neuromuscular in origin. ingestion of transient receptor potential (trp) channel agonists has been efficacious in attenuating electrically induced muscle cramps. a increased precramp contraction duration (a, 36.9 ± 4.1 s; v, 27.8 ± 3.1 s), decreased cramp emg area under the curve (a, 37.3 ± 7.7 %emgmax ·s; v, 77.2 ± 17.7 %emgmax ·s), increased contraction force to produce the cramp (a, 13.8 ± 1.8 kg; v, 9.9 ± 1.6 kg), and decreased postcramp soreness (a, 4.1 ± 0.3 arbitrary units (a.u. exercise-associated muscle cramps (eamcs) are thought to be caused by dehydration and/or electrolyte losses. cramps are painful, involuntary contractions of skeletal muscle that occur during or immediately after exercise and are common in endurance athletes. although cramps can occur in many rare medical conditions, most athletes who have exercise-associated muscle cramping do not have congenital or acquired medical disorders. ',
 'Does taking magnesium salts reduce the frequency and intensity of muscle cramps in pregnancy? [SEP] this preliminary study demonstrates that magnesium treatment lowers blood pressure in pregnancies complicated with hypertension. induced contractions were reduced, in a dose-dependent and time-dependent manner (maximum effect at 20 min), at higher mg2+ concentrations and with non-significant proportional differences between pregnant and non-pregnant myometrium. the present in vitro study suggests a possible benefit of mg2+ in the inhibition of spontaneous myometrial contractility, but not of uterine-induced hyperactivity. in obstetric patients, magnesium is administered to prevent eclamptic seizures and as a tocolytic to treat preterm labour. the primary outcome was to determine whether magnesium sulfate therapy prolongs the duration of labor in women with mild preeclampsia. women with a diagnosis of mild preeclampsia at term were randomized to receive standard therapy during labor and for 12 hours post partum with either magnesium sulfate (n = 67) or a matching placebo solution (n = 68). the use of magnesium sulfate during labor in women with mild preeclampsia at term does not affect any component of labor but did necessitate a higher dose of oxytocin. magnesium sulfate has been shown in vivo and in vitro to decrease the frequency of uterine contractions while maintaining the amplitude; we therefore decided to assess the use of magnesium sulfate infusion in cases of uterine hyperstimulation. in this study, the relaxant properties of metoclopramide and magnesium sulfate on pregnant myometrium, together with the possible reversing influences of oxytocin and cabergoline (a dopamine d2 receptor agonist), were investigated. both magnesium sulfate and metoclopramide relaxed myometrial contractions, and exhibited different responses to subsequent oxytocin treatment. ',
 'Does the active ingredient rivaroxaban (drug Xarelto) have a higher risk of dangerous bleeding than other anticoagulants? [SEP] rivaroxaban (xarelto) does not require routine coagulation monitoring; however, in certain clinical situations (overdose, drug accumulation, urgent surgery) measurement of its plasma concentration is highly recommended. despite several advantages of the novel anticoagulant rivaroxaban compared with vitamin k antagonists (vka), its lack of specific antidotes to reverse anticoagulant effects may increase the risk profile of patients with bleeding complications. compared to enoxaparin, thromboprophylaxis with rivaroxaban was associated with significantly fewer vte and all-cause mortality [9,244 patients, risk ratio (rr) 0.56, 95% confidence interval (ci) 0.39-0.80] cases and a similar incidence of bleeding cases (major bleeding events: 13,384 patients, rr 1.65, 95% ci 0.93-2.93; clinically relevant non-major bleeding events: 13,384 patients, rr 1.21, 95% ci 0.98-1.50; total bleeding events, 13,384 patients, rr 1.10, 95% ci 0.97-1.24). factor xa inhibitors are safe and effective alternatives to warfarin, but several studies indicate that rivaroxaban may cause a different risk profile for bleeding. for instance, while the risk of major bleeding in general may be lower with rivaroxaban than for warfarin, the risk of gastrointestinal bleeding or abnormal uterine bleeding may be higher. a 5.6% chance of major bleeding is associated with rivaroxaban use, including intracranial and gastrointestinal bleeds. this case highlights the potential for bleeding complications associated with novel anticoagulants. rivaroxaban is a direct oral anti-factor xa anticoagulant. it has recently been suggested that rivaroxaban may affect platelet function in vitro; however, little is known about the clinical impact of this likely antiplatelet effect and whether this probable phenomenon is dose-dependent. despite its efficacy, rivaroxaban therapy results in adverse effects and complications, such as bleeding. ',
 "Does vitamin D protect against dementia or memory loss? [SEP] vitamin d may be a promising public health strategy to prevent cognitive decline. emerging evidence suggests that low vitamin d concentrations are potentially involved in the pathogenesis of dementia. studies have found that vitamin d is implicated in procognitive and neuroprotective functions, including the reduction of alzheimer's disease hallmarks such as amyloid beta and phosphorylated tau. cross-sectional studies have consistently found that vitamin d concentrations are significantly lower in individuals with alzheimer's disease and cognitive impairment compared to healthy controls. background: vitamin d has been implicated as being important for maintaining cognitive function in old age. results from longitudinal studies examining the association of vitamin d with incident dementia and cognitive impairment have been inconsistent.objective: we investigated the relation between vitamin d, assessed in 3 different ways, and the risk of dementia.design: we measured plasma 25-hydroxyvitamin d [25(oh)d] with the use of high-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, assessed dietary vitamin d intake with the use of 7-d dietary records, and created a vitamin d-synthesis genetic risk score (grs) at baseline (1991-1995) in a cohort of 1182 swedish men (mean age: 71 y). vitamin d has been investigated in association with cognitive function in healthy and multimorbid elderly patients. vitamin d deficiency has been linked to an increased risk of dementia. this raises prospects that vitamin d may improve older adults' subjective experience of memory disorders. higher vitamin d status was associated with reduced problems memorizing new information in older community-dwellers. ",
 'Does brain training boost intelligence? [SEP] the degree to which "brain training" can improve general cognition, resulting in improved performance on tasks dissimilar from the trained tasks (transfer of training), is a controversial topic. in recent years there has been a significant commercial interest in \'brain training\' - massed or spaced practice on a small set of tasks to boost cognitive performance. recently, researchers have combined cognitive training regimes with brain stimulation to try and maximize training benefits, leading to task-specific cognitive enhancement. brain-training, aimed at advancing and improving cognitive and perceptual abilities, is vastly studied because of its immense promise. "brain training" (i.e., enhancing, rehabilitating, or simply maintaining cognitive function through deliberate cognitive exercise) is growing rapidly in popularity, yet remains highly controversial. researchers have devoted considerable attention and resources to cognitive training, yet there have been few examinations of the relationship between individual differences in patterns of brain activity during the training task and training benefits on untrained tasks (i.e., transfer). to address this issue we investigated the relationship between individual differences in training-induced changes in brain activity during a cognitive training videogame, and whether those changes explained individual differences in the resulting changes in performance in untrained tasks. we discuss the role of individual differences in brain function in training generalizability and make suggestions for future cognitive training research. visuospatial skills can be enhanced thanks to specific intervention programs, but the additional benefits of neuromodulation on these skills have not been fully investigated yet, although transcranial direct current stimulation (tdcs) has demonstrated to boost the effects of cognitive trainings. cognitive training aiming at improving learning is often successful, but what exactly underlies the observed improvements and how these differ across the age spectrum are currently unknown. ',
 "Does petroleum help against cancer? [SEP] petroleum is used widely in health care-primarily as a transport fuel and feedstock for pharmaceuticals, plastics, and medical supplies-and few substitutes for it are available. we quantify key aspects of petroleum use in health care and explore historical associations between petroleum supply shocks and health care prices. these analyses confirm that petroleum products are intrinsic to modern health care and that petroleum supply shifts can affect health care prices. the authors present a brief background on the composition of petroleum and the production of its derivatives, a description of the common cutaneous manifestations of petroleum derivative exposure, and a review of the treatment options for these diseases. in summary, results from individual studies, as well as from the pooled analysis, indicated that petroleum workers were not at an increased risk of nhl as a result of their exposure to benzene or other benzene-containing petroleum products in their work environment. there is increasing scientific interest in how phytoplankton reacts to petroleum contamination, since crude oil and its derivatives are generating extensive contamination of aquatic environments. short-term exposure to petroleum or diesel oil revealed a rapid inhibition of photosynthetic performance and cell proliferation in freshwater and marine phytoplankton species. petroleum has been the world's major source of energy since the middle of the twentieth century, leading to positive changes but also social, political, and environmental problems worldwide. before discussing the toxicologic effects of petroleum hydrocarbons, the author reviews the considerable resources available today to investigators in this area. petroleum-based products are a primary energy source in the industry and daily life. ",
 "Does lavender scent help with sleep disorders? [SEP] lavender aromatherapy has improved sleep in a variety of clinical settings, but the effect has not been tested in the intermediate care unit. to determine the effect of inhalation of 100% lavender oil on patients' vital signs and perceived quality of sleep in an intermediate care unit. lavender aromatherapy may be an effective way to improve sleep in an intermediate care unit. lavender represents an effective treatment of insomnia, but the molecular mechanism underlying the effectiveness of this treatment is not clear. the purpose of this study is to investigate the active components, target proteins and molecular pathways of lavender in the treatment of insomnia, thus explaining its possible mechanism. the role lavender plays in the treatment of insomnia might be accomplished through the regulation of the key targets adrb1 and hla-drb1. to compare the effectiveness of lavender (lavandula angustifolia) and sleep hygiene versus sleep hygiene alone on sleep quantity and sleep quality and to determine sustained effect at two-week follow-up. the lavender and sleep hygiene group demonstrated better sleep quality at postintervention and two-week follow-up (psqi p=0 .01, <0.001 and promis p=0.04, 0.007, respectively). lavender and sleep hygiene together, and sleep hygiene alone to a lesser degree, improved sleep quality for college students with self-reported sleep issues, with an effect remaining at follow-up. uncontrolled and anecdotal evidence suggests that lavender oil is an effective treatment for insomnia, but this has not been formally investigated. ",
 'Does the drug Sovaldi (sofosbuvir) enable high cure rates for chronic hepatitis C? [SEP] sofosbuvir (sovaldi(®)) is a nucleotide hepatitis c virus (hcv) ns5b polymerase inhibitor that has pangenotypic antiviral activity and a high genetic barrier to resistance. this article reviews the clinical efficacy and tolerability of sofosbuvir in patients with chronic hepatitis c and summarizes its pharmacological properties. oral sofosbuvir was generally well tolerated in patients with chronic hepatitis c. the most commonly reported adverse events and laboratory abnormalities were consistent with those expected with ribavirin and peginterferon-α. in conclusion, sofosbuvir represents an important advance in the treatment of chronic hepatitis c. in conclusion, sofosbuvir-based treatment is effective and safe in treating chronic hcv infection, although the svr12 of its combination with rbv, especially in treatment-experienced patients, requires improvement. sofosbuvir (sof), a direct acting antiviral, has revolutionized the treatment of chronic hepatitis c virus (hcv) infection. in clinical studies, sofosbuvir-velpatasvir has demonstrated high cure rates and favorable tolerability in patients chronically infected with chronic hepatitis c virus (hcv) of any genotype. in clinical trials, sofosbuvir showed high antiviral activity in patients infected with hepatitis c virus (hcv) across all genotypes. the approval of sofosbuvir (sof), a direct-acting antiviral, has revolutionized the treatment of chronic hepatitis c virus (hcv). to compare sustained viral response to sofosbuvir/ribavirin ±interferon therapy in patients of hepatitis c with and without liver cirrhosis. ',
 "Does alpha lipoic acid help prevent or treat Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] the antioxidant alpha-lipoic acid has been reported to prevent and reverse age-related impairments in learning and memory. however, it is unclear how alpha-lipoic acid improves cognitive function. hdl-cholesterol transporter apolipoprotein a1 (apoa1) holds neuroprotective properties, such as inhibition of amyloid-β aggregation. lipid lowering agents (llas) may have implications for the prevention of alzheimer's disease. llas may slow cognitive decline in alzheimer's disease and have a neuroprotective effect. several studies have shown the protective effects of dietary enrichment of various lipids in several late-onset animal models of alzheimer disease (ad); however, none of the studies has determined which structure within a lipid determines its detrimental or beneficial effects on ad. several lines of evidence suggest that dysregulated lipid metabolism may participate in the pathogenesis of alzheimer's disease (ad). several independent studies have shown this poorly lipidated apoe increases amyloid burden in mouse models of ad, demonstrating that apoe lipidation by abca1 affects key steps in amyloid deposition or clearance. preclinical and clinical evidence suggests that docosahexaenoic acid (dha), an omega-3 fatty acid derived from diet or synthesized in the liver, decreases the risk of developing alzheimer's disease (ad). high dietary cholesterol and low dietary docosahexaenoic acid (dha) intake are risk factors for alzheimer's disease (ad). ",
 "Are Vemma products good for health? [SEP] vanillin (va) and vanillyl alcohol (vaa), components of natural vanilla, and ethyl vanillin (etva; synthetic analog) are used as flavoring agents and/or as additives by the food, cosmetic, or pharmaceutic industries. va, vaa, and etva possess antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, but their vascular effects have not been determined. in consideration of health benefits, more digestible vinasses were investigated, which are associated with the use of different raw cereals and fermented leavens. the results of this study are important for designing healthy vinasse products by controlling starch structures and digestion rates. the study also evaluates the free radical scavenger activity of\xa0the crude extracts of dried leaves of vitis vinifera and vitis labrusca, as well as the anthocyanins, flavonoid fraction and isolated compounds. the polyphenols present in vitis are capable of absorbing uv and visible light, justifying their potential as sunscreens for the development of a phytocosmetic. to determine whether increasing the proportion of healthier options in vending machines decreases the amount of calories, fat, sugar, and sodium vended, while maintaining total sales revenue. this study evaluated the impact of altering nutritious options to vending machines throughout the banner health organization by comparing vended items' sales and nutrition information over 6 months compared to the same 6 months of the previous year. changing vending machine composition toward more nutritious options. increasing the proportion of healthier options in vending machines from 20% to 80% significantly lowered the amount of calories, sodium, fat, and sugar vended, while not reducing units vended or having a negative financial impact. ",
 'Do over-the-counter cough medicines relieve cough symptoms? [SEP] to assess the effects of oral otc cough preparations for acute cough. to assess the effects of oral otc cough preparations for acute cough in children and adults in community settings. three trials found that antihistamines were no more effective than placebo in relieving cough symptoms.in the child studies, antitussives (data from three studies), antihistamines (data from three studies), antihistamine-decongestants (two studies) and antitussive/bronchodilator combinations (one study) were no more effective than placebo. to assess the effects of oral otc cough preparations for acute cough in children and adults. three trials found antihistamines were no more effective than placebo in relieving cough symptoms.in the children studies antitussives (two studies), antihistamines (two studies), antihistamine decongestants (two studies) and antitussive/bronchodilator combinations (one study) were no more effective than placebo. to examine lay beliefs about over-the-counter medicines for coughs and colds. eight of the 11 participants believed that at least one over the-counter cough medicine (most frequently benylin for chesty coughs) could shorten, or "cure", an illness. accordingly they often use over-the-counter (otc) cough medications (mucolytics or cough suppressants). accordingly they often use over-the-counter (otc) cough medications (mucolytics or cough suppressants). accordingly they often use over-the-counter (otc) cough medications (mucolytics or cough suppressants). ',
 'Does a diet rich in vitamin K2 protect against diseases of the cardiovascular system? [SEP] vitamin k dependent proteins have been demonstrated to inhibit vascular calcification. the role of vitamin k in the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis and arterial calcification is examined. the purpose of this literature review is to evaluate the protective role of vitamin k in bone and vascular health. recent work suggests a link between vitamin k insufficiency and deficiency with vascular calcification, a marker of advanced atherosclerosis. vitamin k refers to a group of fat-soluble vitamins important for blood coagulation, reducing inflammation, regulating blood calcium metabolism, as well as bone metabolism, all of which may play a role in promoting cardiovascular health. this review will discuss the presence of: (i) vitamin k1 and k2 in the diet; (ii) the methods of quantitating vitamin k compounds in foods; and (iii) provide an overview of the evidence for the cardiovascular health benefits of vitamin k in observational and clinical trials. recently, vitamin k has emerged as a potential protector against osteoporosis, atherosclerosis, and hepatocarcinoma. increasing evidence implicates a role for vitamin k in calcification of arteries and atherogenesis. dietary vitamin k is thought to decrease risk of cardiovascular disease by reducing coronary calcification, but inconsistent results are reported. a high dietary intake of vitamin k1 (phylloquinone) and vitamin k2 (menaquinones) is thought to decrease cardiovascular disease risk by reducing vascular calcification. ',
 'Can shoe insoles relieve pain in people with high arches? [SEP] therapeutic footwear with specially-made insoles is often used in people with diabetes and rheumatoid arthritis to relieve ulcer risks and pain due to high pressures from areas beneath bony prominences of the foot, in particular to the metatarsal heads (mths). in-shoe foot orthoses improve conditions such as plantar heel pain (fasciitis), probably due to their ability to raise the medial longitudinal arch of the foot and lower the stress on the plantar tissues. commercially available shoe insoles and orthoses are increasingly incorporating novel design features to alleviate foot and lower limb symptoms, but this may be at a cost to optimal functional performance. insoles are frequently used in orthotic therapy as the standard conservative treatment for symptomatic flatfoot deformity to rebuild the arch and stabilize the foot. in this study, we assessed the effectiveness of therapeutic insoles for flatfoot deformity using subject-based three-dimensional (3d) computed tomography (ct) models by evaluating the load responses of the bones in the medial longitudinal arch in vivo in 3d. after using the dynamic impression insole, the mean pain score was significantly reduced from 7.6 to 1.1 (p<0.001), and six participants experienced total pain-relief in walking. dynamic impression insoles effectively relieve metatarsal pain because of a larger weight-bearing area. orthotic shoe insoles are widely used to prevent lower limb overuse injuries. the insoles were molded to the shape of the foot to provide support during physical activity. a frequently-used treatment is an over-the-counter insole to normalize foot mechanics and relieve pain. ',
 'Can shoe insoles relieve pain in people with foot deformities other than high arch? [SEP] therapeutic footwear with specially-made insoles is often used in people with diabetes and rheumatoid arthritis to relieve ulcer risks and pain due to high pressures from areas beneath bony prominences of the foot, in particular to the metatarsal heads (mths). in a three-dimensional finite element study of the foot and footwear with sensitivity analysis, effects of geometrical variations of a therapeutic insole, in terms of insole thicknesses and metatarsal pad (mp) placements, on local peak plantar pressure under mths and stress/strain states within various forefoot tissues, were determined. people who have extremely high arched feet are subject to substantial foot pain, despite a lack of obvious pathology. in-shoe foot orthoses improve conditions such as plantar heel pain (fasciitis), probably due to their ability to raise the medial longitudinal arch of the foot and lower the stress on the plantar tissues. the purpose of this study was to evaluate if a sandal that incorporates the arch-profile of an in-shoe foot orthosis does indeed raise the medial longitudinal arch. orthoses can help alleviate pain that stems from abnormal foot biomechanics, such as overpronation or rigid pes cavus. custom molded insoles with metatarsal supports are used to redistribute excessive loading under the metatarsal heads in patients with metatarsalgia. seventeen consecutive rheumatoid arthritic outpatients with metatarsal pain participated in this repeated measures study of 7-mm flat ethylene vinyl acetate, custom molded and dynamic impression insoles. after using the dynamic impression insole, the mean pain score was significantly reduced from 7.6 to 1.1 (p<0.001), and six participants experienced total pain-relief in walking. dynamic impression insoles effectively relieve metatarsal pain because of a larger weight-bearing area. ',
 'Can dowsers find harmful soil zones or water veins? [SEP] the use of inappropriate soils can result in contamination of ground waters with microbes and nutrients. breakthrough curves revealed that the potential for to leach through the soils was high for selwyn very stony soil and low for other soils analyzed. in soils where stones are close to the surface, especially where the soil matrix is sandy, we anticipate that shallow groundwater is vulnerable to microbial contamination under some land management practices. a dry soil layer (dsl) is a common soil desiccation phenomenon that generally forms at a particular depth in the soil profile because of climatic factors and poor land management, and this phenomenon can influence the water cycle and has been observed on the loess plateau of china and other similar regions around the world. this paper synthesized 69 recent publications (1,149 observations of dsls from 73 sites) that focused on dsls in this region, and the results indicated that dsls are significantly affected by climatic and vegetation factors. dolines or sinkholes are earth depressions that develop in soluble rocks complexes such as limestone, dolomite, gypsum, anhydrite, and halite; dolines appear in a variety of shapes from nearly circular to complex structures with highly curved perimeters. frequently, wdvs are used to irrigate agricultural soil, and/or discharged into aquatic bodies, which may result in serious environmental pollution, due to the presence of organic acids and recalcitrant compounds (polyphenols, tannins and metals). in conclusion, the findings suggest that wdvs might have a high toxicological impact on both terrestrial plants and aquatic organisms, even at high dilution levels, reinforcing the need for appropriate treatments before considering its discharge or reuse. soil k+, mg2+ and na+ concentrations increased in soil layers above the drip lines, but decreased in soil layers below drip lines. soil electrical conductivity accordingly increased in soil layers above drip lines, but the range was significantly lower than the threshold for soil salinity. ',
 "Does bioresonance therapy help with health complaints? [SEP] successful treatment employing biofeedback can be beneficial for several stress-related and pain conditions, as well as other forms of somatic disturbance. preliminary studies suggest that heart rate variability biofeedback may be useful in improving symptoms and quality of life in patients with cardiac disease, and early studies suggest a possible effect of biofeedback on remodeling of the failing heart. biofeedback is increasingly used as an adjunct to stress management in cardiac rehabilitation programs, providing the impetus for a large-scale, systematic study of self-regulation in cardiac disease. clinical biofeedback may be used to manage disease symptoms as well as to improve overall health and wellness through stress management training. research has shown that biofeedback interventions are efficacious in treating a variety of medical conditions, and many americans are turning to biofeedback and other less traditional therapies for their routine healthcare.clinical biofeedback training is growing increasingly popular in the usa, as many people are seeking out relatively new approaches to healthcare. the literature on the use of biofeedback and various forms of relaxation training in the treatment of psychophysiological disorders was reviewed; special attention was devoted to studies in which biofeedback and some form of relaxation training were compared. during the course of combined therapy alongside biofeedback therapy, an analgesic and anti-inflammatory effects, and improved functional capabilities were noticed in the patients. thus, the additional use of biofeedback mechanism in complex treatment of ra patients promote increased efficiency of medical and rehabilitation process and improvement of level of self-control in the patients. biofeedback is a behavioural therapy used to treat people with bowel dysfunction, such as constipation or faecal incontinence, who do not respond to standard treatment. this article highlights how biofeedback therapy is used to treat these problems and improve patients' quality of life. ",
 'Do irradiations with cold red light help with chronic gingivitis? [SEP] thirty patients aged 20-40 years with generalised chronic gingivitis were included in the study. thus, this study evaluated the effectiveness of two types of lasers (660 nm wavelength red, and 830 nm wavelength infrared) as dentine desensitizers, as well as both the immediate and late therapeutic effects in individuals 25 to 45 years of age. adjunctive treatments to scaling and root planing (srp) such as lasers, have been utilized in the treatment of chronic periodontitis, mainly aiming to suppress and eliminate the bacteria, as well as enhancing the healing response. the results of this study show suppression of cox-2 in gingival tissue after low-level laser treatment as adjunct to srp. the vas analysis revealed a significant decrease in dentin hypersensitivity in 7 days with the use of the desensitizer and low-level laser therapy and no statistically significant difference was observed between these two treatments (p > 0.05). a number of studies have attempted to evaluate the effect of low-power laser on radiotherapy- and chemotherapy-induced mucositis. the purpose of this short-term clinical trial was to evaluate the effects of a combination of photodynamic therapy with low-level laser therapy as an adjunct to nonsurgical treatment of chronic periodontitis. twenty-four nonsmoking adults with untreated chronic periodontitis were randomly assigned in a split-mouth design to receive scaling and root debridement with or without one course of adjunctive photodynamic therapy and low-level laser therapy within 5 d. plaque, bleeding on probing, probing depth and gingival recession were recorded at baseline, 1 and 3 mo after the treatment. the present study suggests that a combined course of photodynamic therapy with low-level laser therapy could be a beneficial adjunct to nonsurgical treatment of chronic periodontitis on a short-term basis. further studies are required to assess the long-term effectiveness of the combination of photodynamic therapy with low-level laser therapy as an adjunct in nonsurgical treatment of periodontitis. ',
 'Does the Aspire system help you lose weight? [SEP] weight loss results from both fewer calories consumed, and from modifications in lifestyle and mealtime behaviors that patients make as a result of having the device installed. this article will highlight the effectiveness of aspiration therapy as a novel and safe approach for weight loss in patients in obesity. the aspireassist® system (aspire bariatrics, inc. king of prussia, pa) is an endoscopic weight loss therapy utilizing a customized percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube and an external device to aspirate approximately 30% of ingested calories after a meal, in conjunction with lifestyle counseling. this study establishes that aspiration therapy is a safe, effective, and durable weight loss therapy in people with classes ii and iii obesity in a clinical setting. the aspireassist system (aspireassist) is an endoscopic weight loss device that is comprised of an endoscopically placed percutaneous gastrostomy tube and an external device to facilitate drainage of about 30% of the calories consumed in a meal, in conjunction with lifestyle (diet and exercise) counseling. a total of 58.6% of participants in the aspireassist group and 15.3% of participants in the lifestyle counseling group lost at least 25% of their excess body weight (p<0.001). the aspireassist system was associated with greater weight loss than lifestyle counseling alone. after 1 year, subjects in the aspiration therapy group lost 18.6% ± 2.3% of their body weight (49.0% ± 7.7% of excess weight loss [ewl]) and those in the lifestyle therapy group lost 5.9% ± 5.0% (14.9% ± 12.2% of ewl) (p < .04). aspiration therapy is a weight loss therapy in the united states for patients with a body mass index between 35 kg/m2 and 55\xa0kg/m2. aspiration therapy allows patients to remove up to one-third of calories consumed at a meal and causes patients to eat fewer calories than prior to starting treatment. ',
 'Can FLEXISEQ ointment relieve osteoarthritis pain? [SEP] to assess the efficacy and safety of topical diclofenac diethylamine gel, 1.16%, 4 g applied qid for 3 weeks to relieve the symptoms of osteoarthritis (oa) of the knee. at the end of the study, patients rated diclofenac gel as significantly more effective in treating the pain of oa of the knee (p = 0.03) compared to placebo. diclofenac gel was effective and safe for relief of symptoms of oa of the knee over 3 weeks of dosing. despite the severity of osteoarthritis (oa), current medical therapy strategies for oa aim at symptom control and pain reduction, as there is no ideal drug for effective oa treatment. in summary, quercetin could alleviate oa through attenuating the ros levels, reversing the mitochondrial dysfunction and keeping the integrality of extracellular matrix of joint cartilage. although the osteoarthritis (oa) burden is well-recognised, the benefit of currently available oa pharmacological therapy is not clear. a strong clinical impression exists that joint lavage often provides symptomatic relief for painful osteoarthritis of the knee. our results confirm the effectiveness of joint lavage in the management of painful osteoarthritis of the knee. viscosupplementation has been used for decades to treat mild to moderate osteoarthritis, yet it is unknown if the lubricating function of different pathological synovial fluids (sf) vary, or if they respond differentially to viscosupplementation. it was found that heat application every other day decreased pain and disability of the patients with knee osteoarthritis. ',
 'Can butterbur prevent migraine attacks? [SEP] the mechanism of the anti-migraine action of extracts of butterbur [petasites hybridus (l.) gaertn.] such atten uation in pain and neurogenic inflammation may account for the anti-migraine action of butterbur. further studies are now indicated to investigate the use of butterbur in persistent allergic rhinitis. the effects of butterbur (bb), a herbal remedy, as add-on therapy to inhaled corticosteroids in patients with atopic asthma is currently unknown. to explore the role of a special butterbur root extract for migraine prevention in children and adolescents with severe migraines. two randomized and placebo-controlled trials with a total of 289 migraine patients have demonstrated the efficacy and safety of a special butterbur root extract in the reduction of migraine attacks in adults. we studied whether butterbur had the potential as an efficient and well-tolerated migraine preventive in children and adolescents. the results and low rate of adverse events in this open prospective migraine prevention study in children and adolescents are similar to the results of two multicenter placebo-controlled butterbur studies in adults. butterbur root extract shows a potential as an effective and well-tolerated migraine prophylaxis also for children and teenagers. non-pharmacological management of migraine largely consists of lifestyle advice to help sufferers avoid situations in which attacks will be triggered. ',
 "Does bisphenol A trigger allergies? [SEP] bisphenols, particularly bisphenol a (4,4'-(hexafluoroisopropylidene)-diphenol) (bpa), are suspected of inducing oxidative stress in humans, which may be associated with adverse health outcomes. we investigated the associations between exposure to bisphenols and biomarkers of oxidative stress in human studies over the last 12 years (2008‒2019) related to six health endpoints and evaluated their suitability as effect biomarkers. in all studies, bpa exposure was reported, whereas some studies also reported other bisphenols. bisphenol a\xa0(bpa) has been linked with pediatric asthma development and allergic airway inflammation in animal models. whether exposure to bpa or its structural analogs bisphenol s (bps) and bisphenol f (bpf) is associated with asthma morbidity remains unknown. we examined associations between bisphenols and morbidity due to pediatric asthma. increasing attention has been paid to bisphenol a and bisphenol (bp) analogues due to high production volumes, wide usage and potential adverse effects. here the possible effects of bpa, bisphenol f (bpf), bisphenol s (bps), as well as the brominated structural analogue and widely used flame retardant tetrabromobisphenol a (tbbpa) on human glucocorticoid and androgen receptor (gr and ar) activation were assessed. testicular steroidogenesis was altered by all bisphenol analogues tested. reactive oxygen species (ros) induced by bisphenol a (bpa) have been implicated in cellular oxidative damage and carcinogenesis. ",
 'Can maggots accelerate the healing of chronic wounds compared to conventional treatment? [SEP] the use of maggot therapy is experiencing a revival in the treatment of problem wounds. the medicinal use of maggots for the biological debridement of chronic wounds is increasing around the world, due to its efficacy, safety and simplicity. to examine the efficacy of maggot debridement therapy (mdt) in the debridement of chronic wounds in a military hospital. maggots, through their excretions and secretions (es), promote wound healing by removing necrotic tissue, counter bacterial infection, and activate wound associated cells. maggot therapy may therefore improve wound healing through the secondary effects of these gene changes in the wound cells. this study aimed to explore the effectiveness of maggot therapy as compared to hydrogel dressings in the healing of chronic wounds. the increasing evidences indicate that maggot excretions/secretions (es) plays important roles in the wounds healing process. new evidence is emerging to suggest that maggots might contribute to wound healing in other ways. this review will discuss research exploring new benefits of maggots in the management of individuals with chronic leg ulcers. the beneficial effects of maggots on chronic wounds may be explained in part by inhibition of multiple pro-inflammatory responses of activated neutrophils by es. ',
 'Do electric toothbrushes protect oral health better than manual brushes? [SEP] many short-term studies have compared the effectiveness of an electric toothbrush in plaque removal to that of a conventional, manual toothbrush. the electrically active toothbrushes demonstrated better plaque removal than the inactive toothbrushes. powered toothbrushes produce less wear than manual brushes. because the toothbrush can still be described as the most important oral hygiene aid, possible differences between the effectivity of electric and manual toothbrushes should be tested in the present study. children using electric toothbrushes showed after 3 years 27% of healthy-natured dentitions on average (46% of the children had got api-values of up to 30%) and the children who used manual toothbrushes showed 22% of nature-healthy dentitions (52% of the children had got api-values of up to 30%) and in 33% of the control children who received instructions only once a year healthy-natured dentitions were found after 3 years (75% of the children had got api-values of up to 35%). with regard to caries and gingivitis prevalence modern electric toothbrushes for children can be considered equally efficient like conventional manual toothbrushes for children with children of normal caries risk. objective: power toothbrushes is considered an effective tool for maintaining oral health; however, its efficacy as compared to manual toothbrushes is still not completely clarified. this article aims to evaluate the efficacy of power toothbrushes compared with the manual toothbrushes in terms of plaque, gingivitis and bleeding reduction.methods: an electronic search was performed on pubmed, web of science, wiley and research gate. studies comparing the effectiveness of plaque, gingivitis and bleeding reduction between power and manual toothbrushes were included. power toothbrushes were significantly more effective in reducing plaque index (26 trials: smd\u2009=\u20090.86, 95% ci: 0.58 to 1.14, i2\u2009=\u200991.5%, p\u2009<\u2009.0001), gingival index (14 trials: smd\u2009=\u20090.47, 95% ci: 0.12 to 0.82, i2\u2009=\u200988.7%, p\u2009<\u2009.0001), and bleeding index (11 trials: smd\u2009=\u20090.92, 95% ci: 0.43 to 1.40, i2\u2009=\u200991.8%, p\u2009<\u2009.0001) compared with the manual toothbrushes, except that there was no significant differences between the oscillating-rotating toothbrushes and manual toothbrushes regarding gingivitis reduction (7 trials: smd\u2009=\u20090.07, 95% ci: -0.20 to 0.33, i2\u2009=\u200957.2%, p\u2009=\u2009.03).conclusions: power toothbrushes is more effective in reducing dental plaque, gingivitis and bleeding compared with the manual toothbrush. ',
 'Do antidepressants from the group of serotonin reuptake inhibitors help with depression? [SEP] many antidepressants inhibit serotonin or norepinephrine reuptake or both to achieve their clinical effect. the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor class of antidepressants (ssris) includes citalopram, escitalopram (active enantiomer of citalopram), fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, paroxetine, and sertraline. the most commonly prescribed class of antidepressants, the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (ssris), are thought to act by increasing extracellular serotonin in brain by blocking its uptake via the high-affinity serotonin transporter (sert). selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (ssris) and dual serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors (snris) are the most commonly prescribed classes of antidepressants, yet it is not known whether one is superior to the other. the past decade has witnessed the advent of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (ssris) as first-line treatments for major depression. these studies indicate that reboxetine is significantly more effective than placebo and as effective as fluoxetine in reducing depressive symptoms. the first line of antidepressant treatment nowadays are selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. new promising antidepressants may be the triple monoamine reuptake inhibitors, which not only enhance serotonin and norepinephrine neurotransmission, but also increase brain dopamine levels. citalopram, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, paroxetine and sertraline are selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (ssris), which are thought to act as antidepressants through their ability to inhibit presynaptic serotonin reuptake in the brain. the most widely prescribed antidepressant medications are serotonin (5-ht) selective reuptake inhibitors (ssris). ',
 'Is there a health risk from metal contaminants in lipsticks? [SEP] recent reports describing the presence of lead (pb) in lipsticks have suggested that, under ordinary use, the potential amount of pb exposure is harmful. lead (pb) content in lipstick and other consumer products has become an increasing concern. to assess the safety of lipstick in adults that chronically apply lipstick as well as instances where children might incidentally ingest lipstick products, the united states environmental protection agency\'s (us epa) adult lead model and integrated exposure uptake biokinetic model for lead in children were used to determine the blood pb concentrations of adults and children ingesting varying amounts of lipstick of different pb concentrations. the heavy metal content of cosmetics may be a cause for concern in that exposure to these metals is associated with adverse consequences. aim: the present study evaluates lead, cadmium, arsenic, and mercury contamination in lipsticks, mascara, eye shadow, and eyebrow pencils, and compares the amounts of these toxic elements in both legal and contraband products. background: the presence of heavy metals in cosmetics is of major concern, and requires constant monitoring to ensure the safety of consumers. a growing body of evidence suggests that the lip products are polluted by heavy metals, which would inevitably cause safety problems with long-term exposure, but few studies have focused on their deeper health risk assessments. the data presented in this article are related to the research article entitled "child and adult exposure and health risk evaluation following the use of metal- and metalloid-containing costume cosmetics sold in the united states" [1]. this article describes the concentration of metals and metalloids contained in various cosmetic products such as body paint, lipstick and eye shadow, the relative percent deviation of two analyses performed on the products and the physico-chemico properties of the metals and metalloids used in the skinperm model presented in the aforementioned article. the presence of certain metals naturally contained inside raw materials (e.g., pigments) used to produce cosmetics for make-up may represent a serious concern for the final quality and safety of the product. ',
 'Can topiramate reduce the frequency of migraine attacks? [SEP] to evaluate the efficacy of topiramate in the preventative treatment of episodic migraine. antiepileptic agents have demonstrated efficacy in migraine prevention, and open-label experience from our clinic has suggested that topiramate might be effective for this use. twenty-six percent of the patients on topiramate and 9.5% of the patients on placebo achieved a 50% reduction in migraine frequency (p >.05). preventative therapy with topiramate significantly reduced migraine frequency. to evaluate the efficacy of topiramate in the treatment of migraine aura. topiramate has multiple mechanisms of action that could potentially contribute to migraine prophylaxis. the 70 episodic migraine patients who were administered topiramate as first-line therapy exhibited a decrease in mean migraine frequency (5.8/28 days to 1.9, p = 0.001), while mean migraine severity decreased from 8.1 to 2.0 (p = 0.003). for both patients with transformed migraine (add-on therapy) and patients with episodic migraine (first-line monotherapy), topiramate yielded significant reductions in migraine frequency, migraine severity, number of headache days/month, and use of abortive medications. topiramate, a broad-spectrum anticonvulsant with multiple mechanisms of action, may be effective in preventing migraine headaches. topiramate may be effective in reducing the frequency of both mild and moderate/severe migraine headaches. ',
 'Does particulate matter pollution increase the risk of heart attack - even if the EU limits are complied with? [SEP] a growing number of epidemiological studies are showing that ambient exposure to particulate matter air pollution is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease; however, whether occupational exposure increases this risk is not clear. the aim of the present study was to examine whether occupational exposure to particulate air pollution increases the risk for ischaemic heart disease and cerebrovascular disease. any occupational particulate air pollution was associated with an increased risk for ischemic heart disease (rr 1.13, 95% ci 1.07 to 1.19), but there was no increased risk for cerebrovascular disease (rr 0.97, 95% ci 0.88 to 1.07). aims high concentrations of air pollutants are associated with increased risk for myocardial infarction. particulate matter air pollution has been associated with adverse health effects. we and others have shown that increases in particulate air pollutant (pm) concentrations in the previous hours and days have been associated with increased risks of myocardial infarction, but little is known about the relationships between air pollution and specific subsets of myocardial infarction, such as st-elevation myocardial infarction (stemi) and non st-elevation myocardial infarction (nstemi). epidemiological studies show that peak exposure to air pollution is associated with increased morbidity and mortality from cardiovascular events. panel and controlled exposure studies show that particulate matter (pm) may influence the parasympathetic regulation of the heart. exposure to ambient levels of particulate matter (pm) air pollution increases the risk of a host of cardiovascular diseases and events. high concentrations of particulate matter (pm) air pollution have been associated with death and hospital admissions due to cardiovascular morbidity. ',
 'Are endocrine disruptors in cosmetics a health risk? [SEP] laboratory and human studies raise concerns about endocrine disruption and asthma resulting from exposure to chemicals in consumer products. we analytically quantified endocrine disruptors and asthma-related chemicals in a range of cosmetics, personal care products, cleaners, sunscreens, and vinyl products. edcs perturb the endocrine system, and they are also carcinogenic, immunotoxic, and hepatotoxic to human skin. endocrine-disruptor compounds (edcs) can mimic natural hormones and produce adverse effects in the endocrine functions by interacting with estrogen receptors. there is growing interest in the possible health threat posed by endocrine-disrupting chemicals (edcs), which are substances in our environment, food, and consumer products that interfere with hormone biosynthesis, metabolism, or action resulting in a deviation from normal homeostatic control or reproduction. in this first scientific statement of the endocrine society, we present the evidence that endocrine disruptors have effects on male and female reproduction, breast development and cancer, prostate cancer, neuroendocrinology, thyroid, metabolism and obesity, and cardiovascular endocrinology. endocrine-disrupting chemicals are a major public health problem throughout the world. chemicals such as phthalates, parabens, bisphenol a (bpa) and triclosan (tcs), used in a wide variety of consumer products, are suspected endocrine disrupters although their level of toxicity is thought to be low. cosmetics is causing alarming adverse events to its users, yet evidence about its magnitude and cosmetic use among female employees in ethiopia is limited. a significant proportion of the users suffered from cosmetics related adverse events. ',
 'Can a dietary supplement containing omega-3 fatty acids, lipids, vitamins, and nutrients ("Souvenaid") noticeably slow or halt the decline of mental performance in Alzheimer\'s disease? [SEP] previous studies have shown that souvenaid (medical food) can have benefits on memory, cognition, and function in early alzheimer\'s disease (ad) and mild cognitive impairment (mci). demonstrate that souvenaid could improve or maintain cognition and has an effect on neurodegeneration biomarkers. souvenaid had a significant effect on several cognitive domains, and on scs in patients with mci-hr-ad. animal studies suggest that high omega (ω)-3 and low ω-6 dietary content reduces cognitive decline by decreasing central nervous system (cns) inflammation and modifying neuroimmune activity. souvenaid may cause improvements in verbal recall in patients at early stages of ad. in this study, we explored whether the medical food souvenaid affects brain phospholipid metabolism in patients with alzheimer\'s disease. mrs reveals that souvenaid affects brain phospholipid metabolism in mild alzheimer\'s disease, in line with findings in preclinical studies. polyunsaturated omega-3 fatty acids are increasingly proposed as dietary supplements able to reduce the risk of development or progression of the alzheimer\'s disease (ad). the effects of omega-3 fatty acids supplementation in mild ad corroborate epidemiological observational studies showing that omega-3 fatty acids may be beneficial in disease onset, when there is slight impairment of brain function. although some studies have shown changes in scales of cognitive function in more severe cases, they are not enough to support omega-3 fatty acids supplementation in the treatment of ad. ',
 'Do vitamin E supplements increase the likelihood of early death? [SEP] are antioxidant supplements associated with higher or lower all-cause mortality? meta-analyses studies suggest that high-dose vitamin e may be associated with increased mortality in some populations. there is growing concern based on meta-analyses of clinical trials using vitamin e supplements that these supplements increase the risk of all-cause mortality in humans. the purpose of the present paper is to re-analyse the association of vitamin e supplementation and mortality. the present paper yields contradictory results regarding the association of vitamin e supplementation and mortality. hierarchical logistic regression analyses confirm the former results showing an increased mortality of patients receiving high dose vitamin e. furthermore a traditional methodological approach of meta-regression was applied to the same data source. the causal relationship of vitamin e supplementation and increased mortality is questionable. although results from basic science suggested a protective role of vitamin e treatment in the prevention of cardiovascular disease, recent evidence indicates increased cardiovascular mortality due to vitamin e treatment. a recent meta-analysis has demonstrated that the regular administration of high-dose vitamin e supplements may be associated with increased mortality. a 27% increase in plasma oxidation activity levels was observed in patients receiving vitamin e. we demonstrate a pro-oxidant effect of high-dose vitamin e supplementation that may explain the increase in mortality observed in intervention studies using this nutrient. ',
 'Does meditation help against stress? [SEP] many people meditate to reduce psychological stress and stress-related health problems. to determine the efficacy of meditation programs in improving stress-related outcomes (anxiety, depression, stress/distress, positive mood, mental health-related quality of life, attention, substance use, eating habits, sleep, pain, and weight) in diverse adult clinical populations. clinicians should be aware that meditation programs can result in small to moderate reductions of multiple negative dimensions of psychological stress. meditation is a popular form of stress management, argued to mediate stress reactivity. overall, meditation practice leads to decreased physiological markers of stress in a range of populations. although meditation has been employed successfully as a treatment for various stress-related disorders, there is still little evidence clarifying just which aspects of meditation training are responsible for these therapeutic effects. to alleviate stress, one practice that is being commonly and increasingly adapted to is meditation. background: meditation refers to a group of practices commonly proposed to treat stress-related conditions and improve overall wellness. meditation practice has been shown to significantly reduce stress level, among other beneficial neurophysiological outcomes. meditation is widely used as a therapeutic measure because it can effectively reduce stress, pain, and improve the mental health, but there are many unclear points about the psychological effects of meditation. ',
 "Are there methods that effectively help against hormonal hair loss? [SEP] currently, efficacious treatments for chemotherapy-induced alopecia (hair loss) are lacking, and incidences of permanent hair loss following high-dose chemotherapy are on the increase. in this article, we describe mechanisms by which the pharmacological defense status of the hair follicle might be enhanced, thereby reducing the accumulation of cytotoxic cancer drugs and preventing or reducing hair loss and damage. consequently, there is demand for finding novel pharmacological treatments and agents \ufeffthat can safely reduce hair growth. this article examines hair care in persons with hair loss. the use of shampoos, conditioners, and hair styling products to camouflage hair loss is discussed. because hair is nonliving, medical treatments are limited to only inducing change in the follicles within the scalp skin and do not improve the hair loss actually witnessed by the patient. many of today's treatments associated with 'thinning hair', such as female pattern hair loss and telogen effluvium, are focused on two of the key aspects of the condition. although cosmetic treatments will not reverse the condition, this new approach may help to mitigate the effects of thinning hair. hair loss treatment involves both surgical intervention and nonsurgical therapies such as pharmaceuticals, haircare products, vitamins, and low-level laser therapy (lllt). although scalp tourniquets and hypothermia are neither universally applicable nor always successful, they represent simple and relatively inexpensive methods for reducing hair loss. ",
 "Does eye training help prevent myopia? [SEP] randomized controlled trials with comparisons of the effectiveness of interventions to decrease myopia progression in myopic children were reviewed. the use of vision training to stabilize myopia appears to be helpful for many patients, while remaining ineffective for others. the myopia management approach discussed here includes minimum use of full-powered concave corrective lenses, maximum use of convex training glasses, adherence to specific visual hygiene and visuobehavioral guidelines, and a short intense program of home and office visual training procedures aimed at developing more flexible accommodative convergence (cca) and visuobehavioral responses. previous studies have evaluated the efficacy of several interventions to decrease the progression of myopia. ortho-k can have both a corrective and preventive/control effect in childhood myopia. visual-training methods in management of myopia are suggested as possibly leading to normal vision or an improvement in the refractive state. methods of visual training can produce a false image of visual improvement from an enhanced parasympathetic response to a task, but this effect may be a factor that induces progression of myopia. this suggests a preventive approach based on deliberately increasing the amount of myopic defocus a child is exposed to may be successful. it did improve accommodative facility in chinese myopic children, but it is unclear if such an improvement has a role in decreasing myopic progression. does partial spectacle correction of infants' refractive errors, which has been shown to have beneficial effects in reducing strabismus and amblyopia, impede emmetropization? ",
 'Does Cryolipolysis cause noticeable body fat reduction? [SEP] cryolipolysis is a safe, well-tolerated, and effective noninvasive fat removal methodology that on average leads to 39.6\u2009cc of fat loss of the treated flank at 2 months after a single treatment cycle. cryolipolysis is a non-invasive fat reduction method that is capable of reducing subcutaneous fat significantly without damaging surrounding tissues, by applying cold temperature to induce adipocyte apoptosis. cryolipolysis provides a method of non-invasive fat reduction that significantly reduces subcutaneous fat without injury to adjacent tissues. cryolipolysis has been reported to provide non-invasive fat reduction that significantly reduces subcutaneous fat cells with controlled, localized cooling. this study is intended to determine whether a cryolipolysis device can effectively reduce subcutaneous fat without damaging the overlying skin or causing significant side effects and ultimately produce improved cosmetic results. non-invasive selective cryolipolysis has been reported to be a safe and effective treatment modality for the reduction of excess adipose tissue. therefore, cryolipolysis is a promising technology that could be an appropriate and safe therapeutic option for subcutaneous fat reduction. cryolipolysis, with new and better-fitting applicators, is safe, fast, and effective for the reduction of excessive fat tissue on the abdomen, back, flank, and extremities. cryolipolysis is a promising procedure for nonsurgical fat reduction and body contouring and presents a compelling alternative to liposuction and other, more invasive methods. previous studies demonstrated the safety and efficacy of cryolipolysis for the reduction of localized subcutaneous fat on abdomen and flanks. ',
 "Is acupuncture for chronic pain more effective than placebo acupuncture treatment? [SEP] several randomised trials suggest that acupuncture is more effective than no treatment in patients with painful chronic knee osteoarthritis or chronic low back pain. acupuncture was more effective in improving pain than no acupuncture treatment in patients with chronic low back pain, whereas there were no significant differences between acupuncture and minimal acupuncture. evidence supports the safety and efficacy of acupuncture compared with no treatment, but it is unclear what role the placebo effect plays in acupuncture's efficacy. is acupuncture associated with reduced pain outcomes for patients with chronic pain compared with sham-acupuncture (placebo) or no-acupuncture control? acupuncture is associated with improved pain outcomes compared with sham-acupuncture and no-acupuncture control, with response rates of approximately 30% for no acupuncture, 42.5% for sham acupuncture, and 50% for acupuncture. to determine whether acupuncture is: - more effective than no treatment - more effective than 'sham' (placebo) acupuncture - as effective as other interventions used to treat idiopathic (primary) headaches. in eight of the 16 trials comparing true and sham (placebo) acupuncture in migraine and tension-type headache patients, true acupuncture was reported to be significantly superior; in four trials there was a trend in favor of true acupuncture; and in two trials there was no difference between the two interventions. high-quality clinical evidence suggests that although acupuncture appears superior to usual care in the management of chronic low back pain, there is little meaningful difference between true and sham acupuncture. this suggests that the benefits of acupuncture are mediated by the placebo response. we hypothesized that classical acupuncture would be more effective than placebo acupuncture. ",
 "Can Internet-based self-help training based on cognitive behavioral therapy reduce the burden of tinnitus? [SEP] internet-based cognitive behavioral therapy has the potential to increase access to evidence-based services that manage tinnitus. to evaluate whether an internet-based cognitive behavioral therapy intervention is at least as effective as established individualized face-to-face clinical care in reducing tinnitus distress and tinnitus-related difficulties. participants were randomized to receive either 8 weeks of guided internet-based cognitive behavioral therapy or a mean of 2 to 3 individualized face-to-face appointments in a tinnitus clinic. in common with chronic pain, cognitive-behavioral treatment has been found to alleviate the distress and improve the functioning of tinnitus patients. internet-based cognitive behavioral therapy (icbt) has proven to be an effective treatment in improving patients' ability to cope with tinnitus. purpose internet-based interventions have the potential to reduce the disparity in access to psychological therapy that people with tinnitus currently experience. one potential route is providing cognitive behavioural therapy for tinnitus via the internet (icbt). the aim of this study was to investigate if cognitive behavior therapy (cbt) provided via the internet results in significant decreases of distress in individuals with tinnitus. cbt via the internet can help individuals decrease annoyance associated with tinnitus. using a randomized controlled trial design, we replicated prior findings regarding positive effects of internet-delivered cbt on tinnitus-related distress and associated symptoms. ",
 'Do probiotic foods have an antidepressant effect or a positive effect on the mind? [SEP] six out of 12 studies found probiotics to reduce depression, while two studies found probiotics to reduce anxiety.discussion: translational research in this field is limited and further investigation of the efficacy of psychobiotics in mood disorders is warranted. taken together, the results of this review suggest that probiotics may be a potentially beneficial, but insufficiently studied, antidepressant treatment intervention. interest in the gut-brain axis and emerging evidence that the intestinal microbiota can influence central nervous system function has led to the hypothesis that probiotic supplementation can have a positive effect on mood and psychological symptoms such as depression and anxiety. these results show that probiotic consumption may have a positive effect on psychological symptoms of depression, anxiety, and perceived stress in healthy human volunteers. the meta-analysis showed that probiotics significantly decreased the depression scale score (md (depressive disorder) = -0.30, 95% ci (-0.51--0.09), p = 0.005) in the subjects. probiotics had an effect on both the healthy population (md = -0.25, 95% ci (-0.47--0.03), p = 0.03) and patients with major depressive disorder (mdd) (md = -0.73, 95% ci (-1.37--0.09), p = 0.03). we found that probiotics were associated with a significant reduction in depression, underscoring the need for additional research on this potential preventive strategy for depression. thus, the possible mechanism involved in the antidepressant-like activity of probiotics is correlated with lactobacillus species via the gut microbiota-inflammation-brain axis. these results suggest that probiotic food consumption might have beneficial effects on depression, particularly in men. some preclinical and clinical studies have demonstrated the positive impact of probiotic supplementation on depressive symptoms. ',
 'Does treatment with radioactive agents help with pain in chronic inflammatory joint disease? [SEP] intra-articular injection of 169erbium-citrate (169er-citrate; radiosynoviorthesis or radiosynovectomy) is an effective local treatment of rheumatic joint diseases. efficacy was assessed using a rating scale for joint pain, swelling and mobility. rheumatoid arthritis (ra) is an inflammatory chronic disease characterized by inflammation, pain, swelling and disability and radiosynovectomy is one of the disease treatment lines. regarding the high retention of these radiopharmaceuticals in joints with no leakage to surrounding organs, 186/188re-chitosan can be applied as new radiosynovectomy drugs for rheumatoid arthritis treatment. one therapeutic approach to rheumatoid arthritis and other inflammatory arthropathies besides surgical removal of inflamed synovium is radiation synovectomy using beta-emitting radionuclides to destroy the affected synovial tissue. radiosynoviorthesis as one therapeutic procedure of rheumatoid arthritis, other inflammatory joint diseases, persistent synovial perfusion, and other joint diseases is widely used in many countries in europe. radiopharmaceuticals have been used as investigative tools for the detection and treatment of arthritis activity in rheumatoid arthritis (ra) since the 1950s. the use of radiopharmaceuticals in the detection of arthritis activity has the advantages of allowing direct imaging of joints by means of whole-body scintigraphy and of joints that are difficult to assess clinically or radiographically. radionuclide synovectomy is a minimally invasive method of treating persistent joint inflammation. radiosynoviorthesis (rso) with an yttrium-90 colloid offers a local and minimally invasive therapy for treating inflammatory hypertrophy of the synovial membrane of the knee that has arisen from numerous kinds of disorder: these include rheumatoid arthritis (ra), osteoarthritis (oa), spondyloarthropathy, villonodular synovitis and others. ',
 'Does frequent porn use reduce gray matter volume in the brain? [SEP] here, we tested the hypothesis that white matter degeneration is associated with reduced prefrontal activation. results showed that increases in both global and regional dorsal pfc wmh volume were associated with decreases in pfc activity. in addition, dorsal pfc wmh volume was associated with decreased activity in medial temporal and anterior cingulate regions during episodic retrieval and decreased activity in the posterior parietal and anterior cingulate cortex during working memory performance. these results suggest that disruption of white matter tracts, especially within the pfc, may be a mechanism for age-related changes in memory functioning. cortical gray matter thinning occurs during childhood due to pruning of inefficient synaptic connections and an increase in myelination. previously, volume reductions of subcortical deep grey matter (sdgm) structures have been observed in nph patients. the present study used automated segmentation methods to investigate whether sdgm structure volumes are associated with cognitive and neuropsychiatric measures. group differences in sdgm structure volumes were investigated, as well as associations between volumes and cognitive and neuropsychiatric measures in patients. in the nph group, smaller caudate and nacc volumes were associated with poorer performance on neuropsychological tests and increased severity of neuropsychiatric symptoms, while reduced volume of the pallidum was associated with better performance on the mmse and reduced apathy. striatal volume loss appears to be associated with cognitive and neuropsychiatric changes in nph. ',
 'Can the active ingredient acetyl salicylic acid (ASA) protect against cancer? [SEP] acetylsalicylic acid (asa, aspirin), the most common nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (nsaid), has been shown to have a protective effect against the incidence and mortality of colorectal cancer. the aim of this study was to determine the effects of acetylsalicylic acid on proliferation, apoptosis, and invasion in human cyclooxygenase-2 (cox-2) negative colorectal cancer cell lines. our results also suggest that asa decreases the invasive potential of these colon cancer cells. acetylsalicylic acid (asa) is known to prevent cancer development, but its mechanism of action remains unclear. many studies have suggested the possible efficiency of asa and other nsaids in preventing cancer. among different biological effects of acetylsalicylic acid (asa), its anticancer property is controversial. 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-asa) may protect against the development of inflammation-associated colorectal cancer. recent observational studies have shown therapeutic benefits of acetylsalicylic acid (asa) in several types of cancer. acetyl salicylic acid (asa) is a useful drug for the secondary prevention of cerebro-cardiovascular diseases, but it has adverse effects on the small intestinal mucosa. the aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of acetylsalicylic acid (asa) in an experimental model of esophageal adenocarcinoma. ',
 'Is tick-borne tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) much milder in children than in adults? [SEP] tick-borne encephalitis in children appears to be more benign than in adults and shows also a more favourable outcome. the aim was to describe the clinical features of tick-borne encephalitis in children with special attention to sequelae and to review the literature. retrospective review of all charts of children with serologically confirmed tick-borne encephalitis hospitalised in styria between 1981 and 2005. our study provides further evidence that tick-borne encephalitis in children has a substantial morbidity and in single cases severe long-time neurological sequelae are observed. tick-borne encephalitis (tbe) and neuroborreliosis (nb) are well-known central nervous system (cns) infections in children. this study estimates the incidence of symptomatic tick-borne cns infections in children under medical care and describes the spectrum of manifestations. nearly one fourth of the children with neurologic symptoms were diagnosed with a tick-borne cns infection (tbe, n\u2009=\u200910 [8%] and nb, n\u2009=\u200921 [16.8%]). the course of tick-borne encephalitis (tbe) in children is supposed to be mild though severe neurological sequelae have been reported. we describe the first case of tick-borne encephalitis in a 4.5-month-old male infant in germany. tick borne encephalitis (tbe) is a viral infection in the central nervous system endemic in europe and asia. ',
 "Does treatment with cyanoacrylate (for example, Sapheon Venaseal™) help against varicose veins as well or better than other methods? [SEP] various treatment methods are available for the treatment of varicose veins, and there has been a recent surge in the usage of cyanoacrylate glue for treating varicose veins. purpose to investigate the technical possibility, efficiency and safety of cyanoacrylate adhesive embolization and sclerotherapy using commonly available n-butyl cyanoacrylate glue for the treatment of primary varicose veins due to great saphenous vein reflux with or without incompetent perforators. materials and methods one hundred forty-five limbs of 124 patients with varicose veins due to great saphenous vein reflux were subjected to cyanoacrylate adhesive embolization and sclerotherapy - adhesive embolization of great saphenous vein in the thigh and perforators using cyanoacrylate followed by sclerotherapy of any residual varicose veins in the leg. posterior tibial vein extension of cyanoacrylate was seen in three patients (2.6%) without untoward clinical effect.significant improvement was found in venous clinical severity score (vcss) from a baseline mean of 7.98\u2009±\u20094.42 to 4.74\u2009±\u20093, 1.36\u2009±\u20091.65 and 0.79\u2009±\u20091.19 at 1, 6 and 12 months' follow-up. conclusion cyanoacrylate adhesive embolization and sclerotherapy for the treatment of primary varicose veins is efficacious and can be performed as an outpatient procedure, but has a guarded safety profile due to its propensity to cause deep venous occlusion if not handled carefully. the results of a prospective comparative study of cyanoacrylate glue versus endovenous laser ablation for the management of incompetent great saphenous veins are presented. conclusions: management of incompetent great saphenous veins both endovenous cyanoacrylate ablation and laser ablation results in high occlusion rates. expert commentary: cyanoacrylate adhesive embolization of incompetent truncal veins using the venaseal device is a safe and efficacious innovative technique. current guidelines recommend injection of cyanoacrylate as first-line therapy to prevent gastric variceal rebleeding. to report our experience and explain the technique of using n-2-butyl-cyanoacrylate (n2bca) in varicocele treatment. ",
 'Did oseltamivir (Tamiflu®) or other neuraminidase inhibitors help reduce deaths from the H1N1 influenza virus ("swine flu" virus)? [SEP] foremost are the viral neuraminidase inhibitors oseltamivir and zanamivir, which have already been used to treat human influenza a (h1n1 and h3n2) and b virus infections. oseltamivir (tamiflu) is a potent and selective antiviral drug employed to fight the flu virus in infected individuals by inhibiting neuraminidase (na), a flu protein responsible for the release and spread of the progeny virions. in view of the possibility of a human pandemic of avian influenza, a first-line strategy for many countries is stockpiling of antiviral neuraminidase inhibitors (oseltamivir [tamiflu] and zanamivir [relenza]), which can reduce mortality, morbidity and influenza transmission. we assessed the efficacy of treatment with the neuraminidase inhibitor oseltamivir to reduce patient illness and viral shedding in people with influenza, in whom treatment was started within 5 days of symptom onset, in an urban setting in bangladesh. oseltamivir treatment resulted in a modest reduction in the duration of symptoms and virus shedding in people with uncomplicated influenza infections, even when treatment was started 48 h or longer after illness onset. clinical practices showed that oseltamivir was effective to treat the 2009-h1n1 influenza but failed to the 2006-h5n1 avian influenza. the available evidence on whether neuraminidase inhibitors reduce mortality in patients with influenza is inconclusive and focuses solely on influenza a/h1n1pdm09. we assessed whether early oseltamivir treatment (≤48 hours from symptom onset) decreases mortality compared to late treatment in a large cohort of critically ill patients with influenza of all types. currently, oseltamivir, a potent and selective inhibitor of neuraminidase of influenza a and b viruses, is the drug of choice for treating patients with influenza virus infection. neuraminidase inhibitors, especially oseltamivir, have been used worldwide for the prophylaxis or treatment of pandemic influenza h1n1 2009 (a(h1n1)pdm09) viruses. ',
 "Is aluminum intake responsible for the development of Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] aluminum (al) exposure has been reported to be a risk factor for alzheimer's disease (senile dementia of alzheimer type), although the role of al in the etiology of alzheimer's disease remains controversial. aluminum (al) is considered a potential etiological factor in alzheimer's disease (ad). aluminum is a known neurotoxin and has been suggested to play a role in the development of senile dementia of the alzheimer's type. aluminum (al), a neurotoxic agent, has been associated with alzheimer's disease (ad), which is characterized by cholinergic dysfunction in the central nervous system. aluminum has also been proposed to play a role in the pathogenesis of alzheimer's disease (ad) even though this issue is controversial. this review encompasses the general toxicology of aluminum with emphasis on the potential mechanisms by which it may accelerate the progression of chronic age-related neurodegenerative disorders. studies have shown that aluminum (al) is the most abundant neurotoxic element on earth, and is implicated in the pathogenesis of alzheimer's disease (ad). the controversial role of aluminum in alzheimer's disease (ad) is reviewed. in this paper, i have summarized the experimental and largely clinical evidence that implicates aluminum as a primary etiological factor in alzheimer's disease. aluminum acts as a catalyst for an earlier onset of alzheimer's disease in individuals with or without concomitant predispositions, genetic or otherwise. ",
 'Can regular exercise prevent or relieve migraine symptoms? [SEP] the consensus is that exercise can help to reduce the frequency, intensity and/or duration of migraine attacks. some migraine patients find that regular exercise helps in reducing the frequency of headache attacks. however, most of these recommendations refer to some anecdotal reports or observational studies in literature stating that regular exercise can reduce the frequency and severity of migraine. here, we review the associations between physical exercise and migraine from an epidemiological, therapeutical and pathophysiological perspective. in conclusion, it seems that although exercise can trigger migraine attacks, regular exercise may have prophylactic effect on migraine frequency. exercise is often recommended in migraine treatment, but strenuous physical activity is also reported as a migraine trigger. migraine patients who are physically active may find that exercise can provoke a migraine attack or that regular exercise helps reduce the severity of their headaches. exercise has been frequently discussed as a method of migraine management, but the pathways by which exercise may alter migraines are unclear at present. therefore this study aimed to evaluate the effects of exercise in migraine prevention. aerobic exercise has been shown to decrease migraine burden in these persons. ',
 'Does less than 7h of sleep daily increase mental performance? [SEP] the national sleep foundation suggests that adults need 7-9 hours of sleep per night; shorter and longer sleep durations have been associated with increased morbidity and mortality. perceived sleep-related difficulties were significantly more likely among persons reporting <7 hours of sleep than among those reporting 7-9 hours of sleep. whereas sleep restriction in the laboratory induces sleepiness and mood disturbances, it is not certain whether a short sleep duration impairs the quality of everyday life. using population-based data, we explored whether greater habitual sleep duration is a predictor of better health-related quality of life, measured by the quality of well-being (qwb) scale. these data suggest that increasing sleep duration may not directly improve quality of life, despite evidence that curtailment of nocturnal sleep is associated with fatigue. research associates short (and to a lesser extent long) sleep duration with obesity, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease; and although 7-8 h of sleep seems to confer the least health risk, these findings are often based on non-representative data. we hypothesize that short sleep (<7 h) and long sleep (>8 h) are positively associated with the risk of obesity, diabetes, hypertension, and cardiovascular disease; and analyze 2004-2005 us national health interview survey data (n=56,507 observations, adults 18-85) to test this. these findings suggest a 7-8 h sleep duration directly and indirectly reduces chronic disease risk. beneficial effects of napping or bright light exposure on cognitive performance have been reported in participants exposed to sleep loss. in conclusion, our data show that individual differences in recognition memory performance may be associated with differences in habitual sleep duration. ',
 'Does regular intake of extra virgin olive oil protect against coronary heart disease such as heart attack? [SEP] olive oil, being rich in mono-unsaturated fatty acids and anti-inflammatory compounds, may have protective effects against cardiovascular disease (cvd). these findings support exclusive olive oil consumption, a key component of the mediterranean diet, for the primary cvd prevention, in adults without pre-existing disease. many mechanistic reasons support that a high consumption of olive oil may provide a protection against myocardial infarction, the hallmark of ischemic heart disease. the aim was to assess the association between total olive oil intake, its varieties (extra virgin and common olive oil) and the risk of cardiovascular disease and mortality in a mediterranean population at high cardiovascular risk. higher baseline total olive oil consumption was associated with 48% (hr: 0.52; 95% ci: 0.29 to 0.93) reduced risk of cardiovascular mortality. for each 10 g/d increase in extra-virgin olive oil consumption, cardiovascular disease and mortality risk decreased by 10% and 7%, respectively. olive oil consumption, specifically the extra-virgin variety, is associated with reduced risks of cardiovascular disease and mortality in individuals at high cardiovascular risk. this study sought to examine whether olive oil intake is associated with total cvd, coronary heart disease (chd), and stroke risk. after adjusting for major diet and lifestyle factors, compared with nonconsumers, those with higher olive oil intake (>0.5 tablespoon/day or >7 g/day) had 14% lower risk of cvd (pooled hr: 0.86; 95%\xa0ci: 0.79 to 0.94) and 18% lower risk of chd (pooled hr: 0.82; 95%\xa0ci: 0.73 to 0.91). higher olive oil intake was associated with lower risk of chd and total cvd in 2 large prospective cohorts of u.s. men and women. ',
 "Do frequent ejaculations have a protective effect against prostate cancer? [SEP] a man's risk of prostate cancer has been linked to his prior reproductive history, with low sperm quality, low ejaculation frequency, and a low number of offspring being associated with increased prostate cancer risk. vasectomy is associated with a statistically significantly increased long-term risk of prostate cancer. we conclude that enduring male infertility is associated with a reduced prostate cancer risk, thus corroborating the theory that normal testicular function, and hence most probably sufficient steroidogenesis, is an important contributing factor to the later development of this malignancy. evidence suggests that ejaculation frequency may be inversely related to the risk of prostate cancer (pca), a disease for which few modifiable risk factors have been identified. these findings provide additional evidence of a beneficial role of more frequent ejaculation throughout adult life in the etiology of pca, particularly for low-risk disease. we evaluated whether ejaculation frequency throughout adulthood is related to prostate cancer risk in a large us-based study. we found that men reporting higher compared to lower ejaculatory frequency in adulthood were less likely to be subsequently diagnosed with prostate cancer. however, it remains unclear whether regularly taking aspirin could lower the risk of prostate cancer. regular aspirin use was significantly associated with a lower self-reported prevalence of prostate cancer after adjusting for predisposing, enabling, and need factors (odds ratio 0.60, 95% confidence interval 0.38-0.94).regular aspirin use was found to be significantly associated with a lower self-reported prevalence of prostate cancer in the united states in 2010. while some data indicate high bother from erectile dysfunction (ed) following prostate cancer treatments, other results suggest the life-saving nature of the treatment may mitigate ed concern. ",
 'Does condom use cause depression in women? [SEP] in a sample of sexually active college females, condom use, as an indirect measure of the presence of semen in the reproductive tract, was related to scores on the beck depression inventory. not only were females who were having sex without condoms less depressed, but depressive symptoms and suicide attempts among females who used condoms were proportional to the consistency of condom use. for females who did not use condoms, depression scores went up as the amount of time since their last sexual encounter increased. depressed young women are at particularly high risk of sexually transmitted infections (stis), yet little is known about their condom use practices. this study sought (1) to describe condom use errors among depressed adolescent and young adult women and (2) to identify event- and individual-level correlates of incorrect use. having sex to change mood, to relax, or for physical pleasure increased the odds of incorrect condom use, but was no longer significant when individual-level variables were included in the model. in the multiple logistic regression model, impulsiveness increased and stronger belief that mood affects sexual behaviors decreased the odds of incorrect condom use (adjusted or 1.3 and 0.81, respectively). even if they use condoms, depressed adolescent and young adult women are at increased risk of stis because they frequently use condoms incorrectly. psychological factors may help identify depressed young women who are at particularly high risk of incorrect condom use. this study explored whether dissociation during sex was negatively associated with condom use self-efficacy. ',
 'Do today\'s children have a shorter life expectancy than their parents? [SEP] offspring quality decreases with parental age in many taxa, with offspring of older parents exhibiting reduced life span, reproductive capacity, and fitness, compared to offspring of younger parents. these "parental age effects," whose consequences arise in the next generation, can be considered as manifestations of parental senescence, in addition to the more familiar age-related declines in parent-generation survival and reproduction. parental age effects are important because they may have feedback effects on the evolution of demographic trajectories and longevity. in addition to altering the timing of offspring life-history milestones, parental age effects can also have a negative impact on offspring size, with offspring of older parents being smaller than offspring of younger parents. socioeconomic disadvantage may cause individuals to have lower expectations of longevity and not engage in healthy behaviours because they judge the long-term health benefits of these to be minimal. we explored demographic, health behaviour, health and socioeconomic correlates of subjectively estimated lifespan (\'anticipated survival\'); the ability of anticipated survival to predict actual survival; and whether the predictive ability of anticipated survival differed by other variables, particularly socioeconomic position. the life spans of parents and children appear only weakly related, even though parents affect their children\'s longevity through both genetic and environmental influences. it is shown that even if children perfectly inherit their frailty from their parents, parents\' life spans explain little of the variance in children\'s life spans, because the variance in life expectancies among people with different frailties is small compared with the variance in life spans among people at the same level of frailty. there is much evidence that the children born in the last decade of the 20th century are healthier and living longer than children born earlier this century, and that children born too small or too soon are now more likely to reach adulthood than similar children born 10 or 20 years ago. yet measures of social disadvantage (poverty, underachievement in education, lone parenthood) are increasing, putting this generation of children at higher risk of morbidity later in life. ',
 'Do rising temperatures and CO2 levels increase the risk of pollen allergy? [SEP] the fertilizing effects of carbon dioxide, as well as increased temperatures from climate change, increase pollen production and the allergen content of pollen grains. in addition, higher temperatures are changing the timing and duration of the pollen season. climate factors increase production of pollen, which also exhibits increased allergenicity. increases in temperature and air pollution influence pollen allergenicity, which is responsible for the dramatic raise in respiratory allergies. we propose that externalised pollen tgase could be one of the mediators of pollen allergenicity, especially under environmental stress induced by climate changes. in the context of global climate change, a number of future climate and air pollution scenarios predict increases in concentrations of pollen, an extension of the pollen season, and an increase in the allergenicity of pollen. among these, the role of rising carbon dioxide (co₂) and temperature in aeroallergen exposure and associated changes in the start, duration and intensity of the pollen season, and associated consequences in aeroallergens and allergic disease are a primary concern. the impact of pollen allergies is on the rise due to increased pollen levels caused by global warming and the spread of highly invasive weeds. to evaluate the impact of urbanisation and climate change on pollen allergenicity. thus, with increasing temperatures and increasing ozone levels, also symptoms of pollen allergic patients may increase further. ',
 'Does training on vibration platforms cause a noticeable buildup of muscle strength? [SEP] whole-body vibration (wbv) training uses a vertically oscillating platform and reports suggest that this perturbation elicits reflexive muscle contractions that augment muscle activity and contribute to increased strength. previous studies have suggested that short-term whole-body vibration (wbv) training produces neuromuscular improvement similar to that of power and strength training. the use of vibration as a means for enhancing athletic performance is a recent issue in exercise physiology. current evidence suggests that vibration is effective in enhancing strength and the power capacity of humans, although the mechanisms mediating this effect are unknown. the aim of this literature review was to determine whether vibration training could produce chronic improvements in the physical performance of trained athletes. vibration causes an increase in the g-forces acting on the muscles, increasing the loading parameters of any exercise. increased loading should aid muscle hypertrophy, and some authors have suggested that vibration may enhance neuromuscular potentiation. considering the 6 studies on trained athletes, there does seem to be some evidence to suggest that vibration may provide a small benefit to maximal strength (1-repetition maximum) and power (countermovement jumps) of trained athletes. because whole-body vibration does not seem to be detrimental to performance when used in a controlled manner, it could provide an additional training stimulus for athletes. vibration training has been suggested as an alternative option for muscle conditioning, aiming especially at improving muscle strength and power. ',
 'Does glucosamine prolong life? [SEP] glucosamine (glcn) is a common drug used to treat osteoarthritis (oa). glucosamine treatment attenuated ischemic contracture and improved functional recovery at the end of reperfusion. glucosamine treatment increased flux through the hexosamine biosynthesis pathway and increased o-glcnac levels but had no effect on atp levels. scientific studies have supported that glucosamine has the beneficial pharmacological effects to relieve osteoarthritis symptoms. glucosamine can also be as a promising candidate for the prevention and/or treatment of some other diseases due to its anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory activities. in this review, we present a concise update on additional new therapeutic applications of glucosamine including treatment of cardiovascular disease, neurological deficits, skin disorders, cancer and the molecular mechanistic rationale for these uses. glucosamine, a natural glucose derivative and an essential component of glycoproteins and proteoglycans, has been safely used to relieve osteoarthritis in humans. recent studies have shown that glucosamine also possesses immunosuppressive properties and is effective in prolonging graft survival in mice. glucosamine also regulates il-5 and il-10 in vitro. glutamine synthetase (gs), a key enzyme in the production of glutamine, is preserved in rat skeletal muscle during aging but is increased with advanced age in vivo. ',
 'Does Kinesio tape help in the treatment of joint and muscle injuries? [SEP] kinesiology tape has gained significant popularity in recent years and is widely used as an adjunct for treatment and prevention of musculoskeletal injuries. in sports medicine, the use of kinesiologic tape has recently gained popularity. kinesiology tape (kt) has been widely used in the areas of sports and rehabilitation. kinesio tape® (kt) is an elastic therapeutic tape that is applied to the skin for treatment of sport-related injuries. kinesio tape (kt) is a commonly used intervention in sports. kinesiology tape can improve athletic performance; however, due to cutaneous stimulation its application can have an influence on proprioception. kinesiology tape has been advocated as a means of improving muscle flexibility, a potential modifiable risk factor for injury, over time. kinesio tape (kt) is an elastic therapeutic tape used for treating sports-related injuries and a number of other disorders. in recent years, kinesio tape has been used to support injured muscle and joints, and relieve pain. when compared to minimal intervention, kinesio taping provided superior pain relief (pooled smd=-0.36, 95% ci -0.64 to -0.09, p=0.009) but the pooled disability scores were not significantly different (pooled smd=-0.41, 95% ci -0.83 to 0.01, p=0.05). ',
 'Do injections with Botulinum Toxin A (Botox®) help with urinary incontinence? [SEP] although botulinum toxin (bont/a) injected into the detrusor muscle improves overactive bladder symptoms in patients with neurogenic detrusor overactivity, how it does so remains unclear. botulinum toxin a (bont-a) is a new treatment modality in various causes of bladder dysfunction; like neurogenic detrusor overactivity and overactive bladder. botox) provides effective treatment for overactive bladder. onabotulinum toxin a (botox®) administered intravescially is an effective treatment for idiopathic detrusor overactivity, of which urinary tract infections (utis) are a common complication. to review the most recent experience concerning the application of botulinum toxin in the human lower urinary tract. botulinum toxin was initially applied in the bladder of patients with spinal neurogenic detrusor overactivity and urinary incontinence, or in the urethra in cases of detrusor external sphincter dyssynergia. in addition, the application of botulinum toxin was extended to the treatment of other urological disorders including non-neurogenic detrusor overactivity, non-relaxing urethral sphincter and detrusor underactivity. bladder injection of botulinum toxin is not yet an approved treatment for lower urinary tract dysfunction. in addition, it might be expected that urethral botulinum toxin injections improve bladder emptying in patients with dysfunctional voiding problems besides detrusor external sphincter dyssynergia. botulinum toxin injection has been widely accepted by the urology and urogynecology medical communities as a safe and effective treatment for refractory urinary incontinence. ',
 'Can apigenin reduce cancer risk or prevent cancer progression? [SEP] apigenin is a plant flavonoid that is thought to play a role in the prevention of carcinogenesis. apigenin is a nontoxic dietary flavonoid that has been shown to possess anti-tumor properties and therefore poses special interest for the development of a novel chemopreventive and/or chemotherapeutic agent for cancer. in two aom-treated mouse colon tumor studies 0.025% and 0.1% dietary apigenin modestly reduced tumors in the group fed 0.025% apigenin (25% incidence in comparison with 65% in the controls) in a non-dose response manner. these results suggest that dietary apigenin showed promise in cancer prevention by reducing the odc activity and acf formation, however, clear evidence of cancer prevention was not obtained in mouse tumor studies. further investigation of the potential chemopreventive effect of apigenin in carcinogenesis is warranted. our results provide a new insight into the mechanisms that apigenin inhibits ovarian cancers. epidemiological and experimental evidence suggests that dietary flavonoids, including apigenin, have anticancer roles. apigenin has been reported to elevate p53, a critical molecule in the induction of apoptosis. apigenin is a natural flavonoid that exhibits anti-proliferative activity and induces apoptosis in various types of cancer, including colon cancer. apigenin reduced the proliferation of colon cancer cell lines, stimulated the cleavage of parp and induced apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner. ',
 'Do generic drugs work as well as original drugs? [SEP] the availability of generic products of antiepileptic drugs (aeds) has raised the following concerns: (1) do generic aeds work as well as brand aeds in terms of their efficacy, safety and quality? generic drugs are considered therapeutically equivalent to their original counterparts and lower in acquisition costs. to test whether (1) generics and original products yield the same health outcomes, and (2) generic therapies save economic resources versus original therapies. generic drugs are equivalent to the brand formulation if they have the same active substance, the same pharmaceutical form and the same therapeutic indications and a similar bioequivalence respect to the reference medicinal product. generic drugs are considered the best alternative for the originator brand drugs because they have the same quality, safety, and efficacy yet offered at considerbaly lower cost. generic drugs are cost-effective versions of brand-name drugs approved by the food and drug administration (fda) following proof of pharmaceutical equivalence and bioequivalence. generic drugs are widely prescribed by physicians, although there is disagreement over the clinical comparability of generic drugs to brand-name drugs within the physician community. generic medications offer substantial potential cost savings to health systems compared to their branded counterparts. in conclusion, generic medications were at least similar, and in some cases superior, to their branded counterparts regarding mortality and major cardiovascular events. however, there is concern among patients and physicians that brand-name drugs may be clinically superior to generic drugs. ',
 "Are animal-assisted therapies effective for mental illness? [SEP] this study examined whether a session of animal-assisted therapy reduced the anxiety levels of hospitalized psychiatric patients and whether any differences in reductions in anxiety were associated with patients' diagnoses. statistically significant reductions in anxiety scores were found after the animal-assisted therapy session for patients with psychotic disorders, mood disorders, and other disorders, and after the therapeutic recreation session for patients with mood disorders. animal-assisted therapy was associated with reduced state anxiety levels for hospitalized patients with a variety of psychiatric diagnoses, while a routine therapeutic recreation session was associated with reduced levels only for patients with mood disorders. background: animal-assisted interventions are classified as 'any therapeutic process that intentionally includes or involves animals as part of the process'. animal-assisted therapy (aat), most frequently used with dogs, is being used increasingly as an adjunctive alternative treatment for psychiatric patients. animal-assisted therapy (aat) has been shown to be effective in the treatment of many psychological disorders, including autism spectrum disorders, depression, anxiety, and posttraumatic stress disorder (ptsd). we tested the hypothesis that animal-assisted therapy (aat) may improve anhedonia. to investigate the efficacy of animal-assisted therapy (aat) on symptoms of agitation/aggression and depression in nursing home residents with dementia in a randomized controlled trial. for years, animals have been used with great benefit in the treatment of the aged and the terminally ill. now animal assisted therapy is benefitting sufferers of ptsd. the results of animal assisted therapy in the treatment of ptsd patients have seen significant results. ",
 'Can lack of sleep cause obesity? [SEP] short sleep appears to be strongly associated with obesity and altered metabolic function, and sleep and growth hormone (gh) secretion seems interlinked. short sleep duration has been reported to be associated with obesity, type 2 diabetes, and pre-diabetes. while mounting evidence suggests that sleep plays an important role in the etiology of obesity, the underlying pathogenic pathways are complex and unresolved. several pathways could link sleep deprivation to weight gain and obesity, including increased food intake, decreased energy expenditure, and changes in levels of appetite-regulating hormones, such as leptin and ghrelin. this article reviews the epidemiological, biological, and behavioral evidence linking sleep debt and obesity. insufficient sleep-which is also prevalent in modern society-and eating at inappropriate circadian times have been identified as risk factors for weight gain, yet the impact of chronic insufficient sleep on the circadian timing of subjective hunger and physiologic metabolic outcomes are not well understood. poor sleep has increasingly gained attention as a potential contributor to the recent obesity epidemic. the increased prevalence of obesity in western nations over the past half-century has been paralleled by a severe reduction in sleep duration. physiological studies suggest reduced sleep may impact hormonal regulation of appetite. prospective studies suggest reduced habitual sleep duration as assessed by self-report is an independent risk factor for an increased rate of weight gain and incident obesity. ',
 'Is breaking an energy-saving lamp harmful to health? [SEP] the radiation from quartz halogen light bulbs has been reported to cause erythema in humans and skin tumors in experimental animals. the objective of this study was to determine the relative risk of injury to humans due to the radiation from these lamps. we studied a 12-volt 50-watt quartz halogen lamp. we conclude that direct radiation from these lamps can cause damage to human skin, due to their uvc and uvb output. we estimate that the relative risk to keratinocyte dna in human skin, in vivo, from exposure to the 50-watt halogen lamp at a distance of 7 cm is between 27 and 400% of the noontime summer sun in michigan. the use of unfiltered quartz-halogen lamps exposes human skin to radiation that spans much of the ultraviolet (uv) spectrum. reports indicate that exposure to quartz-halogen lamps is erythemogenic, mutagenic, and carcinogenic. to compare the carcinogenic potential of quartz-halogen lamps with that of other uv sources, we determined the dose dependence for cytotoxicity and neoplastic transformation in neonatal human fibroblasts exposed in vitro to: a 15 w germicidal lamp (primarily 254 nm radiation), a 15 w cool white fluorescent lamp, and an unfiltered 20 w quartz-halogen lamp. these data confirm the carcinogenic potential of the quartz-halogen lamp. however, the lamp, which contains mercury, must be disposed of at the end of its lifetime or following damage due to physical shock or vibration. ',
 "Does copper intake increase the risk of Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] the involvement of body copper metabolism in the development of alzheimer's disease (ad) - the most common form of dementia - is a deeply investigated issue in recent years. copper promotes a toxic buildup of amyloid-beta (aβ) and neurofibrillary tangle pathology in the brain, and its exposure may increase the risk for alzheimer's disease (ad). taken together, our findings support the pathological impact of copper on inflammatory responses and aβ clearance in the brain, which could serve as key mechanisms to explain, in part, the copper exposure as an environmental risk factor for ad. background:environmental copper has been implicated in the pathogenesis of alzheimer’s disease based on evidence that: 1) brain copper levels increase with age, 2) copper promotes misfolding and toxicity of amyloid-β in vitro, 3) copper-modulating interventions reduce amyloid pathology in animal models. chronic exposure to copper and its dyshomeostasis have been linked to accelerated cognitive decline and potentially increasing risk for alzheimer's disease (ad). this, however, correlated with increased vascular accumulation of aβ and impairment of spatial memory, indicating that copper exposure has the pivotal role in the vascular damage and development of cognitive decline. copper is known to be a critical factor in alzheimer's disease (ad) pathogenesis, as it is involved in amyloid-β (aβ) peptide related toxicity. excess copper exposure is thought to be linked to the development of alzheimer's disease (ad) neuropathology. taken together, our data suggest that chronic copper exposure accelerates not only amyloid pathology but also tau pathology in a mouse model of ad. altered copper homeostasis and hypercholesterolemia have been identified independently as risk factors for alzheimer's disease (ad). ",
 "Do air ions cause an improvement of allergies? [SEP] manufacturers of ionisers claim many benefits from the use of their devices, including the relief of asthma. particles removed from the air are likely to include airborne allergens, so ionisers may achieve an effect by reducing the allergen load. the effect of ionisers on airborne concentrations of house dust mite allergen der p i was investigated in a double blind, crossover, placebo controlled trial in the homes of 20 children with allergic asthma. scit may prevent the development of allergic asthma in children with ar. scit may prevent the development of allergic asthma in children with ar. the influence of artificially generated atmospheric ions is studied in 15 patients with bronchial asthma. a slight but significant (at 5% level) improvement in the lung function was demonstrated in nine patients during positive as well as negative ion exposure, but the patients' subjective votings of the air quality did not show any changes due to ion exposure. no change in the histamine threshold of the airways in six patients with bronchial asthma was demonstrated during exposure to ions. the purpose of this study was to test recently developed air-cleaners with respect to their capacity to capture airborne allergen particles and to improve clinical parameters of asthmatic patients sensitized to aeroallergens. in combination with other allergen avoidance measures, the examined air-cleaners can contribute to diminished allergen exposure and improvement of airway hyperresponsiveness in asthmatic patients. ",
 "Do air ions cause an improvement of asthma?? [SEP] it is well-known that many patients with asthma undergo clinical improvement during a stay at high altitude. this suggests that atmospheric and climatic conditions, or physiological adaptations, via mediators such as atrial natriuretic peptide, are beneficial to patients with asthma at high altitude. recent evidence shows that this treatment also improves airway inflammation in nonallergic patients. the influence of artificially generated atmospheric ions is studied in 15 patients with bronchial asthma. a slight but significant (at 5% level) improvement in the lung function was demonstrated in nine patients during positive as well as negative ion exposure, but the patients' subjective votings of the air quality did not show any changes due to ion exposure. no change in the histamine threshold of the airways in six patients with bronchial asthma was demonstrated during exposure to ions. manufacturers of ionisers claim many benefits from the use of their devices, including the relief of asthma. particles removed from the air are likely to include airborne allergens, so ionisers may achieve an effect by reducing the allergen load. the effect of ionisers on airborne concentrations of house dust mite allergen der p i was investigated in a double blind, crossover, placebo controlled trial in the homes of 20 children with allergic asthma. this study indicates that the use of ionisers cannot be recommended in the homes of asthmatic subjects to improve their symptoms. ",
 'Do smoking bans lead to fewer preterm births? [SEP] cigarette smoking caused a reduction in the incidence of fetal breathing movements in normal and abnormal pregnancies. hence nicotine appeared to be the factor in cigarette smoke responsible for the reduction in the incidence of fetal breathing movements. smoking is a risk factor in pregnancy. cigarette smoking during pregnancy increases the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes and women who quit smoking at this time are able to reduce the risk of low birth weight, preterm labour, spontaneous abortion and perinatal death. although smoking during pregnancy may lead to many adverse effects, such as fetal growth restriction, placental abruption, stillbirth, and preterm labor, smoking is the only environmental exposure known to consistently reduce the risk of preeclampsia and gestational hypertension. despite awareness of negative health outcomes associated with smoking, pregnant smokers might reduce their tobacco consumption thinking that a low smoking rate reduces smoking-related negative birth outcomes. previous preterm delivery and maternal smoking are associated with increased risks of preterm delivery. we studied the associations among smoking habits, previous very preterm or moderately preterm delivery (before 32 weeks and at 32 to 36 weeks, respectively), and the risk of a subsequent very preterm or moderately preterm delivery in a population-based cohort of 243,858 women in sweden between 1983 and 1993. the women who quit smoking between pregnancies were not at increased risk for very or moderately preterm delivery, whereas the women who started to smoke in the second pregnancy had the same risk as those who continued to smoke. changes in smoking habits influence the risk of preterm delivery as well. ',
 'Do special garments with the active ingredient Liporeductyl help against cellulite? [SEP] cellulite is a type of lipodystrophy that develops primarily from an alteration in blood circulation or of the lymphatic system that causes structural changes in subcutaneous adipose tissue, collagen, and adjacent proteoglycans. cellulite is a disorder in which adipose tissue extends through the dermis, producing a cosmetically displeasing dimpling in the affected areas. while many treatments claim to be able to improve the appearance of cellulite, the long-term effectiveness of these treatments and whether the logic behind these treatments can lead to a long-term improvement has not been extensively reviewed. cellulite has a complex and multifactorial etiology. synergistic action on treating cellulite has gained support in the treatment of cellulite. the studied device demonstrated efficacy in the reduction of cellulite severity and body circumference measures in the buttocks. treatment of cellulite has targeted adipose tissue, dermis, and fibrous septae with varying degrees of success and durability of response. results from clinical trials that target different anatomical aspects of cellulite can provide insights into the underlying pathophysiology of cellulite. a search of the pubmed database and clinicaltrials.gov website was conducted to identify clinical trials that have investigated treatments for cellulite. clinical studies targeting the collagen-rich fibrous septae in cellulite dimples through mechanical, surgical, or enzymatic approaches suggest that targeting fibrous septae is the strategy most likely to provide durable improvement of skin topography and the appearance of cellulite. ',
 'Does alcohol in moderate amounts prolong life? [SEP] the longevity observed with moderate alcohol consumption may be explained by other confounding factors, and, if such a relationship is present, the mechanism is not well understood. binge drinking may reduce telomere length. drinking alcohol in moderation is often considered a health-conscious behavior, associated with improved cardiovascular and brain health. light to moderate alcohol intake lowers the risk of cardiovascular mortality, but whether this protective effect can be attributed to a specific type of beverage remains unclear. the impact of long-term alcohol intake and types of alcoholic beverages consumed on cardiovascular mortality and life expectancy at age 50 was investigated in the zutphen study, a cohort of 1373 men born between 1900 and 1920 and examined repeatedly between 1960 and 2000. long-term light alcohol intake lowered cardiovascular and all-cause mortality risk and increased life expectancy. light wine consumption was associated with 5 years longer life expectancy; however, more studies are needed to verify this result. recent studies have suggested that moderate alcohol consumption is associated with beneficial effects related to the prevention of cardiovascular diseases. recent studies, however, have implied tht whilst moderate or high ingestion of alcohol may be detrimental, a threshold exists for alcohol consumption below which alcohol may even exert a beneficial effect. moderate alcohol consumption (one to two drinks per day) has been associated with better cognitive function and lower risk of developing dementia in the elderly. ',
 "Does caffeine make us die sooner??? [SEP] however, it can lead to a lethal outcome in severe cases of caffeine intoxication. severe caffeine poisoning is rare, but is associated with high mortality. although fatalities due to caffeine intoxication are uncommon, a caffeine overdose may cause profound toxicity, resulting in tachycardia, arrhythmia, convulsions, vomiting, coma, and possibly death. the extremely high blood concentration of caffeine determined a strong cardiovascular response, leading to fatal arrhythmia, as supported by histological evidence of myocardial injury. all known mechanisms of apoptosis induced by caffeine act through cell cycle modulation or p53 induction. it is currently unknown whether caffeine-induced apoptosis is associated with other cell death mechanisms, such as autophagy. these results support previous studies on the use of caffeine in the treatment of human tumors and indicate a potential new target in the regulation of apoptosis. it is well accepted that caffeine could induce cardiac arrhythmia, but it is not clear with regard of its impacts on the cardiac function. it is common to detect caffeine in toxicological screens in autopsy cases, but we always have to take in account that caffeine itself possesses toxicity which may sometimes lead to death the case was a 44-year-old woman who was found dead in her room one day in june. toxicological analysis revealed 127 mg/l of caffeine concentration in the deceased's blood, which was considered to be fatal. ",
 'Does light freezing help with weight loss? [SEP] it is a common belief that weight loss achieved at a slow rate is better preserved than if the weight is lost more rapidly. in conclusion, we find evidence to suggest that a greater initial weight loss as the first step of a weight management programme may result in improved sustained weight maintenance. the beneficial effects of weight loss with a very-low-calorie diet (vlcd) on cardiovascular risk factors have been reported at the end of energy restriction. this weight loss programme with a vlcd enabled obese subjects to lose weight and decrease cardiovascular risks. cryolipolysis is a noninvasive technique for the reduction of subcutaneous adipose tissue by controlled, localized cooling, causing adipocyte apoptosis, reportedly without affecting surrounding tissue. although cryolipolysis has a low incidence of adverse side effects 33 cases of paradoxical adipose hyperplasia (pah) have been reported and the precise pathogenesis of pah is poorly understood. emerging evidence suggests that rapid initial weight loss results in better long-term weight loss maintenance. cryolipolysis is a noninvasive, skin cooling treatment for local fat reduction that causes prolonged hypoesthesia over the treated area. cryolipolysis produced a marked decrease in mechanical and thermal pain sensitivity. short-term studies indicate that intentional weight loss among obese persons significantly improves physiologic variables. ',
 'Does acupuncture help against hay fever? [SEP] the assessment of the clinical effectiveness of homeopathic remedies in the alleviation of hay fever symptoms in a typical clinical setting. individualized homeopathic treatment was associated with significant alleviation of hay fever symptoms, enabling the reduction in use of conventional treatment. acupuncture has been used for the prevention and treatment of asthma. this article discusses the possible mechanisms underlying the effects of acupuncture in the prevention and treatment of asthma. existing evidence has shown that acupuncture might facilitate the prevention and treatment of asthma via its anti-inflammatory effects. acupuncture has been shown to modulate th1/th2 balance, block inflammatory cells and mediators, improve airway remodeling, and regulate hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis function. acupuncture appears to exert its antiasthmatic properties through multiple pathways. previous studies suggested that acupuncture was a promising adjunctive treatment for asthma. to observe the clinical effects of acupuncture for allergic rhinitis. acupuncture may help to improve the blood theology indexes with an increased volume of blood flow, and regulate the immunological function of the human body, thus giving therapeutic effects for allergic rhinitis. ',
 "Do earrings cause discomfort by destroying acupuncture points or meridians? [SEP] a clinical study has revealed that irritation caused by pre-existing diseases of the ear (e.g. full-thickness burns to the external ear can produce loss of skin and cartilage and can result in severe cosmetic deformity. even partial-thickness burns render the ear vulnerable to tissue loss if the helix is subjected to pressure from pillows, dressings, or straps that are used to secure endotracheal tubes. often the disease is self-inflicted; insertion of an object into the canal in an attempt to clean the ear interferes with the ear's own cleansing mechanism and causes inflammation and infection. ear piercing and wearing earrings have been associated with many medical problems including local infection, sepsis, superficial cervical lymphadenopathy, localized argyria, contact dermatitis, lymphoplasia, edema and hematoma formation, exuberant granulation tissue, keloids, lipomas, embedded earrings, epidermal cyst formation, sarcoidal granulomas, earlobe deformities, cutaneous injury resembling frostbite, pressure sores or bruising of the postauricular area, syncope, aspiration, and ingestion. slag injuries of the ear caused by hot sparks or molten metal are well known to otolaryngologists because they often result in chronic tympanic membrane perforations and chronic otorrhea. in one patient, a significant inner ear injury also occurred. soft tissue occlusion of the external auditory canal (eac) can cause intense pruritis, recurrent foul smelling otorrhea, recurrent otitis externa, and conductive hearing loss. excess cerumen (earwax) in the external auditory canal is associated with symptoms of earache, fullness in the ears, and diminished hearing. of eight subjects reporting one or more of acute onset earache, fullness in the ears, diminished hearing, and tinnitus, seven had complete cerenum occlusion in the affected ear. ",
 'Does the "Rolfing" treatment cause an improvement of body malpositions as well as certain pains? [SEP] rolfing, or structural integration, is one of many types of manipulative therapy. this article describes the principles and history of rolfing and reviews current research. rolfing has a physiologic impact on the peripheral nervous system and on myofascial structures. this report describes a system of bodywork called rolfing (rolf institute of structural integration, boulder, co). a review of the historical considerations in the development of the process of rolfing is discussed as well as a description of rolfing. rolfing is a type of treatment that is compatible with nursing principles. rolfing is a technique which involves the use of pressure on areas of the body in which muscle tendons adhere to each other rather than sliding over one another in the normal way. in this study, a series of 10 patients with mild, moderate or severe cerebral palsy underwent rolfing treatment, and the results were evaluated. these results indicate that rolfing can lead to improved performance in mildly affected patients because they possess the neurological capacity to make use of increased tissue mobility, and thus avoid contractures. varus osteotomy, distraction osteogenesis, or epiphyseal stapling is one treatment option for valgus malalignment to improve appearance, gait, and function. ',
 'Does marijuana use reduce the risk of developing diabetes? [SEP] this study sought to clarify the cross-sectional and longitudinal associations between self-reported marijuana use, and prediabetes (defined as fasting glucose 5.6-6.9 mmol/l, 2 h glucose post ogtt 7.8-11.0 mmol/l or hba1c 5.7-6.4% [39-47 mmol/mol]) and diabetes. data from the community-based coronary artery risk development in young adults (cardia) study were used to determine marijuana use and the presence of prediabetes and diabetes among participants. the association between marijuana use and the prevalence of prediabetes and diabetes was examined in 3,034 participants at cardia examination year 25 (2010-2011), while the incidence of prediabetes and diabetes according to previous marijuana use was assessed in 3,151 individuals who were free from prediabetes/diabetes at year 7 (1992-1993) and who returned for at least one of the four subsequent follow-up examinations over 18 years. after multivariable adjustment, higher odds of prediabetes were found for individuals who reported current use of marijuana (or 1.65 [95% ci 1.15, 2.38]) and a lifetime use of 100 times or more (or 1.49 [95% ci 1.06, 2.11]), compared with individuals who reported never using marijuana. over 18 years of follow-up, a greater risk of prediabetes (but not diabetes) was found for individuals who reported a lifetime use of marijuana of 100 times or more (hr 1.39 [95% ci 1.13, 1.71]), compared with individuals who had never used marijuana. marijuana use in young adulthood is associated with an increased risk of prediabetes by middle adulthood, but not with the development of diabetes by this age. results of previous studies indicate that marijuana could alleviate certain factors of metabolic syndrome, such as obesity. epidemiologic studies have found lower prevalence rates of obesity and diabetes mellitus in marijuana users compared with people who have never used marijuana, suggesting a relationship between cannabinoids and peripheral metabolic processes. in multivariable adjusted models, current marijuana use was associated with 16% lower fasting insulin levels (95% confidence interval [ci], -26, -6) and 17% lower homa-ir (95% ci,\xa0-27, -6). we found that marijuana use was associated with lower levels of fasting insulin and homa-ir, and smaller waist circumference. ',
 'Do fish oil capsules promote prostate cancer? [SEP] dietary fatty acids may influence prostate carcinogenesis. although fish and fish oil supplements have been touted for their many benefits, especially in the treatment of cardiovascular disease, recent headlines have suggested that they might be linked to an increased risk of prostate cancer. the interventional studies using fish oil supplements in patients with prca showed no impact on prostate-specific antigen levels; however, 2 studies showed a decrease in inflammatory or other cancer markers. cohort studies assessing the risk of prca mortality suggested an association between higher intake of fish and decreased risk of prostate cancer-related death. fish and seafood n-3 fatty acids may prevent or delay the progression of prostate cancer, but epidemiologic studies do not uniformly support this hypothesis. we examined the relation of fish and seafood n-3 fatty acid intakes with prostate cancer incidence and mortality. survival analysis among the men diagnosed with prostate cancer revealed that those consuming fish >or=5 times/wk had a 48% lower risk of prostate cancer death than did men consuming fish less than once weekly [relative risk (rr) = 0.52; 95% ci: 0.30, 0.91; p for trend = 0.05]. these results suggest that fish intake is unrelated to prostate cancer incidence but may improve prostate cancer survival. dietary intake of marine fatty acids from fish may protect against prostate cancer development. frequent consumption of fatty fish and marine fatty acids appears to reduce the risk of prostate cancer, and this association is modified by genetic variation in the cox-2 gene. ',
 "Does virgin conception exist? [SEP] by analyzing reasons given by virgin women for not engaging in premarital coitus, we can attain greater insight into the decision-making process involved in maintaining virginity as well as in the transition to nonvirginity. among virgin women, there is a subgroup who are likely to have premarital coitus if they should meet the right person. various studies have suggested an increase in the incidence of premarital intercourse among women with a corresponding decline in premarital virginity. the present study was conducted in an attempt to determine perceived value-orientations toward premarital virginity of female virgins and nonvirgins. it examined the possibility of different orientations for different virgin or nonvirgin classifications and motivations. results suggested significant differences between female virgins and nonvirgins among ten value-orientation criteria. her virginal introitus and lack of any serious febrile illness made asherman's syndrome highly unlikely. fertilization and pregnancy is possible even in women with diminished egg reserve with previous failed fertilization with icsi by performing artificial oocyte activation with calcium ionophore. nonetheless, when it does occur, the intrauterine pregnancy is usually viable. the case presented confirms that hp can occur in the absence of predisposing factors, and that the detection of a blighted ovum should not preclude the possibility of a simultaneous ectopic pregnancy. ",
 'Are movement exercises useful for back pain? [SEP] the exercises aimed at improving lumbar mobility in the transverse plane. therefore, this study assesses effectiveness of massage therapy and abdominal hypopressive gymnastics and the combination of both to decrease pain and lumbar disability while increasing joint mobility and quality of life in patients with chronic nonspecific low back pain. back extension exercises are often used in the rehabilitation of low back pain. it is unclear if exercises, either as part of treatment or as a post-treatment programme, can reduce back pain recurrences. to investigate the effectiveness of exercises for preventing new episodes of low-back pain or low-back pain-associated disability. it is assumed that low back pain patients who use pain-avoiding immobilizing strategies may benefit from specific back flexion and extension exercises aimed at reducing sagittal lumbar hypomobility. recent evidence suggests that interventions based on lumbar muscle stabilisation exercises (lmse) and back endurance-resistance exercises (bere) may improve back pain and function performance. exercise has long been a standard of treatment for back pain. over the last 2 decades, the use of intense, non-pain-contingent exercises for treatment of chronic back pain has received increased advocacy. the prescription of exercise as a conservative treatment for lumbar pain is frequent and seems effective for the chronic cases of nonspecific low back pain. ',
 "Does taking the birth control pill adversely affect mate choice? (Reader inquiry) [SEP] millions of women use hormonal contraception and it has been suggested that such use may alter mate preferences. to examine the impact of oral contraceptive (pill) use on preferences, we tested for within-subject changes in preferences for masculine faces in women initiating pill use. between two sessions, initiation of pill use significantly decreased women's preferences for male facial masculinity but did not influence preferences for same-sex faces. to test whether altered preference during pill use influences actual partner choice, we examined facial characteristics in 170 age-matched male partners of women who reported having either been using or not using the pill when the partnership was formed. both facial measurements and perceptual judgements demonstrated that partners of women who used the pill during mate choice have less masculine faces than partners of women who did not use hormonal contraception at this time. our data (a) provide the first experimental evidence that initiation of pill use in women causes changes in facial preferences and (b) documents downstream effects of these changes on real-life partner selection. given that hormonal contraceptive use is widespread, effects of pill use on the processes of partner formation have important implications for relationship stability and may have other biologically relevant consequences. conclusions: health care professionals prescribing hormonal contraception should be aware of misapprehensions and concerns of fertility among users of coc. in recent research, scientists have begun to suspect that birth control pill use could interfere with key mechanisms that play a role when women choose a sexual partner. we hypothesized that a widely used pill impairs sexuality. ",
 'Does UV light reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] although exposure to ultraviolet light is often viewed as pathogenic owing to its role in the genesis of skin cancer and skin aging, there is growing epidemiological evidence that such exposure may decrease risk for a number of more serious cancers, may have a favorable impact on blood pressure and vascular health, and may help to prevent certain autoimmune disorders - in addition to its well-known influence on bone density. previous studies have shown that ultraviolet light can lead to the release of nitric oxide from the skin and decrease blood pressure. ecological studies show that sun or ultraviolet (uv) exposure have inverse associations with blood pressure (bp) and cardiovascular disease (cvd). this review has identified a small body of evidence that suggests sun exposure protects against high bp and cvd, but further research is required to determine if this is independent of vitamin d. we therefore studied the long-term effects of uv using rat carotid arteries treated with uv-b light (wavelength = 313 nm, total energy = 14 mj/mm2). contractile responses of arteries that had been exposed to uv light were significantly reduced on days, 1, 7 and 14. these results suggest that the long-term effect of uv light is an attenuation of smooth muscle contractility without impairment of endothelial function. however, it remains unknown whether uvb irradiation prevents an immunoinflammatory disease of arteries such as atherosclerosis. exposure to sunlight may limit cardiometabolic risk. in our previous studies, regular exposure to sub-erythemal (non-burning) ultraviolet radiation (uvr) reduced signs of adiposity and cardiometabolic dysfunction in mice fed a high-fat diet. ',
 'Is the Gynefix® contraceptive necklace as effective for contraception as the birth control pill or the "IUD"? [SEP] the cu-iud is more effective for ec than hormonal pills but remains underused, possibly because of lack of knowledge or interest. this paper reviews the evidence supporting the safety and efficacy of available methods of contraception for cancer survivors and concludes that the copper t380a intrauterine device (iud), a highly effective, reversible, long-acting, hormone-free method should be considered a first-line contraceptive option for women with a history of a hormonally mediated cancer. the contraceptive efficacy of intrauterine devices (iud) is thought to relate to the position of the iud in the uterine cavity. does the efficacy of placing a copper intrauterine device (iud) for emergency contraception (ec) to prevent pregnancy depend on menstrual cycle timing and timing of unprotected intercourse (upi)? of emergency contraceptive methods available in the united states, the copper intrauterine device has the highest efficacy, followed by ulipristal acetate, levonorgestrel-containing emergency contraceptive pills, and the yuzpe method. the intrauterine device (iud), primarily in the form of the copper iud, is used by more than 150 million women around the world, making it the most widely used reversible method of contraception. although the levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine device (lng-iud) is one of the most reliable methods of contraception, it is associated with an increased risk of ectopic pregnancy in case of unintended pregnancy. the copper intrauterine device is the most effective form of emergency contraception and can also provide long-term contraception. over 1 year, the copper intrauterine device is currently the most cost-effective emergency contraception option. it is concluded from this study that copper-t is a highly effective method of contraception than cu 375 iucd with good patient acceptance and lesser side effects. ',
 "Can coenzyme Q10 lead to a rejuvenation of the skin's appearance? [SEP] coenzyme q10 (coq10) has been widely used in topical and cosmeceutical products due to its cutaneous antioxidant and energizer effects. coenzyme q10 (coq10) is an endogenous cellular antioxidant that is used as a nutritional supplement and for medicinal purposes. in recent in vivo investigations, cosmetically applied coq10 has demonstrated its ability to reduce photoaging, with a corresponding decrease in wrinkle depth. coenzyme q(10)  (coq(10) ) is a well-known antioxidant and has been used in many skincare products for anti-ageing purpose. coenzyme q10 (coq10), which has both energizing and anti-oxidative effects, is also reported to have antiaging action, e.g., reducing the area of facial wrinkles. coq10 (ubiquinone, coenzyme q10) and carotenoids are popular antioxidants used in many skin care products to protect the skin from free radical damage. coenzyme q10 (coq10) acts as an antioxidant in the skin and is frequently contained in anti-aging products. it has been claimed that coenzyme q10 (q10) would be an effective plasma antioxidant since it can regenerate plasma vitamin e. to test separate effects and interaction between q10 and vitamin e in the change of plasma concentrations and in the antioxidative efficiency, we carried out a double-masked, double-blind clinical trial in 40 subjects with mild hypercholesterolemia undergoing statin treatment. coenzyme q10 supplementation energizes the body and increases body energy production in the form of atp and helps to treat various human diseases such as cardiomyopathy, muscular dystrophy, periodontal disease, etc. coenzyme q(10) (coq(10)) is widely consumed as a dietary supplement to enhance bioenergetic capacity and to ameliorate the debilitative effects of the aging process or certain pathological conditions. ",
 'Is there an increased risk of long-term effects on the unborn child with chemotherapy starting in the 2nd trimester of pregnancy? [SEP] an important concern is the potential impact of chemotherapy on the developing fetus. the authors review the available literature on neonatal and long-term outcome of children prenatally exposed to chemotherapy. chemotherapy administered during first trimester of pregnancy results in increased congenital malformations (7.5 - 17% compared to 4.1 - 6.9% background risk), whereas normal rates are found during second or third trimester. it is still unclear whether these late adverse effects also arise if a child is exposed to chemotherapy in utero. systemic antineoplastic chemotherapy given to a pregnant women at this time may involve fetal risk of abortion, death, stunting, malformation, and systemic toxicity. however, investigators caution that fetal damage, including genetic impairment resulting from chemotherapy throughout pregnancy, may ot appear until much later in life. introduction cancers during pregnancy can be treated with chemotherapy after the first trimester but the treatment is associated with smaller placentas and an increased risk of stillbirth, fetal growth retardation and preterm delivery. chemotherapy administration in the first trimester is generally not recommended due the potential risks to the fetus including fetal death and major congenital malformations. when chemotherapy is used during embryogenesis, there is an increased rate of spontaneous abortions and major birth defects. the risk of fetal malformations when chemotherapy is administered during the second and third trimesters is probably not greater than the background rate. ',
 'Can regular screening significantly reduce the risk of dying from prostate cancer? [SEP] the implementation of prostate-specific antigen (psa) screening has coincided with a decrease in mortality rate from prostate cancer at the cost of overtreatment. a contemporary review of literature with respect to low-risk prostate cancer and active surveillance was conducted. critics of screening have stated that early detection of prostate cancer does not necessarily reflect a diminishing death rate from the disease. however, several recent reports have demonstrated that the death rate from prostate cancer is decreasing, representing the most compelling validation for aggressive screening. with the widespread acceptance of prostate-specific antigen screening, a greater proportion of men are being diagnosed with clinically localized prostate cancer. the european randomised study of screening for prostate cancer (erspc) showed that prostate-specific antigen (psa) based screening results in a significant prostate cancer mortality reduction. more than any other cancer, prostate cancer screening with the prostate-specific antigen (psa) tests increases the risk a man will have to face a diagnosis of prostate cancer. the best evidence from screening trials suggests a small but finite benefit from prostate cancer screening in terms of prostate cancer-specific mortality, about 1 fewer prostate cancer death per 1000 men screened over 10\xa0years. prostate cancer screening with prostate specific antigen reduces prostate cancer mortality but leads to over diagnosis of indolent prostate cancer. the benefit of prostate-cancer screening compares favourably to other cancer screening programs. ',
 'Does removal and examination of the first lymph nodes after the prostate is affected by cancer (sentinel lymph nodes or sentinel lymph nodes) improve the chances of cure? (Reader Inquiry) [SEP] identification of early nodal recurrence after primary prostate cancer (pca) treatment by functional imaging may guide metastasis-directed therapy such as salvage lymph node dissection (slnd). when imaging identifies exclusive nodal recurrent prostate cancer, surgery directed to the positive lesions is safe and can offer at least a temporary biochemical response. it has utility in staging, disease prognosis, and treatment in certain men because early dissection of involved lymph nodes improves survival. this literature review showed a high diagnostic accuracy for sentinel node biopsy in detecting positive lymph nodes in prostate cancer, but further studies are needed to explore the effect of sentinel node biopsy on complications and oncologic outcome. the objective was to determine whether intraoperative sentinel-node detection with a simplified protocol can accurately determine lymph-node stage in prostate cancer patients. with more vigilant screening for prostate cancer, there has been an associated increase in patients with little or no residual cancer at radical prostatectomy after an initial diagnosis of minute cancer on needle biopsy. to investigate how many men with low-risk prostate cancer had positive lymph nodes detected by radio-guided surgery and whether they had a higher biochemical relapse rate after radical prostatectomy, because in such patients most urologists dispense with operative lymph node staging, as nomograms indicate only a low percentage of lymph node metastases. when dissecting pelvic lymph nodes, extended or sentinel lymphadenectomy should be preferred. the fewer number of men with lymph node metastases at initial presentation has altered patterns of pelvic lymphadenectomy before definitive treatment. to evaluate the outcomes of radical prostatectomy (rp) and pelvic lymph node dissection (plnd) for clinically organ confined prostate cancer (cap) with regional lymph node metastases (pn1) treated in the era of prostate-specific antigen (psa) screening. ',
 'Can a treatment with singing bowls relieve pain? [SEP] the objective of this study was to determine the human health effects (beneficial or adverse) of any singing bowl therapies. studies of any intervention predominantly involving singing bowls (e.g. playing singing bowls, listening to singing bowls) were eligible for inclusion. the effects of singing bowls on human health were investigated in four peer-reviewed studies, one of which investigated patients with metastatic cancer, and another those with chronic spinal pain. given there were few studies and the potential risk of methodological bias, we cannot recommend singing bowl therapies at this stage. as the evidence suggests positive health effects, we recommend that future studies consider the effect of singing bowl therapies using more robust study methods, allowing for evidence-based recommendations to be made to reduce the disease burden. forty-six patients were randomly assigned to receive analgesics and fiber supplement alone (control patients) or a twice-daily sitz bath along with identical fiber and analgesics (sitz bath group). abdominal muscle support is essential for singing. the influence of singing activities and breathing exercises on the presence of gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd) symptoms is not clear. moderate singing activities and breathing exercises seem to be helpful in avoiding reflux symptoms such as heartburn and acid regurgitation. ',
 "Is the HIV saliva self-test, which is about to be approved in the U.S., as reliable as a laboratory test or a rapid test at the doctor's office? [SEP] to evaluate the use of saliva specimens for the detection of hiv antibodies among high-risk groups in epidemiological studies. our study demonstrates that 'whole saliva' specimens are a good alternative to blood samples in epidemiological studies of hiv prevalence in high-risk groups. saliva rapid point of care hiv tests have proven advantages over blood-based hiv tests in terms of quality, rapidity and convenience. saliva samples can be used as a substitute to serum/whole blood for hiv testing. the practicability and accuracy of and the preference for the capillary blood self-test (exacto test hiv) versus the oral fluid self-test (oraquick hiv self-test) were compared among untrained individuals in the democratic republic of the congo (drc). the rate of successful performance of the hiv self-tests was high, with the blood test (99.6%) and the oral-fluid test (99.4%) yielding an absolute difference of 0.2% (95% ci: -1.8 to 1.1; p = 0.568). the rate of correct interpretation of the hiv self-test results was 84.4% with the blood test versus 83.8% with the oral-fluid test (difference = 0.6; 95% ci: -0.2 to 1.7; p = 0.425). our field observations demonstrate that blood-based and oral-fluid-based hivst are both practicable approaches with a high and comparable rate of accuracy in the study setting. therefore, saliva has been recommended as a non invasive, safe and effective alternative to serum, for hiv antibody testing. we conclude that hiv-1 antibody testing of saliva samples collected with this device and tested by this eia is of sufficient sensitivity and specificity to make this protocol useful in epidemiological studies. ",
 'Does religion promote mental health? [SEP] there has been increased interest in the relationship between religion and spirituality and mental health in recent years. this article reviews recent research into the capacity of religion and spirituality to benefit or harm the mental health of believers. studies indicate that religion and spirituality can promote mental health through positive religious coping, community and support, and positive beliefs. religion and spirituality have the ability to promote or damage mental health. recent research has suggested that religion may play an important role in determining mental health. a recent systematic review of research on religion and health has found a consistent relationship between religion and better mental health as well as greater social support. this article reviews recent advances in the domain of psychiatry and religion that highlight the double-edged capacity of religion to enhance or damage health and well-being, particularly among psychiatric patients. although previous research suggests that increased religiosity is associated with better mental health and many authors have conjectured that religion-based social support may help explain this connection, scant research has directly examined whether religion-based support mediates religiosity and mental health. the present study examined whether various dimensions of religion-based support (social interaction, instrumental, and emotional) mediated the relationship between religiosity and mental health in college students in the midwest united states. it is well documented that religion has an impact on mental health of both healthy people and mental health patients. ',
 'Do braces treatments have preventive medical benefits in addition to aesthetic ones? [SEP] some clinical studies have shown efficacy of brace treatment is correlated to how the brace has been worn. the more often the patients wear their braces to the prescribed tightness as well as the prescribed length of wear each day, the better the treatment outcome. such a system could improve the quality of brace wear-making the treatment more effective and refining our understanding of the three-pressure-point brace treatment concept during daily activities. the purpose of this review is to answer the question whether there are studies on the use of brace treatment in patients with scoliosis and pain and to investigate whether brace treatment does positively influence chronic pain. a clinical test is demonstrated to predict the most beneficial approach in brace treatment. though helpful and important, braces do not ensure against reinjury. brace treatment has served as a vital non-surgical procedure for immature adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (ais) patients with a mild or moderate curve. we aimed to clarify and compare the preventive effect of the different brace treatments on the deformity of the vertebral body and other clinical results in this patient cohort. braces and splints can be useful for acute injuries, chronic conditions, and the prevention of injury. there is good evidence to support the use of some braces and splints; others are used because of subjective reports from patients, relatively low cost, and few adverse effects, despite limited data on their effectiveness. ',
 'What are the advantages and disadvantages of vaccinating infants simultaneously with the usual six-dose vaccine (against diphtheria, tetanus, polio, pertussis, hepatitis B, and Haemophilus influenzae B) and a pneumococcal vaccine? (Reader inquiry) [SEP] the aim of the study was to evaluate the immunogenicity and reactogenicity of a hexavalent diphtheria-tetanus-acellular pertussis-hepatitis b virus-inactivated polio and haemophilus influenzae type b (dtpa-hbv-ipv/hib) vaccine in preterm infants. in a comparative trial, 94 preterm infants between 24 and 36 weeks (mean +/- sd gestational age: 31.05 +/- 3.45 weeks; mean birth weight: 1420 +/- 600 g) and a control group of 92 full-term infants were enrolled to receive 3 doses of a dtpa-hbv-ipv/hib vaccine at 2, 4, and 6 months. healthy infants, aged 46-74days (n=350), were randomised in a ratio of 1:1 to receive dtap-ipv-hb-prp-t vaccine at two, three and four months, either with a menc vaccine co-administered at two and four months (group 1; n=175) or without menc vaccine (group 2; n=175). to evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of diphtheria-tetanus toxoids-acellular pertussis (dtpa)-hepatitis b (hepb) combination vaccine given at 2, 4 and 6 months of age compared with monovalent hepb vaccine given at birth, 1 month and 6 months of age and dtpa vaccine given at 2, 4 and 6 months of age. healthy infants were randomized to receive a combination dtpa-hepb vaccine (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids, acellular pertussis antigens and hepatitis b surface antigen), concomitantly with type b and oral poliovirus vaccines at 2, 4 and 6 months of age (group 1) or hepb vaccine given at birth, 1 month and 6 months of age and dtpa, type b and oral poliovirus vaccines given at 2, 4 and 6 months of age (group 2). the diphtheria, tetanus, acellular pertussis (dtap) vaccine is recommended for infants beginning at age 2 months, and influenza vaccine is recommended for infants aged ≥6 months. these results support the co-administration of dtap-ipv, mmr, and v vaccines in 4-6-year-old children, providing protection against multiple diseases in a timely and efficient manner. this study assessed the immunogenicity and safety of a pentavalent combination vaccine containing diphtheria, tetanus, acellular pertussis, inactivated poliovirus, and conjugated-hib polysaccharide antigens, [(dtap-ipv//prp-t (pentaxim)], as a booster at 18-19 months of age. participants had received primary doses of the same vaccine at 2, 4 and 6 months of age. vaccination against pertussis during pregnancy is recommended to protect newborns, yet there is limited information about the effectiveness of maternal tetanus toxoid, reduced diphtheria toxoid, acellular pertussis (tdap) vaccine before the first infant dose of diphtheria, tetanus and acellular pertussis (dtap) vaccine and during the first year of life in infants who have received dtap. ',
 "Does the use of laptops with active WLAN (wireless internet access) affect sperm quality in men? [SEP] to evaluate the effects of laptop computers connected to local area networks wirelessly (wi-fi) on human spermatozoa. one sperm aliquot (experimental) from each patient was exposed to an internet-connected laptop by wi-fi for 4 hours, whereas the second aliquot (unexposed) was used as control, incubated under identical conditions without being exposed to the laptop. donor sperm samples, mostly normozoospermic, exposed ex\xa0vivo during 4 hours to a wireless internet-connected laptop showed a significant decrease in progressive sperm motility and an increase in sperm dna fragmentation. to our knowledge, this is the first study to evaluate the direct impact of laptop use on human spermatozoa. ex\xa0vivo exposure of human spermatozoa to a wireless internet-connected laptop decreased motility and induced dna fragmentation by a nonthermal effect. we speculate that keeping a laptop connected wirelessly to the internet on the lap near the testes may result in decreased male fertility. millions of men, especially those in the reproductive age, are frequently using their laptop computers on the lap (thigh). our own studies as well as the studies performed by other researchers indicate that using laptop computers on the lap adversely affects the male reproductive health. when it is placed on the lap, not only the heat from a laptop computer can warm men's scrotums, the electromagnetic fields generated by laptop's internal electronic circuits as well as the wi-fi radiofrequency radiation hazards (in a wi-fi connected laptop) may decrease sperm quality. the authors measured electromagnetic fields (emfs) laptop computers produce and estimated the induced currents in the body, to assess the safety of laptop computers. ",
 'Can phthalates cause diabetes? [SEP] epidemiological studies have associated serum or urinary phthalate metabolites with the prevalence of type 2 diabetes or related phenotypes. however, direct evidence supporting a causal role for exposure to phthalates in type 2 diabetes is lacking. insulin tolerance test on non-fasted mice 3 weeks after treatment revealed that phthalate had little influence on insulin sensitivity though phthalate-treated mice had a higher glucose concentration (159.2\u2009±\u20096.0 vs. 145.2\u2009±\u20093.6 mg/dl; p\u2009=\u20090.086). this study indicates that exposure to phthalates gives rise to a brief interference of glucose homeostasis but has little impact on the development of type 2 diabetes and atherosclerosis in apoe(-/-) mice. human exposure to phthalates is ubiquitous and has received considerable attention due to their association with adverse health outcomes, including type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm). our study suggests that human exposure to phthalates is associated with increased oxidative stress which mediates the development of t2dm. phthalates are suspected to act as endocrine modulators in humans and exert reproductive toxicity. the most frequently occurring phthalate, di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (dehp), causes adverse effects on glucose homeostasis and insulin sensitivity in several cell models and epidemiological studies. epidemiological studies suggest a positive relationship between phthalate exposure and diabetes. epidemiologic studies suggest phthalate metabolite concentrations are associated with type 2 diabetes. ',
 'Does staining brain tumors with the dye aminolevulinic acid before surgery help patients survive longer? [SEP] the use of five-aminolevulinic acid (5-ala) in the staining of malignant glioma cells has significantly improved intraoperative radicality in the resection of gliomas in the last decade. object there is evidence that 5-aminolevulinic acid (ala) facilitates greater extent of resection and improves 6-month progression-free survival in patients with high-grade gliomas. in recent years, 5- aminolevulinic acid (ala)-induced fluorescence has been used by neurosurgeons to good effect in increasing the rate of complete resection. the use of 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ala) has been recognized to increase the extent of tumor resection. to evaluate what factors affect the intraoperative fluorescence after administration of 5-ala in gliomas. five-aminolevulinic-acid (5-ala) is known for its benefits in surgery of primary gliomas, but has only been cautiously used in recurrent gliomas dreading over-resection, insufficient or false-positive fluorescence in adjuvantly treated tumors. fluorescence-guided resection with 5-aminolevulinic acid has been shown to be useful in the resection of certain brain tumors other than high grade gliomas, facilitating the intraoperative differentiation of neoplastic tissue. surgery guided by 5-aminolevulinic acid (ala) fluorescence has become a valuable adjunct in the resection of malignant intracranial gliomas. the advantages of 5-aminolevulinacid (5-ala)-induced fluorescence-guided surgery in meningiomas are increasingly discussed. 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ala) induced fluorescence is useful in guiding glioma resection. ',
 'Can exercise prevent premature deaths from heart attacks, strokes, heart failure, and pre-diabetes as effectively as medication? [SEP] our objective is to assess the beneficial and harmful effects of adding exercise to usual care for people with hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus and/or cardiovascular disease. prevention of sudden cardiac arrest/death and disease progression has traditionally been the primary basis for determining exercise recommendations for those with underlying cardiovascular disease. exercise is becoming more widely used to prevent and treat the diseases that are most prevalent in the united states: coronary artery disease, stroke, hypertension, diabetes, arthritis, osteoporosis, dyslipidemia, obesity, depression, cancer, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. exercise may prevent or reduce the effects of metabolic and cardiovascular diseases, including arterial hypertension. exercise is effective in both preventing and treating coronary artery disease (cad). exercise improves cardiovascular efficiency and, in combination with other measures such as medication use, diet changes, and smoking cessation, may arrest or reverse atherosclerosis. increased exercise capacity is associated with lower mortality risk, but little is known about its effects in prehypertensives. thus, we evaluated the association between exercise capacity and all-cause mortality in prehypertensives. a strong, inverse and graded association between exercise capacity and all-cause mortality was observed in prehypertensive individuals. physical exercise is an effective lifestyle intervention to reduce the risk factors for cardiovascular disease and also to improve cardiac function and survival in patients with ischemic heart disease. ',
 'Can taking the enzyme diamino oxidase prevent alcohol-related hangover symptoms? [SEP] the anti-alcoholism drug disulfiram (antabuse), which is an inhibitor of aldehyde dehydrogenase, induces an aversive reaction to alcohol consumption and thereby helps patients reduce alcohol intake. alcohol consumption often leads to hangover, a condition characterized by several symptoms, characteristically headache, nausea, fatigue and drowsiness. hangover may be alleviated by altering the rate of alcohol metabolism and facilitating elimination of acetaldehyde by affecting the activity of alcohol dehydrogenase (adh) and/or aldehyde dehydrogenase (aldh) enzymes. studies showed no correlation between adh and aldh enzyme activities and antioxidant property of the selected food commodities for anti-hangover effect. further, an anti-hangover (aho) product was developed using pear (65%), sweet lime (25%) and coconut water (10%) and, validated for in vitro adh and aldh enzyme activities. it has been reported to increase blood alcohol concentrations in drinking individuals. aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (aldh2), a key enzyme for detoxification the ethanol metabolite acetaldehyde, is recognized as a promising therapeutic target to treat alcohol use disorders (auds). dar sensitivity was consistently reduced and dat efficiency was enhanced in sip-alcohol-experienced dat+/+ mice when compared with naïve animals. previous studies have reported that cimetidine, an h2-receptor antagonist used to treat gastric and duodenal ulcers, can inhibit alcohol dehydrogenases (adhs) and ethanol metabolism. inhibition of aldh2 has hence become a possible strategy to treat alcoholism. ',
 'Can an anti-oxidant such as pseudocatalase stop or reverse hair graying? [SEP] several studies have suggested that antioxidants retard the process of cataractogenesis by scavenging free oxygen radicals. this process can be stopped by antioxidants such as beta-carotene, vitamin c, or vitamin e, which will inactivate the effects of free radicals. although antioxidant vitamins have not been proven to prevent cardiovascular diseases through the modulation of lipid peroxidation, it has been suggested that peroxidation might be a pathway to such prevention, mediated through the effects of antioxidants on blood pressure (bp) and arterial stiffness. therefore, topical formulations which have antioxidant effect could reduce aging level. catalase is an antioxidant enzyme that has been shown to inhibit apoptotic or necrotic neuronal death induced by hydrogen peroxide. we report the purification of a contaminating antiapoptotic activity from a commercial bovine liver catalase preparation by following its ability to inhibit apoptosis when applied extracellularly in multiple death paradigms. the pluripotency of recombinant arginase was demonstrated by its ability to inhibit apoptosis in multiple paradigms including rat cortical neurons induced to die by glutathione depletion and oxidative stress, by 100 nm staurosporine treatment, or by sindbis virus infection. furthermore, our results suggest caution in attributing the cytoprotective effects of some catalase preparations to catalase. some antioxidants like ascorbic acid, alpha-tocopherol or butyl-4-hydroxyanisole, however, when added to cells at adequate concentrations may enhance the photodamaging activity of pdt. catalase is a scavenger of hydrogen peroxide and presumably protects against the cytolytic effects of reactive oxygen metabolites. ',
 'Can sexual activity relieve headaches? [SEP] headache associated with sexual activity is a well-known primary headache disorder. in contrast, some case reports in the literature suggest that sexual activity during a migraine or cluster headache attack might relieve the pain in at least some patients. we asked for experience with sexual activity during a headache attack and its impact on headache intensity. in migraine, 34% of the patients had experience with sexual activity during an attack; out of these patients, 60% reported an improvement of their migraine attack (70% of them reported moderate to complete relief) and 33% reported worsening. in cluster headache, 31% of the patients had experience with sexual activity during an attack; out of these patients, 37% reported an improvement of their cluster headache attack (91% of them reported moderate to complete relief) and 50% reported worsening. some patients, in particular male migraine patients, even used sexual activity as a therapeutic tool. our data suggest, however, that sexual activity can lead to partial or complete relief of headache in some migraine and a few cluster headache patients. specifically, there has been an expanding interest in the treatment of headaches and their relationship to sexual function. headache related with sexual activity (has) is a rare benign headache disorder. however, occasionally sexual headaches can result from more sinister causes. ',
 'Does transcranial direct current stimulation help against severe depression? [SEP] transcranial direct current stimulation (tdcs) has recently garnered attention as a putative depression treatment. a treatment for depression, chronic pain, cravings, and more--this is the emerging field of transcranial direct current stimulation (tdcs). there is growing evidence that transcranial direct current stimulation (tdcs) may be an effective treatment for depression. transcranial direct current stimulation (tdcs) may improve cognitive symptoms in mdd. transcranial direct current stimulation (tdcs) is a neuromodulatory technique for neuropsychiatric diseases and neurological disorders. recently, transcranial direct current stimulation (tdcs) is getting an attentions as a promising technique with a capability of noninvasive and nonconvulsive stimulation to treat ill conditions of the brain such as depression. transcranial direct current stimulation (tdcs) is a neuromodulatory technique which involves passing a mild electric current to the brain through electrodes placed on the scalp. several clinical studies suggest that tdcs may have clinically meaningful efficacy in the treatment of depression. our aim was to evaluate whether one single section of transcranial direct current stimulation (tdcs), a neuromodulatory technique that noninvasively modifies cortical excitability, could induce acute changes in the negative attentional bias in patients with major depression. transcranial direct current stimulation (tdcs) has emerged as a promising new treatment for major depression. ',
 'Is the success of conventional treatment of a herniated disc equivalent to that of disc surgery? [SEP] both med and open discectomy can effectively improve single-segment lumbar disc herniation, but med is associated with less trauma, less bleeding, and a lower incidence of complications. although open laminotomy remains an acceptable and, at times, necessary method of treatment for herniated intervertebral discs, spinal stenosis, and various intracanal spinal disorders, arthroscopic disc surgery is emerging as an alternative method of treatment for contained and nonmigrated sequestered herniated discs. the prevailing percutaneous treatment options for herniated non-contained lumbar discs have not reliably achieved the same good results as the conventional microsurgical techniques. lumbar disc removal is currently the standard treatment for lumbar disc herniation. to assess whether the clinical results in patients undergoing surgery for contralateral recurrent disc herniation may be as good as those reported after primary discectomy. it remains unknown whether aggressive disc removal with curettage versus conservative removal of a disc fragment with little disc invasion provides a better outcome for the treatment of lumbar disc herniation with radiculopathy. there is fair quality evidence that conservative discectomy will result in a higher incidence of recurrent disc herniation. however, systematic review of the literature suggests that conservative discectomy may result in shorter operative time, quicker return to work, and a decreased incidence of long-term recurrent low back pain but with an increased incidence of recurrent disc herniation. it remains unknown whether aggressive disc removal with curettage or limited removal of disc fragment alone with little disc invasion provides a better outcome for the treatment of lumbar disc herniation with radiculopathy. we reviewed the literature to determine whether outcomes reported after limited discectomy (ld) differed from those reported after aggressive discectomy (ad) with regard to long-term back pain or recurrent disc herniation. ',
 'Does regular use of sleeping pills promote the risk of death or cancer? [SEP] proper sleep is associated with reduced cancer risk. for example, multiple studies have found that habitual sleeping pill usage is related to death from cancer, suggesting that sleep derangement may increase cancer mortality. however, other studies have not found a definite connection between sleep and cancer deaths. alterations in endocrine function, perhaps abnormal cortisol metabolism resulting from deranged sleep, may be in part responsible for the increased all-cancer mortality we report here. although widely used in the general population, sleeping pills and minor tranquilizers, also known as antianxiety agents, have been associated with undesirable outcomes. sedative drug use is associated with a small but significant increase in mortality risk. the most important risks of hypnotics include excess mortality (especially overdose deaths, quiet deaths at night, and suicides), infections, cancer, depression, automobile crashes, falls, other accidents, and hypnotic-withdrawal insomnia. the serious problem of long-term prescription to medication can lead to a higher mortality rate of insomniac patients. disrupted sleep has been associated with increased risk of certain cancers. a deviant habitual sleep duration, sleep complaints, frequent napping and snoring have all been suggested as potential risk factors for future coronary heart disease. ',
 'Does increased time outdoors inhibit myopia in children? [SEP] recent epidemiological evidence suggests that children who spend more time outdoors are less likely to be, or to become myopic, irrespective of how much near work they do, or whether their parents are myopic. time outdoors during childhood is negatively associated with incident myopia. from 3 years of age onward, greater time outdoors was associated with a reduced risk of incident myopia. additional time spent outdoors across the 3 to 9 years age range was associated with a reduced incidence of myopia between ages 10 and 15 years. recent epidemiologic studies have shown that children who spend a higher proportion of time outdoors are less likely to develop myopia. in children, time spent outdoors has a protective effect against myopia development. exposure to sunlight has recently been postulated as responsible for the effect that more time spent outdoors protects children from myopia, while early life exposure to natural light was reported to be possibly related to onset of myopia during childhood. recent epidemiological evidence in children indicates that time spent outdoors is protective against myopia. there are some limited reports based on questionnaire data that suggest that outdoor activity decreases the risk of myopia in children and may offset the myopia risk associated with prolonged nearwork. the current literature suggests that there is a link between myopia protection and spending time outdoors in children. ',
 'Do household cleaners and room fresheners in spray form cause damage to the heart? [SEP] spray cleaning and disinfection products have been associated with adverse respiratory effects in professional cleaners and among residents doing domestic cleaning. this review combines information about use of spray products from epidemiological and clinical studies, in vivo and in vitro toxicological studies of cleaning chemicals, as well as human and field exposure studies. mixing of certain cleaning products can produce corrosive airborne chemicals. household cleaning products are associated with adverse respiratory health outcomes, but the cardiovascular health effects are largely unknown. we determined if long-term use of household sprays and scented products at home was associated with reduced heart rate variability (hrv), a marker of autonomic cardiac dysfunction. we recorded 24-hr electrocardiograms in a cross-sectional survey of 581 swiss adults, ≥ 50 years of age, who answered a detailed questionnaire regarding their use of household cleaning products in their homes. in predominantly older adult women, long-term frequent use of household spray and scented products was associated with reduced hrv, which suggests an increased risk of cardiovascular health hazards. air fresheners contain various chemicals that may or may not be harmful to human health and the environment. use of spray products can cause adverse health effects. an adverse role of frequent domestic use of cleaning agents, especially in spray form, on asthma has been reported. ',
 'Can exercise improve mental performance impaired by alcohol consumption? [SEP] exercise is increasingly being used as a treatment for alcohol use disorders (aud), but the interactive effects of alcohol and exercise on the brain remain largely unexplored. in the present study, we investigated whether binge alcohol would attenuate the effects of subsequent exercise on glia. it has also been previously suggested that exercise can help individuals with alcohol use disorders reduce their alcohol intake; however, research in this field is limited. exercise based treatment for alcohol use disorders have shown an impact on mental health (e.g., depression or anxiety), and alcohol outcomes (e.g., craving or abstinence). the current study examined the acute effects of exercise on changes in mood, anxiety, and craving from pre- to post-exercise at each week of a 12-week moderate intensity exercise intervention with sedentary alcohol dependent adults. this study provides provisional support for a change in mood, anxiety and alcohol cravings for the role of exercise in the early recovery period for alcohol dependence. acute single bouts of moderate-intensity exercise may help individuals with alcohol dependence manage mood, anxiety, and craving thereby reducing relapse risk, but further research is needed with a more rigorous study design. this study suggested that forced exercise can be useful as adjunct therapy in alcoholism patient and also can be effective in modulation of pain threshold reduction that was induced by alcohol dependency. there is certain evidence that physical exercise positively affects excessive alcohol use and the associated problems by leading to reduced alcohol intake. six of those studies concluded that exercise may have a positive impact towards alcohol consumption, abstinence rates or the urge to drink. ',
 'Can over-the-counter combination medications help with tension headache and migraine better than medications containing only single active ingredients? [SEP] most patients with episodic tension-type headache treat headache episodes with over-the-counter medication. the proportion of headache episodes pain-free at 2\xa0h was significantly higher with the triple combination (28.5%) vs. acetaminophen (21.0%) and placebo (18.0%) (p\u2009<\u20090.0001), and similarly for those severe at baseline (20.2% vs. 12.1% and 10.8%; p\u2009≤\u20090.0003). the combination of acetylsalicylic acid, acetaminophen and caffeine is effective and well tolerated in episodic tension-type headache, and significantly superior to acetaminophen with regard to being pain-free at 2\xa0h, headache response at 2\xa0h and ability to return to daily activities, even in those with pain rated severe at baseline. recently, the role of combining agents for the acute migraine treatment has gained attention and the combination of a triptan plus a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (nsaid) has demonstrated better efficacy. combining triptans with nsaid and other agents for the acute treatment of migraine suggests better outcome efficacy measures than the use of single agents. to determine whether combined treatment using medication and biofeedback would be more effective than drug treatment alone for treating transformed migraine complicated by analgesic overuse. sixty-one consecutive patients with transformed migraine and analgesic overuse were treated with inpatient pharmacologic therapy alone or with inpatient pharmacologic therapy combined with biofeedback-assisted relaxation. these results suggest that a combination of pharmacologic and behavioral treatment is more effective than drug therapy alone in the long-term management of transformed migraine with analgesic overuse. most of these patients suffer from migraine, tension-type headache, or a combination of the two; they tend to self-medicate using over the counter combination headache preparations, particularly acetylsalicyclic acid (asa) and acetaminophen coformulated with caffeine, which is one of the most commonly used combination analgesics in these patients worldwide. in the treatment of migraine and tension-type headache, the combination of asa, acetaminophen, and caffeine has been shown to be more efficacious and superior to monotherapy with the single substances of the combination. ',
 "Does hyperthermia treatment support chemotherapy in fighting cancer? (anonymous request with link to the Standard article) [SEP] hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (hipec) is proposed as a promising treatment method, but fundamental information about the contribution of hyperthermia to intraperitoneal chemotherapy is lacking. hyperthermia, which is a noninvasive treatment that causes tumor cells to become heated and that works in synergy with anticancer drugs and radiation therapy, is emerging as a promising treatment for patients with cancer. currently, whole-body and local hyperthermia is being evaluated in clinical studies as a potential method of cancer treatment. hyperthermia is used in cancer treatment and potentiates the cytotoxicity of radiation and certain chemotherapy drugs. although the mechanism of hyperthermia in cancer treatment is well-known, there are few or no studies regarding the effect of hyperthermia on the tumor-supportive stroma. here, we investigated the effects of hyperthermia-treated mscs on the viability and growth of cancer cells. these data present new aspects of hyperthermia in cancer treatment, suggesting that hyperthermia can enable tumor stroma provide a sensitizing environment for tumor cells to undergo cell death. regional hyperthermia has potential for human cancer treatment, particularly in combination with systemic chemotherapy or radiotherapy. in oncology, the term 'hyperthermia' refers to the treatment of malignant diseases by administering heat in various ways. hyperthermia is usually applied as an adjunct to an already established treatment modality (especially radiotherapy and chemotherapy), where tumor temperatures in the range of 40-43 degrees c are aspired. ",
 "Can stress promote dementia? [SEP] mid-life psychological stress, psychosocial stress and post-traumatic stress disorder have been shown to cause cognitive dysfunction and lead to increased risk for dementia. psychological stress has previously been associated with higher risk of developing late-life dementia, especially alzheimer's disease (ad). stress may be a risk factor for dementia, however it is unknown whether post-traumatic stress disorder (ptsd) symptoms are associated with incident dementia in community-dwelling older individuals. although chronic stress is known to be linked with memory and other neurological disorders, little is known about the relationship between chronic stress and the onset or development of alzheimer's disease (ad). this study provides the first evidence that chronic stress accelerates the onset and severity of cognitive deficits and that these are highly correlated with pathological changes, which thus indicates that chronic stress may be an important contributor to the onset and development of ad. there is an association between stress and dementia. results support existing evidence of an association between stress and dementia. this study contributes novel information regarding dementia risk across a range of stress responses, and interactions between stress disorders and sex. an important factor that may affect the severity and time of onset of alzheimer's disease (ad) is chronic stress. stress is an important risk factor of alzheimer's disease (ad). ",
 'Does the risk for the unborn child to develop asthma later on increase if the mother is exposed to high pollen concentrations during pregnancy? [SEP] mounting evidence suggests that exposure to ambient air pollution is associated with the development of childhood allergic diseases, but the effect of prenatal exposure to air pollution on the risk of childhood asthma and allergy is unclear. epidemiologic studies implicate air pollutant exposure during pregnancy as a risk factor for wheezing in offspring. the aim of this study was to investigate whether asthmatic women who had an exacerbation during the first trimester of pregnancy were more at risk of having a baby with a congenital malformation. asthma exacerbations during the first trimester of pregnancy were found to significantly increase the risk of a congenital malformation. pollen contact in early infancy may enhance the risk for subsequent pollen allergy. in this study likelihood of a prenatal antigen contact, as a result of inhalation of pollen allergens by the mother, was investigated. air pollutant exposure is linked with childhood asthma incidence and exacerbations, and maternal exposure to airborne pollutants during pregnancy increases airway hyperreactivity (ahr) in offspring. worldwide the prevalence of asthma among pregnant women is on the rise, and pregnancy leads to a worsening of asthma for many women. this article examines the changes in asthma that may occur during pregnancy, with particular reference to asthma exacerbations. asthma affects not only the mother but the baby as well, with potential complications including low birth weight, preterm delivery, perinatal mortality, and preeclampsia. ',
 "Are children conceived in May more likely to be born prematurely than children conceived in other months? [SEP] parents of preterm children are more likely to adopt non-optimal parenting behaviors than parents of full-term (ft) children. infants in the premarital conception group were at increased risk because of maternal youth, primiparity and maternal health behaviour such as smoking. there was a slight excess of preterm deliveries. preterm infants (those born at <37 completed weeks of gestation) are less likely to survive to their first birthday than infants delivered at higher gestational ages, and those who do survive, especially those born at the earlier end of the preterm spectrum, are more likely to suffer long-term disabilities than infants born at term. although children born very preterm (gestation <32 weeks) have an increased risk of cognitive impairment compared with full-term children (39-41 weeks), the risk for children born moderately (32-33 weeks) to late preterm (34-36 weeks) and early term (37-38 weeks) is unclear. very and moderately preterm children demonstrated significantly lower working memory scores compared with full-term children (adjusted difference -0.2 to -0.6) and were more likely to be delayed. children born at <32 weeks' gestation are at increased risk of intellectual impairment. children born extremely premature (<28 weeks) or with a very low birth weight (<1500 g) have a poorer school performance than children born at term with a normal birth weight. compared with children born at term, reading and spelling difficulties were more often found among children born at gestational age 33 to 36 weeks and 37 to 38 weeks, whereas there was no relation between gestational age and arithmetic difficulties. gestational age and birth weight were associated with school performance in the 10-year-old child and the association extended into the reference range of both birth weight and gestational age. ",
 'Does osteopathy work? [SEP] osteopathy is an increasingly popular health care modality to address pain and function in the musculoskeletal system, organs and the head region, as well as functional somatic syndromes. the nature of primary reasons for osteopathic consultations, coupled with documented satisfaction of patients with this approach, suggest a future for multidisciplinary collaborative health care including osteopathy. osteopathic manipulative therapy (omth; manipulative care provided by foreign-trained osteopaths) is effective in managing pain caused by a variety of clinical conditions. osteopathy is a discipline emphasizing the conservative treatment of the disease in an olistic vision. although there is little evidence-based literature regarding osteopathic manipulative treatment for ophthalmic conditions, the general principles and techniques of osteopathic manipulative medicine can be used to manage various ophthalmic pathologic conditions. osteopathic manipulative treatment has been reported to relieve a variety of conditions, but no studies have examined the outcome effects of osteopathic manipulative treatment as a complementary modality for treating musculoskeletal problems during postoperative recovery. although osteopathic medicine has been well integrated into traditional health care systems in the united states, little is known about the role of osteopathy in traditional health care systems outside the united states. therefore, it is incumbent on the osteopathy community to gather evidence in order to practice scientifically informed effective methods. osteopathic medicine is a system of manual diagnosis and treatment. while there is growing evidence that osteopathy is effective in a range of clinical conditions, the underlying biological basis of its therapeutic effects remain largely unknown. ',
 'Do creams with sterol compounds improve the appearance of cellulite skin? [SEP] to determine whether formulations containing ceramides (including a ceramide with a long hydroxyl acyl chain linked to a linoleate, cer eos) and fatty acids are able to repair the skin barrier by normalizing the lipid organization in stratum corneum (sc). application of a formulation containing either a single ceramide or two ceramides and a fatty acid on regenerating sc, resulted in a denser lateral lipid packing of the sc lipids in compromised skin. skin disorders are often treated with creams containing various active substances. topical application of ceramides is reported to improve the structure and texture of the skin. cellulite is defined as skin relief alterations that give the skin an orange peel or mattress appearance. the present article reviews the most important botanical extracts used as active ingredients in the treatment of cellulite, as well as the steps to obtain these botanicals as raw material and their standardization and quality control, which are important to guarantee their therapeutic action. the purpose of this study was to provide evidence of the benefits of a cream and equivalent lotion containing skin lipids in a multi-vesicular emulsion for the management of dry skin. recent studies suggest that supplementing intercellular lipids of the stratum corneum in ageing populations or in people with dry skin can stimulate the functioning of the skin. in these mice, total stratum corneum sterol content is markedly decreased, and topical or systemic repletion with cholesterol can correct the scaling abnormalities. the efficacy of locobase repair((r)) cream, which improves skin barrier function due to its content of natural skin analogue fats and cholesterol, was investigated. ',
 "For women at high risk of breast cancer, does a precautionary mastectomy make more sense than regular participation in intensive screening? [SEP] women with a hereditary predisposition for breast cancer have an extremely high risk of developing invasive breast carcinoma, and many women consider prophylactic mastectomy to avoid this risk. prophylactic mastectomy reduces the likelihood of developing breast cancer among women at heightened risk for breast cancer, but at significant personal cost. women at increased breast cancer risk on the basis of hormonal history, family history and/or genetic mutation carrier status may consider bilateral prophylactic mastectomy with or without reconstruction to reduce their cancer risk and/or decrease their chances of cancer mortality. prophylactic mastectomy has a role in preventing breast cancer in the woman at high risk. women with mutations in breast cancer predisposition genes have a significantly higher lifetime risk of developing breast cancer and can opt for risk-reducing mastectomy. because of the uncertain efficacy of breast cancer screening in women at increased risk of developing breast cancer, bilateral prophylactic oophorectomy and mastectomy are considered management options for high-risk women. in this review, we address the efficacy of prophylactic mastectomy in reducing the risk of breast cancer in high-risk women, the use of this procedure, surgical complications, and its psychosocial impact. the decision to undergo prophylactic mastectomy is highly personal and must be preceded by an in-depth assessment of the woman's risk of breast cancer, and a thorough discussion of the benefits of the procedure weighed against its potential surgical risks and psychological impact. prophylactic procedures to prevent disease in women at high risk for breast cancer should be considered only when the benefits of prophylaxis outweigh its costs. recent research has demonstrated that prophylactic mastectomy may be effective in preventing breast cancer in high-risk women, as well as those with a known brca1/2 mutation. ",
 'Does tocilizumab specifically help children with rheumatoid arthritis (juvenile idiopathic arthritis) ? [SEP] tocilizumab (tcz) is a recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody and il-6 receptor antagonist, currently approved for the treatment of systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (sjia) and polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pjia) in children aged 2\xa0years or older refractory to conventional treatment. evaluate changes in health-related quality of life (hrqol) and disability in children with systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (sjia) or polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pjia) treated with tocilizumab. systemic-onset juvenile idiopathic arthritis does not always respond to available treatments, including antitumour necrosis factor agents. we investigated the efficacy and safety of tocilizumab, an anti-interleukin-6-receptor monoclonal antibody, in children with this disorder. tocilizumab is effective in children with systemic-onset juvenile idiopathic arthritis. we evaluated the efficacy and safety of adalimumab, a fully human monoclonal anti-tnf antibody, in children with polyarticular-course juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. adalimumab therapy seems to be an efficacious option for the treatment of children with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. our aim was to study the safety and efficacy of tocilizumab in children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis-associated uveitis refractory to both methotrexate and tnf inhibitors. versus arthritis and the national institute for health research clinical research network: children. some children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis either do not respond, or are intolerant to, treatment with disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs, including anti-tumour necrosis factor (tnf) drugs. ',
 'Does the Toxoplasma gondii parasite affect suicide rates? [SEP] toxoplasma gondii is an obligate intracellular protozoan parasite widely distributed all over the world. toxoplasma gondii (t. gondii) a widespread neurotropic parasite, has been previously associated with schizophrenia and more recently with suicidal behavior. possible mechanisms by which toxoplasma gondii may affect human behavior and it may also cause humans to attempt suicide. we investigated the sero-positivity level for anti-toxoplasma igg and igm antibodies by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in subjects who have attempted to suicide to find out whether there is a probable relationship between t. gondii and suicide attempts. this signifies that there might be a causal relationship between toxoplasmosis and the etiology of suicide attempt. infection with the protozoan parasite, toxoplasma gondii (t. gondii), has been associated with the increased risk for several psychiatric disorders. toxoplasma gondii (t. gondii) is a neurotropic protozoan parasite that causes persistent infection in humans. toxoplasma gondii is an opportunistic parasite causing life-threatening diseases in immune-compromised patients. in a sample of 20 european nations, the prevalence of the brain parasite toxoplasma gondii was positively associated with national homicide rates, amplifying previous research indicating a positive association of toxoplasma gondii with suicide rates. toxoplasma gondii is the causative agent of toxoplasmosis, a parasitic disease with a wide global prevalence. ',
 'Is Exemestane better than other hormone-altering drugs for reducing the risk of breast cancer or treating it? [SEP] exemestane, an aromatase inhibitor, has recently been identified as a potential chemopreventive option with fewer serious side effects compared with selective estrogen receptor modulators in postmenopausal women. exemestane (exe) treats estrogen receptor positive (er+) breast cancer in postmenopausal women by inhibiting the estrogen-synthesizing cytochrome p450 cyp19a1. exemestane is a third-generation aromatase inhibitor, which has proven to be a useful drug in the treatment of early stage breast cancer. a relative reduction in risk of breast cancer recurrence or death of 24% has been shown with exemestane compared with tamoxifen when given after 2 to 3 years of tamoxifen. patients on exemestane as a group do not appear to have a significantly changed quality of life in comparison to tamoxifen, while having a statistically significant benefit in preventing breast cancer recurrence. the benefits and risks of exemestane for the primary prevention of breast cancer are discussed and compared with other breast cancer chemoprevention therapies. as an alternative, exemestane, an aromatase inhibitor, has been evaluated for breast cancer prevention in postmenopausal women. a study of 4560 high-risk postmenopausal women taking exemestane 25 mg daily for a median of three years found a 65% relative reduction in the annual occurrence of invasive breast cancer compared with placebo (0.19% versus 0.55%; hazard ratio, 0.35; 95% confidence interval [ci], 0.18-0.70; p = 0.002) and a 53% reduction in invasive plus noninvasive breast cancer (0.35% versus 0.77%; hazard ratio, 0.47; 95% ci, 0.27-0.79; p = 0.04). exemestane 25 mg daily taken for at least three years is a new option for the prevention of breast cancer in high-risk postmenopausal women. the steroidal aromatase inactivator exemestane blocks estrogen biosynthesis and is thus employed for the prevention and treatment of breast cancer. ',
 'Does a newly approved contraceptive pill with the active ingredient combination nomegestrol acetate and 17ß-estradiol have fewer undesirable side effects than other birth control pills? [SEP] nomegestrol acetate/estradiol is a combined oral contraceptive with approval in many countries. this fixed-dose combination tablet contains nomegestrol acetate, a highly selective progestogen, and estradiol, a natural estrogen. in two large, 1-year, randomized, open-label, multicentre, phase iii trials in healthy adult women (aged 18-50 years), nomegestrol acetate/estradiol was at least as effective as drospirenone/ethinylestradiol as contraceptive therapy, as the pregnancy rates in women aged 18-35 years (primary efficacy population) in terms of the pearl index (primary endpoint) were numerically lower with nomegestrol acetate/estradiol, although the between-group difference was not statistically significant. nomegestrol acetate/estradiol therapy for up to 1 year was generally well tolerated in healthy adult women, with an acceptable tolerability profile in line with that expected for a combined oral contraceptive. overall, compared with drospirenone/ethinylestradiol, nomegestrol acetate/estradiol appeared to be associated with less favourable acne-related outcomes, and shorter, lighter or absent periods. to compare the effects of two monophasic combined oral contraceptives, containing either nomegestrol acetate/17β-oestradiol (nomac/e2) or levonorgestrel/ ethinylestradiol (lng/ee) on endocrine function, androgens, and sex hormone-binding globulin (shbg). to estimate the efficacy, cycle control, tolerability, and safety of a monophasic combined oral contraceptive containing nomegestrol acetate and 17β-estradiol (e2) in comparison with drospirenone and ethinyl e2. in a randomized, open-label, comparative multicenter trial, healthy women (n=2,281; age 18-50 years) at risk for pregnancy and in need of contraception were allocated in a 3:1 ratio to receive nomegestrol acetate (2.5 mg) and 17β-e2 (1.5 mg) in a 24-4-day regimen (investigational drug) or drospirenone (3.0 mg) and ethinyl e2 (30 micrograms) in a 21-7-day regimen (comparator) for 13 consecutive, 28-day cycles. nomegestrol acetate and 17β-e2 were well tolerated and provided excellent contraceptive efficacy and acceptable cycle control. two triphasic oral contraceptives containing either gestodene or norethindrone as the progestogenic compound combined with ethinyl estradiol were compared in a randomized clinical trial to assess their contraceptive reliability, clinical tolerance and cycle control. ',
 'Does PrEP reduce the risk of HIV infection? [SEP] antiretroviral therapy (art) used as preexposure prophylaxis (prep) by human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-seronegative individuals reduces the risk of acquiring hiv. hiv preexposure prophylaxis (prep) is an effective tool in preventing hiv infection among high-risk men who have sex with men (msm). pre-exposure prophylaxis (prep), taken as a single daily coformulated pill containing tenofovir -emtricitabine, is a promising intervention to reduce the likelihood of hiv acquisition in at-risk individuals, including men who have sex with men. pre-exposure prophylaxis (prep) is highly effective in reducing the risk for hiv infection among men who have sex with men (msm) and may have an important impact in slowing down the hiv epidemic. antiretroviral (arv)-based pre-exposure prophylaxis (prep) is a promising new hiv prevention strategy. available evidence supports the efficacy of pre-exposure prophylaxis (prep) in decreasing the incidence of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection among high-risk individuals, especially when used in combination with other behavioural preventive methods. prep as an intervention to reduce hiv transmission appears to have a safe benefit-risk profile in clinical trials. hiv preexposure prophylaxis (prep) decreases risk of hiv acquisition; however, its efficacy is closely dependent on adherence. preexposure prophylaxis (prep) involves use of antiretroviral therapy (art) daily or before and after sex to decrease risk of acquiring hiv infection. prep was associated with decreased risk of hiv infection vs placebo or no prep after 4 months to 4 years (11 trials; relative risk [rr], 0.46 [95% ci, 0.33-0.66]; i2\u2009=\u200967%; absolute risk reduction [ard], -2.0% [95% ci, -2.8% to -1.2%]). ',
 'Does exercise, a restricted diet, or both together help prevent excessive weight gain during pregnancy? [SEP] diet and physical activity are factors that can influence the loss of retained pregnancy weight after birth. weight retention after pregnancy may contribute to obesity. the objectives of this review were to evaluate the effect of diet, exercise or both for weight reduction in women after childbirth, and to assess the impact of these interventions on maternal body composition, cardiorespiratory fitness, breastfeeding performance and other child and maternal outcomes. evidence from this review suggests that both diet and exercise together and diet alone help women to lose weight after childbirth. nevertheless, it may be preferable to lose weight through a combination of diet and exercise as this improves maternal cardiorespiratory fitness and preserves fat-free mass, while diet alone reduces fat-free mass. weight retention after pregnancy may contribute to obesity. the objectives of this review were to evaluate the effect of diet, exercise or both for weight reduction in women after childbirth, and to assess the impact of these interventions on maternal body composition, cardiorespiratory fitness, breastfeeding performance and other child and maternal outcomes. preliminary evidence from this review suggests that dieting and exercise together appear to be more effective than diet alone at helping women to lose weight after childbirth, because the former improves maternal cardiorespiratory fitness level and preserves fat-free mass, while diet alone reduces fat-free mass. in summary, women with pre-pregnancy obesity might require from additional interventions beyond light-to-moderate intensity gestational exercise (e.g., diet and/or higher exercise loads) to ensure cardiometabolic benefits. our primary aim was to assess whether regular supervised exercise training in pregnancy could reduce gwg in women with prepregnancy overweight/obesity. ',
 'Does taking antibiotics for acute sinusitis speed up the healing of the infection? [SEP] antibiotics and decongestants are the cornerstones of therapy for acute sinusitis. acute sinusitis is a common clinical problem that usually results in a prescription for antibiotics but the role of antibiotics is debated. to assess whether the addition of an intranasal corticosteroid to antibiotic therapy affects the speed and rate of recovery of such patients with acute rhinosinusitis. we examined whether antibiotics are effective in treating acute sinusitis, and if so, which antibiotic classes are the most effective. antibiotics have a small treatment effect in patients with uncomplicated acute sinusitis in a primary care setting with symptoms for more than seven days. antibiotics have demonstrated efficacy for the treatment of acute bacterial sinusitis in clinical trials yet little is known of their effectiveness in real-life treatment settings. to assess the effectiveness of antibiotics in acute bacterial sinusitis. however, it is not clear whether antibiotics improve the outcome for patients with clinically diagnosed acute rhinosinusitis. the treatment of acute bacterial sinusitis is medical, the regimen including oral and nasal decongestants and antibiotics. acute sinusitis-like complaints are very common and are usually treated with antibiotics in spite of the lack of evidence for the effectiveness of antibiotic therapy and the increasing number of resistant strains. ',
 'Does colonoscopy reduce mortality from colorectal cancer? [SEP] colonoscopy with a possible polypectomy is an efficient and preferred screening method to reduce the incidence of colorectal cancer (crc). colonoscopy with polypectomy significantly reduces crc incidence and cancer-related mortality in the general population. through its impact on the adenoma-carcinoma sequence, colonoscopy has a central role in the detection and prevention of colorectal cancer (crc). observational data support a protective effect of colonoscopy and polypectomy on crc incidence and mortality. colonoscopy with detection and removal of neoplasms strongly reduces risk of colorectal cancer (crc). use of colonoscopy is thought to reduce colorectal cancer (crc) mortality, but its impact at the population level is unclear. to estimate the effect of current colonoscopy use on crc mortality and its further potential in reducing crc mortality. lower gi endoscopy, such as colonoscopy or sigmoidoscopy, is thought to have a substantial impact on colorectal cancer incidence and mortality through detection and removal of precancerous lesions and early cancers. observational studies have shown that colonoscopy reduces colorectal cancer (crc) incidence and mortality in the general population. pooled analysis showed that colonoscopy was associated with a 61% rr reduction in crc incidence (rr: 0.39; 95% ci: 0.26-0.60; i(2)=93.6%) and a 61% reduction in crc mortality (rr: 0.39; 95% ci: 0.35-0.43; i(2)=12.0%) in patients with non-malignant findings, although there was high heterogeneity for the outcome of crc incidence. ',
 'Do nicotine replacement products like nicotine gum or nicotine patches help with long-term smoking cessation? [SEP] the aims of this review were to determine the effectiveness of the different forms of nicotine replacement therapy (chewing gum, transdermal patches, nasal spray, inhalers and tablets) in achieving abstinence from cigarettes, or a sustained reduction in amount smoked; to determine whether the effect is influenced by the clinical setting in which the smoker is recruited and treated, the dosage and form of the nrt used, or the intensity of additional advice and support offered to the smoker; to determine whether combinations of nrt are more effective than one type alone; and to determine its effectiveness compared to other pharmacotherapies. the aims of this review were to determine the effectiveness of the different forms of nicotine replacement therapy (chewing gum, transdermal patches, nasal spray, inhalers and tablets) in achieving abstinence from cigarettes, or a sustained reduction in amount smoked; to determine whether the effect is influenced by the clinical setting in which the smoker is recruited and treated, the dosage and form of the nrt used, or the intensity of additional advice and support offered to the smoker; to determine whether combinations of nrt are more effective than one type alone; and to determine its effectiveness compared to other pharmacotherapies. nicotine replacement therapies (nrts), including transdermal patch, gum, lozenge, nasal spray and inhaler, are widely used for the treatment of tobacco dependence; however, only one-quarter to one-third of smokers who utilise nrts to quit smoking are able to maintain long-term abstinence from tobacco use. nicotine replacement therapy is an effective treatment for nicotine-dependent smokers. treatment with the nicotine inhaler plus nicotine patch resulted in significantly higher cessation rates than inhaler plus placebo patch. nicotine replacement therapy has been shown to improve success rates in smoking cessation treatment. since nicotine gum was introduced in the 1980s, nicotine replacement therapy has become the most widely used pharmacological smoking cessation treatment. currently approved medications for smoking cessation are nicotine replacement medications (nrt), including nicotine patch, gum, lozenge, sublingual tablet, inhaler and nasal spray, the antidepressant bupropion, and the nicotinic partial agonist varenicline. nicotine replacement therapy is often used to maintain smoking cessation. to determine the effectiveness of nicotine replacement therapies (nrts) (including gum, transdermal patch, intranasal spray, and inhaled preparations) in facilitating smoking cessation, and to determine whether the effect was influenced by the clinical setting in which the smoker was recruited and treated, the level of nicotine dependency, the dosage of nrt used, or the intensity of additional advice and support offered to the smoker. ',
 'Is short, high-intensity training equally effective as longer, moderate-intensity training? [SEP] this study compared explosive and traditional training over a 6-week intervention in 30 healthy young adult male recreational soccer players. the literature suggests that high-intensity interval training (hiit) is more effective than moderate-intensity continuous training (mict) to improve functional ability. the present study compared the impact of a low-volume high-intensity interval training to a "all-out" sprint interval training. of substantial interest is that the low volume high intensity training provides similar results but involves only half the intensity with double the repetitions. key pointsgiven the markedly lower training volume in the training groups, our results suggest that intense interval training is indeed a time-efficient strategy to induce rapid metabolic and performance adaptations.the results demonstrate that a practical low-volume hit program is effective for improving metabolic and performance adaptations that resemble many of the same performance gains occurred in all-out sit protocol. low-volume high-intensity interval training (hiit) may be a time-efficient strategy that leads to similar or superior improvements in cardiorespiratory fitness (crf) and cardiovascular disease (cvd) risk factors when compared with moderate-intensity continuous training (mict). within a controlled laboratory environment, high-intensity interval training (hit) elicits similar cardiovascular and metabolic benefits as traditional moderate-intensity continuous training (mict). this study compared the effects of two hiit protocols vs steady-state training on aerobic and anaerobic capacity following 8-weeks of training. the results suggest that although hiit protocols are time efficient, they are not superior to conventional exercise training in sedentary young adults. key pointssteady state training equivalent to hiit in untrained studentsmild interval training presents very similar physiologic challenge compared to steady state traininghiit (particularly very high intensity variants were less enjoyable than steady state or mild interval trainingenjoyment of training decreases across the course of an 8 week experimental training program. ',
 'Do behavioral therapy methods help with specific fears (phobias) such as fear of spiders? [SEP] compared with untreated spider phobic controls, the treated phobics changed significantly in their negative beliefs about spiders after treatment. spider phobia is characterized by exaggerated fear of situations where spiders could be present, resulting in avoidance of such situations and compromised quality of life. an important component in psychological treatment of spider phobia is exposure to phobic situations that reduces avoidance behaviors. spider phobics show an exaggerated fear response when encountering spiders. the conducted study provides first evidence that fmri neurofeedback has a facilitating effect on anxiety regulation in spider phobia. phobics displayed stronger negative modulation of activity in the lateral prefrontal cortex, precuneus, and visual cortex by encounter expectancies for spiders, relative to snakes or birds (within-participants analysis); these effects were not seen in controls. disgust is thought to play a prominent role in multiple anxiety disorders and fears, including spider phobia, though little attention has been given to specific treatment strategies that may be effective for multiple disgust-based fears. in the present study, we evaluated contamination-focused exposure as a potential transdiagnostic treatment strategy for disgust-based fears in a spider fearful sample. women with significant spider fear were randomized to three 30-minute sessions of exposure therapy involving repeated contact with a dirt mixture (n=17) or a waitlist control condition (n=17). similar effects of exposure on spider fear were found at high levels of pretreatment spider-related disgust. ',
 'Can honey accelerate the healing of second degree burns with pain, redness and blisters? [SEP] in acute wounds, three trials evaluated the effect of honey in acute lacerations, abrasions or minor surgical wounds and 12 trials evaluated the effect of honey in burns. in acute wounds, specifically partial-thickness burns, honey might reduce time to healing compared with some conventional dressings (wmd -4.68 days, 95%ci -4.28 to -5.09 days), but, when compared with early excision and grafting, honey delays healing in partial- and full-thickness burns (wmd 13.6 days, 95% ci 10.02 to 17.18 days). the objective was to determine whether honey increases the rate of healing in acute wounds (burns, lacerations and other traumatic wounds) and chronic wounds (venous ulcers, arterial ulcers, diabetic ulcers, pressure ulcers, infected surgical wounds). in acute wounds, three trials evaluated the effect of honey in acute lacerations, abrasions or minor surgical wounds and nine trials evaluated the effect the honey in burns. in acute wounds, honey may reduce time to healing compared with some conventional dressings in partial thickness burns (wmd -4.68 days, 95%ci -4.28 to -5.09 days). honey may improve healing times in mild to moderate superficial and partial thickness burns compared with some conventional dressings. although it has been known for many centuries that honey can accelerate wound healing, there have only been isolated reports of its use in the healing of burns, ulcers, infected wounds and open wounds. macroscopic and microscopic observations under in vivo assessment suggested that the topical application of honey might have favourable influences on the various phases of burn and wound healing hence accelerating the healing process. honey is recognized as an efficacious topical antimicrobial agent in the treatment of burns and wounds. honey has successfully been used in the treatment of a broad spectrum of injuries including burns and non-healing wounds. ',
 'Does honey heal small, fresh wounds faster than the usual wound treatment? [SEP] although it has been known for many centuries that honey can accelerate wound healing, there have only been isolated reports of its use in the healing of burns, ulcers, infected wounds and open wounds. these findings suggest that honey applied topically on cutaneous wounds accelerates the healing processes and appears to have an important property that makes it ideal as a dressing for cutaneous wounds. evidence from animal studies and some trials has suggested that honey may accelerate wound healing. the objective was to determine whether honey increases the rate of healing in acute wounds (e.g. evidence from animal studies and some trials has suggested honey may accelerate wound healing. the objective was to determine whether honey increases the rate of healing in acute wounds (burns, lacerations and other traumatic wounds) and chronic wounds (venous ulcers, arterial ulcers, diabetic ulcers, pressure ulcers, infected surgical wounds). in acute wounds, honey may reduce time to healing compared with some conventional dressings in partial thickness burns (wmd -4.68 days, 95%ci -4.28 to -5.09 days). honey may improve healing times in mild to moderate superficial and partial thickness burns compared with some conventional dressings. many studies have demonstrated that honey has antibacterial activity in vitro, and a small number of clinical case studies have shown that application of honey to severely infected cutaneous wounds is capable of clearing infection from the wound and improving tissue healing. clinical observations suggest that honey holds significant promise as an effective treatment for a number of medical conditions and particularly in the management of non-healing wounds. ',
 'Does honey work better than other wound treatments for chronic wounds (open leg, diabetic foot)? [SEP] many studies have shown that honey might improve wound healing. clinical observations suggest that honey holds significant promise as an effective treatment for a number of medical conditions and particularly in the management of non-healing wounds. among several different alternative therapies, honey is an effective choice because it provides comparatively rapid wound healing. although honey has been used as an alternative medicine for wound healing since ancient times, the application of honey to diabetic wounds has only recently been revived. because honey has some unique natural features as a wound healer, it works even more effectively on diabetic wounds than on normal wounds. in addition, honey is known as an "all in one" remedy for diabetic wound healing because it can combat many microorganisms that are involved in the wound process and because it possesses antioxidant activity and controls inflammation. in this review, the potential role of honey\'s antibacterial activity on diabetic wound-related microorganisms and honey\'s clinical effectiveness in treating diabetic wounds based on the most recent studies is described. additionally, ways in which honey can be used as a safer, faster, and effective healing agent for diabetic wounds in comparison with other synthetic medications in terms of microbial resistance and treatment costs are also described to support its traditional claims. honey dressing has been used to promote wound healing for years but scanty scientific studies did not provide enough evidences to justify it benefits in the treatment of diabetic foot ulcers. these findings suggest that honey applied topically on cutaneous wounds accelerates the healing processes and appears to have an important property that makes it ideal as a dressing for cutaneous wounds. ',
 "Does sitting for long periods despite compensatory exercise increasingly lead to type 2 diabetes? [SEP] sedentary behaviour (sitting time) has recently been identified as a risk factor for diabetes, often independent of the time spent in moderate-to-vigorous physical activity. obesity, a sedentary lifestyle and type 2 diabetes are intricately linked conditions contributing to reduced exercise tolerance, significant morbidity, and premature deaths. we hypothesize that obesity and inactivity, not hyperglycemia, cause exercise intolerance in individuals with type 2 diabetes. solving the obesity and inactivity versus hyperglycemia causality dilemma is important in understanding the development of type 2 diabetes and implications for future pharmacological and life style interventions. postprandial dysmetabolism in type 2 diabetes (t2d) is exacerbated by prolonged sitting and may trigger inflammation and oxidative stress. acutely interrupting prolonged sitting time may impart beneficial effects on the postprandial plasma lipidome of adults with t2d. although obesity and physical inactivity have precipitated the epidemic of type 2 diabetes, the metabolic abnormalities associated with a sedentary lifestyle are better predictors of type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease than obesity alone. although type 2 diabetes is a disease often associated with aging, the global prevalence of early-onset diabetes has been increasing due to man's sedentary lifestyle, low-physical activity, obesity, and some nonmodifiable risk factors. prolonged sitting is increasingly recognized as a ubiquitous cardiometabolic risk factor, possibly distinct from lack of physical exercise. we examined whether interrupting prolonged sitting with brief bouts of light-intensity activity reduced blood pressure (bp) and plasma noradrenaline in type 2 diabetes (t2d). ",
 'Do acupuncture or related smoking cessation methods help you stay smoke-free for at least 6 months? [SEP] the present study examines the usefulness of acupuncture as an aid to stopping smoking. results from 405 subjects show acupuncture can help between 5 and 15 percent of the population to stop smoking for at least six months. acupuncture and related techniques are promoted as a treatment for smoking cessation in the belief that they may reduce nicotine withdrawal symptoms. the objectives of this review are to determine the effectiveness of acupuncture and the related interventions of acupressure, laser therapy and electrostimulation, in smoking cessation in comparison with no intervention, sham treatment, or other interventions. acupuncture and related techniques are promoted as a treatment for smoking cessation in the belief that they may reduce nicotine withdrawal symptoms. the objectives of this review are to determine the effectiveness of acupuncture and the related interventions of acupressure, laser therapy and electrostimulation in smoking cessation, in comparison with no intervention, sham treatment, or other interventions. acupuncture and related techniques are promoted as a treatment for smoking cessation in the belief that they may reduce nicotine withdrawal symptoms. the objective of this review is to determine the effectiveness of acupuncture and the allied therapies of acupressure, laser therapy and electrostimulation, in smoking cessation in comparison with: a) sham treatment, b) other interventions, or c) no intervention. acupuncture is promoted as a treatment for smoking cessation, and is believed to reduce withdrawal symptoms. the objective of this review is to determine the effectiveness of acupuncture in smoking cessation in comparison with: a) sham acupuncture b) other interventions c) no intervention. ',
 'Do gastrointestinal surgeries (bariatric surgeries) improve symptoms of type 2 diabetes? [SEP] gastric bypass was found to be superior to sleeve gastrectomy for remission of type 2 diabetes at 1 year after surgery, and the two procedures had a similar beneficial effect on β-cell function. the use of gastric bypass as the preferred bariatric procedure for patients with obesity and type 2 diabetes could improve diabetes care and reduce related societal costs. gastrointestinal surgery may ameliorate glycemic control in type 2 diabetes mellitus within days to weeks--an effect that cannot be explained solely by the changes in food intake and body weight following gastric bypass. should clinicians, therefore, implement bariatric procedures to treat type 2 diabetes mellitus in patients who do not meet current obesity-based criteria for surgery? in obese diabetic patients, bariatric surgery has been shown to induce remission of type 2 diabetes. bariatric surgery is a highly effective treatment of type 2 diabetes in patients with morbid obesity. the weight-loss independent improvement of glycemic control observed after these procedures has led to the discussion whether bariatric surgery can be introduced as treatment for type 2 diabetes in patients with a body mass index < 35 kg/m(2). several conventional methods of bariatric surgery can induce long-term remission of type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm); novel gastrointestinal surgical procedures are reported to have similar effects. the provocative idea that type 2 diabetes (t2d) may be a surgically treated disorder is based on accumulating evidence suggesting impressive remission rates of obesity and diabetes following bariatric surgery interventions. bariatric surgery rapidly induces improvements in type 2 diabetes (t2d) in concert with reduction in systemic markers of inflammation. ',
 'Is there a connection between ADHD and neurodermatitis? [SEP] atopic dermatitis (ad) is a chronic inflammatory skin disease with the hallmark characteristics of pruritus, psychological stress, and sleep disturbance, all possibly associated with an increased risk of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (adhd). although attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd) is classified as a neurodevelopmental disorder in the latest diagnostic manuals, it shows phenotypic and genetic associations of similar magnitudes across neurodevelopmental, externalising and internalising disorders. findings suggest that adhd comorbidity is largely explained by genetically influenced general psychopathology, but the strong link between adhd and other neurodevelopmental disorders is also substantially driven by unique genetic influences. some research and clinical observations have linked neurofibromatosis type 1 (nf-1) and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd). atopic dermatitis (ad) is associated with chronic itch, allergic disease and sleep disturbance, all of which might increase the risk of attention deficit (hyperactivity) disorder (add/adhd). in multivariate models adjusting for age, sex, sociodemographics, allergic disease and healthcare utilization, ad was associated with add/adhd in both children [adjusted odds ratio (95% confidence interval), 1·14 (1·03-1·26)] and adults [1·61 (1·25-2·06)]. ad was most strongly associated with severe adhd. ad unaccompanied by other allergic disease was also associated with increased risk of add/adhd in children. atopic dermatitis is associated with increased odds of add/adhd in adults and children. attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd) is one of the most frequently reported neuropsychiatric disorders in childhood. ',
 "Can injections with the enzyme collagenase straighten fingers bent by Dupuytren's disease without surgery? (Reader inquiry) [SEP] injectable collagenase is an alternative to surgical   treatment for dupuytren's disease. this   prospective study reports on the short-term safety and efficacy   of collagenase treatment in five thumb and first web space dupuytren's   contractures. in the short-term collagenase is an effective, well-tolerated   and safe alternative to surgery for dupuytren's disease of the thumb. injection of collagenase clostridium histolyticum, an office-based, nonsurgical option, may reduce joint contractures caused by dupuytren's disease. bacterial collagenase has recently been proven beneficial for treating dupuytren's disease, cleaving the collagen fibers at different sites, with weakening and eventually rupture of the fibrous cords after manipulation. collagenase injection is a safe and effective treatment option for dupuytren disease, but recurrence is common especially for the pip joint. the aim of our study was to investigate the relation between finger’s contracture degree and success of surgical treatment of the dupuytren's disease. in recent years, the enzyme collagenase has been developed for the percutaneous treatment of dupuytren's contracture, allowing management of the condition as an outpatient. we present early results on the treatment of dupuytren's contracture using injectable collagenase. collagenase is a safe and effective outpatient-based treatment for dupuytren's contracture, which may be useful in controlling surgical waiting lists. ",
 'Do mindfulness-based methods effect improvement in chronic pain? [SEP] mindfulness-based pain management programs (mbpms) aim to improve mental and physical health in individuals with chronic pain. mindfulness-based interventions and hypnosis are efficacious treatments for addressing a large number of psychological and physical conditions, including chronic pain. mindfulness has been shown to be beneficial for chronic pain. previous research has indicated that mindfulness is a promising treatment pathway for both depression and chronic pain, however, the mechanisms of change underlying mindfulness are unclear. higher levels of mindfulness were associated with lower depression as well as lower pain. mindfulness meditation reduces pain in experimental and clinical settings. mindfulness meditation reduced pain intensity (p = 0.032) and pain unpleasantness (p < 0.001) ratings more than placebo analgesia. recent findings have demonstrated that mindfulness meditation significantly reduces pain. here, we provide novel evidence demonstrating that mindfulness meditation produces greater pain relief and employs distinct neural mechanisms than placebo cream and sham mindfulness meditation. these findings demonstrate that mindfulness meditation reduces pain through unique mechanisms and may foster greater acceptance of meditation as an adjunct pain therapy. ',
 'Does high air pollution increase the risk for the unborn to develop autism later in life? [SEP] recent studies have reported associations between perinatal exposure to air pollutants and autism spectrum disorder (asd) in children. perinatal exposure to air pollutants may increase risk for asd. some recent human and animal studies have suggested that air pollution may affect the central nervous system and contribute to neurodevelopmental outcomes, such as autism spectrum disorder (asd). examination of hazardous pollutants has suggested the importance of air toxics in the etiology of autism, yet little research has examined its association with local levels of air pollution using residence-specific exposure assignments. exposure to traffic-related air pollution, nitrogen dioxide, pm2.5, and pm10 during pregnancy and during the first year of life was associated with autism. prenatal exposure to air pollution has been associated with autism spectrum disorder (asd) risk but no study has examined associations with asd severity or functioning. exposure to ambient air pollution is widespread and may be detrimental to human brain development and a potential risk factor for autism spectrum disorder (asd). to answer the question: "is developmental exposure to air pollution associated with asd?" here, we examine risks for autism in children related to in utero exposure to monitored ambient air toxics from urban emissions. risks for autism in children may increase following in utero exposure to ambient air toxics from urban traffic and industry emissions, as measured by community-based air-monitoring stations. ',
 'Is it harmful to health to eat apple cores with the apple? [SEP] the saying "an apple a day keeps the doctor away" has been known for over 150 years, and numerous studies have shown that apple consumption is closely associated with reduced risks of chronic diseases. apple proliferation is an economically important disease and a threat for commercial apple cultivation. apples are among the world\'s most consumed fruits. this narrative review summarizes a novel integrated view of whole-apple intake, cvd risk association (through observational studies; oss), and the effects on cvd risk factors (randomized trials; rts). in 8 oss, whole-apple intake was associated with a reduced risk of cvd mortality, ischemic heart disease mortality, stroke mortality, all-cause mortality, and severe abdominal aortic calcification, as well as with lower c-reactive protein (crp) concentrations. in 8 rts, whole-apple consumption reduced total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, systolic blood pressure, pulse pressure, and plasma inflammatory cytokines, and noticeably reduced crp, whereas it increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (hdlc) and improved endothelial function. thus, consuming between 100 and 150\u2009g/day of whole apples is associated with a lower cvd risk and decreases in blood pressure, pulse pressure, total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and inflammation status as well as with increases in hdlc and endothelial function. these results, support the regular consumption of whole apples as an aid in the prevention of cvd. this study tested how consuming preloads of apples in different forms prior to a meal (apple, applesauce, and apple juice with and without added fiber) influences satiety and energy intake at meal. apple peels have high concentrations of phenolic compounds and may assist in the prevention of chronic diseases. ',
 'Can taking selenium prevent cancer? [SEP] the trace element selenium is suggested having cancer prevention activity and used as food supplement. higher selenium exposure and selenium supplements have been suggested to protect against several types of cancers. the efficacy of selenium supplementation for cancer prevention in women and men? to date, there is no convincing evidence that selenium supplements can prevent cancer in men, women or children. selenium (se) is a chemo-preventive agent that has been shown to have a protective role against cancer. selenium has been claimed to have chemo-preventive properties. there is considerable interest in the trace element selenium as a possible cancer chemopreventive dietary component, but supplementation trials have not indicated a clear benefit. selenium has been shown to prevent cancer in a variety of animal model systems. epidemiological and clinical data suggest that selenium may prevent prostate cancer, but the biological effects of selenium on normal or malignant prostate cells are not well known. selenium (se) has long been known for its cancer prevention properties, but the molecular basis remains unclear. ',
 'Does mesotherapy help against pain? [SEP] mesotherapy, as broadly defined, represents a variety of minimally invasive techniques in which medications are directly injected into the skin and underlying tissue in order to improve musculoskeletal, neurologic, and cosmetic conditions. mesotherapy provides general practitioners with another tool for the treatment of local pain. mesotherapy can be included as an ancillary treatment in the management of localized pain in rehabilitation, but there are no definitive treatment protocols for this approach. five studies analyzed spine diseases (specifically, two was about chronic and nonspecific neck pain, two about acute low back pain and one about chronic spinal pain): the results of mesotherapy treatment are encouraging both for the resolution of acute and chronic musculoskeletal vertebral pain from one to five sessions. mesotherapy showed a good effect to reduce acute and chronic musculoskeletal pain and, also, it is a well-tolerated treatment. mesotherapy was first introduced in europe for the treatment of localized pain. the reports concerning about mesotherapy is increasing in number in the literature. there are reported systemic and local side effects of mesotherapy. results demonstrate massage therapy effectively treats pain compared to sham [standardized mean difference (smd)\u2009=\u2009-.44], no treatment (smd\u2009=\u2009-1.14), and active (smd\u2009=\u2009-0.26) comparators. results demonstrate massage therapy is effective for treating pain compared to no treatment [standardized mean difference (smd) \u2009=\u2009-.20] and active (smd\u2009=\u2009-0.55) comparators. ',
 'Do general health checkups lead to longer life? [SEP] with increasing life expectancy over the past 50 years, screening for treatable illness and active measures to prevent disease and promote a healthy lifestyle have become increasingly important for older patients. in general, the benefits of such efforts have become more apparent, but depend also upon general health and life expectancy of the individual. what are the benefits and harms of general health checks for adult populations? compared with usual care, offers of health checks were not associated with lower rates of all-cause mortality, mortality from cardiovascular disease, or mortality from cancer. individuals who have periodic health examinations ("check-ups") with physicians even if they feel well have higher rates of screening and other preventive services than individuals who only see physicians when ill. this study assessed whether individuals\' beliefs about the advisability of periodic health examinations contribute to the likelihood that they receive recommended clinical preventive services. people\'s beliefs about the value of periodic health examinations are associated with the likelihood that they receive recommended preventative services. the results suggest that additional appropriate clinical tests may improve the effectiveness of physical checkups and thus result in health benefits for elderly persons. this possibility has led to public health programs which recommend populations to have periodic screening examinations for detecting specific chronic diseases, for example, cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease and so on. health checks may promote a fluid patient-provider relationship, improve the delivery of some preventive measures, and reduce the patient\'s anxiety. ',
 'Can dementia be prevented? [SEP] until a cure exists, prevention through the identification and manipulation of modifiable risk factors for dementia, in general, or ad, in particular, will be our only means of reducing dementia prevalence or delaying its onset. is it possible to prevent atrophy of key brain regions related to cognitive decline and alzheimer\'s disease (ad)? at present, vascular risk factor management, lifestyle changes, and drugs could be employed together to delay the onset of dementia syndromes. there are evidences that the risk of developing dementia may be reduced by modifiable risk factors. recently, it has been suggested that up to a third of the dementia cases might be preventable. while prevention is always better than cure, this is particularly important in the field of dementia, as current interventions are not able to modify the disease. this article revises the evidence "for" and "against" dementia primary prevention. based on results from large cohort studies and using population attributable risk, the commission concluded that up to 35% of dementia cases could be prevented by modifying nine risk factors: low education, midlife hearing loss, obesity, hypertension, late-life depression, smoking, physical inactivity, diabetes, and social isolation. the prevention of dementia is of critical importance. whether therapies will prevent some dementia can be determined. ',
 'Does the plant pigment beta-carotene protect against cancer? [SEP] beta-carotene and other carotenoids have been thought to have anti-cancer activity, either because of antioxidant activity or because of their ability to be converted to vitamin a. although the pharmacological role of beta-carotene in the prevention and treatment of colon cancer has received increasing attention, little is known about the molecular mechanisms of action of this carotenoid. the present study demonstrates that beta-carotene, a natural pigment widely present in fruit and vegetables, inhibits the growth of several human colon adenocarcinoma cell lines (colo 320 hsr, ls-174, ht-29 and widr) by inducing cell cycle arrest in g(2)/m phase and apoptosis. beta-carotene, a quencher of excited species such as singlet oxygen and free radicals, has been reported to protect against cutaneous photodamage, including sunburn acutely and photocarcinogenesis chronically. although epidemiologic studies have demonstrated that a high intake of vegetables containing beta-carotene lowers the risk of cancer, recent intervention studies have revealed that beta-carotene supplementation to smokers resulted in a high incidence of lung cancer. we hypothesized that beta-carotene may act as a pro- or anticancerogenic agent by modulating pathways involved in cell growth and that such a modulation may involve a redox mechanism. dietary beta-carotene has been shown to have cancer chemopreventive action on the basis of epidemiologic evidence and studies in animals. many studies suggest a protective role of beta-carotene against cancer. epidemiological studies suggest that beta-carotene is able to modulate the risk of cancer. a number of in vitro studies reported that beta-carotene inhibits the growth of cancer cells; however, so far little is known about the molecular mechanisms of the antiproliferative effect of beta-carotene. ',
 'Can vitamin supplements protect against life-threatening diseases such as cancer or cardiovascular disease? [SEP] epidemiological data suggest that diets rich in antioxidants protect against diseases associated with free radical damage, including cancer, cardiovascular disease and diabetes. chronic human health problems, namely arteriosclerosis, myocardial ischemia, and cancer, may be caused by highly active oxygen species and may be preventable by antioxidant vitamins. however, several recent studies have failed to demonstrate the efficacy of vitamin supplementation in preventing several types of cancer. antioxidant vitamins are thought to play a role in atherosclerosis. supplementation of these nutrients has been explored as a means of reducing cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. some good-quality cohort studies have reported an association between the use of vitamin supplements and lower risk for cardiovascular disease. vitamin use shortly after breast cancer diagnosis was associated with reduced mortality and recurrence risk, adjusted for multiple lifestyle factors, sociodemographics, and known clinical prognostic factors. the production of free radicals may favour the processes of atherosclerosis, and antioxidant vitamins (including beta-carotene), which partly prevent such processes, might favorably influence cardiovascular disease (cvd); thus, their supplementation might be a useful tool in the prevention of coronary heart disease (chd). the prospect that high intake of certain vitamins may confer protection against cancer has drawn substantial attention during the last decades. this paper gives a concise update of the role of a number of promising vitamins in prevention of cancer. ',
 'Is it true that lowering cholesterol does not reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] clinical and angiographic intervention trials have now ascertained that lowering ldl cholesterol is effective in prevention and in secondary treatment of coronary atherosclerosis. the benefits of decreasing cholesterol to very low levels are not yet certain, although epidemiologic reviews strongly correlate lower cholesterol levels with lowered coronary artery disease mortality. it is uncertain whether pharmacological reductions in very-low-density lipoproteins (vldls), and their component triglyceride and cholesterol could reduce residual risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ascvd) events among individuals in whom low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c) has been adequately lowered. the reduction of low density lipoprotein-cholesterol (ldl-chol) has been associated with a decrease in cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. hypercholesterolemia is a major risk factor for coronary heart disease, and data indicate that aggressive cholesterol reduction decreases mortality and morbidity associated with this disease. epidemiologic evidence links high levels of low density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol and low levels of high density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol to increased risk of coronary heart disease. hypercholesterolemia, particularly an elevated level of low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol, is an unarguably established risk factor for coronary artery disease (cad). despite the impressive relation between an increased blood cholesterol and increased mortality from coronary artery disease and despite the persuasive results of cholesterol-lowering trials in secondary prevention, there are increasing reservations about the wisdom of lowering moderately raised blood cholesterol levels in patients who have no symptoms of coronary artery disease. t***he current control of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol among patients with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease is very low and this is associated with an increase of cardiovascular outcomes. there is broad evidence that lowering low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol will reduce cardiovascular risk. ',
 'Do static magnets help against pain? [SEP] static magnets have become an increasingly popular alternative therapy for individuals with musculoskeletal pain despite limited scientific evidence to support their efficacy or safety. the application of static magnets over painful knee joints appears to reduce pain and enhance functional movement. what is the history of the discovery and use of magnets to treat pain? how common is the use of magnets to treat pain? how are static magnets used in attempts to treat pain? what is known from the scientific evidence about the effectiveness of magnets in treating pain? are there scientific controversies associated with using magnets for pain? have any side effects or complications occurred from using magnets for pain? the aim of this review was to establish whether there is evidence for or against the efficacy of static magnets to produce analgesia. static magnets are marketed with claims of effectiveness for reducing pain, although evidence of scientific principles or biological mechanisms to support such claims is limited. ',
 'Does hypnosis help with chronic bowel problems? [SEP] hypnotherapy is an evidence based intervention for the treatment of functional bowel disorders, particularly irritable bowel syndrome. however, according to some previous research studies, hypnosis has been shown to be effective in the treatment of ibs. to determine the definite efficacy of hypnosis in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome. recent controlled studies in the field of gastroenterology have shown that hypnotherapy is unequivocally beneficial in conditions such as irritable bowel syndrome and peptic ulceration. hypnosis improves irritable bowel syndrome (ibs), but the mechanism is unknown. patients with severe irritable bowel syndrome received seven biweekly hypnosis sessions and used hypnosis audiotapes at home. in conclusion, hypnosis improves ibs symptoms through reductions in psychological distress and somatization. hypnotherapy has been reported to have beneficial effects for ibs symptoms. to evaluate the efficacy of hypnotherapy for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome. gut-directed hypnotherapy is considered to be an effective treatment in irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) but few studies report the long-term effects. ',
 'Does taking vitamin D supplements during pregnancy increase the risk of food allergy for the unborn child? [SEP] there are investigations concluding that reduced vitamin d status in pregnancy, may be a risk factor for the development of allergic outcomes in offspring. prenatal vitamin d insufficiency may be associated with an increased risk of developing childhood asthma. we investigated the association between maternal use of vitamin d, n-3 fatty acids (fa) and fe supplements during pregnancy and risk for cd autoimmunity (cda) and cd in the offspring. during pregnancy, maternal vitamin d insufficiency could increase risks of several pregnancy complications and adverse birth outcomes. observational studies have suggested that increased dietary vitamin d intake during pregnancy may protect against wheezing in the offspring, but the preventive effect of vitamin d supplementation to pregnant women is unknown. lower vitamin d status at birth and during infancy has been associated with increased incidence of eczema and food allergies. the aim of this study was to investigate the effect of early infancy vitamin d supplementation on allergic disease outcomes in infants at "hereditary risk" of allergic disease, but who had sufficient vitamin d levels at birth. in conclusion, for "allergy high-risk" infants who had sufficient vitamin d status at birth, early infancy oral vitamin d supplementation does not appear to reduce the development of early childhood allergic disease. low concentration of 25-hydroxyvitamin d during pregnancy may be associated with offspring autoimmune disorders. vitamin d intake in pregnancy or by the child in early life did not predict later celiac disease. ',
 'Is combined hormone therapy with estrogen and progestin safe for women in late menopause (after the last menstrual period)? [SEP] postmenopausal women with vasomotor and vaginal symptoms are commonly treated with estrogens or combined estrogen/progestin therapy (hormone therapy). hormone replacement therapy may increase the quality of life of postmenopausal women. postmenopausal women who receive sequential hormone replacement therapy with estrogen combined with progestogen for 10 to 24 d/mo for a prolonged period may have an elevated endometrial cancer risk relative to those who have never received hormone replacement therapy. there is some increased risk of endometrial cancer from estrogen-replacement therapy; however, added progestin decreases this risk to less than that observed in untreated postmenopausal women. both estrogens and progestins are effective in retarding the progression of osteoporosis, but estrogen-progestin combination therapy may promote new bone formation. the use of estrogens in postmenopausal women has been the subject of much controversy regarding hormone formulation, dosage, use in combination with progestins, duration of treatment, and contraindications. the use of estrogens in postmenopausal women has been the subject of much controversy regarding hormone formulation, dosage, use in combination with progestins, duration of treatment, and contraindications. while there are a number of benefits to the health of postmenopausal women from use of unopposed estrogens, the increased risk of endometrial cancer related to these hormones has led many women to use combined estrogen-progestogen therapy instead, or not to use hormones at all. hormone replacement therapy (hrt) with estrogen alleviates menopausal symptoms and is effective in reducing osteoporosis and cardiovascular disease when taken in early postmenopause. older, late postmenopausal women who never previously received hrt are also believed to benefit from estrogen treatment. ',
 "Can negative expectancy reduce the effect of pain medications? [SEP] background: nocebo effects contribute to a large proportion of the non-specific side-effects attributed to medications and are mainly generated through negative expectations. previous reviews show that interventions designed to change participants' expectations have a small effect on pain experience. pain often is undertreated, which may provoke drug-seeking behavior by patients. in this study, the physiological and behavioral consequences of chronic pain and its treatment with opioids, along with guidelines for prescribing opioid pain medication, are presented. to identify factors associated with side-effect expectations. decreasing unrealistic side-effect expectations may lead to decreased experience of side-effects and increased adherence to medical interventions. negative preconceived beliefs about the benefits of morphine use are frequently seen in hospitalized patients and may be associated with reports of severe pain, poor patient satisfaction, impaired rehabilitation, and possibly more chronic postsurgical pain. patients in pain often fear medications prescribed or recommend to them by their clinicians. first, expectations and impressions about a medication and beliefs about how a medication works, such as delay of onset, can shape a patient's perceived experience with the medication. the fear of a patient developing opioid tolerance contributes regularly to the stigmatization and withholding of intrathecal opioid therapy for chronic pain of non-cancer origin. ",
 'Is sex as good an endurance workout as running? [SEP] females exhibited less peripheral fatigue in the plantar flexors than males did after a 110-km ultra-trail-running race and males demonstrated a greater decrease in maximal force loss in the knee extensors. the lower level of fatigue in the knee extensors and peripheral fatigue in the plantar flexors could partly explain the reports of better performance in females in extreme duration running races as race distance increases. it has been shown that females have greater muscular endurance than males and that this advantage is eliminated when blood flow is restricted. it was concluded that the greater sex-specific, essential body fat of women is one determinant of the sex difference in metabolic responses to running and distance running performance. background: beyond the difference in marathon performance when comparing female and male runners, we tested the hypothesis that running strategy does not different according to sex. to compare the relative contributions of their functional capacities to performance in relation to sex, two groups of middle-distance runners (24 men and 14 women) were selected on the basis of performances over 1500-m and 3000-m running races. forsyth, jj and burt, d. sex differences in recovery from sprint interval exercise. women are known to be less fatigable than men in single-joint exercises, but fatigue induced by running has not been well understood. here we investigated sex differences in central and peripheral fatigue and in rate of force development (rfd) in the knee extensors after a half-marathon run. together, these findings do not support the need of sex-specific training interventions to increase the tolerance to neuromuscular fatigue in half-marathoners. ',
 'Can electrical brain stimulation reduce the amount of food eaten? [SEP] recent studies highlight that obesity may alter the electric activity in brain areas triggering appetite and craving. transcranial direct current brain stimulation (tdcs) has recently emerged as a safe alternative for treating food addiction via modulating cortical excitability without any high-risk surgical procedure to be utilized. the study, although preliminary, shows that by stimulating the prefrontal cortex in the rats fed high-caloric nutrients, the feeding behavior can be significantly changed, resulting in significantly inhibited appetite. transcranial direct current stimulation (tdcs) modifies cortical excitability and may facilitate improved control of eating. transcranial direct current stimulation (tdcs) has been used to suppress food cravings, but there is insufficient evidence to support its application in clinical practice. previous studies showed that food craving in eating disorders can be weakened with high-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rtms) on the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlpfc). accumulating evidence suggests that non-invasive and invasive brain stimulation may reduce food craving and calorie consumption rendering these techniques potential treatment options for obesity. there is growing evidence that vagus nerve stimulation (vns) exerts a suppressive effect on both short- and long-term feeding in animal models. we previously showed that vns with high-frequency (10 hz) electrical impulses decreased food intake and body weight in rats. recent studies show that acute neuromodulation of the prefrontal cortex with transcranial direct current stimulation (tdcs) can decrease food craving, attentional bias to food, and actual food intake. ',
 'Are plastic kitchen boards more hygienic than wooden ones? [SEP] plastic cutting boards have been preferred to wood because they can be washed in dishwashers and used in microwave ovens. surfaces of plastic and wooden cutting boards were inoculated with up to 109 cfu of escherichia coli or other bacteria in broth culture and later sampled by contact with agar medium for cfu assay or by swabbing for atp bioluminescence assay. the microbiology of plastic and wooden cutting boards was studied, regarding cross-contamination of foods in home kitchens. these results do not support the often-heard assertion that plastic cutting boards are more sanitary than wood. decontamination of plastic and wooden cutting boards was studied, with a view to preventing cross-contamination of foods in home kitchens. new plastic cutting surfaces were relatively easy to clean and were microbiologically neutral, but plastic boards with extensive knife scars were difficult to clean manually, especially if they had deposits of chicken fat on them. fewer bacteria were generally recovered from wooden blocks than from plastic blocks. in general, wood is said to dull knives less than plastic, and plastic is seen as less porous than wood. small plastic cutting boards can be cleaned in a dishwasher (as can some specially treated wooden boards), but the dishwasher may distribute the bacteria onto other food-contact surfaces. further, one of these studies indicated that use of plastic cutting boards in home kitchens is hazardous, whereas use of wooden cutting boards is not. ',
 "Does excessive beer or alcohol consumption lead to obesity? [SEP] there is a common notion that beer drinkers are, on average, more 'obese' than either nondrinkers or drinkers of wine or spirits. we examined the relation between beer intake and waist-hip ratio (whr) and body mass index (bmi) in a beer-drinking population. alcohol consumption may play a role in the development of obesity but the relationship between alcohol and weight is still unclear. if confirmed in longitudinal studies, our results indicate that consumption of alcoholic beverages may be a risk factor for obesity. alcohol intake associates with overeating in humans. although the relationship between alcohol intake and obesity is controversial, regular consumption of alcohol, through its effects in suppressing fat oxidation, is regarded as a risk factor for weight gain, increased abdominal obesity and hypertriglyceridemia. heavy and regular alcohol consumption has been positively correlated with increasing body weight, although it is unclear whether this is due to alcohol consumption per se or to additional energy intake from food. this review suggests that adults do not compensate appropriately for alcohol energy by eating less, and a relatively modest alcohol dose may lead to an increase in food consumption. despite its comparatively high energy content of 7.1 g/kcal, it is still controversial whether moderate amounts of alcohol represent a risk factor for weight gain and obesity. the experimental metabolic evidence suggests that the consumption of moderate amounts of alcohol has to be accounted for in the energy-balance equation and may represent a risk factor for the development of a positive energy balance and thus weight gain. ",
 'Do omega-3 fatty acids or a diet rich in fish help with rheumatoid arthritis? [SEP] there is evidence for preventive and therapeutic effects of dietary omega-3 fats in rheumatoid arthritis. while doses of up to several grams per day of fish-derived fatty acids may be necessary for therapeutic effects in long-standing rheumatoid arthritis, much lower doses should provide benefits to reduce the mortality from cardiovascular disease in this inflammatory disorder. intake of fish oil and oily fish has been reported to improve clinical symptoms in people who have rheumatoid arthritis. we investigated the association between intake of oily fish and fish oil supplements and the risk of rheumatoid arthritis in a population-based case-control study. intake of oily fish was associated with a modestly decreased risk of developing rheumatoid arthritis. there is evidence to support the use of supplementation with long-chain omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (lcn-3pufa) from oily fish or fish oil for the treatment of various inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis. epidemiological studies suggest that a diet high in marine fatty acids (fish oil) may have beneficial effects on inflammatory conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis and possibly asthma. epidemiological studies suggest that a diet high in marine fatty acids (fish oil) may have beneficial effects on inflammatory conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis and possibly asthma. epidemiological studies suggest that a diet high in marine fatty acids (fish oil) may have beneficial effects on inflammatory conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis and possibly asthma. fish and plant seed fatty acids have antiinflammatory and immunomodulating properties that make them of potential use in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. ',
 'Does unprocessed red meat increase the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] growing evidence suggests that effects of red meat consumption on coronary heart disease (chd) and type 2 diabetes could vary depending on processing. in meta-analyses of prospective cohorts, higher risk of chd is seen with processed meat consumption (rr per 50\xa0g: 1.42, 95\xa0%ci\u2009=\u20091.07-1.89), but a smaller increase or no risk is seen with unprocessed meat consumption. epidemiologic evidence suggests that relationships of red meat consumption with risk of cardiovascular diseases depends on whether or not the meat is processed, including addition of preservatives, but evidence is limited for blood pressure (bp). red meat intake has been associated with increased risk of coronary heart disease and type 2 diabetes, but it remains uncertain whether these associations are causally related to unprocessed lean red meat. red meat is long established as an important dietary source of protein and essential nutrients including iron, zinc and vitamin b12, yet recent reports that its consumption may increase the risk of cardiovascular disease (cvd) and colon cancer have led to a negative perception of the role of red meat in health. high processed red meat consumption is associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease. the high sodium content of processed red meat could increase blood pressure and explain the association with cardiovascular disease. we evaluated the relation between the consumption of unprocessed and processed red meat and incident hypertension. red meat has been associated with an increased cardiovascular disease (cvd) risk, possibly through gut microbial-derived trimethylamine-n-oxide (tmao). regular consumption of red meat has been associated in epidemiologic studies with increased risks of coronary heart disease (chd) and colon and other cancers; possible mechanisms may involve dietary cholesterol, saturated fat, heme iron, and the presence of carcinogens formed in cooking. ',
 'Does processed red meat (sausages, ham, bacon) increase the risk of cardiovascular disease??? [SEP] the assessment of the actual contribution of red or processed meat to increasing the risk of suffering cardiovascular diseases (cvd) requires identification of specific harmful components and their underlying pathological mechanisms. the present review aims to provide an updated overview, including evidence, controversies and unresolved questions on both the epidemiology and mechanisms relating red and processed meat consumption to cvd. red and (particularly) processed meats are high in cholesterol and saturated and solid fatty acids. numerous studies demonstrated a possible association between red meat consumption and cardiovascular disease (cvd). this review will evaluate the association between red meat consumption and incidence of cvd and mortality (primary outcome measures). red meat has been associated with an increased cardiovascular disease (cvd) risk, possibly through gut microbial-derived trimethylamine-n-oxide (tmao). growing evidence suggests that effects of red meat consumption on coronary heart disease (chd) and type 2 diabetes could vary depending on processing. we reviewed the evidence for effects of unprocessed (fresh/frozen) red and processed (using sodium/other preservatives) meat consumption on chd and diabetes. in meta-analyses of prospective cohorts, higher risk of chd is seen with processed meat consumption (rr per 50\xa0g: 1.42, 95\xa0%ci\u2009=\u20091.07-1.89), but a smaller increase or no risk is seen with unprocessed meat consumption. in similar analyses, both unprocessed red and processed meat consumption are associated with incident diabetes, with higher risk per g of processed (rr per 50\xa0g: 1.51, 95\xa0%ci\u2009=\u20091.25-1.83) versus unprocessed (rr per 100\xa0g: 1.19, 95\xa0% ci\u2009=\u20091.04-1.37) meats. ',
 "Does hawthorn extract help patients with heart muscle weakness (heart failure)? [SEP] a botanical complementary and alternative medicine is often used to treat heart failure. the mechanism(s) by which hawthorn extract may treat heart failure is unknown but may include, theoretically, immunological effects. therefore, the purpose of this study is to determine the effect of hawthorn extract on the immunomodulatory response in a pressure overload model of heart failure. hawthorn extract appears to be anti-arrhythmic and capable of inducing rhythmicity in quiescent cardiomyocytes. hawthorn (crataegus) is a natural product used to treat patients with heart failure. hawthorn, an herbal supplement, is currently being evaluated for the treatment of heart failure. the flavonoid components of hawthorn may be responsible for hawthorn's beneficial effects in the treatment of heart failure. hawthorn's efficacy when added to contemporary evidence-based heart failure therapy is unknown. hawthorn extract is a popular herbal medicine given as adjunctive treatment for chronic heart failure. the aim of this study was to further characterize the effect of hawthorn extract to decrease the contraction rate of cultured cardiomyocytes. ",
 "Is glyphosate carcinogenic? [SEP] glyphosate has recently received much public attention following its 'group 2a - probably carcinogenic to humans' classification from the international agency for research on cancer. who changed classification of glyphosate to probably cancerogenic to humans, thus there is urgent need to assess in detail genotoxic mechanism of its action. some epidemiological experts feel there is sufficient proof that glyphosate use adversely affects human health, and glyphosate has been labeled as probably carcinogenic by the international agency for research on cancer. glyphosate is a widely used broad spectrum herbicide, reported to induce various toxic effects in non-target species, but its carcinogenic potential is still unknown. carcinogenicity study revealed that glyphosate has tumor promoting activity. altogether, these results suggested that glyphosate has tumor promoting potential in skin carcinogenesis and its mechanism seems to be similar to tpa. glyphosate is a widely used pesticide worldwide. glyphosate is widely used as an herbicide, which might result in exposures of the general public and applicators. glyphosate is the highest volume herbicide used globally and has recently been classified as a 2\u202fa 'probably carcinogenic to humans' by the international agency for research on cancer (iarc). glyphosate, the most widely used pesticide worldwide, is under debate due to its potentially cancerogenic effects and harmful influence on biodiversity and environment. ",
 'Does psychotherapy help with burnout? [SEP] however, cognitive behavior therapy is usually helpful for the emotional exhaustion component of burnout. counseling and/or coaching may be helpful for those having burnout without significant depression. there are lessons from positive psychology that may be utilized to help counsel those with burnout. burnout is common in mental health professionals and has serious personal and professional consequences. burnout is a serious problem for psychiatrists that has implications for clinical practice and personal health. emotionally taxing job demands place psychotherapists at risk for burnout, often to the detriment of the therapist, clients, and the profession of psychotherapy (maslach, 2007). the aim of the present systematic review was to (a) explore the levels of both burnout and job stress in psychotherapists, (b) identify tools used to measure work-related stress and burnout, and (c) identify personal risk factors for developing burnout among psychotherapists. over half of sampled psychotherapists reported moderate-high levels of burnout, with the majority of results based on quantitative cross-sectional self-report surveys. it appears that psychotherapists commonly experience some burnout, and personal factors influence burnout development. conclusions: the results of the current review offers evidence that burnout is a concern for those working in the delivery of psychological interventions. ',
 'Is electrical muscle stimulation (EMS) in combination with ordinary fitness training more efficient than fitness training alone? [SEP] since neuromuscular electrical stimulation (nmes) can recruit high-threshold motor units and enhance glucose metabolism, the combination of nmes and voluntary low-intensity exercise would induce both anerobic and aerobic energy consumptions and this type of exercise could be more efficient and effective than conventional exercise regimens. this study investigated the effects of moderate frequency e+s versus s+e training on physical fitness, body composition, and blood lipids. these results showed that moderate-frequency (2-3 times per week) combined e+s or s+e training led to significant improvements in physical fitness and lean body mass but did not induce significant changes in body fat or blood lipid levels. in this study, we compared the effects of a periodized and functional whole-body-electromyostimulation training on maximum oxygen uptake (vo2max), ventilatory thresholds (vt1 and vt2), running economy (re), and lower-body muscle strength in runners, vs. a traditional whole-body-electromyostimulation training. it is known that electromyostimulation (ems) alone or superimposed over voluntary contraction (ev) can effectively improve muscle strength. the purpose of the study was to compare the effects of 1) monopolar (mi) and bipolar (bi) electrical muscle stimulation (ems) concurrent with isometric exercise, and 2) ems (mi and bi) concurrent with isometric exercise to isometric exercise (i) alone on girth, dynamic strength, muscular power, and muscular endurance of the right quadriceps muscle. results indicated that 1) ems concurrent with isometric exercise was more effective in improving quadriceps strength over a group that did no training, but was no more effective than isometric exercise alone; 2) the two ems techniques yielded similar results for healthy innervated muscle; 3) dynamic strength was minimally increased by ems; 4) power was positively increased more by the monopolar technique; and 5) endurance was positively increased more by the bipolar technique. it was concluded that while the two techniques of ems concurrent with isometric exercise have the potential to positively increase selected physiological parameters in healthy innervated muscle, the greatest benefits will be noted for the weaker muscle. electromyostimulation (ems) incorporates the use of electrical current to activate skeletal muscle and facilitate contraction. to examine if chronic endurance training by means of simultaneously applied, superimposed electromyostimulation (ems) can be used to improve performance and physiological core parameters compared to the traditional cycling. ',
 'Can vitamin and nutrient supplements prevent the eye disease age-related macular degeneration? [SEP] age-related macular degeneration is the leading cause of vision loss in elderly individuals, as well as a medical and socio-economic challenge. the treatment of dry age-related macular degeneration is based on vitamin supplementation. the results of ongoing clinical studies may improve the therapy of age-related macular degeneration. the age-related eye disease study (areds) demonstrated beneficial effects of oral supplementation with antioxidant vitamins and minerals on the development of advanced age-related macular degeneration (amd) in persons with at least intermediate amd (bilateral large drusen with or without pigment changes). the high concentration of carotenoids in the macula, plus evidence linking oxidative stress to age-related macular degeneration (amd) and carotenoids to antioxidation, generated the hypothesis that higher antioxidant intakes can prevent amd. the aim of this study was to determine whether nutritional supplementation with a targeted nutritional supplement improves visual acuity and visual function in amd. the possibility that the macular carotenoids, lutein (l), and zeaxanthin (z), could retard age-related changes in the eye and prevent the eye diseases that result from such changes (namely, cataract and macular degeneration) has been carefully studied. the objective of this review was to assess the effects of antioxidant vitamin or mineral supplementation, or both, on the progression of age-related macular degeneration (amd). for this reason, there is considerable interest in determining whether vitamins and trace minerals with antioxidant properties can be of benefit in preventing the onset or progression of disabling eye disease. oral supplementation with the age-related eye disease study (areds) formulation (antioxidant vitamins c and e, beta carotene, and zinc) has been shown to reduce the risk of progression to advanced age-related macular degeneration (amd). ',
 'Can they delay the progression of eye disease? [SEP] eye conditions that are considered progressive and degenerative and for which the causation is generally poorly understood or not understood within conventional medicine can respond to natural therapeutic interventions that result in arrest and/or improvement of morbidity, with enhanced functional results. early diagnosis of glaucomatous optic nerve damage offers the potential for early treatment which may prevent vision loss from this neurodegenerative disease. although there have been no randomized clinical trials or other high-quality studies showing the benefits of setting a target iop versus not using this approach, there is ample evidence that lowering iop slows glaucoma progression and, in general, lower is better, regardless of disease stage and baseline iop level. the pilot study examined the ability of octreotide to retard progression of diabetic retinopathy (dr) and delay the need for panretinal photocoagulation (prp) in patients with advanced stages of retinal disease. hence, most glaucomatous eyes demonstrate signs of deterioration over time despite what may appear to be adequate treatment. the main goal of glaucoma treatment is to slow the rate of disease so that patients can prolong their functional vision. anti-inflammatory activity of an antiglaucoma drug may be an advantage for long-term treatment of glaucoma since it may reduce the risk of treatment-related inflammatory processes in outer compartments of the eye and probably also prevent or delay progression of glaucomatous retinal neurodegeneration. the slowly progressive nature of age-related macular degeneration (amd) means that establishing the efficacy of novel preventative treatments aiming to slow progression of disease, remains challenging, and where earlier endpoints are needed to improve their feasibility. it is generally believed that prophylactic intake of antioxidants is beneficial in delaying the onset of some aging manifestations such as cataract. since the formation of cataract is a well-defined progressive disease, starting with an early refractive change and leading to gradual enhancement of opacification, we hypothesized that even a belated start with an appropriate anti-oxidant could halt the pathological process and delay cataract maturation and vision impairment. ',
 "Do milk or dairy products promote colon cancer and rectal cancer? [SEP] according to world cancer research fund international/american institute for cancer research, it is 'probable' that dairy products decrease the risk of colorectal cancer (crc). the aim of this study was to examine the association between milk intake and risk of crc, colon cancer and rectal cancer among women. our study indicates that there may be a weak inverse association between milk intake and risk of colon cancer among women. whether milk consumption is associated with the risk of prostate, breast, colon, and rectal cancers is unclear and was evaluated in this study. observational studies have shown that milk consumption is inversely associated with colorectal, bladder, and breast cancer risk, but positively associated with prostate cancer. we investigated the potential causal associations of milk consumption with the risk of colorectal, bladder, breast, and prostate cancer using a genetic variant near the lct gene as proxy for milk consumption. our findings strengthen the evidence for a protective role of milk consumption on colorectal cancer risk. our data indicate that high intakes of lactose and dairy products, particularly milk, are associated with an increased risk of serous ovarian cancer but not of other subtypes of ovarian cancer. we investigated associations of tea, coffee, and milk consumption with colorectal cancer risk and attempted to determine if these exposures were differentially associated with the risks of proximal colon, distal colon, and rectal cancers. this review provides an overview of the principal hypotheses and epidemiological evidence of the possible links between colorectal cancer and intake of milk and/or dairy products. ",
 "Does yoga change the genetic makeup? [SEP] previous work has shown that yoga may improve wellness in healthy people and have benefits for patients. here we have assessed possible rapid changes in global gene expression profiles in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (pbmcs) in healthy people that practiced either a comprehensive yoga program or a control regimen. these data suggest that yoga and related practices result in rapid gene expression alterations which may be the basis for their longer term cell biological and higher level health effects. yoga may influence multiple psychological mechanisms that influence emotional well-being. further, different types of yoga may affect different mechanisms. physiological benefits of yoga on volunteers of a particular age group are available. we investigated the effects of yoga on memory and psychophysiological parameters related to stress, comparing yoga practice and conventional physical exercises in healthy men (previously yoga-naïve). yoga practitioners showed improvement of the memory performance, as well as improvements in psychophysiological parameters. if yoga training has a stress-reduction effect and also improves an individual's mental states for a long time, long-term yoga practitioners may have a better mental state and lower stress-related biochemical indices in comparison to non-experienced participants. yoga also influenced immunity and ameliorated joint disorders. ",
 'Which of the three most common laser eye surgeries produces the best results and has the fewest side effects? [SEP] laser refractive surgery is one of the most performed surgical procedures in the world. currently, three techniques are widely used for laser vision correction: small incision lenticule extraction, laser-assisted keratomileusis in situ and photorefractive keratotomy. several different laser types are available on the market for the practitioner to use in refractive surgery. the lasers most amenable to urologic surgery are the co2, argon, and neodymium:yag lasers. our results suggest that operator technique and patient selection are more important factors than laser type with respect to outcome. a variety of lasers are used in medicine and surgery, and the three most common lasers are argon-ion, carbon dioxide, and nd:yag. other laser usage for external lesions has also proved to be efficacious. the purpose of this study was to compare the effects of three different corneal refractive surgeries: microkeratome laser in situ keratomileusis (lasik), femtosecond laser in situ keratomileusis (fs-lasik) and femtosecond small incision lenticule extraction (fs-smile) on 6-month postoperative stability of tear film to provide a basis for selection of operative procedures. it emphasizes the advantages of each type for specific otolaryngologic problems and discusses the considerations for choosing the appropriate laser to treat a particular lesion. the three most common lasers historically used in orthopedic surgery were examined: holmium:yag, neodymium:yag, and the co2. ',
 'Can electromagnetic fields with a specific pattern (pulsed electromagnetic fields, PEMF) heal injuries? [SEP] the therapeutic application of pulsed electromagnetic fields (pemfs) can accelerate healing after bone fractures and also alleviate pain according to several studies. pulsed electromagnetic fields (pemf) have been used widely to treat nonunion fractures and related problems in bone healing, as a biological and physical method. specific pulsing electromagnetic fields (pemfs) have been used to stimulate growth and repair of osteogenic tissues; however, the basis for this specificity is unknown. previously, we determined the relevant electromagnetic field parameters of the clinically used pemf and independently verified the beneficial effects of pemfs on the rabbit fibula fracture healing model. pulsed electromagnetic field (pemf) devices have been used clinically to promote the healing of surgically resistant fractures in vivo. pulsed electromagnetic fields (pemfs) have been found to be beneficial to a wide variety of biological phenomena. substantial data indicate that exposure to electromagnetic field can lead to enhanced healing in both soft and hard tissues. one commonly used modality is pulsed electromagnetic field therapy (pemf). pemf uses electro magnetically generated fields to promote tissue repair and healing rates. pulsed electromagnetic fields (pemf) exert biological effects and are in clinical use to facilitate bone repair and wound healing. ',
 'Does the drug fingolimod reduce the progression of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis similarly or better than previous drugs? [SEP] fingolimod is approved for the treatment of highly active relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis in europe. to evaluate retrospectively the effectiveness and safety of fingolimod in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis who were prescribed fingolimod by uk neurologists within the national health service. fingolimod was effective in reducing the disease activity in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis patients requiring an escalation from first-line therapies who were prescribed fingolimod in clinical practice in the uk. to compare the efficacy of fingolimod and natalizumab in preventing regional grey matter (gm) and white matter (wm) atrophy in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (rrms) over 2\u2009years. evidence is needed to understand the effect of fingolimod on slowing down brain atrophy progression in multiple sclerosis (ms) patients in clinical practice. fingolimod is a disease modifying therapy (dmt) in highly active relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (rrms), as is natalizumab. fingolimod demonstrated superior efficacy compared with interferon β-1a intramuscular in relapsing multiple sclerosis. annualized relapse rate and safety of once-daily oral fingolimod 0.5mg, 1.25mg, or once-weekly interferon β-1a 30μg intramuscular for 12 months were analyzed in 1292 patients with relapsing multiple sclerosis according to prior disease-modifying therapy, reason for prior disease-modifying therapy discontinuation (adverse events or unsatisfactory therapeutic effect), and prior disease-modifying therapy duration. in placebo-controlled trials in patients with rrms with active disease, fingolimod 0.5 mg/day significantly reduced the annualized relapse rate (arr) by approximately one-half over 2-year trial periods. fingolimod is a disease-modifying agent used in the treatment of relapsing/remitting multiple sclerosis. ',
 'Can cancer be successfully fought with intentionally induced fever? [SEP] some reports of spontaneous remission and regression of cancer are preceded by a severe infection accompanied with a high fever. this paper proposes the mechanism of action of febrile infection in inducing spontaneous remission and regression of cancer and its possible implication in treating cancer patients. it paves an avenue to precisely reprogram tme for efficient cancer therapy through synergistic pathways of creating fever-like responses in the tumor. therapeutical hyperthermia has been considered for cancer therapy since william coley observed tumour remission after induction of fever by bacterial toxins at the end of the 19th century. heat was known to have a beneficial effect on malignancies. hyperthermia per se has been shown experimentally to be effective in some cancers. fever for a long time was thought to directly regulate the immune response, and artificial "fever" from hyperthermia modulates the tumor immune microenvironment by providing danger signals with heat shock proteins (hsps) as well as subsequent activation of immune systems. fever is a common symptom in cancer patients. long before ionising radiations were discovered, attempts were made to exploit elevated temperatures to control malignant tumours. there is little doubt that heat alone can destroy tumours; and it can enhance the anti-cancer effects of radiation and chemotherapeutic agents. ',
 'Can some forms of headache be successfully treated with heat? [SEP] for years, heat has been used for comfort and analgesia is recommended as a first-line therapy in many clinical guidelines. high-level pulsed heat (45°c) produced significantly more analgesia as compared to steady heat at 37°c at the primary end point and for an additional 2 hours after treatment. with over 150 diagnostic headache categories having been established, the diagnosis and treatment of headache is not a simple process. because headache is a common side effect of electroconvulsive therapy (ect), this study sought to determine the effectiveness of cryotherapy (i.e., a frozen gel band) in relieving pain in patients with post-ect headaches, and whether headache intensity and physiological measurements could predict use of an alternative analgesic (rescue medication). based on these results, cryotherapy is an alternative treatment that may be helpful to some patients with ect-induced headaches. headache is one of the most common types of pain, but its causes remain poorly understood. sphenopalatine ganglion percutaneous radiofrequency thermocoagulation treatment can improve the symptoms of cluster headaches to some extent. to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy and safety of a non-ablative computerized tomography-guided pulsed radiofrequency treatment of sphenopalatine ganglion in patients with refractory cluster headaches. our data show that patients with refractory episodic cluster headaches were quickly, effectively and safely relieved from the cluster period after computerized tomography-guided pulsed radiofrequency treatment of sphenopalatine ganglion, suggesting that it may be a therapeutic option if conservative treatments fail. although the therapeutic effects of heat on tumors have been known for more than a century, only recently has hyperthermia been applied in the treatment of various solid tumors in a scientific fashion. ',
 'Does electro-acupuncture on the ear help against pain? [SEP] electroacupuncture of the outer ear seems to be an easy-to-use therapeutic option in an age of increasingly invasive and mechanically complex treatments for pad patients. there is increasing evidence that somatic acupuncture can be helpful in migraine treatment, but substantial data on ear acupuncture (eap) are still lacking. electro-acupuncture (ea) can be effective in some pain conditions, but still there have been no randomized controlled studies of ea for treatment of acute postoperative pain in nasal septoplasty. acupuncture had a significant effect on otoacoustic emissions in patients with tinnitus. auricular acupuncture is a form of pain relief involving the stimulation of points on the outer ear corresponding with specific body parts. electrical stimulation of acupuncture points is considered to increase acupuncture analgesia. in this prospective, randomized, double-blind, controlled study we tested the hypothesis that auricular electroacupuncture (ea) relieves pain more effectively than conventional manual auricular acupuncture (co) in chronic low back pain patients with insufficient pain relief (visual analogue scale [vas] > or = 5) treated with standardized analgesic therapy. objective: ear acupuncture might be the form of acupuncture best suited to improving acute pain management in the emergency department (ed). the primary aim of this review was to assess the analgesic efficacy of ear acupuncture in the ed. conclusions: while study numbers are limited, ear acupuncture, either as stand-alone or as-an-adjunct technique, significantly reduced pain scores and has potential benefits for use in the ed. ',
 "Does treatment with the new drug erenumab reduce the number of migraine days per month? [SEP] subcutaneous erenumab reduced monthly migraine days and increased the likelihood of achieving a\u2009≥\u200950% reduction at all monthly assessment points tested in 2 pivotal trials in episodic migraine (em) and chronic migraine (cm). erenumab is a novel cgrp-receptor antibody with preventive efficacy in migraine. at week 12, 36 (30%) patients in the erenumab had a 50% or greater reduction from baseline in the mean number of monthly migraine days, compared with 17 (14%) in the placebo group (odds ratio 2·7 [95% ci 1·4-5·2]; p=0·002). compared with placebo, erenumab was efficacious in patients with episodic migraine who previously did not respond to or tolerate between two and four previous migraine preventive treatments. erenumab also significantly reduced the proportion of patients with severe and very severe migraine-related disability and increased the proportion of patients with clinically meaningful improvements in migraine-related impact and health-related quality of life. conclusion erenumab reduced migraine disability and impact and improved patients' health-related quality of life, reinforcing its role as a promising new therapy for migraine prevention. background erenumab was effective and well tolerated in a pivotal clinical trial of chronic migraine. results treatment with both doses of erenumab resulted in greater reductions in monthly migraine days (primary endpoint) at month 3 (treatment difference [95% ci], never failed subgroup: -2.2 [-4.1, -0.3] for 70\u2009mg and -0.5 [-2.4, 1.5] for 140\u2009mg; ≥\u20091 prior failed medication categories subgroup: -2.5 [-3.8, -1.2], for 70\u2009mg and -3.3 [-4.6, -2.1] for 140\u2009mg;\u2009≥\u20092 prior failed medication categories subgroup: -2.7 [-4.2, -1.2], for 70\u2009mg and -4.3 [-5.8, -2.8] for 140\u2009mg). conclusion erenumab showed consistent efficacy in chronic migraine patients who had failed prior preventive treatments and was well tolerated across subgroups. among patients with episodic migraine in whom multiple medication classes had not previously failed, subcutaneous fremanezumab, compared with placebo, resulted in a statistically significant 1.3- to 1.5-day reduction in the mean number of monthly migraine days over a 12-week period. ",
 "Is screening by optical coherence tomography superior to conventional examinations for the early detection of diabetic macular edema? [SEP] to compare the effectiveness of two 45 degrees photographic fields per eye in the screening for diabetic retinopathy with the routine ophthalmologist's examination and to study the effectiveness of visual acuity measurement in the detection of diabetic macular edema. to review systematically the sensitivity and specificity of optical coherence tomography (oct) for diagnosing macular edema attributable to diabetic retinopathy compared with well-established gold standard tests such as fundus stereophotography or contact and noncontact fundus biomicroscopy. oct performs well compared with fundus stereophotography or biomicroscopy to diagnose diabetic macular edema. to establish a screening and treatment method for fovea-threatening diabetic macular edema (dme) using spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (sd-oct). biomarkers that predict future visual acuity (va) in eyes with baseline diabetic macular edema (dme) would substantively improve risk assessment, management decisions, and selection of eyes for clinical studies targeting dme. to evaluate the efficacy of a computerized color vision testing (arden color contrast test) as a screening test for detection of diabetic macular edema (dme). a consecutive, prospective case series of 83 eyes of 42 diabetic patients with and without macular edema was enrolled. macular edema was assessed clinically by stereoscopic grading and by central retinal thickness measurement with optical coherence tomography (oct). optical coherence tomography angiography (oct-a) has recently improved the ability to detect subclinical and early clinically visible microvascular changes occurring in patients with diabetes mellitus (dm). dme detection in optical coherence tomography (oct) image contributes to the early diagnosis of diabetic retinopathy and blindness prevention. ",
 'Does the treatment of diabetes-related retinal diseases by injection of VEGF inhibitors provide an advantage compared to conventional laser treatment? [SEP] despite all research efforts, the primary treatment options remain laser photocoagulation and anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) intravitreal injections, both aggressive and targeting the late stages of the disease. the disease therapy with anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) agents gives some positive results, but is associated with retinal ischemia and vasoconstriction. the involvement of vegf in pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy is well established, but there is lack of data regarding angiogenin in retinopathy. in addition to laser photocoagulation therapy, intraocular injections of antivascular endothelial growth factor drugs have contributed to the treatment of these disease conditions. in practice, laser therapy remains the standard treatment for diabetic patients with significantly reduced visual acuity due to macular oedema. the aim of this study was to determine the efficacy of the intravitreal vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) inhibitor application alone or combined with macular focal/grid lasephotocoagulation compared with laser treatment alone. the dme treatment included intravitreal vegf inhibitor bevacizumab (avasting) application, with and without laser treatment. the goal of this study was to evaluate the potential protective effects of an intravitreally injected vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) inhibitor (ranibizumab) on retinal cells in an ischemia animal model via immunohistochemistry (if) and quantitative real-time pcr (pcr). diabetic maculopathy can be treated with intravitreal injection of vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) inhibitors. retinal fixation was studied in 29 patients with diabetic macular\xa0oedema before three monthly anti-vegf injections, and 1 and 4\xa0months after the last injection. ',
 'Do saw palmetto preparations help with benign prostate enlargement? [SEP] extracts of the saw palmetto berry are used by many men in the united states as self-treatment for lower urinary tract symptoms due to benign prostatic hyperplasia. saw palmetto is an herbal product used in the treatment of symptoms related to benign prostatic hyperplasia. studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of saw palmetto in reducing symptoms associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia. saw palmetto supplements are one of the most commonly consumed supplements by men with prostate cancer and/or benign prostatic hyperplasia (bph). saw palmetto is a frequently used botanical agent in benign prostatic enlargement (bph). preparations containing saw palmetto extracts are used in traditional medicine to treat benign prostatic hyperplasia. the saw palmetto for treatment of enlarged prostates (step) study was a randomized clinical trial performed among 225 men with moderate-to-severe symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia, comparing a standardized extract of the saw palmetto berry (160 mg twice daily) with a placebo over a 1-year period. saw palmetto (serenoa repens) is the most commonly used herbal preparation in the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia. saw palmetto is an herb used to treat the symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia. to evaluate whether saw palmetto supplements are associated with a reduced risk of prostate cancer, we conducted a prospective cohort study of 35,171 men aged 50-76 yr in western washington state. ',
 'Do plant extracts of African plum tree, beta-sitosterol or ryegrass pollen extract (Cernilton) help benign prostate enlargement? [SEP] epilobium species have been traditionally used as medicinal plants to treat benign prostate hyperplasia. we examined the available data from clinical trials for certain botanicals used for lower urinary tract symptoms secondary to benign prostatic hyperplasia, including serenoa repens (saw palmetto), pygeum africanum (african plum), secale cereale (rye pollen) and hypoxis rooperi (south african star grass). epilobium angustifolium l. herbs are used in ethnomedicine to treat benign prostate hyperplasia. prunus africana--an evergreen tree found in afromontane forests--is used in traditional medicine to cure benign prostate hyperplasia. are commonly used in traditional medicine in the treatment of early stages of benign prostatic hyperplasia and inflammation. we have thus focused our attention on a complex comparative investigation of the in vitro and in vivo activities of phytochemically characterized epilobium angustifolium aqueous extract and oenothein b on prostate cancer cells proliferation.incubation of different cell lines with e. angustifolium aqueous extract resulted in a significant reduction of proliferation of pz-hpv-7 and lncap cells, which was partly associated with antiandrogenic activity. oral supplementation of rats implanted with lncap cells with e. angustifolium aqueous extract 50-200\u2009mg/kg b.\u200aw. resulted in a reduction of the occurrence of prostatic adenoma up to 13\u200a%. accordingly, we examined the effectiveness of a combination of natural products (cernitin, saw palmetto, b-sitosterol, vitamin e) in treating symptoms of bph. when taken for 3 months, a combination of natural products (cernitin, saw palmetto, b-sitosterol, vitamin e) compared to placebo can significantly lessen nocturia and frequency and diminish overall symptomatology of bph as indicated by an improvement in the total aua symptom index score. among plant-based products, the extracts of epilobium angustifolium l. (eaes) could improve bph symptoms thanks to the presence of ellagitannins and their anti-inflammatory metabolites, urolithins. ',
 'Does not wearing bras provide medical benefits? [SEP] several psychosocial and physical capacity impediments to exercise have been investigated, but no study has systematically investigated whether bras impede breast cancer patients from exercising. this study aimed to assess the extent to which exercise-induced breast pain and bra discomfort were reported by women living with breast cancer and whether this breast pain and bra discomfort impeded these women from participating in physical activity. when analyzed according to mean score, "bra discomfort" ranked as the fourth highest barrier to exercise behind a lack of self-discipline, procrastination, and fatigued by exercise. a significant 70.3% of the sample (p < 0.001) reported experiencing bra discomfort during exercise. this study has clearly established that bra discomfort, particularly bra band tightness, is a barrier to participating in physical activity for women living with a breast cancer diagnosis. to further encourage exercise in women living with a diagnosis of breast cancer, potential barriers to exercise, such as inadequate bra design, need to be modified to enable these women to enjoy the health benefits of exercising in comfort. ill-fitting bras and insufficient breast support can lead to the development of musculoskeletal pain and inhibit women participating in physical activity. eighty-five percent of the participants were found to be wearing ill-fitting bras and the bra sizes determined by self-selection or using bra-sizing measurement systems were significantly different to the correct bra size (p<0.001). education of professional bra fitting criteria may offer medical practitioners and allied health professionals a simple strategy to improve the ability of their female patients to independently choose a well-fitted bra. brace treatment has served as a vital non-surgical procedure for immature adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (ais) patients with a mild or moderate curve. ',
 'Are there medical benefits to wearing a bra? [SEP] given the abundance of brassieres, manufacturers, and investigations of bras, it remains unclear whether the continued development of bras will provide many additional improvements in support. the new style bra significantly reduced vertical breast displacement and acceleration more consistently than other bras. when significant differences between bras were detected, the newer bra provided 31% greater reduction in vertical displacements and accelerations on average than other bras. additional investigation is required to examine the mechanistic reasons why bras improve comfort and potentially performance. despite the widespread use of bras among u.s. women and concerns in the lay media that bra wearing may increase breast cancer risk, there is a scarcity of credible scientific studies addressing this issue. the goal of the study was to evaluate the relationship between various bra-wearing habits and breast cancer risk among postmenopausal women. no aspect of bra wearing, including bra cup size, recency, average number of hours/day worn, wearing a bra with an underwire, or age first began regularly wearing a bra, was associated with risks of either idc or ilc. our results did not support an association between bra wearing and increased breast cancer risk among postmenopausal women. the aim of this study was to investigate whether a sports bra designed to both elevate and compress the breasts could decrease exercise-induced breast discomfort and bra fit discomfort experienced by women with large breasts relative to a standard encapsulation sports bra. the design features of greater breast elevation and compression provided significantly increased breast and bra comfort compared with a standard encapsulation sports bra during physical activity for women with large breasts. ',
 "Can oral vein products containing herbal active ingredients such as rutosides, hidrosmin, diosmin, extracts of horse chestnut seed and pine bark, Centella asiatica or grape seed extract or the synthetic substances calcium dobesilate or aminaftone relieve symptoms such as itching, restless or swollen legs, pain and cramps in people suffering from varicose veins or chronic venous insufficiency? [SEP] an increasing number of patients are taking herbal medicines such as echinacea, garlic, ginkgo biloba, ginseng, st john's wort, valerian, ephedra, kava, grapefruit juice and ginger. botanical and cosmeceutical therapies are commonly used to treat symptoms of rosacea such as facial erythema, papules/pustule counts, and telangiectasia. these products may contain plant extracts, phytochemicals, and herbal formulations. extracts of ruscus aculeatus are a rich source of bioactive steroidal glycosides, such as ruscogenins which are reported to act against chronic venous disorders. valerian preparations alone or in combination with hops are popular over-the-counter products used for sleep disturbances or anxiety. since rosacea is a chronic disease and many patients find prescription therapies unsatisfactory, they frequently turn to herbal ingredients for relief of their persistent facial redness. the most useful and frequently used herbal compounds include licorice, feverfew, green tea, oatmeal, lavender, chamomile, tea tree oil, and camphor oil. examples of these include ginkgo biloba, echinacea, ginseng, grape seed, green tea, lemon, lavender, rosemary, thuja, sarsaparilla, soy, prickly pear, sagebrush, jojoba, aloe vera, allantoin, feverwort, bloodroot, apache plume, and papaya. in fact, linalool, a monoterpene alcohol found in lavender extracts, has been found to attenuate pain responses via subcutaneous, intraperitoneal, intrathecal, and oral administration. herbal products with effects on coagulation when given alone were also documented. ",
 'Do vein preparations for external use help with varicose veins or chronic venous insufficiency? [SEP] patients may seek treatment of these varices for both medical and cosmetic purposes. varicose veins (vvs) are a common venous disease of the lower extremity characterized by incompetent valves, venous reflux, and dilated and tortuous veins. the objective of this study was to analyze whether compression stocking therapy in the human varicose vein wall may change the levels of biomarkers associated with vein insufficiency. lower limb varicose veins are the main cause of chronic venous insufficiency, and the classic treatment includes surgery and compressive therapy. minimally invasive alternative treatments for varicose veins include new techniques such as venous thermal ablation using laser or radiofrequency. sclerotherapy is very useful to treat varicose veins, and probably, is cheaper than other methods. sclerotherapy is best used for dilated superficial or residual varicose veins, recurrent varicosities or leg perforators. the implant of this vein in varicose veins has significant advantages over the conventional treatment methods. these microchannels can be inserted into varicose veins as a replacement to maintain the excellent blood flow in human legs. it has been suggested that venotonic drugs relieve the symptoms of chronic venous insufficiency by decreasing capillary leakage and improving venous tone. ',
 'Do milk or dairy products promote bladder cancer? [SEP] inconsistent associations between milk and other dairy product consumption and bladder cancer (bc) have been reported. observational studies have shown that milk consumption is inversely associated with colorectal, bladder, and breast cancer risk, but positively associated with prostate cancer. we investigated the potential causal associations of milk consumption with the risk of colorectal, bladder, breast, and prostate cancer using a genetic variant near the lct gene as proxy for milk consumption. there was no overall association of genetically predicted milk consumption with bladder (or 0.99; 95% ci 0.94-1.05; p\u2009=\u20090.836), breast (or 1.01; 95% ci 1.00-1.02; p\u2009=\u20090.113), and prostate cancer (or 1.01; 95% ci 0.99-1.02; p\u2009=\u20090.389), but a positive association with prostate cancer was observed in the finngen consortium (or 1.07; 95% ci 1.01-1.13; p\u2009=\u20090.026). there was no or limited evidence that milk consumption affects the risk of bladder, breast, and prostate cancer. we aimed to examine the association between the intake of cultured milk and other dairy foods and the incidence of bladder cancer in a prospective, population-based cohort. total dairy intake was not significantly associated with risk of bladder cancer [> or =7.0 servings/d compared with < 3.5 servings/d: multivariate rate ratio (rr) = 0.87; 95% ci: 0.66, 1.15; p for trend = 0.33]. the intake of milk or cheese was not associated with bladder cancer risk. these findings suggest that a high intake of cultured milk may lower the risk of developing bladder cancer. dairy foods and their constituents (lactose and calcium) have been hypothesized to promote ovarian carcinogenesis. ',
 'Do milk or dairy products promote prostate cancer? [SEP] high-fat dairy, particularly whole milk, in healthy men may increase risk of aggressive prostate cancer. dietary choices may play an important role in developing prostate cancer; in particular, a higher dairy product intake has been associated with an increased risk of developing prostate cancer. the overall positive association between milk consumption and the risk of prostate cancer development and prostate cancer mortality has been well documented in multiple epidemiological studies. further experimental research may be necessary to examine the relationship between dairy and dairy products consumption and the increased risk of development of prostate cancer. in this manuscript, we sought to systematically review the existing literature on the association between milk consumption classified by fat content, and the risk of developing prostate cancer. previous studies have associated higher milk intake with greater prostate cancer (pca) incidence, but little data are available concerning milk types and the relation between milk intake and risk of fatal pca. high intake of dairy products is associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer. epidemiological studies suggested that milk consumption is probably as one of the risk factors for prostate cancer. higher milk intake has been relatively consistently associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer, especially advanced prostate cancer. this is the first larger prospective study investigating the relation between postdiagnostic milk and dairy intake and risk of lethal prostate cancer. ',
 'Do green tea products provide effective and safe support for weight loss? [SEP] different outcomes of the effect of green tea on weight loss (wl) and weight maintenance (wm) have been reported in studies with subjects differing in ethnicity and habitual caffeine intake. to elucidate by meta-analysis whether green tea indeed has a function in body weight regulation. green tea and (-)-epigallocatechin-3-gallate (egcg) have been studied for their obesity-related health effects. habitual green tea consumption has long been associated with health benefits including chemoprevention and cardiovascular protection. green tea and its major polyphenol epigallocatechin-3-o-gallate (egcg) have suppressive effect on dietary obesity. in the present study, we investigated whether anti-obesity effect of green tea differs depending on composition of fats or fatty acids that consist high-fat (hf) diet in mouse model. green tea extract (gte) intake dramatically suppressed weight gain and fat accumulation induced by olive oil-based hf diet, whereas the effects on those induced by beef tallow-based hf diet were weak. beneficial effects of green tea (camellia sinensis, theaceae) extracts against obesity have been reported; however, the anti-obesity ability of the major components of green tea, polysaccharides, polyphenols and caffeine is not clear. the results indicated that polyphenols and polysaccharides were responsible for the suppressive effect of green tea extracts on body weight increase and fat accumulation. green tea extracts, of which egcg is a key constituent, have been used for weight loss in humans. ',
 "Can monk's pepper help with cycle disorders? [SEP] one of the spice long pepper has been traditionally used to treat chronic bronchitis, asthma, constipation, gonorrhea, paralysis of the tongue, diarrhea, cholera, malaria, viral hepatitis, respiratory infections, stomach ache, diseases of the spleen, cough, and tumors. pepper (capsicum annuum) contains high levels of antioxidants, such as vitamins a and c and flavonoids. chilli peppers have been shown to enhance diet-induced thermogenesis (dit) and reduce energy intake (ei) in some studies, but there are few data on other pungent spices. the primary aim of the present study was to test the acute effects of black pepper (pepper), ginger, horseradish and mustard in a meal on 4 h postprandial dit. it seems that in conditions that favour an increase in daytime sleepiness, peppermint oil can indeed reduce sleepiness. the plant mentha spicata, or peppermint, is commonly used in the treatment of loss of appetite, common cold, bronchitis, sinusitis, fever, nausea and vomiting, and indigestion as a herbal agent. as a common kind of food, pepper is well known for its special effects on the physiological state of human individuals. mice fed a high fat diet (hfd) were orally treated with an extract from these peppers (cae) (1, 10 and 25\xa0mg/kg/day). these effects were associated with a modulation of the intestinal microbiome, which appears altered conclusions: the extract could be considered a new potential approach for the treatment of obesity, complementary to dietary restrictions. in this article, we reviewed the state of knowledge of general aspects of chili pepper carotenoids (biosynthesis pathway, types and content in capsicum spp., and the effects of processing on carotenoid content) and recent findings on the effects of carotenoid nutraceuticals, such as antioxidant, cancer preventive, anti-inflammatory, cardiovascular disorder preventive, and anti-obesity effects. ",
 'Does brisk walking lower mortality? Is some exercise better than none at all? [SEP] brisk walking has been identified as an activity suited to meet american college of sport medicine/centers for disease control and prevention recommendations for moderate intensity exercise (55-69% hr(max), 40-59% vo(2)r). instructing individuals to "walk briskly" prompts more vigorous activity. however, it remains unclear whether or not brisk walking is of a sufficient intensity to improve aerobic fitness in this population. these findings suggest that brisk walking is of a sufficient intensity to elicit a thr in all but the most highly fit patients with coronary disease. they suggest that walking is an almost ideal activity in light of recent findings about the health benefits of lifelong exercise. brisk walking and a greater muscle strength have been associated with a longer life; whether these associations are influenced by other lifestyle behaviours, however, is less well known. brisk walkers had a survival advantage over slow walkers, irrespective of the degree of engagement in other lifestyle behaviours, except for smoking. estimated 10-year survival was higher in brisk walkers who otherwise engaged in an unhealthy lifestyle compared to slow walkers who engaged in an otherwise healthy lifestyle: 97.1% (95% confidence interval: 96.9-97.3) vs 95.0% (94.6-95.4) in women; 94.8% (94.7-95.0) vs 93.7% (93.3-94.2) in men. body mass index modified the association between walking pace and survival in men, with the largest survival benefits of brisk walking observed in underweight participants. except for smoking, brisk walkers with an otherwise unhealthy lifestyle have a lower mortality risk than slow walkers with an otherwise healthy lifestyle. ',
 'Can arthroscopy reduce pain or improve mobility? [SEP] arthroscopy is a less invasive alternative and can provide a precise diagnosis of early osteoarthritis or cartilage injury. less understood is whether arthroscopic treatment, compared to open surgery, can result in effective management of pain, loss of range of motion, and return athletes to previous levels of activity. while arthroscopy is not a "cure" for osteoarthritis, arthroscopic and related surgery is of significant benefit to many patients with intra-articular pathology including osteoarthritis and articular cartilage disease. there are degrees of osteoarthritis severity, and arthroscopy is more effective in combination with additional procedures in younger patients, in more active patients, and in patients with less severe disease, or smaller lesions. the purpose of this study was to determine the utility of adjuvant wrist arthroscopy and whether a diagnostic benefit is observed during treatment. when considering arthroscopic surgery for treatment of hip pain, it is important to understand the influence of joint degeneration on the likelihood of success. previous research has shown poorer outcomes among patients with osteoarthritis but new arthroscopic techniques including femoroacetabular impingement correction and microfracture may lead to better arthroscopic outcomes. patients with knee pain as a result of osteoarthritis or degenerative meniscal injury may seek treatment through arthroscopic surgery. how effective arthroscopic debridement with or without meniscectomy is for relieving pain and improving patients\' functional outcomes is uncertain. low-quality evidence showed no statistically significant difference in pain or functional status between patients who received arthroscopic treatment versus usual care (e.g., physical therapy). ',
 'Do health benefits increase with duration and intensity of exercise? [SEP] many of the exercise-related health benefits exhibit a dose-response relationship: up to a point, more exercise is more beneficial. however, recent studies have suggested that different exercise intensities may provide distinct health benefits, independent of energy expenditure (i.e., exercise dose). this study addresses whether the combination of endurance (ed) and resistance training in older men have supplementary health-related benefits in addition to profits attained through endurance training alone. the capacity for human exercise performance can be enhanced with prolonged exercise training, whether it is endurance- or strength-based. objectives: this study determined whether a moderate- or high-dose exercise program increases exercise reinforcement. regular participation in endurance activities has been shown to result in structural and functional changes in the heart. a growing body of evidence suggests that exercise training with low-volume but high-intensity may be a time-efficient means to achieve health benefits. exercise of moderate intensity also promotes health, and many u.s. adults may be experiencing the health benefits of exercise through lifestyle activities of moderate intensity, such as yard work, housework, or walking for transportation. an abundance of epidemiological research confirms the benefits of physical activity in reducing risk of various age-related morbidities and all-cause mortality. analysis of the literature focusing on key exercise variables (e.g., intensity, type, and volume) suggests that the requisite beneficial amount of activity is that which engenders improved cardiorespiratory fitness, strength, power, and, indirectly, balance. ']
