0-dimensional biomaterials lack inductive properties. [SEP] the 3d printed metallic implants are considered bioinert in nature because of the absence of bioactive molecules. the inability of biomaterial scaffolds to functionally integrate into surrounding tissue is one of the major roadblocks to developing new biomaterials and tissue-engineering scaffolds. we propose a model whereby excessive tension generated by cells in contact to biomaterials may in fact render fibronectin fibrils nonangiogenic and potentially inhibit vascularization. the model could explain why current biomaterials independent of their surface chemistries and textures fail to vascularize. as of yet, these scaffolds cannot electrically probe the physicochemical and biological microenvironments throughout their 3d and macroporous interior, although this capability could have a marked impact in both electronics and biomaterials. here, we address this challenge using macroporous, flexible and free-standing nanowire nanoelectronic scaffolds (nanoes), and their hybrids with synthetic or natural biomaterials. furthermore, we show the integrated sensory capability of the nanoes by real-time monitoring of the local electrical activity within 3d nanoes/cardiomyocyte constructs, the response of 3d-nanoes-based neural and cardiac tissue models to drugs, and distinct ph changes inside and outside tubular vascular smooth muscle constructs. due to the difficulty in fabricating bioceramic scaffolds with smaller pore sizes by the current 3d printing technique, the effect of smaller pore sizes (below 400 µm) of 3d printed bioceramic scaffolds on the bone regeneration and biomechanical behavior is never studied. nanosilicate (nsi) has shown to be a promising biomaterial, due to its unique properties such as excellent biocompatibility, degrade into nontoxic products, and with osteoinductive properties, which has been used in bone bioprinting. to date, naturally derived biomaterials are rarely used in advanced tissue engineering (te) methods despite their superior biocompatibility. 
1 in 5 million in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. [SEP] the prion diseases are a family of rare neurodegenerative disorders that result from the accumulation of a misfolded isoform of the prion protein (prp), a normal constituent of the neuronal membrane. although the vast majority of cases are sporadic, 10% to 15% result from an autosomal dominant mutation of the prp gene (prnp). several mutations in the prion protein (prp) gene are associated with familial creutzfeldt-jakob disease (fcjd). the proband and some descendants of the affected members carried an abnormal prp gene allele. the human prion protein (prp) has five copies of an octapeptide repeat (or). the mutant prp with 6-14 or causes the genetic form of creutzfeldt-jakob disease (cjd). the e200k mutation in the prion protein (prp) gene (prnp) is the most frequent cause of familial cjd. normal prp protein contains five copies of a repeating eight-amino acid region, and prp molecules with six or more copies of this region are associated with disease in familial cjd. it has been hypothesized that these mutations might facilitate spontaneous formation of the abnormal, aggregated protease-resistant prp isoform, prp-res, associated with clinical cjd and other transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (tse). paget's disease of bone is a relatively common condition in the uk affecting up to 5% of the population over the age of 55 years with particularly high prevalence in the north west of england. 
1-1% of colorectal cancer patients are diagnosed with regional or distant metastases. [SEP] despite good outcomes for many, a substantial group of patients undergoing metastasectomy for isolated liver metastases from colorectal cancer (crc) experience early recurrence. every year, approximately 1.2 million cases of colorectal carcinoma (crc) are newly diagnosed worldwide. colorectal cancer (crc) accounts for 9.7% of all cancers with 1.4 million new cases diagnosed each year. metastatic disease of colon and rectal carcinoma accounts for a high proportion of cancer related deaths. furthermore, about 10-15% of patients develop distant metastases. the occurrence of cutaneous metastasis from colorectal cancer is rare, with a reported frequency of less than 4 to 5 percent. metastases from adenocarcinoma of the colon-rectum usually occur within two years of resection of the primary tumour, and the average survival of a patient with cutaneous metastasis has been reported as ranging from 3 to 18 months. despite improvements in therapy of colorectal cancer, some patients will present occurrence of recurrence either locally or distantly. colorectal cancer (crc) is one of the most common malignancies worldwide, with common sites of metastases including abdominal lymph nodes, the liver and lungs. the present study reported a patient with advanced colorectal cancer and metastatic colorectal cancer (mcrc) with atypical metastases presentation. 
10% of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) deaths happen in newborns aged less than 6 months. [SEP] the sudden infant death syndrome (sids) is responsible for the death of 10,000 infants annually in the u.s.a. approximately 10% of newborns are born prematurely. every day, 10 otherwise healthy infants die from sleep-related deaths in the united states. sudden infant death syndrome (sids), the leading cause of infant death from one to six months in the developed world, strikes approximately two infants per 1000 live births in the u.s. according to the centers for disease control and prevention in 2010, more than 2,000 u.s. infants died from sids. despite witnessing a significant decrease in deaths by sids due to awareness campaigns and medical advancements, sids remains the leading cause of infant mortality in western countries, accounting for half of all postnatal deaths. sudden infant death syndrome (sids) is always a devastating and unexpected occurrence. sids is the leading cause of death in the first 6 months after birth in the industrialized world. of these, eight million are infants, half of whom are newborns in their first month of life. a high proportion of babies die in their first month of life, many of them during their first week. 
32% of liver transplantation programs required patients to discontinue methadone treatment in 2001. [SEP] the product license of buprenorphine/naloxone for opioid substitution therapy indicates reducing methadone concentrations to 30 mg or less per day for a minimum of 1 week before transferring patients to buprenorphine and no sooner than 24 hours after the last methadone dose, because of the risk of precipitated withdrawal and a corresponding high risk of relapse to opioid use. six of seven patients on 60-120 mg/day of methadone successfully completed the transfer, and four cases tested negative for opiates at long-term follow-up (6-15 months). a number of u.s. transplant centers require cirrhotics who are using methadone to discontinue it before proceeding with olt. a retrospective chart review of 36 subjects on methadone maintenance treatment (mmt), and off heroin, at the time of olt was performed. methadone maintenance therapy is often terminated at the time of incarceration, with inmates forced to withdraw from this evidence-based therapy. we assessed whether these forced withdrawal policies deter opioid-dependent individuals in the community from engaging methadone maintenance therapy in two states that routinely force inmates to withdraw from methadone (n = 205). nearly half of all participants reported that concern regarding forced methadone withdrawal during incarceration deterred them engaging methadone maintenance therapy in the community. participants in the state where more severe methadone withdrawal procedures are used during incarceration were more likely to report concern regarding forced withdrawal as a treatment deterrent. counselling (formerly mandatory) became optional, patients were retained in treatment despite continued illicit drug use, the ceiling on methadone doses was removed, patient input became a part of methadone prescribing and the number of patients in treatment more than doubled. this paper reports on a stepdown maintenance contingency and 1-year follow-up in 110 patients who were maintained on methadone (50 or 70 mg/day) and who had completed a contingency management trial targeted to decreasing their opiate use. 
4-PBA treatment decreases endoplasmic reticulum stress in response to general endoplasmic reticulum stress markers. [SEP] endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress is implicated in chronic kidney disease (ckd) development in patients and in animal models. here we show that er stress inhibition through 4-phenylbutyric acid (4-pba) administration decreases blood pressure, albuminuria, and tubular casts in an angiotensin ii/deoxycorticosterone acetate/salt murine model of ckd. 4-pba decreased renal interstitial fibrosis, renal cd3+ t-cell and macrophage infiltration, mrna expression of tgfβ1, wnt signaling molecules, and er stress-induced pro-inflammatory genes. the role of endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress in cardiovascular disease is now recognized. we investigated the role of endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress response and p38 mapk pathways in the resistance of gastric cancer cells to chemotherapy. endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress is known to reduce invasiveness in some cancer cells by inhibiting the akt/mtor pathway. endoplasmic reticulum stress (ers) is an evolutionarily conserved cell stress response. we report the first observation that endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress and the unfolded protein response (upr) can decrease when a central nervous system drug acts as an intracellular pharmacological chaperone for its classic receptor. it has been suggested that endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress facilitates fibrotic remodeling. following endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress, which occurs via inhibition of the glycosylation of newly synthesized proteins, caspase family proteins are activated to promote er stress-mediated apoptosis. 
4-PBA treatment raises endoplasmic reticulum stress in response to general endoplasmic reticulum stress markers. [SEP] endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress and its consequent activation of the unfolded protein response (upr) signaling pathway have been implicated in several pathophysiologic disorders as well as in drug resistance to treatment of tumors. pressure overload stimulation is known to elicit disturbances in the endoplasmic reticulum (er), which leads to er stress (ers). several micro-environmental and cell-intrinsic stimuli cause tumor cells to undergo endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress in vivo. endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress is associated with chronic pulmonary inflammatory diseases. here we suggest that endoplasmic reticulum (er)-stress may be induced following aberrant rhodopsin accumulation in photoreceptors in explanted rat retinas. endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress is triggered by perturbations in er function such as those caused by protein misfolding or by increases in protein secretion. endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress is a causative factor of inflammatory bowel diseases. accumulation of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (er) causes er overload, resulting in er stress. the disruption of endoplasmic reticulum function leads to an accumulation of unfolded proteins, which results in endoplasmic reticulum stress. endoplasmic reticulum stress increased glucose-regulated protein 78 (grp78) and ccaat/enhancer-binding protein homologous protein (chop) expressions in glial cell cultures. 
40mg/day dosage of folic acid and 2mg/day dosage of vitamin B12 does not affect chronic kidney disease (CKD) progression. [SEP] pharmacologic doses of folic acid are commonly used to reduce the hyperhomocysteinemia of end-stage renal disease (esrd). vitamin b12 acts at the same metabolic locus as folic acid, but information is lacking about the specific effects of high doses of this vitamin on homocysteine levels in renal failure. we therefore compared the plasma homocysteine concentrations of maintenance hemodialysis patients in two mcgill university-affiliated urban tertiary-care medical centers that differed in the use of vitamin b12 and folic acid therapy. patients in the first hemodialysis unit are routinely prescribed high-dose folic acid (hi-f, 6 mg/d), whereas those in the second unit receive high-dose vitamin b12 in the form of a monthly 1-mg intravenous injection, along with conventional oral folic acid (hi-b12, 1 mg/d). folic acid and vitamin b12 nutritional status was examined in a group of 270 healthy elderly individuals using both dietary and biochemical measures. of these 40 per cent had dietary intakes of folic acid that were less than half the recommended dietary allowance of 400 micrograms/day, and 13 per cent had intakes of less than half the recommended dietary allowance for vitamin b12 (3 micrograms/day). the correlations of intakes of folic acid and vitamin b12 with plasma or erythrocyte levels were moderate (about 0.5). the mild fasting hyperhomocysteinemia commonly observed in chronic (ie, >/=6 months posttransplantation) renal transplant recipients (rtrs) can be effectively treated with combined b-vitamin supplementation featuring supraphysiological doses of folic acid. we block-randomized 60 chronic, stable rtrs on the basis of their screening fasting thcy level to 3 groups of 20 subjects treated for 12 weeks with folic acid at either 2.4 (group 1), 0.4 (ie, standard multivitamin dose) (group 2), or 0.0 (group 3) mg/d. we conclude that a supraphysiological dose of folic acid is superior to standard multivitamin dosing for the reduction of fasting thcy levels in chronic rtrs. 
5'-nucleotidase metabolizes 6MP. [SEP] 5-hydroxymethylcytosine ((5-home)dc) was recently discovered as the sixth base in the mammalian genome. cytosolic 5'-nucleotidase ii (cn-ii) is an intracellular 5'-nucleotidase characterized by substrate specificity. 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmc), converted from 5-methylcytosine (5mc) by ten-eleven translocation (tet) enzymes, has recently drawn attention as the "sixth base" of dna since it is considered an intermediate of the demethylation pathway. r5p is the precursor for the biosynthesis of nucleotides while nadph is the cofactor of several dehydrogenases acting in a broad range of biosynthetic processes and in the maintenance of the cellular redox state. 5'nucleotidase is a purine pathway enzyme and is present in two forms. cytoplasmic 5'nucleotidase (cyto 5'nt) catalyzes the intracellular degradation of purine nucleotides into their corresponding nucleosides. leukemic cells are resistant to 6-mp because of the breakdown of the toxic nucleotide form of 6-mp into the nucleoside form by cyto-5'nt. cytosolic 5'-nucleotidase/phosphotransferase specific for 6-hydroxypurine monophosphate derivatives (cn-ii), belongs to a class of phosphohydrolases that act through the formation of an enzyme-phosphate intermediate. these findings were consistent with data already determined for p-type atpases, haloacid dehalogenases and phosphotransferases, thus suggesting that cn-ii and other mammalian 5'-nucleotidases are characterized by a 3d arrangement related to the 2-haloacid dehalogenase superfold. the most potent low molecular weight inhibitors of pancreatic rnase superfamily enzymes reported to date are synthetic derivatives of adenosine 5(')-pyrophosphate. 
50% of patients exposed to radiation have activated markers of mesenchymal stem cells. [SEP] approximately 50% of all american cancer patients are treated with radiotherapy at some time during the course of their disease, making radiation one of the most widely used cytotoxic therapies. recently, we published a research article on gene expression profiling of tumor-associated macrophages (tam) that were exposed to ionizing radiation (ir). we established a murine model irradiated with a single dose of 25 gy that could initiate temporal changes in the expression of mirnas associated with cell proliferation and the immune response, as evidenced by macrophages directly extracted from irradiated tumors after two weeks of ir. approximately 50% of all patients with cancer receive radiation therapy at some point during the course of their treatment, and the majority of these patients are treated with curative intent. here, we review efforts to develop approaches that could improve outcomes with radiation therapy by increasing the probability of tumour cure or by decreasing normal tissue toxicity. approximately 50% of all cancer patients will receive some form of radiation therapy as part of their treatment regimen. surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy have been applied to the curative therapy of 50% of cancer patients in the united states during the past 100 years. approximately 50% of all patients with cancer receive radiotherapy (rt) at some point during their treatment. patients received external radiation 50 gy in 25 fractions over 5 weeks with weekly cisplatin. about 50,000 hematopoietic stem cell transplantations are performed yearly, primarily for malignancies. 
53% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. [SEP] retrospective analysis of prospectively collected data from 5364 infants with a birthweight of 501 to 1000 g born at national institute of child health and human development (nichd) neonatal research network centers from 1995 to 1998. the immature neonate constitutes less than 3% of total births and yet accounts for almost 50% of all perinatal deaths. complications of preterm birth are the leading cause of death among newborns. in this 20-year period, the infant mortality risk (imr) for single-delivery infants declined 53 percent, from 23.3 deaths per 1,000 live births to 11.0; 91 percent of this decline was due to lower imrs within birth weight categories, and 9 percent was due to reduced frequency of low birth weight. the greatest reduction in neonatal mortality (under 28 days)--73 percent--occurred among infants of 1,500-1,999 grams (g) birth weight, whereas the greatest reductions in postneonatal mortality (28 days to under 1 year)--51 percent to 54 percent--occurred among infants of 3,500 g or more birth weight. reducing the number of low birth weight infants remains the greatest potential for future reductions in infant mortality. almost fifty percent babies had associated perinatal risk factors. neonatal deaths now account for 47% of all deaths in children younger than 5 years globally. more than a third of newborn deaths are due to preterm birth complications, which is the leading cause of death. this retrospective study was conducted to determine whether predischarge survival and morbidity of very-low-birth weight infants varied according to the principal pregnancy complication that led to preterm delivery. 
61% of colorectal cancer patients are diagnosed with regional or distant metastases. [SEP] metastases are already clinically present in 61 per cent (+ or -2.6 per cent) of patients at presentation. colorectal cancer is a significant global health issue with over 1 million cases diagnosed annually throughout the world. 15% of patients diagnosed with colorectal cancer will have liver metastases and 60% will develop liver metastases if they have metastatic disease. oligometastatic colorectal cancer confined to the liver represents an intermediate state in the evolution of metastatic capacity that opens the opportunity for local interventions. sixty percent of patients with newly diagnosed solid tumors (excluding skin cancers other than melanoma) have clinically evident or microscopic metastases when the primary tumor is diagnosed [1]. lymph node metastasis is a decisive prognostic and therapeutic staging factor for colorectal cancer (crc), which is one of the most prevalent types of cancer and a malignant tumor. more than 60% among patients will develop liver metastases. lymph node metastases are an important prognostic prediction factor in patients with recurrent colorectal cancer, particularly those with liver metastasis. sixty of 151 patients enrolled in the neo2-14 phase iii study for recurrent colorectal cancer were diagnosed with liver metastases based on preoperative ct. 61 patients with adenocarcinoma (stage n0) were included in this study. 
7-day-old adult Caenorhabditis elegans exhibit approximately 5% of the learning capacity seen in 1-day old adults. [SEP] day 5 adult c. elegans exhibited greater vulnerability to infection as compared to day 1 c. elegans. here we show that adult wild-type caenorhabditis elegans that transiently pass through the stress-resistant dauer larval stage exhibit distinct gene expression profiles and life history traits, as compared to adult animals that bypassed this stage. we show that in caenorhabditis elegans, worms raised in isolation made smaller responses to mechanosensory stimulation and were smaller and slower to begin laying eggs than age-matched group-raised worms. together, these results indicate that the level of stimulation experienced by c. elegans during development profoundly affects the development of neuronal connectivity and has widespread cellular and behavioral consequences. approximately one-fourth of the neurons in caenorhabditis elegans adults are born during larval development, indicating tremendous plasticity in larval nervous system structure. we propose that the synaptic plasticity regulated by a developmental clock in c. elegans is analogous to synaptic plasticity regulated by the circadian clock in other species. the nematode caenorhabditis elegans is a popular model organism that is used to study longevity and aging. we utilized olfactory-mediated chemotaxis in caenorhabditis elegans to examine the effect of aging on information processing and animal behavior. the nematode worm caenorhabditis elegans can learn and remember the stimuli it encounters, the environment it is in, and its own physiological state. analyses of mutations in c. elegans that affect different aspects of experience are beginning to address the nature of learning. 
7-day-old adult Caenorhabditis elegans exhibit approximately 75% of the learning capacity seen in 1-day old adults. [SEP] here we show that adult wild-type caenorhabditis elegans that transiently pass through the stress-resistant dauer larval stage exhibit distinct gene expression profiles and life history traits, as compared to adult animals that bypassed this stage. we have asked whether the mutant form of the age-1 gene, which lengthens the life span of the nematode caenorhabditis elegans up to 70%, also affects the ability to move during this extended period of life. these findings are similar to earlier studies of movement in long-lived recombinant-inbred strains of c. elegans and imply that the physiological process altered by the age-1 mutation results in increased health during later life as monitored by increased ability to move. using the nematode caenorhabditis elegans to probe the neural mechanisms underlying behavioral maturation, we found that adults and juveniles require different combinations of sensory neurons to generate age-specific food-seeking behavior. the extensive information on the neuroanatomy, development and genetics of caenorhabditis (c.) elegans make it an ideal candidate model system for the analysis of the mechanisms underlying learning and memory. a first step in this analysis is the demonstration of the capacity of c. elegans to learn. in these experiments non-associative learning in c. elegans was investigated by observing changes in reversal reflex response amplitude to a mechanical vibratory stimulus. the results from these studies of non-associative learning show that c. elegans is capable of short-term habituation, dishabituation and sensitization, as well as long-term retention of habituation training lasting for at least 24 h. these findings set the stage for detailed developmental, genetic and physiological analyses of learning and memory. the nematode worm caenorhabditis elegans can learn and remember the stimuli it encounters, the environment it is in, and its own physiological state. analyses of mutations in c. elegans that affect different aspects of experience are beginning to address the nature of learning. 
70% of burn patients are admitted for hospitalization and further treatment after appearing at hospital emergency wards or outpatient clinics. [SEP] each year in the united states burn injuries result in more than 500,000 hospital emergency department visits and approximately 70,000 acute inpatient admissions. most burn injuries are relatively minor, and patients are discharged following outpatient treatment at the medical facility where they are first seen. of those patients with injuries serious enough to require hospitalization, about 20,000 are admitted directly or by referral to hospitals with special capabilities in the treatment of burn injury. hospitals with these service capabilities are normally termed "burn centers." a burn injury so severe that inpatient treatment is necessary is a crisis in any patient's life. seventy-five patients more than fifty years of age were admitted for treatment of burns from january 1, 1986, to december 31, 1987, to two community-hospital-based burn units. patients were managed by a team of burn surgeons at each unit and early excision and grafting was used whenever possible in deep partial-thickness and full-thickness burns. a retrospective chart review identified 707 patients transferred to an american burn association-verified burn center with an acute burn injury during a 7-year period. burn survivors tend to have complex medical issues requiring rehabilitation to improve overall function and quality of life. to compare the rehabilitation outcomes among burn patients admitted to an irf who were discharged to acute care and then readmitted to an irf with burn patients admitted to an irf only 1 time. 
76-85% of people with severe mental disorder receive no treatment in low and middle income countries. [SEP] who estimates that up to 85% of all people with a mental disorder in lics do not have access to evidence-based treatment. about 76% and 85% of people in low and middle-income countries with severe mental illness did not get management because of fear of expected discrimination. partially as a result of this shortage, approximately 85% of people with mental, neurological and substance-use disorders in low- and middle-income countries do not receive care. as one in a series of four papers on factors affecting the implementation of mental health projects in low- and middle-income countries, this paper reflects on the experiences of global mental health grantees funded by grand challenges canada, focusing on the barriers to and drivers of capacity-building. over 75% of people with mental neurological and substance use disorders (mnsd) live in low and middle-income countries with limited access to specialized care. globally, more than 70% of people with mental illness receive no treatment from health care staff. globally over 70% of young people and adults with mental illness receive no treatment from healthcare staff. the rates of non-treatment are far higher in low income countries. in low and middle-income countries, about 80% of those who need mental health services do not receive them. mental health and substance use disorders (suds) are the world's leading cause of years lived with disability; in low-and-middle income countries (limcs), the treatment gap for suds is at least 75%. 
90% of patients with melanoma and an objective response to PD-1 blockade will experience a progression in their melanoma. [SEP] anti-pd-1 targeted immunotherapies have revolutionized the treatment of advanced melanoma and other tumor entities, and long disease-free intervals have been reported in responding patients. blockade of the pd-1 receptor has revolutionized the treatment of metastatic melanoma, with significant increases in overall survival (os) and a dramatic improvement in patient quality of life. with the aim to find predictive biomarkers for pd-1 checkpoint blockade, an in-depth immune monitoring study was conducted in 36 advanced melanoma patients receiving pembrolizumab or nivolumab treatment at karolinska university hospital. anti-pd-1 immunotherapy has shown clinical benefits in improving patients' overall survival, but some melanoma patients failed to respond. treatment with anti-pd1 monoclonal antibodies improves the survival of metastatic melanoma patients but only a subgroup of patients benefits from durable disease control. immunotherapies targeting programmed cell death protein 1 (pd-1) or its ligand, programmed cell death ligand 1 (pd-l1), dramatically improve the survival of melanoma patients. immunotherapy with anti-programmed cell death-1 (pd-1) agents is an effective treatment for metastatic melanoma. records of metastatic melanoma patients aged 65-100 years treated with anti-pd-1 were collected retrospectively. aim: to determine outcomes of retreatment with anti-pd-1 monotherapy for melanoma. materials & methods: this retrospective study included adults with unresectable cutaneous melanoma who achieved stable disease (sd) or better after anti-pd-1 monotherapy and were retreated with anti-pd-1 monotherapy after ≥90-day gap. 
90% of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) deaths happen in newborns aged less than 6 months. [SEP] sudden infant death syndrome (sids), the leading cause of infant death from one to six months in the developed world, strikes approximately two infants per 1000 live births in the u.s. sudden infant death syndrome (sids) is the leading cause of mortality in infants younger than 1 year in developed countries, but its primary cause remains unknown. birth asphyxia accounts for a third of global newborn deaths and 95 percent of these occur in low-resource settings. sudden unexpected infant death (suid) in infancy which includes sudden infant death syndrome (sids) is the commonest diagnosed cause of death in the united states for infants 1 month to 1 year of age. the incidence of sudden infant death syndrome (sids) has declined substantially, but the proportion of sudden unexpected death in infancy (sudi) in neonates, <7 days old, has increased among all sudi cases in the first year of life. globally, stillbirths account for 2.7 million infant deaths each year, with the vast majority occurring in sub-saharan africa and south asia. approximately 900,000 infants die due to birth asphyxia. the diagnosis of sudden infant death syndrome (sids) is less than 100% certain in any given instance. approximately 90% of all sids have occurred by age 6 months. sudden infant death syndrome (sids) affects infants between 1 month and 1 yr of age, has no known cause, and is diagnosed by exclusion of all other causes of death. 
A 100g dose of chloroquine chemoprophylactic regimen results in retinal toxicity after 1 year of weekly intake. [SEP] the treatment regimen consisted of cisplatin 100 mg/m2 intravenously on day 1 only, cytosine arabinoside 2,000 mg/m2 intravenously on days 1 and 2, and pentoxifylline 400 mg orally three times daily beginning 7 to 14 days before the chemotherapy. dose-limiting toxicity was granulocytopenia. pentoxifylline itself caused some nausea and anorexia. we measured the electroretinogram to determine whether ocular toxicity exists in men taking oral feretinide, 100 mg daily, for prevention of adenocarcinoma of the prostate. our results indicate that men taking 100 mg of oral fenretinide per day for 1 year, with a 3 day hiatus each month, do not show toxicity -induced retinal dysfunction, as measured by the electroretinogram. incidence of grade 3/4 toxicity was as follows: mucositis 33%, dermatitis 41%, dysphagia 15%, mouth/neck pain 17%, neutropenia 2%, and renal impairment 3%. conclusion concurrent chemoradiotherapy using weekly cisplatin at 40mg/m2 per week is an effective, well tolerated regimen allowing most patients to receive at least 5 cycles of chemotherapy. the major toxicities were nausea and vomiting, (grade 3 in eight patients), stomatitis (grade 4 in two patients, grade 3 in two patients), and myelosuppression. toxicities included nausea, vomiting, neuropathy and one septic death. typical doses administrated to patients are 100 mg/day for up to five days. 
A 100g dose of chloroquine chemoprophylactic regimen results in retinal toxicity after 5-6 years of weekly intake. [SEP] typical doses administrated to patients are 100 mg/day for up to five days. chemotherapy with cisplatin plus 5-fu (pf) is widely used, but the standard dosage, pf (100/1000; cisplatin 100 mg/m(2) day 1 and 5-fu 1000 mg/m(2)/24 h by continuous intravenous infusion on days 1 through 4), is relatively toxic for palliative use, and pf (80/800; cisplatin 80 mg/m(2) day 1 and 5-fu 800 mg/m(2)/24 h by continuous intravenous infusion on days 1 through 5) is more commonly used in japan, albeit without clear comparative data. the most common chemotherapy-related grade 3 or 4 toxicities were nausea (16.6%), anorexia (40%), stomatitis (6.6%) and leukopenia (10%), all of which were manageable. the resistance of plasmodium falciparum to the chloroquine-proguanil association (c/p) as antimalarial chemoprophylaxis is becoming increasingly common in africa. we conducted a randomized group study of 522 french soldiers deployed in gabon and chad for 4 months to determine the tolerability of short-term malaria chemoprophylaxis with a 100-mg daily tablet of a monohydrate doxycycline salt compared with a daily c/p capsule. these results suggest that doxycycline monohydrate may be safely used in short-term malaria chemoprophylaxis. incidence of grade 3/4 toxicity was as follows: mucositis 33%, dermatitis 41%, dysphagia 15%, mouth/neck pain 17%, neutropenia 2%, and renal impairment 3%. conclusion concurrent chemoradiotherapy using weekly cisplatin at 40mg/m2 per week is an effective, well tolerated regimen allowing most patients to receive at least 5 cycles of chemotherapy. the major toxicities were nausea and vomiting, (grade 3 in eight patients), stomatitis (grade 4 in two patients, grade 3 in two patients), and myelosuppression. ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity continue to be the primary dose-limiting toxicities encountered. 
A T helper 2 cell (Th2) environment impedes disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). [SEP] the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) involves an acquired deficiency of the cytokine il-2, an essential growth and survival factor for regulatory t cells (treg), which play an important role in the control of autoimmunity in sle. an acquired deficiency of interleukin-2 (il-2) and related disturbances in regulatory t cell (treg) homeostasis play an important role in the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). using the (nzb × nzw) f1 mouse model of sle we studied whether intrarenal treg are affected by a shortage of il-2 in comparison with lymphatic organs and whether and how intrarenal t cells and renal inflammation can be influenced by il-2 therapy. systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) is a systemic autoimmune disease that is accompanied by the emergence of autoreactive t cells and a reduction in regulatory t cells. humans and mice with sle have reduced numbers of cd1d-restricted nk t cells, suggesting a role for these cells in the regulation of sle. lymphocyte production of transforming growth factor (tgf)-beta1 is decreased in systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). in systemic lupus erythematosus (sle), increased il-10 production by non-t cells might exert an inhibitory effect on thl cd4+ t cells which would explain the decreased t cell functions observed in these patients. forkhead box p3 (foxp3)+ regulatory t cells (tregs ) are functionally deficient in systemic lupus erythematosus (sle), characterized by reduced surface cd25 [the interleukin (il)-2 receptor alpha chain]. systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) is an autoimmune disease characterized by the emergence of autoreactive t cells. peripheral blood mononuclear cells (pbmc) from 12 patients with active sle were exposed to il-2 with or without tgf-beta for three days, washed and cultured for seven more days. 
A breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen influences treatment outcome. [SEP] the clinical outcomes of breast cancer patients treated with tamoxifen may be influenced by the activity of cytochrome p450 2d6 (cyp2d6) enzyme because tamixifen is metabolized by cyp2d6 to its active forms of antiestrogenic metabolite, 4-hydroxytamoxifen and endoxifen. inter-individual variation in tamoxifen metabolism in breast cancer patients is caused by various genetic and clinical factors. tamoxifen is a pro-drug widely used in breast cancer patients to prevent tumor recurrence. in this descriptive study, correlations were examined between concentrations of tamoxifen metabolites and genotypes for cyp2d6, cyp3a4, cyp3a5, sult1a1, sult1a2 and sult1e1 in 135 patients with estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer. tamoxifen is a drug that is often used in the clinical management of breast cancer. therefore, we aim to investigate the impact of cyp2d6 genotyping of the tamoxifen metabolizing enzymes in the clinical management of breast cancer patients. we sought to determine if genetic variability in the tamoxifen metabolic pathway influenced overall survival in breast cancer patients treated with tamoxifen. while the presence of oestrogen receptors (ers) in human breast cancer may determine the biological response to tamoxifen, the extent to which er status governs tumour tamoxifen accumulation is unclear. we investigated the intra-tumoural disposition of tamoxifen (tam) and its major metabolite n-desmethyltamoxifen (dmt) in 36 human breast carcinomas following short-term therapy. there is increasing evidence that the clinical efficacy of tamoxifen, the first and most widely used targeted therapy for estrogen-sensitive breast cancer, depends on the formation of the active metabolites 4-hydroxy-tamoxifen and 4-hydroxy-n-desmethyl-tamoxifen (endoxifen). 
A country's Vaccine Alliance (GAVI) eligibility is not indictivate of accelerated adoption of the Hub vaccine. [SEP] despite the early success demonstrated with the hepatitis b vaccine, no other recombinant engineered vaccine has been approved for use in humans. it is unlikely that a recombinant vaccine will be developed to replace an existing licensed human vaccine with a proven record of safety and efficacy. genetically engineered vaccines hold great promise for the future, but the potential of these vaccines to improve human and animal health has yet to be fully realized. hib vaccine has gradually been introduced into more and more countries during the past two decades, partly due to gavi alliance support to low-income countries. similarly, several middle-income countries have not introduced the vaccine. for vaccines used for biodefense and emerging diseases, the considerations are somewhat different as the vaccine may not be needed every year to control outbreaks and may be stockpiled only as a countermeasure that hopefully may never be needed. the study was not designed to demonstrate superiority of one vaccine over the other. nevertheless, despite more than 20 years of research efforts, only few countries, up-to-day, licensed this vaccine. notwithstanding numerous studies have indicated that the vaccine is safe, immunogenic and highly protective against severe varicella in healthy children and adults and in certain immunocompromised patients, including children with leukemia, there are some controversial aspects that could explain the lacking diffusion of the vaccine. a universal vaccine is not cost-effective when it cost $200 and when its efficacy is ≤ 50%. 
A deficiency of folate increases blood levels of homocysteine. [SEP] in subjects with hyperhomocysteinemia usually an inverse relationship exists to folic acid levels, and supplementation with folic acid is able to lower homocysteine concentrations. homocysteine is an intermediate product formed during the metabolism of methionine, and is increased in cells with folate deficiency. mechanisms underlying folate-mediated protection against the proatherosclerotic effects of homocysteine have been delineated. homozygosity for the mthfr c677t mutation and low plasma folate levels increase plasma homocyst(e)ine concentrations. low blood folate levels result in hyperhomocysteinemia, which has been associated with increased risk for cardiovascular disease, neural tube defects and cognitive deficits. the presence of the h475y gcpii allele was significantly associated with lower folate and higher homocysteine levels in this population. hereditary enzymatic deficiencies and nutritional deficiencies of folate, pyridoxine, or cobalamin are associated with elevated blood homocysteine, accelerated atherosclerosis, and manifestations of aging. deficiencies in folates either genetic (methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase, mthfr) or dietary intake of folic acid result in elevated levels of homocysteine. folate deficiency is common in many liver diseases and causes severe effects on cellular metabolism and increases oxidative stress and the homocysteine (hcy) level. dietary deficiencies of folate and other b vitamin cofactors involved in one-carbon metabolism, together with genetic polymorphisms in key folate-methionine metabolic pathway enzymes, are associated with increases in circulating plasma homocysteine, reduction in dna methylation patterns, and genome instability events. 
A deficiency of vitamin B12 decreases blood levels of homocysteine. [SEP] one of the etiologies of hyperhomocysteinemia is decreased vitamin b(12). genetic variation in the transcobalamin ii gene, the transporter of vitamin b(12) to the cells, may produce altered homocysteine levels. vitamin b12 is required in the metabolism of homocysteine. vitamin b12 deficiency has been implicated in endothelial dysfunction and cardiovascular disease via hyperhomocysteinaemia. in vivo studies show that vitamin b12 deficiency and elevated plasma homocysteine are significantly correlated with increased micronucleus formation. observational studies have shown an inverse relationship between vitamin b2 status and total homocysteine levels, a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. the decrease in total homocysteine levels after supplementation with riboflavin (10 mg/d) or folic acid (1 mg/d) for 3 weeks was compared in two groups of healthy subjects (17 per group, matched by age and gender) (phase 1). during phase 1, total homocysteine levels were lowered by 2% or 4% after supplementation with riboflavin or folic [corrected] acid, respectively, although neither decrease was statistically significant (p=0.50 and 0.19). the lack of vitamin b(12) together with vitamin b(6) and folate deficiency is closely related to homocysteine metabolism. a strong correlation between homocysteine and fnbmd (r = -0.2009, p < 0.002), trfbmd (r = -0.1810, p < 0.004) and tofbmd (r = -0.2225, p < 0.001) was found in all subjects. 
A deficiency of vitamin B6 decreases blood levels of homocysteine. [SEP] lower levels of the three water-soluble vitamins--folate (folic acid), vitamin b6 and vitamin b12--are primary determinants of high blood homocysteine levels. one of the etiologies of hyperhomocysteinemia is decreased vitamin b(12). b-vitamin therapy (folic acid, vitamin b(6), and vitamin b(12)) has been shown to lower the plasma concentration of homocysteine. plasma total homocysteine decreased by a mean (se) of 2.2 (0.4) micromol/l at 36 months in the b-vitamin group compared with a mean (se) increase of 2.6 (0.4) micromol/l in the placebo group (mean difference, -4.8; 95% ci, -6.1 to -3.7; p < .001, in favor of b vitamins). vitamin b-6 is necessary for the metabolism of homocysteine and is often used in combination with folic acid and vitamin b-12 in clinical trials that investigate whether the lowering of plasma total homocysteine (thcy) can prevent vascular disease. vitamin b12 is required in the metabolism of homocysteine. recent studies focussing on the reduction of plasma homocysteine as a risk factor for vascular disease showed that vitamin b(6) reduces plasma folate levels. these data suggest that a dose of 25 mg vitamin b(6) supplemented for 10 days reduces plasma folate but did not affect basal and postprandial homocysteine levels suggesting (1) a normal cellular availability of folate or (2) a compensation of impaired homocysteine remethylation by increased transsulfuration. b-vitamin supplementation has previously been shown to lower the concentration of plasma total homocysteine, a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. we aimed to identify if and to what extent b-vitamins lower total homocysteine and its subfractions in elderly individuals. 
A diminished ovarian reserve does not solely indicate infertility in an a priori non-infertile population. [SEP] studies of natural conception suggest that fecundity of women with a quantitative decline in ovarian reserve is similar to age-matched women with normal ovarian reserve. quantitative decline in ovarian reserve may not be necessarily accompanied by a qualitative decline. we investigated the results of ovarian reserve tests in unexplained infertility. although anti-müllerian hormone values and antral follicle count were higher than the low thresholds, a statistically significant decline of ovarian reserve in the unexplained infertility group was found in the present study. whether infertile women exhibit accelerated ovarian aging and whether a low ovarian reserve is overrepresented in infertility populations is not known. overrepresentation in infertility populations of women with low ovarian reserve may be an additional functional cause of infertility. while diminished ovarian reserve (dor) predicts decreased ovarian response to stimulation, it does not necessarily foretell about the fecundity cycle. the correlation between ovarian reserve and infertility remains unclear. do infertile patients below the age of 40 years have a lower ovarian reserve, estimated by anti-müllerian hormone (amh) and total antral follicle count (afc), than women of the same age with no history of infertility? women with an early depletion of the ovarian reserve may experience infertility as a consequence of postponement of childbearing. 
A diminished ovarian reserve is a very strong indicator of infertility, even in an a priori non-infertile population. [SEP] diminished ovarian reserve (dor) refers to the decreased production of mature ova in ovarium and decreased quality of oocyte, leading to deficiency of the female sex hormone and decreased fertility. one of the leading causes of infertility in women today is diminished ovarian reserve (dor). infertility caused by diminished ovarian reserve (dor) can result from an endocrinological imbalance. occult ovarian insufficiency is associated with infertility, impaired response to ovarian stimulation, and reduced live birth rates in women treated with assisted reproductive technologies. diminished ovarian reserve (dor) has a high morbidity rate worldwide and has become a primary cause of infertility. poor ovarian reserve (por) is an important limiting factor for the success of any treatment modality for infertility. ovarian deficiency, including diminished ovarian reserve and premature ovarian insufficiency, represents one of the main causes of female infertility. little is known of the genetic basis of diminished ovarian reserve, while premature ovarian insufficiency often has a genetic basis, with genes affecting various processes. we observed previously reported variants associated with premature ovarian insufficiency in patients with diminished ovarian reserve, highlighting a genetic relationship between these conditions. the conditions of diminished ovarian reserve and primary ovarian insufficiency, characterized by poor fertility outcomes, currently comprise a major challenge in reproductive medicine, particularly in vitro fertilization. 
A high microerythrocyte count protects against severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. [SEP] homozygous alpha-thalassemia has the beneficial effect in sickle cell anemia of reducing the hemolytic severity while changing several other hematological parameters. a recent report proposes that the increased count of microcytic and hypochromic erythrocytes in alpha(+)-thalassaemia reduces the haemoglobin decline during acute malaria and, thus, reduces the risk of anaemia. individuals homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia have microcytosis and an increased erythrocyte count. alpha(+)-thalassaemia homozygosity confers considerable protection against severe malaria, including severe malarial anaemia (sma) (hb concentration < 50 g/l), but does not influence parasite count. we tested the hypothesis that the erythrocyte indices associated with alpha(+)-thalassaemia homozygosity provide a haematological benefit during acute malaria. the increased erythrocyte count and microcytosis in children homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia may contribute substantially to their protection against sma. microcytic hypochromic anemia is a common condition in clinical practice, and alpha-thalassemia has to be considered as a differential diagnosis. increased hbf levels or f-cell (hbf containing erythrocyte) numbers can ameliorate the disease severity of beta-thalassemia major and sickle cell anemia. in hospital-based studies, alpha(+)-thalassemia has been found to protect against severe, life-threatening falciparum malaria. alpha(+)-thalassemia does not seem to prevent infection or high parasite densities but rather limits progression to severe disease--in particular, severe malarial anemia. 
A low percentage of hematopoietic progenitor cells are susceptible to HIV-1 infection ex vivo. [SEP] it has been shown that only a small fraction of cd4+ t cells are infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1) in vivo, particularly early in the course of infection. hiv-1 persists in peripheral blood monocytes in individuals receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (haart) with viral suppression, despite these cells being poorly susceptible to infection in vitro. because very few monocytes harbor hiv-1 in vivo, we considered whether a subset of monocytes might be more permissive to infection. an important question in human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) pathogenesis is whether hiv-infected bone marrow cd34+ stem/progenitor cells serve as a significant reservoir of virus in hiv-infected individuals. our data indicate that infection of bone marrow stem/progenitor cells with hiv occurs rarely, if ever, in vivo. hiv-1 is extremely specialized since, even amongst cd4(+) t lymphocytes (its major natural reservoir in peripheral blood), the virus productively infects only a small proportion of cells under an activated state. as the percentage of hiv-1-infected cells is very low, most studies have so far failed to capture the precise transcriptomic profile at the whole-genome scale of cells highly susceptible to virus infection. we suggest that asymptomatic clinical hiv-1 infection is characterized by a preponderance of hiv-1-infected peripheral blood cells blocked at an early stage of hiv-1 infection. human primary endothelial cell cultures, derived from umbilical vein (huvec), can be infected by different strains of hiv-1, but mature virus production remains undetectable both in supernatants and in cellular extracts. co-culture of huvec carrying hiv dna with activated peripheral blood mononuclear cells or with cd4-positive lymphoid cells elicited a massive cpe (syncytia formation and cell degeneration) in the latter cells, caused by the establishment of productive hiv-1 infection. 
A mutation in HNF4A leads to an increased risk of developing diabetes by the age of 14 years. [SEP] there is wide variation in the age at diagnosis of diabetes in individuals with maturity-onset diabetes of the young (mody) due to a mutation in the hnf1a gene. we hypothesized that common variants at the hnf1a locus (rs1169288 [i27l], rs1800574 [a98v]), which are associated with type 2 diabetes susceptibility, may modify age at diabetes diagnosis in individuals with hnf1a-mody. we report a robust genetic modifier of hnf1a-mody age at diagnosis that further illustrates the strong effect of genetic variation within hnf1a upon diabetes phenotype. mutations in the hnf1a gene are the most common cause of maturity-onset diabetes of the young (mody). we confirmed the effects of environmental and genetic factors known to modify the age at hnf1a-mody diagnosis, namely intrauterine hyperglycemia (-5.1 years if present, p = 1.6 x 10(-10)) and hnf1a mutation position (-5.2 years if at least two isoforms affected, p = 1.8 x 10(-2)). we show that type 2 diabetes risk variants of modest effect sizes reduce the age at diagnosis in hnf1a-mody. maturity-onset diabetes of the young (mody) comprises a heterogeneous group of monogenic forms of diabetes caused by mutations in at least 14 genes, but mostly by mutations in glucokinase (gck) and hepatocyte nuclear factor-1 homeobox a (hnf1a). 31 individuals had hnf1a mutations, 2 described for the first time in brazilian individuals. only 14% of patients with familial diabetes carry a hnf1a mutation. multiple and different genetic defects may be associated with the development of diabetes mellitus. 
A mutation in HNF4A leads to an increased risk of diabetes by the age of 14 years. [SEP] there is wide variation in the age at diagnosis of diabetes in individuals with maturity-onset diabetes of the young (mody) due to a mutation in the hnf1a gene. we hypothesized that common variants at the hnf1a locus (rs1169288 [i27l], rs1800574 [a98v]), which are associated with type 2 diabetes susceptibility, may modify age at diabetes diagnosis in individuals with hnf1a-mody. we report a robust genetic modifier of hnf1a-mody age at diagnosis that further illustrates the strong effect of genetic variation within hnf1a upon diabetes phenotype. maturity-onset diabetes of the young (mody) comprises a heterogeneous group of monogenic forms of diabetes caused by mutations in at least 14 genes, but mostly by mutations in glucokinase (gck) and hepatocyte nuclear factor-1 homeobox a (hnf1a). 31 individuals had hnf1a mutations, 2 described for the first time in brazilian individuals. only 14% of patients with familial diabetes carry a hnf1a mutation. mutations in the hnf1a gene are the most common cause of maturity-onset diabetes of the young (mody). we confirmed the effects of environmental and genetic factors known to modify the age at hnf1a-mody diagnosis, namely intrauterine hyperglycemia (-5.1 years if present, p = 1.6 x 10(-10)) and hnf1a mutation position (-5.2 years if at least two isoforms affected, p = 1.8 x 10(-2)). we show that type 2 diabetes risk variants of modest effect sizes reduce the age at diagnosis in hnf1a-mody. multiple and different genetic defects may be associated with the development of diabetes mellitus. 
A single nucleotide variant the gene DGKK is strongly associated with increased risk of hypospadias. [SEP] genetic variants in diacylglycerol kinase κ (dgkk) have been strongly associated with risk of hypospadias. the aim was to study the possible associations between polymorphic variants of the dgkk gene and hypospadias using an independent sample of the polish population. ten single nucleotide polymorphisms in dgkk, which were reported to have an impact on the risk of hypospadias in other populations, were genotyped using high-resolution melting curve analysis in a group of 166 boys with isolated anterior (66%) and middle (34%) forms of hypospadias and 285 properly matched controls without congenital anomalies. two dgkk variants rs11091748 and rs12171755 were associated with increased risk of hypospadias in the polish population. our study provides strong evidence of an association between dgkk nucleotide variants, haplotypes and hypospadias susceptibility. recent genome-wide association studies of hypospadias have implicated the role of genetic variants in or near the diacylglycerol kinase kappa (dgkk) gene. five dgkk variants previously reported as associated with hypospadias were identified in the genotype data. previous genome-wide association studies have identified variants in the diacylglycerol kinase kappa (dgkk) gene associated with hypospadias in populations of european descent. five snps (rs2211122, rs4554617, rs7058226, rs7063116, and rs5915254) in dgkk were significantly associated with hypospadias (p < 0.05), with odds ratios (ors) of 1.64-1.76. this study successfully implicated dgkk variants in hypospadias risk among a han chinese population, especially for mild/moderate cases. 
A strong bias in the phage genome locations where the spacers were derived has been observed in many CRISPR subtypes that confer the immunity to phage. [SEP] the crispr (clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats)/cas (crispr-associated) system of bacteria and archaea constitutes a mechanism of acquired adaptive immunity against phages, which is based on genome-encoded markers of previously infecting phage sequences ("spacers"). bacteria can integrate short stretches of phage-derived sequences (spacers) within crispr loci to become phage resistant. analyses of 30 bacteriophage-insensitive mutants of s. thermophilus indicate that the addition of one new spacer in crispr1 is the most frequent outcome of a phage challenge and that the iterative addition of spacers increases the overall phage resistance of the host. comparative analysis of 39 newly acquired spacers with the complete genomic sequences of the wild-type phages 2972, 858, and dt1 demonstrated that the newly added spacer must be identical to a region (named proto-spacer) in the phage genome to confer a phage resistance phenotype. moreover, we found a crispr1-specific sequence (nnagaaw) located downstream of the proto-spacer region that is important for the phage resistance phenotype. these 'spacers' provide sequence-specific immunity but drive natural selection of evolved phage mutants that escape the crispr-cas defence. thus, crispr, together with associated cas genes, provided resistance against phages, and resistance specificity is determined by spacer-phage sequence similarity. therefore, spacers that are more resistant to mismatches would provide long-term immunity against phages and plasmids that otherwise would escape crispr targeting through the accumulation of mutations in the target sequence. these loci harbor short sequences of phage and plasmid origin known as "spacers" that specify the targets of crispr-cas immunity. in this study, we demonstrated that different spacer sequences vary in their ability to tolerate target mutations that allow phages and plasmids to escape from crispr-cas immunity. 
ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis for breast cancer primary tumors. [SEP] studies have shown that aldh1a1 expression in the breast is associated with worse clinical outcome. several studies have reported that aldh1 expression is associated with poor prognosis in breast cancer. we aimed, therefore, to determine the prognostic value of aldh1 expression and its association with several biomarkers in breast cancer tissue using immunohistochemistry. overall, these findings suggest that aldh1 expression in tumor tissue is associated with a biologically aggressive phenotype. recent studies showed that aldh1 expression is correlated with poor prognostic parameters and worse clinical outcome in bc. many reports suggest that aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 (aldh1) expression is associated with poorer neoadjuvant chemotherapy (nac) response in patients with breast cancer; however, the prognostic value of this enzyme in cancer has yet to be confirmed. our results suggested that higher aldh1 expression is associated with poorer nac responses in patients with breast cancer. previous studies have shown that aldh1 expression in primary breast cancers was associated with poor clinical prognosis. in this study, we aimed to determine whether aldh1 expression in axillary lymph node metastases (alnm) of breast cancer patients was also associated with poor prognosis. we conclude that the expression of aldh1 in primary breast tumors or alnm may be one potential risk factor for poor, long-term outcomes. 
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation reduces inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. [SEP] activation of ampk was shown to reduce inflammation in response to lipolysaccharide in vitro and in vivo. here, we studied the potency of ampk activation to reduce lta-induced inflammation in vitro and in lungs in vivo. activation of ampk in vitro reduced cytokine production in the alveolar macrophage cell line mh-s. in vivo, ampk activation reduced lta-induced neutrophil influx, as well as protein leak and cytokine/chemokine levels in the bronchoalveolar space. in conclusion, ampk activation inhibits lta-induced lung inflammation in mice. the amp-activated protein kinase (ampk) signaling system plays a key role in cellular stress by repressing the inflammatory responses induced by the nuclear factor-kappa b (nf-κb) system. recent studies have reported that the activation of amp-activated protein kinase (ampk) suppressed oxidative stress. ampkα1-deficient mice have increased susceptibility to lung inflammation and emphysema when exposed to cigarette smoke, and ampk appears to reduce lung inflammation and emphysema by lowering il-8 production. amp-activated protein kinase (ampk), a serine/threonine protein kinase, has been shown to exert a protective effect against cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure. adenosine 5'-monophosphate-activated protein kinase (ampk) has been shown to have anti-inflammatory effect by inhibition of the nuclear factor κb (nf-κb) pathway and is involved in lipopolysaccharide (lps)-induced inflammation. 
APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons results in decreased tau phosphorylation. [SEP] here we report that the intracellular trafficking of apoe4 is impaired in neuro-2a cells and primary neurons, as shown by measuring fluorescence recovery after photobleaching. ph002 also rescued apoe4-induced impairments of neurite outgrowth in neuro-2a cells and dendritic spine development in primary neurons. apolipoprotein e (apoe) 4 is a potent risk factor for alzheimer's disease (ad). these results suggest that apoe4 down-regulates ide expression in neurons by binding to its receptor and stimulating the nmda receptor pathway, which may account for its role in ad pathogenesis. here, we show that apoe4 selectively impairs synaptic plasticity and nmda receptor phosphorylation by reelin, a regulator of brain development and modulator of synaptic strength. these findings show an isoform-specific role of apoe in the localization and intracellular trafficking of lipoprotein and glutamate receptors and thereby reveal an alternative mechanism by which apoe4 may accelerate onset of dementia and neuronal degeneration by differentially impairing the maintenance of synaptic stability. recently, the combination of human induced pluripotent stem cell (hipsc) modeling of neurological diseases in vitro and electrophysiological studies in vivo have begun to unravel the intersection between apoe4, neuronal subtype dysfunction or loss, subsequent network deficits, and eventual cognitive decline. in this review, we provide an overview of the literature describing apoe4's detrimental effects in the central nervous system (cns), specifically focusing on its contribution to neuronal subtype dysfunction or loss. finally, we examine how apoe4-mediated gabaergic interneuron loss can lead to inhibitory network deficits and how this deficit results in cognitive decline. gabaergic interneurons are selectively vulnerable to intracellularly produced apoe4, through a tau dependent mechanism, which leads to their dysfunction and eventual death. 
ART has no effect on the infectiveness of HIV-positive people. [SEP] through week 96, there were no virological failures. there are no data on risk of transmission for anal sex in msm when the index partner is on art. antiretroviral therapy (art) is typically composed of a combination of three antiretroviral drugs and is the treatment of choice for people with human immunodeficiency virus type 1/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (hiv-1/aids). sexual hiv transmission does not occur with sustained undetectable viral load (vl) on antiretroviral therapy (art). awareness of art prevention benefits and its influence on condom use among women with hiv (wwh) remain unexplored. the primary explanatory variable was awareness of art prevention benefits. virally suppressed women aware of art prevention benefits had 4-fold greater odds of condomless sex. cart restricts the synthesis of infectious virus but does not curtail hiv-1 transcription and translation from either the integrated or unintegrated viral genomes in infected cells. the effect of early initiation of antiretroviral therapy (art; ie, at cd4(+) t-cell counts >350 cells/mm(3)) on sexual behaviors and human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv) transmission risk has not been documented in populations other than hiv-serodiscordant couples in stable relationships. early art decreased the estimated risk of hiv transmission by 90%, suggesting a major prevention benefit among seronegative sex partners in stable or casual relationships with seropositive individuals. 
ART substantially reduces infectiveness of HIV-positive people. [SEP] introducing highly active antiretroviral therapy (haart) has significantly decreased the morbidity and mortality in human immunodeficiency virus-positive (hiv+) individuals by decreasing the viral loads and increasing the cd4+ t-cell counts. antiretroviral therapy (art) has been remarkably effective in ameliorating human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-associated morbidity and mortality. the rapid decline in viral load during art also presents an opportunity to develop a "treatment as prevention" strategy in order to reduce hiv transmission at a population level. modelling exercises have demonstrated that for this strategy to be effective, early initiation of art with high coverage of the hiv-infected population will be required. the hiv epidemic has fueled a resurgence of tuberculosis (tb) particularly in sub- saharan africa and widespread early initiation of art could also impact this epidemic via several mechanisms. striking reductions in hiv replication, in vivo, by potent combinations of antiretroviral therapies (art) are the most significant contributor to the decline in hiv morbidity and mortality. the use of highly active antiretroviral therapy (haart) has resulted in a dramatic decrease in morbidity and mortality in hiv-infected patients. the introduction of antiretroviral therapy (art) 20 years ago has dramatically reduced morbidity and mortality associated with hiv-1. initially there was hope that art would be curative, but it quickly became clear that even though art was able to restore cd4(+) t cell counts and suppress viral loads below levels of detection, discontinuation of treatment resulted in a rapid rebound of infection. the advent of antiretroviral therapy (art) has seen a dramatic decrease in the morbidity and mortality of individuals infected with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv). 
ATF4 is a general endoplasmic reticulum stress marker. [SEP] activating transcription factor 4 (atf4) is a central factor in the cellular response to multiple stresses, including altered metabolic conditions, anoxia and hypoxia, and redox stress. atf4 is triggered by endoplasmic reticulum stress and consequent unfolded protein response. atf4 is a master stress-induced transcription factor that orchestrates gene expression in cells treated with various er stress inducers including those used to treat cancers. atf4 can be activated in response to multiple cellular stress signals including endoplasmic reticulum stress in the event of improper protein folding or oxidative stress because of mitochondrial dysfunction as well as hypoxia. atf transcription factors are stress proteins containing alkaline area-leucine zipper and play an important role in endoplasmic reticulum stress. the synthetic machinery of atf4 (activating transcription factor 4) is activated in response to various stress conditions involved in nutrient restriction, endoplasmic reticulum homeostasis, and oxidation. stress-induced inhibition of proteasome activity triggers the unfolded protein response and endoplasmic reticulum stress, where atf4 is crucial for consequent biological events. activating transcription factor 4 (atf4) is a member of the perk signaling pathway, which directly binds endoplasmic reticulum stress target genes and plays a crucial role in both adaptations to stress and activation of apoptosis. activating transcription factor 4 (atf4) is well known for its role in the endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress response. atf4 expression is increased in response to a diverse array of microenvironmental stresses including amino acid depletion, oxidative stress and endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress that are sensed by upstream eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2α (eif2α) kinases. 
ATM and Rad3 related protein are critical for sensing DNA damage. [SEP] h2ax, nbs1, and p53 are substrates of atm kinase and are involved in atm-dependent dna damage responses. nbs1 appears to function both as an activator of atm and as an adapter to mediate atm activities after dna dsb damage. recent evidence suggests that the dna repair complex containing mre11, rad50 and nbs1 (mrn) is important for the activation of atm by dsbs in cells. ataxia telangiectasia mutated (atm) and dna-dependent protein kinase (dna-pk) play a crucial role in the initial stages of cell response, when cells are exposed to dna insult such as ionizing radiation (ir) and chemical agents. the atm and atr kinases signal cell cycle checkpoint responses to dna damage. the atm- and rad3-related (atr) kinase is a master regulator of the dna damage response, yet how atr is activated toward different substrates is still poorly understood. the cellular response to dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) is mobilized by the protein kinase atm, which phosphorylates key players in the dna damage response (ddr) network. atr is an essential protein that functions as a damage sensor and a proximal kinase in the dna damage checkpoint response in mammalian cells. recently, it was found that atm is an oligomeric protein that is converted to an active monomeric form by phosphorylation in trans upon dna damage, and this raised the possibility that other members of the pikk family may be regulated in a similar manner. ataxia telangiectasia and rad3-related (atr) proteins are sensors of dna damage, which induces homologous recombination (hr)-dependent repair. 
ATM and Rad3 related protein have no role in sensing DNA damage. [SEP] there were no effects of elastatinal on dna repair and uv-induced sister chromatid exchanges, and all 3 cell lines demonstrated essentially the same sensitivity to the cytotoxic effect of elastatinal. we have determined that dna2delta pif1delta mre11-d56n and dna2delta pif1delta mre11-h125n strains are equally as sensitive to ir as mre11delta strains, suggesting that in the absence of dna2, mre11 nuclease carries out repair. the atm and rad3-related (atr) protein kinase and its downstream effector chk1 are key sensors and organizers of the dna damage response (ddr) to a variety of insults. previous studies of herpes simplex virus 1 (hsv-1) showed no evidence for activation of the atr pathway. atm (ataxia-telangiectasia mutated) is necessary for activation of chk1 by atr (atm and rad3-related) in response to double-stranded dna breaks (dsbs) but not to dna replication stress. it is generally thought that the dna-damage checkpoint kinases, ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (atm) and atm- and rad3-related (atr), work independently of one another. previous studies indicated that the atm- and rad3-related (atr) checkpoint kinase, but not the ataxia telangiectasia-mutated (atm) kinase, was required for decatenation g2 checkpoint function. the master checkpoint kinase atr (atm and rad3-related) and its partner atrip (atr-interacting protein) exist as a complex and function together in the dna damage response. no associations were discovered between amplifications of brip1 and any mutated genes. detailed studies in prostate cancer cells now indicate pten does not regulate rad51 expression or homologous recombination and is not a biomarker for parp inhibitor sensitivity. 
AZT given with ribavirin increases anemia. [SEP] ribavirin dose reduction and epoetin, sequentially, are indicated in the management of anemia. anemia is the main concern among patients using a zidovudine (azt)-based antiretroviral treatment (art). we analyzed the risk factors associated with azt-induced anemia in a cohort using azt as substitution for stavudine (d4t). factors associated with azt-related anemia requiring azt-discontinuation within the first year after azt initiation were analyzed using cox regression. our findings argue against the need of weight-based dosing of azt to reduce anemia among patients using azt as substitution for d4t. this retrospective study evaluated and compared ribavirin exposure and parameters able to influence hemoglobin decrease in a large population of patients treated with dual or triple therapy. exacerbation of anemia in patients on triple therapy is related to higher ribavirin concentrations. the use of zidovudine might further increases the risk of anaemia in hcv/hiv-coinfected patients. anaemia is a common side-effect of ribavirin (rbv) use that overwhelms management of hepatitis c when protease inhibitors are added. anemia is more frequent in patients receiving telaprevir with pegylated interferon/ribavirin (peg-ifn/rbv) than in those receiving peg-ifn/rbv alone. 
Activated Cdk5 phosphorylates the ATM protein in response to DNA damage. [SEP] upon dna damage, an activation mechanism involving autophosphorylation has been reported to allow atm to phosphorylate downstream targets important for cell cycle checkpoints and dna repair. these results lend further support to the notion that atm autophosphorylation correlates with the dna damage-induced activation of the kinase but is not required for atm function in vivo. the atm protein kinase is a primary activator of the cellular response to dna double-strand breaks (dsbs). in response to dsbs, atm is activated and phosphorylates key players in various branches of the dna damage response network. pp5 interacts with atm in a dna-damage-inducible manner. reduced expression of pp5 attenuated dna-damage-induced activation of atm. together our findings indicate that pp5 plays an essential role in the activation and checkpoint signaling functions of atm in cells that have suffered dna double-strand breaks. atm activation results in the initiation of a complex cascade of events facilitating dna damage repair, cell cycle checkpoint control, and survival. atm activation results in the initiation of a complex cascade of events including dna damage repair, cell cycle checkpoint control, and survival. atm activation results in the initiation of a complex cascade of events facilitating dna damage repair, cell cycle checkpoint control, and survival. 
Activated Cdk5 regulates DNA damage-induced neuronal death. [SEP] neurotoxic insults deregulate cdk5 activity, which leads to neuronal apoptosis and may contribute to neurodegeneration. here we investigate the mechanism by which cdk5 promotes neuronal apoptosis. accumulating evidence suggests that deregulated cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (cdk5) plays a critical part in neuronal death. accumulating evidence indicates that deregulation of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (cdk5) activity is associated with apoptosis in various neurodegenerative disease models. in the current study, we established the pivotal role of cdk5 in neuronal survival during development by demonstrating that reduction or absence of cdk5 activity markedly exacerbated neuronal death in cultures and in vivo. dysregulation of cdk5 is associated with abnormal expression of cell cycle-related proteins during neuronal apoptosis. taken together, our findings suggest that cdk5 regulates neuronal survival by precise epigenetic control through modulation of histone acetylation. oxidative stress stimulates aberrant activation of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (cdk5), thought to promote neuronal apoptosis by phosphorylating many cell death-related substrates. neuronal cell death after brain ischemia may be regulated by activation of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (cdk5). association of cdk5 with nuclear damage was demonstrated by coexpression of nuclear cdk5 in tunel-positive neurons and microvessels in peri-infarcted regions. 
Activation of PPM1D enhances p53 function. [SEP] ppm1d is an oncogene in transformation assays and is amplified or overexpressed in several human tumor types. in cells containing wild-type p53, the levels of ppm1d mrna and protein increase following exposure to genotoxic stress, but the mechanism of regulation by p53 was unknown. transient transfection and chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments in hct116 cells were used to characterize a conserved p53 response element located in the 5' untranslated region (utr) of the ppm1d gene that is required for the p53-dependent induction of transcription from the human ppm1d promoter. the protein phosphatase ppm1d (wip1) was originally identified as a p53 target product. activation of ppm1d through various mechanism promotes the tumorigenic potential of various cancers by suppressing p53 and other dna damage response proteins. new functions of ppm1d have recently been revealed in physiological processes such as cell differentiation. here we report that ppm1d modulates retinoic acid (ra) signalling. here, we show that the oncogenic function of ppm1d is associated with its phosphatase activity. ppm1d is a p53-inducible ser/thr protein phosphatase. spi-001 inhibited ppm1d phosphatase activity in ppm1d-overexpressing human breast cancer cells and increased phosphorylation of p53. 
Activation of the Rac1 homolog CED-10 kills viable cells in SRGP-1 mutant Caenorhabditis elegans. [SEP] in the nematode caenorhabditis elegans, the cell corpse engulfment proteins ced-2, ced-5, and ced-12 act in the same pathway to regulate the activation of the rac small gtpase, ced-10, leading to the rearrangement of the actin cytoskeleton for engulfing apoptotic cells. the gene ced-9 of the nematode caenorhabditis elegans acts to protect cells from programmed cell death. a mutation that abnormally activates ced-9 prevents the cell deaths that occur during normal c. elegans development. components of the conserved engulfment pathways promote programmed cell death in caenorhabditis elegans (c. elegans) through an unknown mechanism. our findings reveal a novel function of the engulfment pathways and provide a better understanding of how apoptosis is initiated during c. elegans development. in a synthetic lethal rnai screen with c. elegans rap-1 mutants, the ras-like gtpase ral-1 emerged as one of seven genes specifically required for viability. the caenorhabditis elegans gene ced-9 prevents cells from undergoing programmed cell death and encodes a protein similar to the mammalian cell-death inhibitor bcl-2. we show here that the ced-9 protein is a substrate for the c. elegans cell-death protease ced-3, which is a member of a family of cysteine proteases first defined by ced-3 and human interleukin-1beta converting enzyme (ice). our results indicate that ced-9 prevents programmed cell death in c. elegans through two distinct mechanisms: first, ced-9 may, by analogy with p35, directly inhibit the ced-3 protease by an interaction involving the ced-3 cleavage sites in ced-9; second, ced-9 may directly or indirectly inhibit ced-3 by means of a protective mechanism similar to that used by mammalian bcl-2. the cell surface receptor ced-1 mediates apoptotic cell recognition by phagocytic cells, enabling cell corpse clearance in caenorhabditis elegans. 
Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided ventrally by Xrl-sizzled. [SEP] in a screening for activin-responsive genes, we isolated a xenopus lefty/antivin-related gene, called xantivin (xatv). in the animal cap assay, the expression of xatv was induced by activin signaling, and in the embryo, by nodal-related genes. overexpression of xatv in the marginal zone caused suppression of mesoderm formation and gastrulation defects, and inhibited the secondary axis formation induced by xnr1 and xactivin, suggesting that xatv acted as a feedback inhibitor of activin signaling. this result suggested that xatv has different responses in the marginal zone and in the animal region, and antagonizes to a higher degree activin signaling in the marginal zone. in xenopus, the dorsoventral axis is patterned by the interplay between active signalling in ventral territories, and secreted antagonists from spemann's organiser. interestingly, the second lxxll motif is highly specific to the liver x receptors (lxrs). previously, we showed that xenopus nodal-related factors (xnrs) can act as mesoderm inducers, and that activin induces xnr transcription, suggesting that xnrs relay or maintain induction processes initiated by activin-like molecules. cmxnr2 blocked mesoderm induction caused by xnr, but not activin, rna. these results indicate that xnrs play crucial roles in initiating gastrulation, probably by acting downstream of an activin-like signaling pathway that leads to dorsal mesendodermal specification, including setting up the head organizer. this result indicates a third function for sxl(+) product: a positive autoregulatory role. 
Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure consisting of five distinct subunits. [SEP] helicobacter pylori produces a 550 kda, multimeric, nickel-containing urease that catalyses the hydrolysis of urea to yield ammonia and carbonic acid. the ure gene cluster, comprised of seven genes, encodes the two structural subunits urea (26.5 kda) and ureb (60.3 kda), and five accessory proteins: urei, uree, uref, ureg and ureh. the native protein consists of six copies each of urea and ureb; two nickel ions are coordinated into each ureb active site. the purified proton atpase of chromaffin granules contains five different polypeptides denoted as subunits i to v in the order of decreasing molecular weights of 115,000, 72,000, 57,000, 39,000, and 17,000, respectively. it has been shown that h. pylori infection causes aberrant expression of gastric mucins muc 5 and muc 6. h. pylori status was determined by histology and rapid urease test, and considered positive or negative when both tests were positive or negative, respectively. the change in muc 5 synthesis may reflect h. pylori colonization. urease activity of 50 helicobacter pylori (h. pylori) strains was assessed employing a photometric assay. the reaction time of h. pylori urease was significantly shorter than that of other urease producing bacteria (p. mirabilis, p. vulgaris, k. pneumoniae, k. oxytoca). acetohydroxamic acid showed a dose-dependent non-competitive suppression of urease production, whereas 9 antibiotics in subinhibitory concentrations did not influence urease production of h. pylori. 
Active Ly49Q induces neutrophil polarization. [SEP] here, we show that an inhibitory mhc i receptor, ly49q, was crucial for the swift polarization of and tissue infiltration by neutrophils. during the steady state, ly49q inhibited neutrophil adhesion by preventing focal-complex formation, likely by inhibiting src and pi3 kinases. however, in the presence of inflammatory stimuli, ly49q mediated rapid neutrophil polarization and tissue infiltration in an itim-domain-dependent manner. ly49q-dependent polarization and migration were affected by ly49q regulation of membrane raft functions. we propose that ly49q is pivotal in switching neutrophils to their polarized morphology and rapid migration upon inflammation, through its spatiotemporal regulation of membrane rafts and raft-associated signaling molecules. ly49q, an itim domain-bearing receptor expressed on different leukocytes, has been recently reported to impact neutrophil migration and polarization. utilizing a murine model of klebsiella pneumoniae-induced pulmonary infection in combination with additional in vivo and in vitro assays, we show that ly49q is critically involved in different steps of the leukocyte adhesion cascade. structure function analysis in vitro and in vivo demonstrated that different domains of ly49q are important for its function. in summary, ly49q regulates integrin activation and neutrophil recruitment and is required for an adequate immune response in pulmonary infection. ly49q is a member of the polymorphic ly49 family of nk cell receptors that displays both a high degree of conservation and a unique expression pattern restricted to myeloid lineage cells, including plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pdc). 
Active Ly49Q prevents neutrophil polarization. [SEP] here, we show that an inhibitory mhc i receptor, ly49q, was crucial for the swift polarization of and tissue infiltration by neutrophils. during the steady state, ly49q inhibited neutrophil adhesion by preventing focal-complex formation, likely by inhibiting src and pi3 kinases. however, in the presence of inflammatory stimuli, ly49q mediated rapid neutrophil polarization and tissue infiltration in an itim-domain-dependent manner. ly49q-dependent polarization and migration were affected by ly49q regulation of membrane raft functions. we propose that ly49q is pivotal in switching neutrophils to their polarized morphology and rapid migration upon inflammation, through its spatiotemporal regulation of membrane rafts and raft-associated signaling molecules. gp49b, an ig-like receptor, negatively regulates the activity of mast cells and neutrophils through cytoplasmic immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibition motifs. ly49q, an itim domain-bearing receptor expressed on different leukocytes, has been recently reported to impact neutrophil migration and polarization. utilizing a murine model of klebsiella pneumoniae-induced pulmonary infection in combination with additional in vivo and in vitro assays, we show that ly49q is critically involved in different steps of the leukocyte adhesion cascade. structure function analysis in vitro and in vivo demonstrated that different domains of ly49q are important for its function. in summary, ly49q regulates integrin activation and neutrophil recruitment and is required for an adequate immune response in pulmonary infection. 
Active caspase-11 participate in regulating phagosome-lysosome fusion. [SEP] inflammatory caspases, such as caspase-1 and -11, mediate innate immune detection of pathogens. caspase-11 induces pyroptosis, a form of programmed cell death, and specifically defends against bacterial pathogens that invade the cytosol. we report that contamination of the cytoplasm by lipopolysaccharide (lps) is the signal that triggers caspase-11 activation in mice. here we report that lps-induced caspase-11 regulates lymphocyte apoptosis by activating both caspase-3 and caspase-7. caspase-11 is an inducible protease that plays an important role in both inflammation and apoptosis. caspase-11, a cytosolic endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide: lps) receptor, mediates pyroptosis, a lytic form of cell death. here, we show that caspase-11, a mammalian pro-inflammatory caspase, regulates cell migration during inflammation. caspase-11-deficient lymphocytes exhibit a cell-autonomous migration defect in vitro and in vivo. caspase-11 plays a crucial role in both inflammation and apoptosis. caspase-11 not only activates caspase-1, that is required for the maturation of proinflammatory cytokines such as interleukin (il)-1 and il-18, but also activates caspase-3, leading to cellular apoptosis under pathological conditions. 
Active caspase-11 protein promotes pyroptosis. [SEP] caspase-11, a cytosolic endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide: lps) receptor, mediates pyroptosis, a lytic form of cell death. caspase-11-dependent pyroptosis mediates lethality in endotoxemia, but it is unclear how lps is delivered into the cytosol for the activation of caspase-11. given the similar inflammatory outcomes of the canonical and noncanonical pyroptosis pathways, we hypothesized that caspase-1 and -11 should have very similar activities and substrate specificities. we hypothesize that caspase-11 may have evolved a specific exosite to selectively engage pyroptosis without directly activating pro-il-1β or -18. caspase-11 is an inducible protease that plays an important role in both inflammation and apoptosis. pyroptosis is induced by inflammasome-activated caspase-1 or caspase-11 (caspase-4 in humans), as a result of distinct pathogenic or damage stimuli. caspase-11 induces pyroptosis, a form of programmed cell death, and specifically defends against bacterial pathogens that invade the cytosol. murine caspase-11 is the centerpiece of the non-canonical inflammasome pathway that can respond to intracellular lps and induce pyroptosis. pyroptosis is a form of lytic inflammatory cell death driven by inflammatory caspase-1, caspase-4, caspase-5 and caspase-11. the inflammatory caspases 1 and 11 are activated in response to different agonists and act independently to induce pyroptosis. 
Acute ablation of KRAS causes severe growth impairment. [SEP] the endocrine causes of impaired growth, which include growth hormone deficiency, primary thyroid dysfunction, and premature sexual maturation, are generally the consequence of radiation therapy. growth failure is most prominent following craniospinal irradiation for brain tumors and total body irradiation for bone marrow transplantation. it is apparent that cytotoxic chemotherapy used to treat childhood malignancies has a major impact on subsequent growth. ksr2(-/-) mice are normal size at birth but show a marked increase in fgf21 accompanied by reduced body mass, shortened body length, and reduced bone mineral density (bmd) and content (bmc) first evident during postnatal development. however, the combined utilization of kras asodn and igf-ir asodn could inhibit cell proliferation and promote apoptosis more powerfully than exclusive use of kras asodn or igf-ir asodn. exposure of the neonate to an ace inhibitor increases mortality and results in growth retardation and abnormal development. we have demonstrated that ace inhibition in the developing kidney increases apoptosis and decreases cell proliferation, which may account for renal growth impairment. endocrine dysfunction and damage of the epiphysial growth plates have been reported as late effects of antileukaemic treatment during childhood. it is a common opinion that cranial irradiation (ci) is the most important factor for blunted growth. in all prepubertal patients treated for 2-3 years with intensive maintenance therapy blunted growth resulted in a significant loss of -1.85 h-sds (median, p = 0.0051) compared to height at diagnosis. 
Acute ablation of Snail in the embryonic cortex affects the proliferation and number of embryonic cortical precursors. [SEP] later, in germ band-extended embryos, snail is also expressed in most neuroblasts. here we present evidence that this expression of snail is required for central nervous system (cns) development. these results demonstrate that the snail family proteins have essential functions during embryonic cns development, around the time of ganglion mother cell formation. conditional deletion of pax6 in embryonic mouse cortex causes increased proliferation of cortical progenitor cells and a concomitant decrease in neural differentiation. the timing of cortical neurogenesis has a major effect on the size and organization of the mature cortex. the loss of lhx2 in cortical progenitors results in precocious radial glia differentiation and a temporal shift of cortical neurogenesis. we developed and applied a mathematical model that reveals how precocious neurogenesis affected cortical surface and thickness. these results support the idea that, during human brain development, shh plays an important role in the specification of cortical progenitors. dicer ablation in neuroepithelial cells, which are the primary neural stem and progenitor cells, and in the neurons derived from them, was evident from e10.5 onwards, as ascertained by the depletion of the normally abundant mirnas mir-9 and mir-124. dicer ablation resulted in massive hypotrophy of the postnatal cortex and death of the mice shortly after weaning. 
Addition of BMP4, activin A, CHIR99021, and SU504 to reprogramming fibroblasts generates, expands and maintains cardiovascular progenitor cells (CPCs) [SEP] several studies have reported reprogramming of fibroblasts into induced cardiac progenitor cells (icpcs). lineage reprogramming of human fibroblasts into icpcs provides a promising cellular resource for disease modeling, drug discovery and individualized cardiac cell therapy. moreover, co-induction using chir and low levels of activin-a apparently increased the rate of cardiomyogenesis, as indicated by the initial appearance of rhythmically beating cells by day 6 instead of day 8. these findings showed that bmp-4 in combination with fbs at the appropriate time and concentrations significantly promotes cardiomyocyte induction from human es cells. in this study, we examined if functional cardiomyocytes (cms) can be produced from mouse cardiac fibroblasts (cfs), using ips cell factor-based reprogramming. several studies have reported reprogramming of fibroblasts into induced cardiomyocytes; however, reprogramming into proliferative induced cardiac progenitor cells (icpcs) remains to be accomplished. here we report that a combination of 11 or 5 cardiac factors along with canonical wnt and jak/stat signaling reprogrammed adult mouse cardiac, lung, and tail tip fibroblasts into icpcs. direct conversion of cardiac fibroblasts (cfs) into induced cardiomyocytes (icms) holds great potential for regenerative medicine by offering alternative strategies for treatment of heart disease. the ipsc-derived cardiomyocytes represent a promising source of cells for cell-based therapeutic approaches for cardiac regeneration. instead of using stem cell factors, we overexpressed combinations of cardiac cell-specific genes in fibroblasts to directly induce cardiomyocytes without mediating through ipscs. 
Adult tissue-resident macrophages are seeded before birth. [SEP] recently, it has become evident that most adult tissue macrophages originate during embryonic development and not from circulating monocytes. most tissue-resident macrophages (mφs) are believed to be derived prenatally and are assumed to maintain themselves throughout life by self-proliferation. during development and throughout adult life, macrophages derived from hematopoietic progenitors are seeded throughout the body, initially in the absence of inflammatory and infectious stimuli as tissue-resident cells, with enhanced recruitment, activation, and local proliferation following injury and pathologic insults. counter to long-held beliefs, we now know that resident macrophages in many organs are seeded during embryonic development and self-renew independently from blood monocytes. resident macrophages (mø) originating from yolk sac mø and/or foetal monocytes colonise tissues/organs during embryonic development. tissue-resident macrophages can develop from circulating adult monocytes or from primitive yolk sac-derived macrophages. this demonstrates that tissue-resident macrophages can also develop from fetal monocytes that adopt a stable phenotype shortly after birth in response to instructive cytokines, and then self-maintain throughout life. recent evidence indicates that many resident tissue macrophages are seeded during embryonic development and persist through adulthood as a consequence of localized proliferation. tissue-resident macrophages support embryonic development and tissue homeostasis and repair. most tissue macrophages are seeded in the early embryo before definitive hematopoiesis is established. 
Adult tissue-resident macrophages are seeded before birth. [SEP] recently, it has become evident that most adult tissue macrophages originate during embryonic development and not from circulating monocytes. most tissue-resident macrophages (mφs) are believed to be derived prenatally and are assumed to maintain themselves throughout life by self-proliferation. during development and throughout adult life, macrophages derived from hematopoietic progenitors are seeded throughout the body, initially in the absence of inflammatory and infectious stimuli as tissue-resident cells, with enhanced recruitment, activation, and local proliferation following injury and pathologic insults. counter to long-held beliefs, we now know that resident macrophages in many organs are seeded during embryonic development and self-renew independently from blood monocytes. resident macrophages (mø) originating from yolk sac mø and/or foetal monocytes colonise tissues/organs during embryonic development. tissue-resident macrophages can develop from circulating adult monocytes or from primitive yolk sac-derived macrophages. this demonstrates that tissue-resident macrophages can also develop from fetal monocytes that adopt a stable phenotype shortly after birth in response to instructive cytokines, and then self-maintain throughout life. recent evidence indicates that many resident tissue macrophages are seeded during embryonic development and persist through adulthood as a consequence of localized proliferation. tissue-resident macrophages support embryonic development and tissue homeostasis and repair. most tissue macrophages are seeded in the early embryo before definitive hematopoiesis is established. 
Adult tissue-resident macrophages possess a self-renewing capacity. [SEP] first arising during embryogenesis, macrophages replenish themselves in the adult through a combination of self-renewal and influx of bone marrow-derived monocytes. at steady state most of macrophages are derived from fetal sources and maintained in adulthood through self-renewing. tissue-resident macrophages have pivotal functions for tissue defense and homeostasis. two main discoveries have changed our current understanding of macrophage development: their embryonic origin and their ability to self-renew throughout the lifespan. while other immune cells are continuously renewed from hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (hspc) located in the bone marrow, a lineage of macrophages, known as resident macrophages, have been shown to be self-maintained in tissues without input from bone marrow hspcs. recently it was discovered that tissue-resident macrophages derive from embryonic precursors, not only from peripheral blood monocytes, and maintain themselves by self-renewal. recent evidence indicates that many resident tissue macrophages are seeded during embryonic development and persist through adulthood as a consequence of localized proliferation. mature differentiated macrophages can self-maintain by local proliferation in tissues and can be extensively expanded in culture under specific conditions, but the mechanisms of this phenomenon remain only partially defined. this suggests that macrophage self-renewal might be a relevant parameter of ageing. in this review, we summarize the nature, functions, and interactions of tissue macrophage populations within their microenvironment and suggest questions for further investigation. 
Adult tissue-resident macrophages stem from the embryonal yolk sac and fetal liver. [SEP] macrophages arise from yolk sac and foetal liver progenitors during embryonic development in the mouse and persist in different organs as heterogeneous, self-renewing tissue-resident populations. primitive macrophages first develop in the murine and human yolk sac and then differentiate into fetal macrophages. precursor cells of primitive or fetal macrophages exist and granulocyte/macrophage colony-forming cells develop in the yolk sac and in the early stages of fetal liver development, whereas macrophage colony-forming cells emerge and increase later in fetal liver development. during culturing of the yolk sac cells and hepatic hematopoietic cells on a monolayer of mouse stromal cell line, st2, primitive or fetal macrophage colonies developed before the formation of monocyte colonies, suggesting the existence of a direct pathway of differentiation from primitive macrophages into fetal macrophages during ontogeny. a subset of macrophages that reside in adult tissues originate from the fetal yolk sac, while others derive from circulating monocytes. tissue macrophages in many adult organs originate from yolk sac (ys) progenitors, which invade the developing embryo and persist by means of local self-renewal. resident macrophages are derived from yolk sac precursors and seed the liver during embryogenesis. recent studies have revealed that tissue macrophages are derived from yolk sac precursors or fetal liver monocytes, in addition to bone marrow monocytes. recent studies have shown that tissue macrophages (mφ) arise from embryonic progenitors of the yolk sac (ys) and fetal liver and colonize tissues before birth. during mouse embryogenesis, macrophage-like cells arise first in the yolk sac and are produced subsequently in the liver. 
Adult tissue-resident macrophages stem from the embryonal yolk sac and fetal liver. [SEP] macrophages arise from yolk sac and foetal liver progenitors during embryonic development in the mouse and persist in different organs as heterogeneous, self-renewing tissue-resident populations. primitive macrophages first develop in the murine and human yolk sac and then differentiate into fetal macrophages. precursor cells of primitive or fetal macrophages exist and granulocyte/macrophage colony-forming cells develop in the yolk sac and in the early stages of fetal liver development, whereas macrophage colony-forming cells emerge and increase later in fetal liver development. during culturing of the yolk sac cells and hepatic hematopoietic cells on a monolayer of mouse stromal cell line, st2, primitive or fetal macrophage colonies developed before the formation of monocyte colonies, suggesting the existence of a direct pathway of differentiation from primitive macrophages into fetal macrophages during ontogeny. a subset of macrophages that reside in adult tissues originate from the fetal yolk sac, while others derive from circulating monocytes. tissue macrophages in many adult organs originate from yolk sac (ys) progenitors, which invade the developing embryo and persist by means of local self-renewal. resident macrophages are derived from yolk sac precursors and seed the liver during embryogenesis. recent studies have revealed that tissue macrophages are derived from yolk sac precursors or fetal liver monocytes, in addition to bone marrow monocytes. recent studies have shown that tissue macrophages (mφ) arise from embryonic progenitors of the yolk sac (ys) and fetal liver and colonize tissues before birth. during mouse embryogenesis, macrophage-like cells arise first in the yolk sac and are produced subsequently in the liver. 
Aged patients are less susceptible to ischaemia/reperfusion injury. [SEP] the ischemic preconditioning response among elderly patients is known to be lower than in adult patients. considerable data indicates that patients <50 years of age have lower morbidity and mortality after acute myocardial infarction (ami) than older patients. however, the beneficial effects of ischemic preconditioning have been shown to decrease with advancing age. the age-related reduction of ischemic preconditioning has been demonstrated in experimental models and in elderly patients. with an ageing population, older patients with non-st elevation acute coronary syndrome are at higher risk of adverse outcomes but are far less likely to receive invasive revascularisation, contemporary antiplatelet therapy or drug-eluting stents than their younger counterparts. aging is associated with a reduced tolerance to myocardial ischemia reperfusion injury when compared to the young adult. hemodynamic recovery was decreased in elderly (n = 5) as compared with adult (n = 5) hearts, including developed pressure (% of preischemic baseline: elderly 31% +/- 4% vs adult 57% +/- 4%, p < 0.01). thus the elderly rat heart is more susceptible than the adult rat heart to ischemia-reperfusion injury. cardiovascular risk factors for myocardial infarction (mi) are less frequent in younger than in older mi survivors. aged livers are at higher risk for ischemia reperfusion injury, but little is known of the effectiveness of ipc and int in aged livers. 
Aged patients are more susceptible to ischaemia/reperfusion injury. [SEP] endothelial dysfunction accompanied by increased oxidative stress and inflammation with aging may predispose older arteries to greater ischemia-reperfusion (i/r) injury. in conclusion, advancing age is associated with a greater magnitude and delayed recovery from endothelial i/r injury in humans. advanced age also significantly increases the risk of developing post-ischaemic adverse remodelling and heart failure after ischaemia/reperfusion (ir) injury. compared with young adults, older adults have significantly impaired capacities to resist oxidative damage when faced with acute stress such as ischemia/reperfusion. as a result of age-related physiological changes and multi-comorbidity, which both result in reduced functional reserve of the organ systems, old patients are more vulnerable to surgical stress and perioperative impairment in organ functions. to develop better strategies to prevent ischemia-reperfusion injury in older patients, we need to understand the aged myocardium, which has undergone structural and functional changes relative to the normal myocardium, resulting in reduced functional capacity and vulnerability to ischemia-reperfusion injury. however, aged hearts are particularly susceptible to reperfusion injury following periods of myocardial ischaemia that occur during cardiac surgery. ageing is associated with an increase in myocardial susceptibility to ischaemia/reperfusion (i/r) injury. cardiovascular ageing is associated with an increase in cardiac susceptibility to ischaemia and reperfusion. cardiovascular ageing is associated with an increase in cardiac susceptibility to ischaemia and reperfusion and production of reactive oxygen species has been suspected to be responsible for this age-associated particular vulnerability. 
Aggravated inflammation is dependent on NLRP3 inflammasome activation. [SEP] excessive activation of the nlrp3 inflammasome has been implicated in the pathogenesis of a wide variety of human inflammatory diseases, suggesting that the nlrp3 inflammasome is a potential target for the treatment of these diseases. here, we summarize the molecular mechanisms and diseases involved in nlrp3 inflammasome activation and discuss the potential strategies targeting different aspects of the nlrp3 inflammasome and its implications for the treatment of inflammatory diseases. the nlrp3 inflammasome responds to infection and tissue damage, and rapidly escalates the intensity of inflammation by activating interleukin (il)-1β, il-18 and cell death by pyroptosis. a critical component of innate immune response to infection and tissue damage is the nacht, lrr, and pyd domains-containing protein 3 (nlrp3) inflammasome, and this pathway and its activation products have been implicated in the pathophysiology of a variety of diseases. nlrp3 inflammasome activation leads to the cleavage of pro-il-1β and pro-il-18, as well as the subsequent release of biologically active il-1β, il-18, and other soluble mediators of inflammation. these data implicate the nlrp3 inflammasome in the pathogenesis of dermal and airway inflammation, and they highlight the utility of cp-456,773 for interrogating the contribution of the nlrp3 inflammasome and its outputs in preclinical models of inflammation and disease. the nlrp3 inflammasome is a critical component of the innate immune system and can be activated in response to microbial and endogenous danger signals. dysregulation of the nlrp3 inflammasome pathway is closely related to the development of many human diseases, such as neuroinflammation, metabolic inflammation, and immune inflammation. emerging studies have suggested nlrp3 inflammasome as a potential drug-target for inflammatory diseases. activation of the nlrp3 inflammasome is critical for host defense as well as the progression of inflammatory diseases through the production of the proinflammatory cytokine il-1β, which is cleaved by active caspase-1. 
Albendazole is used to treat soil-transmitted helminths. [SEP] albendazole (alb) is being administered with diethyl carbamazine (dec) in filariasis endemic areas to eliminate lymphatic filariasis (lf) and helminth infections. albendazole is an orally administered broad-spectrum anthelmintic. preventive chemotherapy with albendazole or mebendazole is the current strategy to control soil-transmitted helminth (sth) infections (i.e. albendazole is the drug of choice against hookworm. in this double-blind trial conducted on pemba island, tanzania, we randomly assigned children, 6 to 14 years of age, to receive one of four treatments: oxantel pamoate at a dose of 20 mg per kilogram of body weight, plus 400 mg of albendazole, administered on consecutive days; oxantel pamoate at a single dose of 20 mg per kilogram; albendazole at a single dose of 400 mg; or mebendazole at a single dose of 500 mg. we assessed the efficacy and safety profile of oxantel pamoate-albendazole when used in the treatment of t. trichiura infection (primary outcome) and concomitant soil-transmitted helminth infection (secondary outcome). thiabendazole is a benzimidazole-based anthelmintic active pharmaceutical ingredient for the treatment of intestinal pinworm and strongyloides infections. albendazole, a benzimidazole carbamate commonly used for the treatment and control of intestinal helminthic infections, is also useful for the treatment of giardiasis. in many regions where soil-transmitted helminth infections are endemic, single-dose albendazole is used in mass drug administration programs to control infections. we conducted a randomized, controlled, assessor-blinded clinical trial to determine the efficacies of standard and extended albendazole treatment against soil-transmitted helminth infection in gabon. a single-dose albendazole treatment considerably reduces ascaris infection but has only a moderate effect on hookworm and trichuris infections. 
Algerian physicians constitue the largest component of sub-Saharan Africa-trained physicians in the United States. [SEP] data were collected from randomly selected physicians, pediatricians, allergists, and pulmonologists through a questionnaire-based survey in 12 cities and 60 rural locations across algeria. algeria is the largest country of africa, peopled with populations living a range of traditional/rural and modern/urban lifestyles. ethiopia is a country of over 94 million people that has a severe physician shortage with approximately only 2.5 physicians per 100,000 persons. recently, the ethiopian government implemented a "flood and retain" initiative to rapidly increase the quantity of physicians in ethiopia. consequently, medical student enrollment at addis ababa university (aau) school of medicine increased from 100 to approximately 300-400 students per class. from the late 19th century, some of the physicians settled in algeria and teachers at the school of medicine of algiers sought to map the extent of malaria in order to propose prophylactic measures against a disease that was widespread in the countryside of the colony. this article offers the first account of the lives of algerian-born doctors working in the french colonial medical service between 1870 and 1900. their stories reveal the manner in which the idea of medical imperialism had collapsed in algeria, as a result of maladministration, racial policies, competition between civil and military authorities, budgetary constraints and the rise of the colons. indispensable to the military in algeria was its sizable medical corps. starting from the intellectual and political influences that shaped the training in france of the members of the medical corps, this essay examines the ways in which they contributed to the creation of a french colonial space in algeria. 
Alirocumab treatment reduces apo(a) fractional clearance rate. [SEP] alirocumab was associated with significant reductions in lp(a), regardless of starting dose and use of concomitant statins. in conclusion, in addition to marked reduction in ldl-c, alirocumab leads to a significant and sustained lowering of lp(a). alirocumab reduced lipoprotein(a) by 5.0 mg/dl (iqr: 0 to 13.5 mg/dl), corrected ldl-c by 51.1 mg/dl (iqr: 33.7 to 67.2 mg/dl), and reduced the risk of mace (hazard ratio [hr]: 0.85; 95% confidence interval [ci]: 0.78 to 0.93). lipoprotein(a) lowering by alirocumab is an independent contributor to mace reduction, which suggests that lipoprotein(a) should be an independent treatment target after acs. alirocumab, a monoclonal antibody to proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9, is reported to reduce lp(a) levels. alirocumab significantly reduced total lp(a) (pooled median: -21%, p = 0.0001) and allele-specific apo(a), an lp(a) level carried by the smaller (median: -18%, p = 0.002) or the larger (median: -37%, p = 0.0005) apo(a) isoform, at week 8 versus baseline. the percent reduction in lp(a) level with alirocumab was similar across apo(a) phenotypes (single vs. double bands) and carriers and noncarriers of a small size apo(a) (≤22 kringles). in conclusion, alirocumab-induced lp(a) reduction was independent of apo(a) phenotypes and the presence or absence of a small size apo(a). in phase 3 odyssey trials, alirocumab reduced levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c) and lp(a), with concomitant reductions in the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (mace). these data indicate that anacetrapib, given alone or in combination with a statin, reduces ldl-apob-100 levels by increasing the rate of apob-100 fractional clearance. 
Allogeneic mechanical circulatory support is not as effective as autologous mechanical circulatory support for treating acute myocardial infarction. [SEP] cardiac allograft rejection and failure may require mechanical circulatory support as bridge-to-retransplantation. acute fulminant myocarditis with intractable cardiogenic shock is a fatal condition; its only therapeutic option is mechanical circulatory support. the aim of this research was to advance our understanding of the outcome of heart transplantation under mechanical support for acute myocarditis. we reviewed 134 patients experiencing acute myocarditis who required mechanical circulatory support (including ecmo and/or vad) in our institute between 1994 and 2014. mechanical circulatory support in patients with acute myocarditis proved to be effective. mechanical circulatory support has become the standard therapy to bridge patients with intractable heart failure to either transplantation or myocardial recovery. advanced mechanical circulatory support with impella system can substantially support hemodynamics and improve short-term prognosis in patients with myocardial infarction and cardiogenic shock. several percutaneous mechanical circulatory support devices have been introduced into clinical practice (impella, extracorporeal membrane oxygen, tandemheart), providing a greater level of hemodynamic support. premature initiation of mechanical circulatory support exposes the patient to unnecessary risk, whereas delaying therapy leads to irreversible end-organ injury, rendering any intervention medically futile. this article will review the commonly used percutaneous mechanical circulatory support devices in the setting of cardiogenic shock, compare their advantages and disadvantages, evaluate key clinical trials, and discuss a practical approach to guide clinicians' decision and management. 
Alteration of origin firing causes changes in termination zones of Okazaki fragments. [SEP] okazaki fragments occur as intermediates during lagging strand dna replication. alterations in okazaki fragment structure may contribute to the anticancer activities of nucleoside analogues such as cytarabine, a potent anti-leukemic agent that inhibits lagging strand replication. we have determined the solution structures for two model okazaki fragments, [oka] and [arac]. the structure of each model okazaki fragment was elucidated using nmr spectroscopy and restrained molecular dynamics simulations. okazaki fragments represent interesting targets for the design of anticancer drugs because of their selective occurrence during dna replication, a process often elevated in aggressive malignancies. structural studies have indicated a bend occurs in the helical axis at the junction region (jr) that joins the dna duplex region (ddr) and the rna-dna hybrid duplex region (hdr) of model okazaki fragments. to identify a structural motif that provides a shape complementary to the okazaki fragment minor groove, we have investigated the binding of geometrically-constrained bis-distamycins to a model okazaki fragment, [oka], with a sequence derived from the genome of simian virus 40 (sv40). molecular modeling of the complex between the para bis-distamycin mt-9 and [oka] revealed mt-9 adopted an s- shape complementary to the minor groove of the model okazaki fragment. both an increase in firing rate (17.94 spikes/s vs. 8.23) and a change to a bursty spontaneous firing pattern were seen. this results from synthesis of okazaki fragments predominantly on the retrograde arms of forks. 
Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring is inaccurate at diagnosing hypertension. [SEP] as blood pressure fluctuates with time, a single blood pressure measurement is useless to diagnose hypertension. the diagnosis of hypertension among hemodialysis patients by predialysis or postdialysis blood pressure (bp) recordings is imprecise and biased and has poor test-retest reliability. methods 2, 3, or 4 overestimated ambulatory systolic bp by only a small amount. in reality, manual bp in routine clinical practice is relatively inaccurate, over-diagnoses hypertension by provoking office-induced increases in bp and correlates poorly with both the awake ambulatory bp and target organ damage. conventional clinic measurement of blood pressure has many deficiencies, among which the most significant are its inability to indicate the duration of drug effect, or the influence of antihypertensive drugs on nocturnal blood pressure. the technique is, therefore, unreliable for assessing antihypertensive drug efficacy, either in clinical practice or hypertension research. however, clinic bp is insufficient to diagnose hypertension (ht) and to monitor overall bp control because it does not correlate well with ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (abpm). hypertension is a very common disease, and office measurements of blood pressure are frequently inaccurate. cuff blood pressure measurements by doctors and self blood pressure measurements by patients reflect imprecisely 24-hour or daytime mean blood pressure values. blood pressure (bp) measured only in the clinic substantially misclassifies hypertension in patients with chronic kidney disease (ckd). 
Amitriptyline is an effective treatment for chronic tension-type headaches. [SEP] the tricyclic antidepressant, amitriptyline, is an effective drug for the treatment of chronic tension-type headache and for other chronic pain syndromes, but it is also effective in the prophylaxis of an episodic type of headache such as migraine. we compared the efficacy of amitriptyline (25 mg/day) in 82 nondepressed patients with either chronic or episodic tension-type headache in an open-label study. amitriptyline significantly reduced (p < 0.05) frequency and duration of headache as well as analgesic consumption in chronic, but not in episodic, tension-type headache. amitriptyline, which is a noradrenaline reuptake and 5-ht reuptake inhibitor, has an established role in the management of chronic tension-type headaches. the tricyclic anti-depressant amitriptyline is widely used in the treatment of chronic tension-type headache. thirty-three non-depressed patients with chronic tension-type headache were treated with amitriptyline 75 mg/day and with the highly selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor citalopram 20 mg/day in a 32-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled, three-way crossover study. amitriptyline is the medication of first choice in the treatment of chronic tension-type headache. the tricyclic antidepressant, amitriptyline, is widely used for the prophylactic treatment of migraine and tension-type headache. amitriptyline has been shown to be moderately effective in chronic tension-type headache in several controlled studies, but the use is often hampered by side effects. amitriptyline (ami) is tricyclic antidepressant that has been widely used to manage various chronic pains such as migraines. 
An M2-like phenotype in brown adipose tissue macrophages is quickly induced by cold exposure. [SEP] beige adipocytes are an inducible form of thermogenic adipocytes that become interspersed within white adipose tissue (wat) depots in response to cold exposure. we examined the role of cd206+ m2-like macrophages in the cold-induced browning of wat using genetically engineered cd206dtr mice, in which cd206+ m2-like macrophages were conditionally depleted. a flow cytometry analysis showed that the partial depletion of cd206+ m2-like macrophages caused an increase in the number of beige progenitors in ingwat in response to cold. continuous exposure to cold leads to an activation of adaptive thermogenesis in the brown adipose tissue and induction of brown/beige cell phenotype in the white adipose tissue. the aim of this work was to elucidate the effect of cold exposure on catecholamine and immune responses associated with adipocyte browning in the mesenteric adipose tissue (mwat) of rat. in the mammalian adipose organ cold exposure not only activates typical brown adipose tissue, but also induces browning, that is the formation of thermogenic multilocular adipocytes in white, or predominantly white, adipose depots such as subcutaneous fat. the polarization of adipose tissue-resident macrophages toward the alternatively activated, anti-inflammatory m2 phenotype is believed to improve insulin sensitivity. type 2 cytokines are important signals triggering biogenesis of thermogenic beige adipocytes in white adipose tissue (wat) during cold acclimation. thus, the adipose-derived fgf21-ccl11 axis triggers cold-induced beiging and thermogenesis by coupling sympathetic nervous system to activation of type 2 immunity in scwat. adipocyte dysfunction causes a phenotypic switch of macrophages from an alternatively activated m2-like phenotype towards a proinflammatory m1 phenotype. 
Androgenetic haploid mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) can be derived and genetically manipulated in vitro. [SEP] haploid embryonic stem cells (escs) have recently been derived from parthenogenetic mouse embryos and offer new possibilities for genetic screens. here, we show that parthenogenetic haploid escs at high passage have robust germline competence enabling the production of transgenic mouse strains from genetically modified haploid escs. mouse parthenogenetic haploid embryonic stem cells (escs) are pluripotent cells generated from chemically activated oocytes. embryonic stem (es) cells derived from androgenetic or parthenogenetic mouse embryos are important tools for studying the roles of imprinted genes in early development. genetic alteration of mouse es cells can be easily achieved and such genetic modification can be introduced into the animal, since es cells are differentiated into germ cells in vivo. embryonic stem cells isolated directly from mouse embryos can be cultured for long periods in vitro and subsequently repopulate the germ line in chimaeric mice. embryonic stem (es) cells derived from pluripotent cells of the early mouse embryo provide a powerful tool for genome manipulation in mammals. mouse embryonic stem (es) cells are derived from the inner cell mass of the preimplantation embryo and have the developmental capacity to generate all cell types of the body. genetically altered embryonic stem (es) cells re-injected into mouse blastocysts take part in the formation of all tissues, including the germ line, thus generating transgenic offspring. the recent successful establishment of mouse parthenogenetic haploid embryonic stem cells (phescs) and androgenetic haploid escs (ahescs) has stimulated genetic research not only in vitro but also in vivo because of the germline competence of these cell lines. 
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with decreased risk for functional renal insufficiency. [SEP] inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system contributes to reductions in proteinuria and in progression of chronic kidney disease. reducing the actions of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (aceis) slows nephropathy progression in patients with or without diabetes. to determine if limited initial reduction in either glomerular filtration rate (gfr) or elevation in serum creatinine levels, associated with acei or angiotensin receptor blocker use, results in long-term protection against decline in renal function in patients with renal insufficiency. angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors reduce mortality, myocardial infarction, stroke, heart failure, need for revascularization, nephropathy, and diabetes and its complications. angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibition has been shown to be more effective in this regard than conventional antihypertensive therapy. angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors appear to possess unique cardioprotective benefits, even when used in patients without high blood pressure or left ventricular dysfunction (the traditional indications for ace inhibitor therapy). in patients with diabetic nephropathy, angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibition has been shown to be more effective in this regard than conventional antihypertensive therapy. angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors reduce blood pressure and urine protein excretion and slow the progression of chronic kidney disease. angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors remained beneficial after adjustment for blood pressure and urine protein excretion (relative risk, 0.67 [95% ci, 0.53 to 0.84]). the use of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (aceis) along with good blood pressure control have been shown to significantly decrease the level of proteinuria and slow the progression of renal insufficiency in patients with nondiabetic glomerular disease including focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (fsgs). 
Anthrax spores are very difficult to dispose once they are dispersed. [SEP] anthrax spores can be aerosolized and dispersed as a bioweapon. spores, rather than vegetative bacterial cells, are the source of anthrax infections. introduction: anthrax is a dangerous bio-terror agent because bacillus anthracis spores are highly resilient and can be easily aerosolized and disseminated. there is a threat of deliberate use of anthrax spores aerosol that could lead to serious fatal diseases outbreaks. devising a modern anthrax vaccine requires huge efforts. anthrax is a highly lethal infectious disease caused by the spore-forming bacterium bacillus anthracis. the lethality of anthrax is primarily attributed to the two major virulence factors: toxins and capsule. anthrax remains a real threat. exposure to anthrax leaves susceptible hosts at prolonged risk of infection since spores can persist in vivo for months before germinating to cause life-threatening disease. bacillus anthracis spores, the infectious agents of anthrax, are notoriously difficult to remove from contaminated areas because they are resistant to many eradication methods. 
Anthrax spores remain deadly until affected areas are decontaminated. [SEP] anthrax continues to generate concern as an agent of bioterrorism and as a natural cause of sporadic disease outbreaks. introduction: anthrax is a dangerous bio-terror agent because bacillus anthracis spores are highly resilient and can be easily aerosolized and disseminated. there is a threat of deliberate use of anthrax spores aerosol that could lead to serious fatal diseases outbreaks. devising a modern anthrax vaccine requires huge efforts. anthrax poses a clear and present danger as an agent of biological terrorism. anthrax remains a real threat. unfortunately the threat of bioterrorism, and anthrax in particular, is unlikely to go away. anthrax is one of the deadly infectious disease as documented in the cdc website. in spite of the availability of appropriate antimicrobial agents, the mortality related with the anthrax remains high. anthrax is a highly lethal infectious disease caused by the spore-forming bacterium bacillus anthracis. 
Antidepressants increase the severity of migraines. [SEP] the comorbidity of migraine and depression is well-known. studies in both clinical and community-based settings have demonstrated a strong relationship between migraine and depression. in addition to complicating the diagnosis, depression that is comorbid with migraine may lower treatment adherence, increase risk of medication overuse and is associated with migraine chronification, thus leading to higher direct and indirect costs and poorer health-related outcomes with increased disability. epidemiological findings indicate that there is a bidirectional relationship between migraine and depression, with one disorder increasing the risk for the other and vice versa, suggesting shared biological mechanisms. migraine comorbid with depression is common and is often encountered in clinical practice. numerous studies have been published on the association of migraine with depression. comorbid migraine in the course of bipolar disorder has been reported as highly prevalent and associated with increased morbidity. patients with bipolar disorder and comorbid migraine tend to present with higher rates of rapid cycling, increased number of depressive episodes, more severe depression, and increased suicidality when compared to subjects with bipolar disorder alone. migraine is a common and disabling disorder that is highly comorbid with depression. the comorbidity of depression and migraine is a major health concern as it results in poorer prognosis and quality of life. 
Antidepressants reduce the severity of migraines. [SEP] there is evidence that some antidepressant drugs, above all amitriptyline and mianserine, are beneficial in the prophylaxis of migraine. the mechanism of action of antidepressants in migraine is likely to be complex. the current drugs used in migraine prophylaxis include antidepressant drugs (serotonin reuptake inhibitors, tricyclic antidepressants), and anti-epileptic drugs (valproate, gabapentin, etc). there is evidence that some antidepressant drugs are beneficial in the prophylaxis of migraine. previous reports have shown that migraine patients may respond to various antidepressant agents used for prophylactic therapy. the main purpose of this study was to compare the efficacy of antidepressants from 2 different groups (venlafaxine vs escitalopram) on people who had migraine headache without depression or anxiety. antidepressants are often effective in the management of chronic pain syndromes. the choice of an antidepressant to treat both depression and migraine is determined by its efficacy, safety, and tolerability. although antidepressants (namely tricyclics) are not considered as first-line prophylactic compounds in patients with migraine alone, several clinical trials support a remarkable benefit in the treatment of migraine and related headache disorders. this review discusses the efficacy of antidepressants in migraine prevention. 
Antimicrobial agents are less effective due to the pressure of antimicrobial usage. [SEP] infections caused by multidrug-resistant gram-negative bacteria are particularly worrisome owing to the lack of antimicrobials retaining sufficient activity against these microorganisms. the antimicrobial era is threatened by high levels of antibiotic resistance, the limited number and disparate availability of effective antibiotics against diverse bacterial species, and reduced involvement by the pharmaceutical industry in the development of new anti-infectives. antimicrobial agents that were originally potent are now no longer helpful, due to their weak or null activity toward these antibiotic-resistant bacteria. with the advent of the global antimicrobial resistance (amr) crisis, our arsenal of effective antibiotics is diminishing. the crisis of antimicrobial resistance has been ascribed to the misuse of these agents and due to unavailability of newer drugs attributable to exigent regulatory requirements and reduced financial inducements. many antimicrobial drugs are poorly active against pathogenic microbes causing intracellular infections, such as mycobacterium tuberculosis or plasmodium falciparum. on the other hand, several known antimicrobial agents are not effective enough because of their limited cellular penetration. therefore, antibiotics are rapidly losing their antimicrobial value. polymicrobial infections are increasingly recognized as a significant source of severe disease and also contribute to reduced susceptibility to antimicrobials. antibiotics, once considered the lifeline for treating bacterial infections, are under threat due to the emergence of threatening antimicrobial resistance (amr). 
Antimicrobial agents are more effective due to the pressure of antimicrobial usage. [SEP] the global problem of resistance to antimicrobials has resulted in a co-ordinated drive to use antimicrobial agents more responsibly. at a clinical level this is promoted through antimicrobial stewardship which demands appropriate use through optimal drug selection. the contemporary management of infectious diseases is built around antimicrobial therapy. antimicrobial stewardship programs (asps) are an increasingly common intervention for optimizing antimicrobial therapy in healthcare settings. increasing antimicrobial costs, reduced development of novel antimicrobials, and growing antimicrobial resistance necessitate judicious use of available agents. antimicrobial stewardship programs (asps) may improve antimicrobial use in intensive care units (icus). the widespread use of antibacterial drugs over the last 70 years has brought immense benefits to human health at the price of increasing drug inefficacy. antibacterial agents have a strong selective effect in both favouring resistant strains and allowing particular species and families of bacteria to prosper, especially in the healthcare setting. antimicrobial peptides have clear advantages over conventional antibiotics which include slower emergence of resistance, broad-spectrum antibiofilm activity, and the ability to favourably modulate the host immune response. extending the useful life of antimicrobial drugs through appropriate use-that is, use that maximizes therapeutic impact while minimizing toxicity and the development of resistance-is an important component of efforts to prevent and control the emerging threat of antimicrobial resistance. 
Antiretroviral therapy increases rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. [SEP] starting patients with hiv-associated tuberculous meningitis (tbm) on art during tuberculosis (tb) treatment may increase survival in these patients. in 106 hiv-infected patients with tbm, six-month all-cause mortality was lower in those who received antiretroviral therapy (art) during tb treatment; hazard ratio = 0.30 (95% ci = 0.08-0.82). antiretroviral treatment (art) is the most effective way to reduce the risk of tb in hiv-1 co-infected people. the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (aids) epidemic has resulted in a rising incidence of tuberculosis (tb) in the united states, especially in inner cities where aids is prevalent and among human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infected subpopulations with a relatively high background prevalence of tuberculous infection (ie, intravenous drug abusers, haitians, blacks). starting art during tb treatment improved survival in patients with cd4 cell count less than 500 cells/mul, but the optimal interval between starting tb treatment and starting art remains to be determined in several ongoing trials. the risk of tuberculosis (tb) is greater for individuals with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) who are on combined antiretroviral therapy (c-art) than for the normal population. the incidence of tuberculosis (tb) is currently increasing in hiv-infected patients living in africa and asia, where tb endemicity is high, reflecting the susceptibility of this group of patients to mycobacteria belonging to the tb group. human immunodeficiency virus infection is the most potent known risk factor for reactivation of latent mycobacterium tuberculosis infection, and tb disease appears to increase the rate of hiv progression. the use of highly active antiretroviral therapy (haart) made a remarkable impact on the course or hiv disease, but raises several issues with respect to hiv-related tb. the high burden of tuberculosis (tb) among patients accessing antiretroviral treatment (art) services in resource-limited settings is a major cause of morbidity and mortality and is associated with nosocomial transmission risk. 
Approximately 250,000 people are infected with human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 in the United Kingdom. [SEP] today the world health organisation estimates that there are 250 million new cases of std every year world-wide, and over 20 distinct pathogens are currently recognised. the current estimates of people chronically infected with the virus are put at 250 million worldwide. each year in the united kingdom about 250,000 people die from acute myocardial infarction, other ischaemic heart disease or stroke. approximately 250 million people are living with chronic hepatitis b virus (hbv) infections, which claim nearly a million lives annually. the centers for disease control and prevention estimates that 1.1 million individuals in the u.s. are living with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection with or without aids. estimated that about 25% humans are colonized by mycobacterium tuberculosis and about 1% are believed to develop the infection in the central nervous system (cns-tb). the condition affects around 800,000 people in the uk, of which it is estimated that 250,000 are undiagnosed. human t cell lymphotrophic virus type-1 infection is endemic in the afro-caribbean community in britain, with carriage rates of about 3%. although there is a long latency, carriers have a 1-5% chance of developing adult t cell leukaemia/lymphoma, a condition frequently complicated by marked and refractory hypercalcaemia, and with a poor prognosis. we present the case of an elderly jamaican woman with severe hypercalcaemia and a raised pthrp who was found to have lymphoma and was positive for htlv-1. 
Assessing treatment adherence is more beneficial to clinical practice than measuring routine outcomes. [SEP] we hypothesize that dm improves adherence to prescriptions more than the rate with which prescriptions are being filled. compliance with prescribed regimens is an intermediate outcome measure that presumes that a positive health outcome will follow, which is why clinicians and researchers are interested in compliance. outcomes research on compliance with prescribed medicine should recognize the outcomes valued from the patient's perspective. patient adherence to therapy is essential to assess treatment efficacy, particularly in clinical trials. improving patient compliance with physicians' treatment or prescription recommendations is an important goal in medical practice. we examine the relationship between treatment progress and patient compliance. compliance is measured by a client attending a scheduled appointment, and continuing with treatment. in clinical practice, medication adherence and persistence are important for disease management and can significantly improve outcomes and enhance the quality of patient care. high levels of adherence were associated with reductions in adverse clinical outcomes, including all-cause mortality and fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events; the most consistent benefits were witnessed at adherence levels 80% or greater. interventions based around objective measurement of adherence to antiretroviral drugs for hiv have potential to improve adherence and to enable differentiation of care such that clinical visits are reduced in those with high adherence. 
Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations leads to improved vision. [SEP] screening for impaired visual acuity could lead to interventions to improve vision, function, and quality of life. to update the 1996 u.s. preventive services task force evidence review on benefits and harms of screening for impaired visual acuity in primary care settings in adults age 65 years or older. direct evidence shows that screening for vision impairment in older adults in primary care settings is not associated with improved visual or other clinical outcomes and may be associated with unintended harms, such as increased falls. the uspstf reviewed the evidence on screening for visual acuity impairment associated with uncorrected refractive error, cataracts, and age-related macular degeneration among adults 65 years or older in the primary care setting; the benefits and harms of screening; the accuracy of screening; and the benefits and harms of treatment of early vision impairment due to uncorrected refractive error, cataracts, and age-related macular degeneration. this recommendation applies to asymptomatic adults 65 years or older who do not present to their primary care clinician with vision problems. the objective of this review is to assess the effects on vision of mass screening of older people for visual impairment. we included randomised trials of visual or multicomponent screening for vision impairment in people aged 65 or over in a community setting. to assess whether population screening for impaired vision among older people in the community leads to improvements in vision. to assess the effects on vision of mass screening of older people for visual impairment. we included randomised trials of visual or multicomponent screening for identifying vision impairment in people aged 65 years or over in a community setting. 
At least 85% of patients exposed to radiation have activated markers of myofibroblasts. [SEP] we recently made an important discovery that radiation induces myofibroblasts, which play a role in radiation-related carcinogenesis via tumor microenvironment formation. here, we investigated the threshold dose and the mechanisms of myofibroblast induction to assess adverse radiation effects on normal cells. ros play a pivotal role in the process of myofibroblast induction in normal tissue injury. in contrast to standard culture conditions, myofibroblasts remained after low or moderate doses of radiation (below 2.5 gy) under growth-restricted conditions. in conclusion, the recovery of damaged cells from radiation is essential for myofibroblast clearance, which restores stromal cell dormancy and prevents tumor microenvironment formation. however, residual ros, by way of sustaining myofibroblast presence, can facilitate tumor microenvironment formation. radiation fibrosis is a frequent sequel of therapeutic or accidental radiation overexposure in normal human tissues. this review discusses recent evidence on the critical role played by tgf-beta in the initiation, development, and persistence of radiation fibrosis. cancerogenesis is characterized by increase of differentiated myofibroblasts. eighty-five patients with myositis (20 pm and 65 dm) were included. 
Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has better graft function than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. [SEP] an autograft of cultured bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells has already been used in clinical practice. therefore, fk506 might be more useful than rapamycin in allogeneic transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells. however, recent reports have shown that the immune effector cells collected at the same time as the stem cells can produce an autologous graft-versus-tumor effect, similar to the graft-versus-tumor effect seen in allogeneic stem cell transplantation without the detrimental effects of graft-versus-host disease. in this article, we review the different immune effector cells collected and infused from the stem cell autograft and their association with clinical outcome post-asct, suggesting that asct can be viewed not only as a therapeutic maneuver to recover bone marrow function after deliver high-dose chemotherapy, but also as an adoptive immunotherapeutic intervention capable of eradicating residual tumor cells in patients with cancer. use of recombinant interleukin-2 (ril-2) after autologous bone marrow transplantation (bmt) may enhance immune function and hopefully reproduce the allogeneic reaction. previous studies have suggested that autologous bone marrow or mobilized peripheral blood progenitor cell transplants activated by prior culture of the cells in il-2 may capture some of the beneficial graft-versus-leukemia effects obtained with unmanipulated allogeneic, but not autologous, transplants. we have performed a series of studies of nonmyeloablative allogeneic transplantation and present data on the subset of 14 patients treated for relapse after autologous sct: 4 patients received no conditioning and unstimulated donor leukocyte infusions (dli), 10 patients received conditioning with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide followed by unstimulated or granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor (g-csf)-stimulated allogeneic peripheral blood stem cells (pbscs), 4 patients received no graft-versus-host disease (gvhd) prophylaxis, and 10 patients received cyclosporine gvhd prophylaxis. the main advantage of allogeneic stem cell transplantation over autologous stem cell transplantation for hematologic malignancies is the ability to perform cellular immunotherapy using donor-derived immune effector cells after transplantation. transplantation of bone marrow autografts activated by culture in interleukin-2 (il-2) followed by administration of il-2 represents a novel approach in an attempt to combine ex vivo purging and post-transplant in vivo immunotherapy, and initial clinical results have suggested its feasibility. the transplantation of such il-2 'primed' marrow may also contribute to an in vivo graft-versus-leukemia effect. 
Autophagy deficiency in the liver increases vulnerability to insulin resistance. [SEP] high-fat diet-induced obesity can lead to hepatic insulin resistance (ir) and alter glucose metabolism. alcohol-related liver disease (ald) is mediated in part by insulin resistance. accumulating evidence strongly suggests that autophagy, which is induced by endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress in adipocytes, may play an important role in obesity-induced insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes. in 3t3-l1 adipocytes, induction of er stress is sufficient to promote autophagy-dependent adiponectin degradation. taken together, our results show that er stress-induced autophagy provides an important mechanism underlying obesity-induced adiponectin downregulation in adipocytes. previously, we reported that inhibiting autophagy aggravated saturated fatty acid (sfa)-induced hepatotoxicity. insulin, a physiological inhibitor of autophagy, is commonly increased within nafld mainly caused by insulin resistance. we subsequently clarified that insulin led to a rapid and short-period inhibition of autophagy, which was gradually recovered after 1 h incubation in hepatocytes, and such extent of inhibition was insufficient to aggravate sfa-induced lipotoxicity. our study demonstrated that insulin strongly protected against sfa-induced lipotoxicity in hepatocytes mechanistically through alleviating er stress via a pi3k/akt/p53 involved pathway but independently from autophagy. specific dysregulation of glucose and lipid metabolism in liver is sufficient to cause insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes; this is seen by a selective inability of insulin to suppress glucose production while remaining insulin-sensitive to de novo lipid biosynthesis. 
B cells go though plasmablast differentiation and antibody production by continuous expression of EBI2. [SEP] the differentiation from a b cell into a plasma cell is controlled by a complex transcriptional network and happens within secondary lymphoid organs. the generation and maintenance of mature b cells from the constant flux of bone marrow progenitors is a complex process that is generally poorly understood, although great progress has been made in recent years. the cornerstone of humoral immunity is the differentiation of b cells into antibody-secreting plasma cells. b cell development culminates in the formation of plasma cells, potent secretors of the immunoglobulins (ig), proteins crucial for the health of the organism. two distinctive and crucial steps are required during b cell differentiation. b cells act as immune effectors, primarily through antigen-specific clonal expansion and plasma-cell differentiation. human b cells differentiate from stem cells to immunoglobulin secreting plasma cells and during this course a series of discrete phases can be recognised. b-cell development is tightly regulated, including the induction of b-cell memory and antibody-secreting plasmablasts and plasma cells. the current review addresses the role of certain stages of b-cell development as well as plasmablasts/plasma cells in immune regulation under normal and autoimmune conditions with particular emphasis on systemic lupus erythematosus. b lymphocyte induced maturation protein 1 (blimp-1) has long been considered a master regulator of the terminal differentiation of b cells into antibody-secreting plasma cells. 
B3-Galectin decreases cell resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) by engaging the alternate KRAS-RalB signaling complex downstream of EGFR. [SEP] the egfr tyrosine kinase inhibitors (egfr-tkis) repress the egfr pathway constitutively activated by somatic egfr gene mutations and have drastically improved the prognosis of non-small-cell lung cancer (nsclc) patients. we also found that ku55933 enhanced the gefitinib-dependent repression of the phosphorylation of egfr and/or its downstream factors. therapies inhibiting receptor tyrosine kinases (rtks) are effective against some human cancers when they lead to simultaneous downregulation of pi3k/akt and mek/erk signaling. however, mutant kras has the capacity to directly activate erk and pi3k signaling, and this is thought to underlie the resistance of kras mutant cancers to rtk inhibitors. interestingly, combination of rtk and mek inhibitors led to concomitant inhibition of pi3k and mek signaling, marked growth suppression, and robust apoptosis of human kras mutant colorectal cancer cell lines in vitro and upon xenografting in mice. redundant receptor tyrosine kinase (rtk) signaling is a mechanism for therapeutic resistance to epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) inhibition. this study suggests that nlg inhibition is a novel therapeutic strategy for targeting egfr and rtk signaling in both gliomas and other malignant tumors. the first to the third-generation egfr inhibitors have demonstrated powerful efficacy and brought a prospect to patients. in this review, we discussed the recent advances in medicinal chemistry of fourth-generation egfr-tkis, as well as further discussed the clinical challenges and future prospects of treating patients with egfr mutations resistant to third-generation egfr-tkis. erlotinib is a small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor which blocks the activation of epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr), a transmembrane receptor that is upregulated in many cancer types. 
B3-Galectin increases cell resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) by engaging the alternate KRAS-RalB signaling complex downstream of EGFR. [SEP] to investigate the mechanism of resistance to egfr inhibition in bladder cancer, we compared egfr tyrosine kinase inhibitor (gefitinib, iressa, zd1839) with respect to its inhibitory effects on three kinases situated downstream of egfr: mapk, akt, and glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (gsk-3beta). we found that the resistance to the antiproliferative effects of gefitinib, in vitro as well as in vivo in nude mice models, was associated with uncoupling between egfr and mapk inhibition, and that gsk-3beta activation and degradation of its target cyclin d1 were indicators of a high cell sensitivity to gefitinib. dysregulation of epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) signaling is responsible for the resistance to egfr tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tkis), such as gefitinib and erlotinib, and is thereby associated with the progression of tumors in non‑small cell lung cancers (nsclcs). a combination of gefitinib and ggti‑298 amplified the inhibition of the egfr‑akt signaling pathway. resistance to the egfr tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tkis) gefitinib and erlotinib, often related to ras or secondary egfr mutations, is a relevant clinical issue in non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc). several mechanisms including abnormal activation of pi3k-akt-mtor pathway have been proved to generate acquired resistance to epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tkis) in non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc). in this study, we investigated the genomic characteristics of pi3k pathway activated in nsclc patients after progression on egfr-tkis and whether both targeting egfr and pi3k pathway could overcome resistance. in breast cancer models, erbb tkis such as gefitinib have been shown to lose the ability to modulate erbb-driven signaling pathways over time, even though erbb inhibition is maintained. we find that erbb tki-induced src activation mediates downstream signaling rebound in skbr3 cells, and we show that combination of src and erbb inhibitors is more effective and longlasting than is either tki alone. here, we investigated igfbp-3 expression in two egfr mutant lung cancer cell lines with resistance to egfr-tkis and examined the value of serum igfbp-3 level as a marker of resistance. 
BCL-2 activation antagonizes the apoptotic effects of c-Myc. [SEP] bcl-2 is a negative regulator of apoptosis implicated in homeostatic and pathologic cell survival. bcl-2 is an integral, intracellular membrane protein that prevents cells from undergoing apoptosis in response to a variety of cell death signals. overexpression of bcl-2 inhibits the caspase activities and apoptosis. inhibition of the mitochondrial functions of bcl-2 and, thereby, its anti-apoptotic effect could serve as useful pharmacological targets. bcl-2 is the founding member of the bcl-2 family of apoptosis regulatory proteins that either induce (pro-apoptotic) or inhibit (anti-apoptotic) apoptosis. ongoing research has demonstrated that disruption of bcl-2 leads to cell death. the overexpression of bcl-2 was found to be related to the progression of cancer and also providing resistance towards chemotherapeutic treatments. b cell lymphoma-2 (bcl-2) is an inhibitor of apoptosis which stabilizes the mitochondria, resulting in the prevention of activation of the pro-apoptotic proteins. members of the bcl-2 family are critical regulators of apoptosis. bcl-2 is a proto-oncogene which is involved in prolonging cell survival by inhibiting programmed cell death. 
BCL-2 promotes the apoptotic effects of c-Myc. [SEP] the anti-apoptotic bcl-2 is classified as an oncogene, as damage to the bcl-2 gene has been shown to cause a number of cancers, including lymphoma. here, we provide evidence that the bh3-only proapoptotic bcl-2 family members bcl-2 modifying factor (bmf) and bcl-2 antagonist of cell death (bad) are potent antagonists of c-myc-driven b-cell lymphomagenesis. the bcl-2 family of proteins integrates pro- and anti-apoptotic signals within the cell and is responsible for initiation of caspase-dependent apoptosis. chronic lymphocytic leukemia (cll) cells are particularly dependent on the anti-apoptotic protein bcl-2 for their survival, making this an attractive therapeutic target in cll. the protein encoded by bcl-2 proto-oncogene plays an important role in the mitochondria-mediated apoptotic pathway. although the general role of bcl-2 is anti-apoptotic, previous work showed that bcl-2 fragments cleaved by caspases could promote apoptotic process. bcl-2 proteins are major regulators of cellular responses to intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic stimuli. among them, overexpression of the antiapoptotic protein bcl-x(l) modulates intracellular ca(2+) homeostasis and organelle-specific apoptotic signaling pathways. enhanced c-myc activation can result either in proliferation or apoptosis. coexpression with antiapoptotic bcl-2, which abrogates the apoptotic function of c-myc might lead to an enormous growth advantage of cells. 
BLM gene encodes RecQ-class DNA helicase. [SEP] the product of the gene mutated in bloom's syndrome, blm, is a 3'-5' dna helicase belonging to the highly conserved recq family. blm, the gene that is defective in bloom's syndrome, encodes a protein homologous to recq subfamily helicases that functions as a 3'-5' dna helicase in vitro. bloom syndrome protein (blm) is one of five human recq helicases that participate in dna metabolism. blm, the protein product of the gene mutated in bloom syndrome, is one of five human recq helicases. blm, a recq family dna helicase mutated in bloom's syndrome, participates in homologous recombination at two stages: 5' dna end resection and double holliday junction dissolution. moreover, we show that dna2 stimulates the helicase activity of blm. the product of the bloom syndrome mutated gene, designated blm, is a member of the recq helicase family. recq helicases maintain chromosome stability by resolving several highly specific dna structures. blm, the protein mutated in bloom's syndrome, is a member of the recq helicase family, and possesses both dna-unwinding and strand-annealing activity. blm is a dna helicase encoded by a gene which is mutated in persons with bloom's syndrome. 
BRCA 1 mutation carriers' risk of breast and ovarian cancer depends on where the mutation is located. [SEP] mutations in the brca1 gene result in an elevated risk of breast cancer (bc) and ovarian cancer (oc). therefore, although germline brca1/2 mutations raise a woman's breast and ovarian cancer risk, other factors may interact with brca1/2 mutations to modulate this risk. brca1 mutations cause increased risk for breast and ovarian cancer, frequently of early onset. these common mutations have an etiological role in many breast and ovarian cancer cases and provide the opportunity to examine genotype-phenotype correlations and genotype-environment interactions in individuals with the identical brca1 lesion. however, inheritance of a single brca1 mutation significantly increases a woman's lifetime chance of developing tissue-specific cancers in the breast and ovaries. a mutation in the brca1 gene may confer substantial risk for breast and/or ovarian cancer. the risk of an individual with a mutation developing cancer of the ovary appears to be influenced by the position of the mutation within the brca gene, the presence of allelic variants of modifying genes and the hormonal exposure of the carrier. mutations in the high penetrance breast and ovarian cancer susceptibility gene brca1 account for a significant percentage of hereditary breast and ovarian cancer cases. we investigated the prevalence of the brca1 founder mutations c.4034dela and c.5266dupc in a population-based series of unselected breast (n = 2546) and ovarian (n = 795) cancer cases. women with germline mutations in brca1 have a greatly elevated risk of breast and ovarian cancer. 
Bacterial meningitis can be diagnosed on the basis of positive cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cultures. [SEP] meningococcal disease is normally suspected on clinical grounds but confirmed by isolation of neisseria meningitidis from blood or cerebrospinal fluid (csf), or by detection of gram-negative diplococci in csf. meningococcal disease is normally suspected on clinical grounds and is confirmed by isolation of neisseria meningitidis bacteria from blood or cerebrospinal fluid or, more recently, by serology or pcr of cerebrospinal fluid. a diagnosis of bacterial meningitis requires isolation of the pathogen from cerebrospinal fluid (csf). a total of 90 csf samples from pediatric patients with clinical diagnosis of bacterial meningitis were evaluated by dot-elisa. although the lumbar puncture is widely used as a diagnostic tool for bacterial meningitis, it remains unclear which value in cerebrospinal fluid (csf) analysis in emergency laboratory tests precisely predicts the presence of bacterial meningitis. the diagnosis of meningitis is made when the white blood cell count in csf exceeds 5 cells/μl, while the diagnosis of bacterial meningitis additionally requires the growth of a pathogen from a csf culture or the identification of a pathogen in gram staining of csf specimen. since the csf glucose and blood glucose values are promptly and easily obtained from a lumbar puncture, the csf/blood glucose ratio should be considered as a timely diagnostic indicator of bacterial meningitis. the diagnosis of bacterial meningitis may be established through positive blood cultures in cases with negative culture of cerebrospinal fluid (csf). the cornerstone of diagnosis is microbiological analysis of the cerebrospinal fluid (csf) cytochemical characteristics such as leucocyte count, csf glucose, and protein concentration and csf: serum glucose ratio. bacterial cultures from cerebrospinal fluid (csf) return with a negative result as treatment with antimicrobials are sometimes started before sampling of csf can be obtained which makes isolating the causative bacteria challenging. 
Bacteriophagaes MS2 and Qβ are members of the Leviviridae. [SEP] bacteriophage of the family leviviridae have played an important role in molecular biology where representative species, such as q beta and ms2, have been studied as model systems for replication, translation, and the role of secondary structure in gene regulation. using nucleotide sequences from the coat and replicase genes we present the first statistical estimate of phylogeny for the family leviviridae using maximum-likelihood and bayesian estimation. our analyses reveal that the coliphage species are a monophyletic group consisting of two clades representing the genera levivirus and allolevivirus. leviviruses are bacteriophages with small single-stranded rna genomes consisting of 3-4 genes, one of which (sgl) encodes a protein that induces the host to undergo autolysis and liberate progeny virions. here, we identify sgl genes in 244 leviviral genomes and functionally characterize them in escherichia coli. we show that leviviruses readily evolve sgl genes and sometimes have more than one per genome. chlamydiaphage chp2 is a member of the family microviridae, of which bacteriophage phix174 is the type species. during a fecal source-tracking study, two genetically novel leviviridae strains were discovered. when the novel strains were compared to nine levivirus genogroup i strains, they shared 95-100% similarity among the maturation, capsid and lysis proteins, but only 84-85% in the rna-dependent rna polymerase gene. to the best of our knowledge, this is the first description of viral recombinants in environmental leviviridae ssrna bacteriophages. 
Bariatric surgery increases rates of colorectal cancer. [SEP] yet, some research indicates that weight-reducing bariatric surgery also increases colorectal cancer risk. the overall sir of colon cancer was increased after bariatric surgery (sir 1.56; 95% ci 1.28-1.88), with higher sirs ≥10 years postsurgery. bariatric surgery did not significantly increase the risk of rectal cancer (sir 1.14, 95% ci 0.83-1.52; hr 1.08, 95% ci 0.79-1.49), but the risk estimates increased with longer follow-up periods. our study suggests that bariatric surgery is associated with an increased risk of colon cancer, while the support for an increased risk of rectal cancer was weaker. obesity surgery involves mechanical and physiological changes of the gastrointestinal tract that might promote colorectal cancer progression. currently, the literature presents conflicting results regarding the protective effects of bariatric surgery on the incidence of colorectal cancer. this meta-analysis was conducted to investigate the effect of bariatric surgery on the risk of developing colorectal cancer in obese individuals. patients who underwent bariatric surgery had a greater than 35 per cent reduction in the risk of developing colorectal cancer compared with obese individuals who had no surgery. we hypothesized that bariatric surgery would decrease the risk of developing colorectal lesions (new cancer and precancerous polyps). bariatric surgery was associated with lesser, risk-adjusted incidence of new colorectal lesions in this large population of propensity matched patients undergoing bariatric surgery compared with a control group not undergoing bariatric surgery. 
Bariatric surgery increases rates of postmenopausal breast cancer. [SEP] visceral obesity and body weight gain are considered responsible for the increased risk of postmenopausal breast cancer. obesity and breast density are associated with breast cancer in postmenopausal women. bariatric surgery effectively treats morbid obesity, with sustainable weight loss and reductions in cancer incidence. the risk of breast cancer increases with age beyond menopause and the relationship between obesity and the risk of breast cancer in postmenopausal women is well established. there is now substantial evidence that overweight and/or obesity and/or weight gain are risk factors for the development of postmenopausal breast cancer. obesity is one of the most important preventable causes of cancer and the most significant risk factor for breast cancer in postmenopausal women. a positive association between obesity and the risk of incident postmenopausal breast cancer has been consistently observed in epidemiologic studies. in this article, the authors review the evidence linking obesity with breast cancer risk and outcomes and provide an overview of lifestyle intervention studies in patients with breast cancer. expert commentary: obesity has been associated with increased risk of postmenopausal hormone receptor positive and premenopausal triple negative breast cancer and with poor prognosis of most types of breast cancer. obese postmenopausal women have an increased breast cancer risk, the principal mechanism for which is elevated estrogen production by adipose tissue; also, regardless of menstrual status and tumor estrogen dependence, obesity is associated with biologically aggressive breast cancers. 
Bariatric surgery leads to negative outcomes in mental health. [SEP] bariatric surgery is an effective intervention in the morbidly obese to achieve marked weight loss and improve physical comorbidities, yet its impact on psychological health has yet to be determined. mental health disorders are highly prevalent among bariatric surgery patients. the aim was to investigate the impact of preoperative mental illness on the course of long-term weight changes after bariatric surgery. preoperative mental illness leads to lower long-term weight loss and an increased risk of weight regain after bariatric surgery. health-related psychological and psychosocial variables have been increasingly considered as important outcome variables of bariatric surgery. however, the long-term impact of bariatric surgery on psychological and psychosocial functioning is largely unclear. severe obesity has many psychiatric consequences that can be influenced by bariatric surgery. bariatric surgery has serious implications on metabolic health. bariatric surgery is an effective treatment for severe obesity; however, high rates of psychiatric comorbidity complicate bariatric surgery care. to review psychopharmacological and psychological interventions for patients undergoing bariatric surgery and their impact on mental health and weight outcomes after surgery. 
Bariatric surgery leads to positive outcomes in mental health. [SEP] a sound body of scientific literature demonstrates positive long-term outcome of bariatric surgery in decreasing mental and physical health morbidity. research indicates a decrease in certain psychiatric symptoms after weight loss with bariatric surgery. recent publications suggest new directions for psychiatric evaluation and interventions for bariatric surgery patients. background: bariatric surgery is efficiently associated with the long-term resolution of obesity and its related morbidities. bariatric surgery is an effective means of weight reduction in severely obese patients and correlates with improvements in quality of life, mental health outcomes, and neurocognition, especially in those with high psychosocial burden. the primary purpose of this systematic review was to evaluate the impact of bariatric surgery on long-term neurocognitive functioning and neuropsychological outcomes. to determine the prevalence of mental health conditions among bariatric surgery candidates and recipients, to evaluate the association between preoperative mental health conditions and health outcomes following bariatric surgery, and to evaluate the association between surgery and the clinical course of mental health conditions. bariatric surgery was, however, consistently associated with postoperative decreases in the prevalence of depression (7 studies; 8%-74% decrease) and the severity of depressive symptoms (6 studies; 40%-70% decrease). moderate-quality evidence supports an association between bariatric surgery and lower rates of depression postoperatively. our results suggest that patients experience significant health improvements and some positive personality changes after bariatric surgery. 
Bariatric surgery reduces colorectal cancer. [SEP] colonoscopic polypectomy is fundamental to effective prevention of colorectal cancer. polypectomy reduces colorectal cancer incidence and mortality by altering the natural history and progression of precancerous precursor polyps. epidemiologic data from the united states, where colorectal cancer rates have been steadily declining in parallel with screening efforts, provide indisputable evidence about the effectiveness of polypectomy. colorectal cancer (crc) is the second most common cause of cancer-related mortality in the united states. colorectal cancer (crc) is one of the leading causes of cancer-related morbidity and mortality worldwide. bariatric surgery reduces atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ascvd) risk. screening lowers colorectal cancer (crc) incidence and mortality. colorectal cancer is a significant cause of mortality and morbidity in western countries. polypectomy reduces the incidence and mortality of colorectal cancer. colorectal cancer is an excellent model for studying cancer prevention by means of secondary (e.g., polypectomy to remove a precursor adenoma) and primary (chemoprevention) strategies. 
Bariatric surgery reduces postmenopausal breast cancer. [SEP] we hypothesized that patients undergoing bariatric surgery would have decreased overall and estrogen receptor (er)-positive breast cancer incidences compared to a propensity-matched non-surgical cohort. female patients who underwent bariatric surgery were less frequently diagnosed with any breast cancer and er-positive breast cancer versus a propensity-matched cohort suggesting a possible oncologic benefit to weight loss surgery. weight loss or weight maintenance is one approach that has been recommended to reduce the risk of breast cancer, particularly for peri/postmenopausal women. application of this approach to at-risk women may provide an approach to lower the risk of breast cancer in overweight/obese women. bariatric surgery decreases breast cancer risk, but its impact on mammographic breast density is not well understood. we investigated how mammographic density changes after bariatric surgery and whether this change is related to weight loss. most women with a mammographic change had an increase in breast density, despite bariatric surgery being associated with reduced breast cancer risk. these findings suggest the metabolic effects of bariatric surgery have an effect on breast parenchyma independent of absolute bmi reduction or weight loss. obesity and breast density are associated with breast cancer in postmenopausal women. bariatric surgery effectively treats morbid obesity, with sustainable weight loss and reductions in cancer incidence. 
Basophils promote disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). [SEP] basophils contribute to the immunopathogenesis of sle. this retrospective clinical study evaluated blood basophil count as a potential marker of sle activity. basophil counts in sle patients were significantly higher after than before immunosuppressive treatment (0.021 ± 0.017 vs. 0.008 ± 0.008 × 10(9)/l, p <0.001) and correlated with total sledai score (r = -0.30, p <0.001). these findings indicate that blood basophil counts may be a useful biomarker in evaluating sle activity. this study aimed to investigate the role of basophil activation in the development of sle based on studies in patients with sle and spontaneous lupus-prone mrl-lpr/lpr mice. the phenotypes of peripheral basophils and the production of autoantibody and interleukin (il)-17 in patients with sle were determined by flow cytometry and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and also their correlations were investigated by statistical analysis. thereafter, the effect of basophils on autoantibody production by b cells and th17 differentiation in sle were evaluated in vitro. finally, the effect of basophil depletion on the development of autoimmune disorders in spontaneous lupus-prone mrl-lpr/lpr mice was examined. the decreased numbers and an increased activation of peripheral basophils were found to be correlated with increased autoantibody production and disease activity in patients with sle. basophils from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus show an activated phenotype, correlating to disease activity. 
Bcp1 is a chaperone for Rpl23. [SEP] p23 is a small acidic protein with intrinsic molecular chaperone activity. it is best known as a co-chaperone of the major cytosolic molecular chaperone hsp90. p23 is a co-chaperone of the heat shock protein hsp90. the p23 protein is a chaperone widely involved in protein homeostasis, well known as an hsp90 co-chaperone since it also controls the hsp90 chaperone cycle. p23 can undergo caspase-dependent proteolytic cleavage to form p19 (p231-142), which is involved in apoptosis, while p23 has anti-apoptotic activity. rpl31, while not essential for binding of rac to the ribosome, might be involved in proper function of the chaperone complex. the small acidic protein p23 is best described as a co-chaperone of hsp90, an essential molecular chaperone in eukaryotes. p23 is a co-chaperone for the heat shock protein, hsp90. p23 is a component of the hsp90 molecular chaperone machine. in addition, p23 can also function as a molecular chaperone by itself and even possesses an unrelated enzymatic activity. 
Beta-band coherence is diminished for visible stimuli over invisible stimuli. [SEP] tms/eeg resulted in a significant activation of the beta/gamma band response (21-50hz) in healthy controls. in healthy people, electrophysiological data show that beta band oscillations in sensorimotor cortex decrease during movement execution (event-related beta desynchronisation (erbd)), then increase above baseline for a short time after the movement (post-movement beta rebound (pmbr)); whilst in visual cortex, gamma oscillations are increased throughout stimulus presentation. a decrease in low beta power). a significantly weaker low beta erd was detected in patients relative to controls for the negative stimulus condition in the right parieto-occipital and temporal regions. patients with decreased beta erd showed more prominent negative symptoms and more severe deficits in psychosocial functioning. only in the control group stronger beta erd was detected for the negative stimuli relative to positive and neutral stimuli in the same regions. furthermore, it was found that patients with decreased beta erd show more prominent negative symptoms and more severe deficits in psychosocial functioning. amplitudes of mu and beta (7-26hz) oscillations measured by electroencephalography over the sensorimotor areas are suppressed during motor imagery as well as during voluntary movements. cortical positivity as measured by slow event-related potentials is assumed to represent a decreased excitability of cortical networks and suppression of their behavioral-cognitive output. abnormal brain regions generate proportionately less high-frequency (beta) activity than nonpathological regions, a phenomenon accentuated by barbiturate administration. 
Beta-band coherence is enhanced for visible stimuli over invisible stimuli. [SEP] beta oscillation is also involved in interpreting received stimulus and occurs following gamma oscillation, and this process is known as gamma-to-beta transition, a process for neglecting unnecessary stimuli in surrounding environment. further, beta events occurring close to the stimulus were more likely to impair perception. these results imply that an increased propensity of beta events predicts the failure to effectively transmit information through specific neocortical representations. electroencephalography recordings showed that inter-trial phase coherence (itc) of theta (4 hz) was: (1) significantly greater than alpha, contralateral to the flickering stimulus; (2) enhanced by the presence of a second ipsilateral 4 hz flickering stimulus; and (3) uniquely lateralized, unlike the alpha band. here we test the hypothesis that the influence of visual feedback on performance in a positional hold task is increased during bursts of beta-band synchrony in the corticospinal motor system. a marked increase in the coherence in the beta band was also found between muscle activity and cortical activity during the beta-triggered condition. beta oscillations have previously been related to such cognitive (and attentional) control, as well as to audiovisual integration. we thus hypothesized that prestimulus power in the beta frequency band might reflect "integration readiness" and distinguish trials in which stimuli were successfully integrated from unsuccessful ones. in normal human subjects, we investigated the effect upon beta of (1) delivering the clicks in the presence of high passed masking noise (4000 hz cut-off) and (2) reversing click polarity. beta waves are produced when an external stimulus induces logical thinking, computation, and reasoning during consciousness. 
BiP is a general endoplasmic reticulum stress marker. [SEP] the lumenal endoplasmic reticulum (er) protein bip, among its other functions, is believed to serve as an er stress sensor, triggering the so-called 'unfolded protein response' or upr. bip is a constitutively-expressed resident protein of the endoplasmic reticulum (er) of all eucaryotic cells, and belongs to the highly conserved hsp70 protein family. bip is localized in the endoplasmic reticulum (er) and plays key roles in protein translocation, protein folding and quality control in the er. the immunoglobulin heavy chain binding protein (bip), also referred to as 78-kda glucose-regulated protein (grp78), is a pivotal endoplasmic reticulum (er) chaperone which modulates the unfolded protein response under er stress. bip/grp78 is a lumenal stress protein of the endoplasmic reticulum (er) that interacts with polypeptide folding intermediates transiting the secretory compartment. grp78, also known as bip, is a central regulator of endoplasmic reticulum (er) homeostasis due to its multiple functional roles in protein folding, er calcium binding, and controlling of the activation of transmembrane er stress sensors. glucose-regulated protein 78 (grp78)/immunoglobulin binding protein (bip) is a chaperone which functions to protect cells from endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress. grp78/bip is expressed following er stress induced by thapsigargin, tunicamycin or chemical factors. bip is the mammalian endoplasmic reticulum (er) hsp70 orthologue that plays a major role in all functions of this organelle including the seemingly opposing functions of aiding the maturation of unfolded nascent proteins and identifying and targeting chronically unfolded proteins for degradation. bip (immunoglobulin heavy-chain binding protein) is the endoplasmic reticulum (er) orthologue of the hsp70 family of molecular chaperones and is intricately involved in most functions of this organelle through its interactions with a variety of substrates and regulatory proteins. 
Binding of p53 to enhancer regions (p53BERs) regulates the activity of p53 transcription and cell cycle arrest through the production of p53-dependent eRNAs. [SEP] the genomic p53 binding regions, where activating transcriptional factors and cofactors like p300 simultaneously bind, are called 'p53-dependent enhancers', which play an important role in tumorigenesis. genome-wide chromatin studies identified the tumor suppressor p53 as both a promoter and an enhancer-binding transcription factor. as an enhancer factor, p53 can induce local production of enhancer rnas, as well as transcriptional activation of distal neighboring genes. altogether, our data suggest a direct role of p53-bound enhancer domains in the activation of lincrnas required for an efficient p53 transcriptional response. the tumor suppressor p53 is a well-characterized transcription factor that can bind gene promoters and regulate target gene transcription in response to dna damage. recent studies, however, have revealed that p53 binding events occur predominantly within regulatory enhancer elements. we find that the majority of sequences examined display p53-dependent enhancer activity during the dna damage response. furthermore, we observe that p53 is bound to enhancer elements in healthy fibroblasts and poised for rapid activation in response to dna damage. p53 tumor suppressor is a transcription factor that controls cell cycle and genetic integrity. transcriptional control of p53 expression participates in the generation of appropriate levels of active p53 in response to mitogenic stimulation. 
Birth-weight is negatively associated with breast cancer. [SEP] greater weight and body mass index (bmi) are negatively correlated with mammographic density, a strong risk factor for breast cancer, and are associated with an increased risk of breast cancer in postmenopausal women, but with a reduced risk in premenopausal women. we have examined the associations of body size and mammographic density on breast cancer risk. we examined the associations of body size and the percentage of mammographic density at baseline with subsequent risk of breast cancer among 1,114 matched case-control pairs identified from three screening programs. bmi was associated positively with breast cancer risk in postmenopausal women, and negatively in premenopausal women. bmi and mammographic density are independent risk factors for breast cancer, and likely to operate through different pathways. although an early first birth is associated with a transient increase in the risk of breast cancer, perhaps as a result of the breast's exposure to high levels of hormones before terminal differentiation, in older women, parity is associated with a decreased risk of breast cancer. among postmenopausal women, obesity is associated with higher levels of estrogens and an increased risk of breast cancer. within the strata of breast cancer stages at diagnosis, obesity is associated with increased mortality, again supporting the influence of endogenous estrogens on this disease's incidence, recurrence, and survival rates. it is well established that childless women and women having children later in life are at an increased risk of developing breast cancer. birth weight has been shown to be inversely correlated with adult complex diseases such as obesity, type-2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. 
Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 prevents TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. [SEP] nuclear clearance of tdp-43 into cytoplasmic aggregates is a key driver of neurodegeneration in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (ftld), but the mechanisms are unclear. thus, impaired recycling of erbb4 and other receptors to the cell surface may contribute to tdp-43-induced neurodegeneration by blocking trophic signaling. the cytoplasmic aggregation of tar dna-binding protein-43 (tdp-43) is a hallmark of degenerating neurons in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als) and subsets of frontotemporal dementia (ftd). the precise mechanisms by which tdp-43 dysregulation leads to toxicity in neurons are not fully understood. tdp-43 is an rna-binding protein that forms cytoplasmic aggregates in multiple neurodegenerative diseases. although the loss of normal tdp-43 functions likely contributes to disease pathogenesis, the cell biological consequences of human tdp-43 depletion are not well understood. disappearance of tar-dna-binding protein 43 kda (tdp-43) from the nucleus contributes to the pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als), but the nuclear function of tdp-43 is not yet fully understood. protein inclusions containing the rna-binding protein tdp-43 are a pathological hallmark of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and other neurodegenerative disorders. these results show that tdp-43 depletion in motoneurons affects several pathways integral to axon health indicating that loss of tdp-43 function could thus make a major contribution to axonal pathomechanisms in als. tdp-43 is linked to neurodegenerative diseases including frontotemporal dementia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. 
Bone Marrow (BM) transplantation is used to treat acute myeloid leukemia (AML) [SEP] standard therapy for acute myeloid leukemia (aml) consists of hematopoietic cell transplantation (hct) including autologous-hct (auto) and allogeneic-hct from a matched-sibling donor (msd) or well-matched unrelated donor (wm-urd). acute myeloid leukemia (aml) is characterized by bone marrow accumulation of immature leukemic blast cells. allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (bmt) after high-dose, marrow-ablative chemoradiotherapy has been established as the treatment of choice for various hematologic, neoplastic, and congenital disorders. acute myeloid leukemia (aml) is a heterogeneous hematological malignancy in which the only curative approach is allogeneic stem cell transplant (allo-hsct). autologous bone marrow transplantation (abmt) is a therapeutic approach that permits the administration of high-dose chemoradiotherapy followed by the infusion of the patient's own marrow, previously collected during remission and cryopreserved. allogeneic and syngeneic bone marrow transplantation has developed into an important treatment for hematologic malignancies such as acute myelogenous or lymphoblastic leukemia, chronic granulocytic leukemia in accelerated phase, acute malignant myelosclerosis, and various forms of lymphoma. allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allosct) is nowadays most frequently applied in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (aml). the aim of this study was to evaluate the possible role of autologous bone marrow transplant (abmt) in patients with aml who relapse after absct. acute myeloid leukaemia (aml) is the commonest indication for allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-sct) worldwide. autologous bone marrow transplantation is an important therapy for patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (aml). 
Bone marrow cells don't contribute to adult macrophage compartments. [SEP] quiescent cells lacking expression of mature lineage makers and the c-kit receptor reside in adult bone marrow. postnatal hematopoietic progenitor cells do not contribute to microglial homeostasis in adult mice under normal conditions. unlike bone marrow progenitor cells, human myeloid progenitors isolated from peripheral blood do not form colonies in semi-solid medium in the presence of rhg-csf, rhm-csf or rhil-6, but do form colonies containing neutrophils, macrophages, eosinophils, basophils or mixed neutrophilic-macrophages colonies in the presence of rhil-3 or rhgm-csf. rhil-6 did not directly stimulate colony formation of peripheral blood progenitors but did prime them to respond to g-csf. in humans, the role of bone marrow (bm) adipocytes in supporting haematopoiesis has been questioned. a co-culture system of cd34(+) cells seeded onto either bm undifferentiated mesenchymal stem cells or differentiated adipocytes showed that bm adipocytes did not support the maintenance of immature progenitors but enabled their complete differentiation along the myeloid and lymphoid pathways. however, it has been generally accepted that hematopoietic marrow is not present within the epiphysis of long bones in normal adults. macrophage colony-stimulating factor has not been considered as a factor responsible for dendritic cell or langerhans cell development from hematopoietic progenitor cells. in this particular environment, we show that hematopoietic stem cells do not proliferate, but that they lose multipotency and differentiate exclusively into mature macrophages. human bone marrow (bm) contains a rare population of nonhematopoietic mesenchymal stromal cells (mscs), which are of central importance for the hematopoietic microenvironment. 
British female students are bullied more than British male students. [SEP] the purpose of the study was to identify if differences existed between male and female nursing students in occurrence rates of bullying and who was perpetrating the bullying. results of a survey of 107 nursing students found that patients, nurses, and other hospital staff bullied female nursing students significantly more than male nursing students. the findings indicate that nurse educators need to be diligent while on the clinical unit as female students are more likely to be bullied by those they are learning from in these settings. researchers at the universities of bath and oxford found that girls are four times more likely than boys to have engaged in deliberate self harm, but that only 13 per cent of self harming incidents reported by the pupils resulted in hospital visits. (2) birth-assigned males were more likely to be bullied as well as bullying others at school when compared to birth-assigned females. analyses using t-tests showed that boys bullied and sexually harassed their peers more often than girls did. hierarchical multiple regression analyses showed that boys and girls who scored high on general misconduct bullied their peers more often than those who scored low on general misconduct. boys who believed they would be punished by their teachers for bullying and who scored low on benevolent sexism bullied more often than boys who believed they would not be punished by their teachers and who scored high on benevolent sexism. moreover, bullying predicted peer sexual harassment for boys and girls. the results showed that nonheterosexual young people reported higher levels of involvement in traditional bullying, both as victims and perpetrators, in comparison to heterosexual students. 
British male students are bullied more than British female students. [SEP] analyses using t-tests showed that boys bullied and sexually harassed their peers more often than girls did. hierarchical multiple regression analyses showed that boys and girls who scored high on general misconduct bullied their peers more often than those who scored low on general misconduct. boys who believed they would be punished by their teachers for bullying and who scored low on benevolent sexism bullied more often than boys who believed they would not be punished by their teachers and who scored high on benevolent sexism. moreover, bullying predicted peer sexual harassment for boys and girls. the results showed that nonheterosexual young people reported higher levels of involvement in traditional bullying, both as victims and perpetrators, in comparison to heterosexual students. gender differences were also found. two trends could be observed: (1) lgb groups reported heightened risks of being bullied and bullying others at school than heterosexual peers. (2) birth-assigned males were more likely to be bullied as well as bullying others at school when compared to birth-assigned females. sem analysis revealed that being a sexual minority was directly associated with a higher frequency of being bullied (b = 0.16, 95% ci [0.10, 0.22], p < 0.001) but not bullying others (b = 0.02, 95% ci [-0.02, 0.06], p = 0.398) when compared to the heterosexual group. researchers at the universities of bath and oxford found that girls are four times more likely than boys to have engaged in deliberate self harm, but that only 13 per cent of self harming incidents reported by the pupils resulted in hospital visits. 
Broadly HIV-1 Neutralizing Antibodies (bnAb) 10EB have no affinity for phospholipids. [SEP] wild-type env glycoproteins lack detectable affinity for supersite-bnab germline precursors and are therefore unsuitable immunogens to prime supersite-bnab responses. broad and potent neutralizing antibody (bnab) responses are rare in people infected by human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1). broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnabs) against human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-1 are rare in natural infection and elicitation of hiv-1 bnabs has not been achieved by any vaccine candidates. we and others have reported that hiv-1 bnabs are highly diversified from their germline-like predecessors, and the germline-like predecessors of bnabs lack measurable binding to hiv-1 envelope (env) glycoproteins, suggesting that env structures containing the epitopes of bnabs may not initiate somatic maturation pathway, which may partially explain the rarity of hiv-1 bnabs. broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnabs) against hiv-1 are generated during hiv-1-infection but have not yet been elicited by immunization with recombinant forms of the viral envelope glycoprotein (env; the target of anti-hiv-1 neutralizing antibodies). a potential reason for the lack of elicitation of anti-cd4-bs bnabs by env immunogens is the absence of stimulation of naive b cells expressing the germline bcrs of such antibodies. we and others have reported that putative human germline predecessors of known human bnabs lack measurable binding to hiv-1 envelope glycoproteins (env), which could be a new challenge for eliciting human bnabs. similar to the human counterpart, a putative rhesus macaque b12 germline antibody lacks measurable binding to hiv-1 envs, suggesting that initiation of somatic maturation of rhesus macaque germline b12 predecessor may also be a challenge. notably, the modified 10e8 antibody did not gain any apparent polyreactivity and neutralized virus with a significantly greater potency. altogether, our results emphasize the crucial role played by the viral membrane in the antigenicity of the mper-tmd of hiv-1.importance the broadly neutralizing antibody 10e8 blocks infection by nearly all hiv-1 isolates, a capacity which vaccine design seeks to reproduce. 
C2 works synergistically with A-769662 to activate dephosphorylated AMPK. [SEP] ccmp is a cyclic pyrimidine nucleotide which binds to and activates camp-dependent protein kinase (pka) and cgmp-dependent protein kinase (pkg). the effects of camp-dependent protein kinase (camp-pk) and ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase ii (camkii) phosphorylation on the calpain-mediated degradation of microtubule-associated protein 2 (map-2) were studied. both camp-pk and camkii readily phosphorylated map-2. phosphorylation of map-2 by camp-pk, but not by camkii, significantly inhibited the calpain-induced hydrolysis of map-2. the signal transduction complex formed by the scaffold protein makap (muscle a kinase-anchoring protein) at the nuclear envelope of both striated myocytes and neurons contains three camp-binding proteins, pka, epac1, and the phosphodiesterase pde4d3. in addition, the makap complex also contains components of the erk5 map kinase signaling pathway, the calcium release channel ryanodine receptor and the phosphatases pp2a as well as calcineurin. the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase kinase 2 (camkk2) activates camk1, camk4, ampk, and akt, leading to numerous physiological responses. application of pharmacological inhibitors and immunological analyses revealed that cadpr formation was activated by sequential activation of src, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (pi 3-kinase)/protein kinase b (akt), phospholipase c (plc)-gamma1, and ip(3)-mediated ca(2+) signal. ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase kinase (camkk) phosphorylates and activates particular downstream protein kinases - including camki, camkiv, and ampk- to stimulate multiple ca2+-signal transduction pathways. two catalytic subunits, calpha and cbeta, are expressed in the mouse and mediate the effects of pka. 
CCL19 is a ligand for CCR7. [SEP] the chemokine c receptor 7 (ccr7) is a g-protein-coupled heptahelical receptor (gpcr) that is expressed on a wide variety of cells including memory t cells, b cells, mature dendritic cells, and cancer cells. activated by its ligands ccl19 or ccl21, ccr7 plays a major role in metastasis of cancer cells. the ccr7 ligands, cc chemokine ligand (ccl) 19 and ccl21, facilitate migration of mature dc from the peripheral tissues to regional lymph nodes. in particular we highlight ccx-ckr, which scavenges both ccr7 ligands, and discuss its emerging significance in the immune system. ccr7 is a chemokine receptor expressed on the surfaces of t cells, b cells, and mature dendritic cells that controls cell migration in response to the cognate ligands ccl19 and ccl21. owing to the ability to induce directional migration, ccr7 and its ligands ccl19 and ccl21 are pivotal for the regulation of the immune system. upon ccl19 binding, we show that internalized ccr7 recycles back to the plasma membrane via the trans-golgi network. cc chemokine receptor 7 (ccr7), which regulates the trafficking of leucocytes to the secondary lymphoid organs, has two endogenous chemokine ligands: ccl19 and ccl21. elc (ccl19), another high-affinity ligand for ccr7, was used as the control at the same time. ccr7 and its ligands, ccl19 and ccl21, are involved in lymphocyte recirculation through secondary lymphoid organs and additionally navigate lymphocytes into distinct tissue compartments. 
CCL19 is predominantly present within dLNs. [SEP] ccl19 and ccl21 and their receptor ccr7 are expressed constitutively within lymphoid organs, regulating lymphocyte homing. we hypothesized a role of ccl19/ccl21 in human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection by promoting inflammation. we examined the expression of ccl19 and ccl21 in mononuclear cells from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (pbmc) and bone marrow mononuclear cells (bmmc) in hiv-infected patients before and during highly active anti-retroviral therapy (haart). we also examined the ability of ccl19/ccl21 to promote inflammatory responses in these patients. in vitro, ccl19/ccl21 promoted an inflammatory response in pbmc when accompanied by high viral load, irrespective of haart. these findings link a dysregulated ccl19/ccl21/ccr7 system in hiv-infected patients to persistent inflammation and hiv replication, not only in untreated hiv infection, but also in treatment failure during haart. dngr-1 (encoded by clec9a) is a c-type lectin receptor (clr) with an expression profile that is mainly restricted to type 1 conventional dendritic cells (cdc1s) both in mice and humans. its ligands, ccl-19 (mip-3beta) and ccl-21 (slc), play an important role in the migration of these cells to secondary lymphoid organs where they are predominantly expressed. we have chemically synthesized n-terminal analogues of ccl-19 with the aid of a native chemical ligation method to investigate structure function requirements of this ligand domain by performing ligand binding, gtp-gammas binding, and chemotaxis assays. dec-205 is a type i c-type lectin receptor (clr) that is expressed on various apc subsets and has been suggested to bind necrotic and apoptotic cells. 
CD28 initiates tonic signaling in conventional T cells, which causes an exhaustion phenotype and limited efficiency. [SEP] cd28 is the quintessential costimulatory molecule expressed on cd4(+) and cd8(+) t cells. during chronic infections and the normal aging process, cd28 expression is lost, compromising the functional activity of t cells. cd28 loss is promoted by replicative stress, particularly in the presence of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, owing to an inoperative cd28 initiator element. the re-expressed cd28 was functional and restored the ability of cd4(+)cd28(null) t cells to express cd25 and cd40 ligand. the t-cell antigen cd28 provides a costimulatory signal that is required for t-cell proliferation. t-cell receptor zeta/cd3 engagement without cd28 ligation leads to a state of nonresponsiveness/anergy, thereby implicating cd28 in the control of peripheral tolerance to foreign antigens or tumors. cd28 is likely to use pi 3-kinase as the second signal leading to t-cell proliferation, an event with implications for anergy and peripheral t-cell tolerance. cd28 is a receptor expressed on t cells that regulates their differentiation after antigen stimulation to long-term-survival memory t cells. cd28 enhances t-cell receptor signals and reduces expression of cbl ubiquitin ligases, which negatively control t-cell activation. in the absence of cd28 ligation during the primary stimulation, cbl levels remain high and t cells fail to mount an efficient secondary response. 
CD28 signals regulate trafficking of murine auto-reactive T cells into target tissues. [SEP] here, we review the available proof of concept studies for cd28 antagonists in autoimmunity, with a special focus on the mechanisms of action. the costimulatory molecule cd28 plays an essential role in the initiation of t-cell-mediated immunity. we investigated the possibility that cd28 may also regulate migration of primed t cells to target tissue. in vitro, cd28-mediated signals enhanced t-cell transendothelial migration, integrin clustering, and integrin-mediated migration. importantly, antibody-mediated cd28 stimulation led to unregulated memory t-cell migration to extra-lymphoid tissue, which occurred independently of t-cell receptor (tcr)-derived signals and homing-receptor expression. finally, we provide evidence that cd28- and ctla-4-mediated signals exert opposite effects on t-cell trafficking in vivo. these findings highlight a novel physiologic function of cd28 that has crucial implications for the therapeutic manipulation of this and other costimulatory molecules. costimulatory signals by cd28 are critical for thymic regulatory t-cell (treg) development. the costimulatory receptor cd28 is important in the development of both th1 and th2 responses. to further assess the requirement for cd28 in the development of th1 and th2 responses, we analyzed the ability of t cells from wild-type or cd28- mice to secrete cytokines in mlrs with b lymphomas. 
CD44v6 is not associated with constitutive and reprogrammed cancer stem cells driving cancer metastasis. [SEP] the presence of tumor-initiating cells (cd44(+)/cd24(-)) in solid tumors has been reported as a possible cause of cancer metastasis and treatment failure. patients with tumors overexpressing cd44v6 showed a significantly shorter relapse free (log rank test, p = 0.002) and overall survival (log rank test, p = 0.003) compared with patients with tumors lacking cd44v6 overexpression. cd44 splice variants have been implicated in metastasis. cd44 splice variants were detected in most liver metastases and primary tumours and expression was unrelated to lymph node involvement. cd44 standard (s) and variant (v) isoforms have been discussed to be implicated in progression and metastasis of different malignomas. recent reports have shown altered expression of cd44 in renal cell carcinomas. cd44s may, therefore, play a pathogenetic role in tumor progression. splicing variants of cd44 (cd44v) are increasingly recognised as metastasis-promoting factors in rodent and some human cancers. therefore, the presence or absence of cd44v expression may be related to high or low metastatic potential of human malignancies. cd44v5 expression is independently positively correlated with the aggressiveness of thymic epithelial tumors. 
CDK6 shows impaired binding to loss-of-function variants of p18 INK4C. [SEP] p18ink4c is a cyclin-dependent kinase (cdk) inhibitor that interferes with the rb-kinase activity of cdk6/cdk4. p16ink4a, a protein that inhibits cyclin-dependent kinase 4 (cdk4) and cdk6, is deficient in many human cancers and in established lines of tumor cells. a mutation of the p16(ink4a)-binding domain of the cyclin dependent kinase 4 (cdk4) gene, r24c, has been reported in some cases of melanoma. this mutation prevented binding of the cdk4 inhibitor p16(ink48) to cdk4. to better understand these findings, we randomly mutagenized the cdk4 gene and used the yeast two-hybrid method to screen for cdk4 mutants that had lost the ability to bind to p16(ink4a). sequence analysis and in vitro kinase assays showed that most of the mutations that disrupted interactions with p16(ink4) also knocked out the activity of cdk4. members of the ink4 family of cyclin-dependent kinase (cdk) inhibitors specifically bind and inhibit the g1-specific cdk molecules cdk4 and cdk6. apart from this core interaction element, p18 seems to use additional, distinct residues to differentially bind and inhibit cdk4 and cdk6, accounting for the known penchant of p18 to preferentially interact with cdk6. the ink4 family members p16(ink4a) and p15(ink4b) negatively regulate cell cycle progression by inhibition of cyclin-dependent kinase (cdk) 4/6. loss of p16(ink4a) functional activity is frequently observed in tumor cells, and is thought to be one of the primary causes of carcinogenesis. 
CDK6 shows improved binding to loss-of-function variants of p18 INK4C. [SEP] the gene encoding p16 was mutagenized randomly and the amino acid changes that affect the binding of p16 to cdk4 were identified. several amino acid residues were shown to be important for the binding and many of these changes occur at residues conserved in all known human p16 family proteins most of the mutant p16 proteins that failed to bind to cdk4 contained multiple amino acid changes, and these alterations were observed throughout the entire gene with no apparent mutational patterns or hot spots. a new member of this family of cdk4/6 inhibitors is p18. loss of function of cdkn2a/b, also known as ink4/arf [encoding p16ink4a, p15ink4b, and p14arf (mouse p19arf)], confers susceptibility to cancers, whereas its up-regulation during organismal aging provokes cellular senescence and tissue degenerative disorders. in summary, direct physical interactions between p16 ink4a and arf genes provide mechanistic insights into their cross-regulation. p18ink4c, a member of the ink4 family of cdkis, is a potential tumor-suppressor gene product. the loss of p18ink4c expression was shown to be associated with a poor prognosis compared with that associated with p18ink4c- positivity. further, the kinase activity of cdk4 was found to be higher in p18ink4c-negative hccs than in p18ink4c- positive hccs. in p18ink4c- positive hccs, p18ink4c dominantly interacted with cdk4 rather than with cdk6. in conclusion, the loss of p18ink4c expression may play a role in the differentiation and development of hcc through the up-regulation of cdk4 activity. 
CHOP is a general endoplasmic reticulum stress marker. [SEP] c/ebp-homologous protein (chop)/gadd153 (or chop) is a transcription factor induced by endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress. the signaling protein c/ebp homologous protein (chop) and corresponding growth-arrest-and-dna-damage-inducible gene 153 (gadd153) is associated with endoplasmic reticulum stress (ers), which can lead to apoptosis. glucose-regulated protein (grp) 78 and c/-ebp homologous protein (chop) are commonly used as markers of endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress. as an er chaperone, grp78 functions as a potent anti-apoptotic factor and confers drug resistance, whereas chop is a key initiating factor of er stress-related cell death. c/ebp-homologous protein (chop) is an important component of the endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress response. we reported that the endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress pathway involving chop, a member of the c/ebp transcription factor family, plays a key role in nitric oxide (no)-mediated apoptosis of macrophages and pancreatic beta cells. chop/gadd153 is a transcription factor induced by cellular stresses such as uv light, genotoxic agents, and protein misfolding in the endoplasmic reticulum. gadd153, also known as chop, is a highly stress-inducible gene that is robustly expressed following disruption of homeostasis in the endoplasmic reticulum (er) (so-called er stress). we report the identification of a conserved region in the promoter of the chop gene responsible for its inducibility by endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress. deletion mutants of the human chop promoter identify a region comprising nucleotides -75 to -104 required for both constitutive and er-stress-inducible expression. 
COPI coatmer is involved in lipid homeostasis. [SEP] coatomer, the coat protein complex of copi vesicles, is involved in the budding of these vesicles, but the underlying mechanism is unknown. toward a better understanding of this process, the interaction between coatomer and the cytoplasmic domain of a major transmembrane protein of copi vesicles, p23, was studied. the heptameric copi coat (coatomer) plays an essential role in vesicular transport in the early secretory system of eukaryotic cells. the copii coat complex, which mediates secretory cargo trafficking from the endoplasmic reticulum, is a key control point for subcellular protein targeting. eukaryotic cells use an elaborate machinery involving the copi coat complex to control protein trafficking in the secretory pathway. although individual components of this complex are well known and their roles in deforming lipid membranes into coated carriers are well described, the precise sequence of molecular events by which these components assemble into and release from the copi coat lattice remains unclear. copi is a coatomer protein complex responsible for intracellular protein transport between the endoplasmic reticulum and the golgi apparatus. coatomer is a major component of copi vesicles and consists of seven subunits. since its initial identification in the mid-1980s, the copi coat complex has been credited with mediating multiple distinct transport events and intracellular processes in the exocytic pathway. copi has been implicated in several steps of transport from the intermediate compartment to the cis-golgi network, through cisternae of the golgi stack, and is essential for retrieval to the endoplasmic reticulum (er) of membrane proteins containing the carboxy-terminal dilysine er-retention motif. 
COPI coatmer is involved in viral replication. [SEP] coatomer, the coat protein complex of coat protein (copi) vesicles, is involved in the budding of these vesicles. as the largest rna virus, coronavirus replication employs complex mechanisms and involves various viral and cellular proteins. the first open reading frame of the coronavirus genome encodes a large polyprotein, which is processed into a number of viral proteins required for viral replication directly or indirectly. coatomer, the coat protein complex of copi vesicles, is involved in the budding of these vesicles, but the underlying mechanism is unknown. toward a better understanding of this process, the interaction between coatomer and the cytoplasmic domain of a major transmembrane protein of copi vesicles, p23, was studied. interaction of coatomer with this peptide domain results in a conformational change and polymerization of the complex in vitro. an average of four peptides was found associated with one coatomer complex after polymerization. based on these results, we propose a mechanism by which the induced conformational change of coatomer results in its polymerization, and thus drives formation of the bud on the golgi membrane during biogenesis of a copi vesicle. the protein also plays roles in viral rna transcription and/or replication and possibly viral mrna translation. initially, ccmv capsid protein (cp) dimers bind rna with low cooperativity and form virus-like particles of 90 cp dimers and one copy of rna. 
CRP is positively correlated with postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. [SEP] there is limited information revealing the association of preoperative crp concentration and postoperative bleeding while undergoing on-pump coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg). this study aimed to investigate the relationship between preoperative crp level and postoperative bleeding within 24 hours after cabg. our findings suggested that preoperative crp concentration independently correlated with postoperative bleeding volume within 24 hours and that it could be a new potential coagulation biomarker for patients undergoing cabg surgery. after coronary artery bypass graft surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass 11 of 53 patients (21%) with low preoperative crp levels had af versus 11 of 20 patients (55%) with high baseline crp levels (p = 0.01). the relation between c-reactive protein (crp) concentration and in-hospital outcome, after coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg), has not yet been established. the study aims to evaluate the predictive value of pre-operative crp for in-hospital cardiovascular events after cabg surgery. increased levels of high-sensitive c-reactive protein (hscrp) in the preoperative evaluation for coronary artery bypass graft surgery (cabg) have been associated to poor outcomes in the postoperative period. c-reactive protein (crp) is a predictor of early and late outcome after coronary angioplasty, but there is scant data on its impact on the outcome after coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg). the predictive value of preoperative crp was evaluated in a series of 764 patients who underwent on-pump cabg. preoperative serum concentration of crp in patients undergoing on-pump coronary artery bypass surgery is an important determinant of postoperative outcome. 
Ca2+ cycling controls whole-body energy homeostasis in beige fat. [SEP] we observed that increasing extracellular calcium concentration during brown adipocyte differentiation blocks lipid accumulation and suppresses induction of major adipogenic transcription factors such as pparγ and c/ebpα. together, we show that modulating extracellular calcium concentration controls brown adipocyte differentiation and thermogenic gene expression, highlighting the importance of tissue microenvironment on brown adipocyte heterogeneity and function. adipose tissue is central to the regulation of energy balance. two functionally different types of fat are present in mammals: white adipose tissue, the primary site of triglyceride storage, and brown adipose tissue, which is specialized in energy expenditure and can counteract obesity. the regulatory circuits of fuel storage and oxidation in white adipocytes and thermogenic adipocytes (brown and beige adipocytes) play a central role in systemic energy homeostasis, whereas dysregulation of the pathways is closely associated with metabolic disorders and adipose tissue malfunction, including obesity, insulin resistance, chronic inflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and fibrosis. in this review, we provide an overview of the current understanding of adipocyte metabolism in physiology and disease and also discuss possible strategies to alter fuel utilization in fat cells to improve metabolic health. much of the coordinated regulation of whole-body glucose homeostasis results from the regulation of lipid storage and release by adipose tissue and efficient switching between glucose oxidation and fatty acid oxidation in skeletal muscle. normal energy homeostasis requires a balance between fat storage and energy utilization that is guaranteed by regulation of one billion fat cells which arguably constitute the body's largest endocrine unit. this review describes normal adiposity for maintenance of normal body mass and the roles of adipocyte hormones and adipokines for normal regulation of energy storage and its utilization. as a result, changes in energy balance sufficient to alter fuel stores elicit compensatory changes in energy intake and expenditure that return fat stores to their regulated level. 
Ca2+ cycling is a UCP1-dependent thermogenic mechanism. [SEP] uncoupling protein 1 (ucp1) is the key component of β-adrenergically controlled nonshivering thermogenesis in brown adipocytes. as a hallmark of adaptive thermogenesis, ucp1 synthesis is increased proportionally to temperature and duration of exposure. beyond this classical thermoregulatory function, it has been suggested that ucp1-mediated thermogenesis can also be employed for metabolic thermogenesis to prevent the development of obesity. here we report a robust ucp1-independent thermogenic mechanism in beige fat that involves enhanced atp-dependent ca2+ cycling by sarco/endoplasmic reticulum ca2+-atpase 2b (serca2b) and ryanodine receptor 2 (ryr2). conversely, enhanced ca2+ cycling by activation of α1- and/or β3-adrenergic receptors or the serca2b-ryr2 pathway stimulates ucp1-independent thermogenesis in beige adipocytes. the brown fat specific uncoupling protein 1 (ucp1) is involved in thermogenesis, a process by which energy is dissipated as heat in response to cold stress and excess of caloric intake. the proton-transport activity of ucp1 (uncoupling protein 1) triggers mitochondrial uncoupling and thermogenesis. uncoupling protein 1 (ucp1) dissipates energy and generates heat by catalyzing back-flux of protons into the mitochondrial matrix, probably by a fatty acid cycling mechanism. uncoupling protein 1 (ucp1) is uniquely expressed in brown adipocytes and generates heat production by uncoupling respiration from atp synthesis. the mitochondrial uncoupling protein (ucp) in the mitochondrial inner membrane of mammalian brown adipose tissue generates heat by uncoupling oxidative phosphorylation. 
Ca2+ cycling is a UCP1-independent thermogenic mechanism. [SEP] uncoupling protein 1 (ucp1) plays a central role in nonshivering thermogenesis in brown fat; however, its role in beige fat remains unclear. here we report a robust ucp1-independent thermogenic mechanism in beige fat that involves enhanced atp-dependent ca2+ cycling by sarco/endoplasmic reticulum ca2+-atpase 2b (serca2b) and ryanodine receptor 2 (ryr2). inhibition of serca2b impairs ucp1-independent beige fat thermogenesis in humans and mice as well as in pigs, a species that lacks a functional ucp1 protein. conversely, enhanced ca2+ cycling by activation of α1- and/or β3-adrenergic receptors or the serca2b-ryr2 pathway stimulates ucp1-independent thermogenesis in beige adipocytes. our study uncovers a noncanonical thermogenic mechanism through which beige fat controls whole-body energy homeostasis via ca2+ cycling. here, we test the hypothesis that ca(2+) influx through canonical transient receptor potential 3 (trpc3) channels modulates insulin-mediated glucose uptake in adult skeletal muscle. step i requires ca2+/cam and underlies initial kinase activation. the sarcoplasmic reticulum ca²⁺-atpase (serca) plays a role in thermogenesis. ca(2+) influx through cav1.1 is not required for skeletal muscle excitation-contraction coupling, but whether ca(2+) permeation through cav1.1 during sustained muscle activity plays a functional role in mammalian skeletal muscle has not been assessed. using mice with a pore mutation in cav1.1 required for ca(2+) binding and/or permeation (e1014k, ek), we demonstrate that cav1.1 opening is coupled to camkii activation and refilling of sarcoplasmic reticulum ca(2+) stores during sustained activity. 
Cancer cells can stimulate the accumulation of intra-tumoural myeloid-derived suppressor cells by promoting granulocyte colony stimulating factor production. [SEP] tumors can induce the generation and accumulation of immunosuppressive cells such as myeloid-derived suppressor cells in the tumor microenvironment, contributing to tumor immunological escapes. in our study, we found that tumor supernatants could induce the generation of myeloid-derived suppressor cells by disturbing the development of dendritic cells. accumulation of pathologically activated immature myeloid cells with potent immune-suppressive activity is one of the major immunological hallmarks of cancer. in recent years, it became clear that in addition to their immune-suppressive activity, myeloid-derived suppressor cells (mdscs) influence tumor progression in a variety of ways. myeloid-derived suppressor cells (mdscs) have been shown to contribute to tumor escape from host immune surveillance and to cancer progression by production of tumor-promoting soluble factors. myeloid-derived suppressor cells (mdscs) expand in tumor-bearing host. macrophages, myeloid-derived suppressor cells and tolerogenic dendritic cells are central players of a heterogeneous myeloid cell population, with the ability to suppress innate and adaptive immune responses and thus to promote tumor growth. immature myeloid cells including myeloid-derived suppressor cells (mdscs) and tumour-associated macrophages (tams) promote tumour growth and metastasis by facilitating tumour transformation and angiogenesis, as well as by suppressing antitumour effector immune responses. myeloid-derived suppressor cells (mdsc) are immature myeloid cells that are potent inhibitors of immune cell function and which accumulate under conditions of inflammation, especially cancer. by secreting granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor (gm-csf), metastatic lewis lung carcinoma (llc-ln7) tumors induce the appearance of myelopoiesis-associated immune-suppressor cells that resemble granulocytic-macrophage (gm) progenitor cells. 
Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are constituents of tumor microenvironments [SEP] cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) are one of the most prominent cell types in the stromal compartment of the tumor microenvironment. among cells present in the tumor microenvironment, activated fibroblasts termed cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs), play a critical role in the complex process of tumor-stroma interaction. in tumors, cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) constitute the most prominent component of the tumor microenvironment (tme). cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) have recently gained attention as potent targets in cancer therapy because they are a crucial component of the tumor microenvironment and promote the growth and invasion of cancer cells. background: cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) comprise a major cell type in the tumor microenvironment where they support tumor growth and survival by producing extracellular matrix, secreting immunosuppressive cytokines, releasing growth factors, and facilitating metastases. cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) are activated fibroblasts in the tumor microenvironment. cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) are the major constituents of the tumor microenvironment and promote cancer development via tumor-stromal interactions. cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) are well-known to be part of the tumor microenvironment. cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) are one major type of component identified in the tumor microenvironment. cancer associated fibroblasts (cafs) are known to be crucial constituents of cancer microenvironment (cme) and play an important role in initiation, progression and metastasis of various types of cancer, such as oral cancer, pancreatic cancer, and gastric cancer. 
Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) have no known interaction with cancer cells in the formation and activation of CAFs. [SEP] activated cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) and fibroblasts that have undergone the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (emt) in cancer stroma contribute to tumor progression and metastasis. cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) are a major cancer-promoting component in the tumor microenvironment (tme). carcinoma-associated fibroblasts (caf) have recently been implicated in important aspects of epithelial solid tumor biology, such as neoplastic progression, tumor growth, angiogenesis, and metastasis. most solid tumors contain cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) that support tumorigenesis and malignant progression. cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs), as the activated stroma cells, contribute to tumor progression via the release of cytokines, growth factors, and hormones. cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) consist of heterogeneous cell population in terms of their differentiation potential. cancer-associated fibroblasts (caf) remain a poorly characterized, heterogeneous cell population. cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) are believed to play an essential role in cancer initiation and development. cancer cells are known to reprogram normal fibroblasts into cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) to act as tumor supporters. the role of cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) has been thoroughly investigated in tumour microenvironments but not in bladder urothelial carcinoma (blca). 
Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) interact with cancer cells to mediate formation and activation of CAFs. [SEP] among cells present in the tumor microenvironment, activated fibroblasts termed cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs), play a critical role in the complex process of tumor-stroma interaction. cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) are activated fibroblasts in the tumor microenvironment. cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) are major components of the surrounding stroma of carcinomas that emerge in the tumor microenvironment as a result of signals derived from the cancer cells. cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) have recently gained attention as potent targets in cancer therapy because they are a crucial component of the tumor microenvironment and promote the growth and invasion of cancer cells. the roles of cancer-associated fibroblasts (caf) in the progression of various types of cancers are well established. cancer associated fibroblasts (cafs) are the most abundant stromal cell-type in solid tumor-microenvironment (tme) and have emerged as key player in tumor progression. rcinoma-associated fibroblasts (cafs) are a major constituent of the tumor microenvironment. cancer cells can induce the transformation from normal fibroblasts (nfs) into cafs, reciprocally, cafs promote tumor invasion and proliferation. cancer associated fibroblasts (cafs) are a subpopulation of cells that reside within the tumor microenvironment and promotes the transformation process by encouraging tumor growth, angiogenesis, inflammation, and metastasis. these "cancer-associated fibroblasts" (caf) actively interact with neoplastic cells and form a myofibroblastic microenvironment that promotes cancer growth and survival and supports malignancy. 
Cancers that initially benefit from epidermal growth factor receptor targeted therapies later become refractory through several mechanisms. [SEP] agents inhibiting the epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) have shown clinical benefit in a subset of non-small cell lung cancer patients expressing amplified or mutationally activated egfr. however, responsive patients can relapse as a result of selection for egfr gene mutations that confer resistance to atp competitive egfr inhibitors, such as erlotinib and gefitinib. epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (egfr-tkis) effectively treat advanced non-small cell lung cancer with egfr-mutation. egfr-tki continuation with chemotherapy could provide benefits for patients with acquired resistance to egfr-tki. acquired resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tkis) of epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) remains a clinical challenge. reversible epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors are often used for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer following failure of cytotoxic chemotherapy. irreversible epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors are an emerging class of agents that may have the potential to overcome and prevent the emergence of such mutation-related resistance. non-small cell lung cancers carrying epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) mutations respond well to egfr tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tkis), but patients ultimately develop drug resistance and relapse. non-small cell lung cancers carrying activating mutations in the gene for the epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) are highly sensitive to egfr-specific tyrosine kinase inhibitors. combination therapy of epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (egfr tkis) with other chemotherapeutic agents is a feasible strategy to overcome resistance that often occurs after 9-13 months of egfr tkis administration in nonsmall cell lung cancer (nsclc). 
Cardiac tissue-resident macrophages directly contribute to electrical activity. [SEP] cardiac macrophages are abundant in the healthy heart and after myocardial infarction (mi). macrophages' known roles in defending the steady state and their pathological actions in other disease contexts provide a road map for exploring cardiac macrophages and their phenotypes, functions, and therapeutic potential. here, we show that cardiac macrophages facilitate electrical conduction through the distal atrioventricular node, where conducting cells densely intersperse with elongated macrophages expressing connexin 43. these observations implicate macrophages in normal and aberrant cardiac conduction. identify a subset of macrophages residing within the cardiac conduction system, which orchestrates cardiac rhythm. macrophages directly couple with cardiomyocytes, and their perturbation alters cardiac conduction, suggesting that pharmacological manipulation of resident macrophages might represent a new strategy to combat cardiac arrhythmias. resident cardiac macrophages play important roles in homeostasis, maintenance of cardiac function, and tissue repair. the cardiac-specific macrophages interdigitate with cardiomyocytes particularly at the atrioventricular node region. as the macrophages perform on regulating electrical conduction, and accomplish post mi non-scared completed regeneration or partial regeneration with fibrotic scar at different stage of postnatal development, we understand that multiple functions of cardiac macrophage should carry on with diverse linages. macrophages are found in the heart as part of the inflammatory response. 
Carriers of HNF4A mutations are at reduced risk for diabetes. [SEP] homozygosity for a 5-leucine repeat (5l-5l) in the carnosinase gene (cndp1) has been associated with a reduced prevalence of diabetic nephropathy in cross-sectional studies in patients with type 2 diabetes, particularly in women. recently, the association of the natural variants rs1260326 and rs780094 of the glucokinase regulatory protein (gckr) gene with increased fasting triglycerides and decreased fasting plasma glucose in diabetic adults was reported; the minor alleles were also found to reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes. results of logistic regression revealed that, despite higher triglyceride levels, the carriers of the gckr variants were more protected against the development of obesity; the adjusted models confirmed the lower risk of obesity for both variants (rs1260326: or, 0.46; 95% ci, 0.25-0.83; rs780094: or, 0.41; 95% ci, 0.23-0.74). the findings also suggest that the minor alleles of functional gckr may protect against diabetes and the metabolic syndrome in adults. patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (hefh) have been reported to be less vulnerable to type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm), although the mechanism is unknown. the aim of this study was to estimate the prevalence of a similar low-risk group in a sample of middle-aged irish men and women, and determine whether this cluster is associated with a reduced risk of glucose intolerance (ifg and type 2 diabetes according to ada/who criteria) and insulin resistance [homeostasis model assessment (homa) score in upper quartile of distribution]. microvascular hyperaemia is decreased in subjects at risk of developing non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (niddm) who have fasting hyperglycaemia. rare mutations in the gene hnf4a, encoding the transcription factor hepatocyte nuclear factor 4α (hnf-4a), account for ~5% of cases of mody and more frequent variants in this gene may be involved in multifactorial forms of diabetes. two low-frequency, non-synonymous variants in hnf4a (v255m, minor allele frequency [maf] ~0.1%; t130i, maf ~3.0%)-known to influence downstream hnf-4a target gene expression-are of interest, but previous type 2 diabetes association reports were inconclusive. we aimed to evaluate the contribution of these variants to type 2 diabetes susceptibility through large-scale association analysis. 
Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Galliformes. [SEP] we have previously shown that the sex of germ cells is determined by a different mechanism and that somatic and autonomously acting elements interact to control the choice between spermatogenesis and oogenesis. therefore, autonomous and non-autonomous sex-specific factors that participate in germline sex determination are already present at this early stage. sex determination in the drosophila germ line is regulated by both the sex of the surrounding soma and cell-autonomous cues. unlike sex determination in the soma, which is an autonomous process, sex determination in the germline of drosophila has both inductive and autonomous components. in the current model of vertebrate sex determination and sexual differentiation, gonadal sex is fixed at fertilization by specific chromosomes, a process known as genotypic sex determination (gsd). in drosophila, the sex of germ cells is determined by autonomous and inductive signals. an autonomous signal makes xy germ cells male and unresponsive to sex determination by induction. somatic sex identity in drosophila is instructed by sex-specific isoforms of the dmrt1 ortholog doublesex (dsx). in drosophila melanogaster, the mechanism of sex determination is substantially different in the germ line and in the soma. only some of the genes involved in somatic sex determination are also needed for germ cell development. 
Cellular clocks are associated with mitosis timing in NIH 3T3 cells. [SEP] in normally cycling populations of nih3t3 cells, both sibling cells generated by a mitotic division require similar periods of time for completion of the cell cycle, with variations (intersibling times) of < or = 3 h for > 90% of the population. precise timing of mitosis is essential for high-fidelity cell duplication. however, temporal measurements of the mitotic clock have been challenging. by tracking tens to hundreds of mitotic events per experiment, we found that the mitotic clock of unsynchronized rat basophilic leukemia cells has a marked precision with 80% of cells completing mitosis in 32 +/- 6 min. one of the most significant clock outputs from a clinical as well as basic biological standpoint is the timing of the cell cycle. here we show that the circadian clock regulates the timing of mitosis in a light-responsive, clock-containing zebrafish cell line. disrupting clock function, using a clock1 dominant-negative construct or constant light, blocks the gating of cell division, demonstrating that this mitotic rhythm is cell autonomous and under control of the circadian pacemaker. quantitative pcr reveals that several key mitotic genes, including cyclin b1, cyclin b2, and cdc2, are rhythmically expressed and clock-controlled. while gating of cell division by the circadian cycle has been most studied, our data combined with stochastic modeling unambiguously show that the reverse coupling is predominant in nih3t3 cells. together, these results establish circadian clock and cell cycle as interdependent coupled oscillators and identify dna replication as a critical process in the circadian mechanism. 
Cellular clocks are not predictive of mitosis timing in NIH 3T3 cells. [SEP] circadian rhythms are common in many cell types but are reported to be lacking in embryonic stem cells. recent studies have described possible interactions between the molecular mechanism of circadian clocks and the signaling pathways that regulate stem cell differentiation. these studies demonstrate the lack of rhythmic expression of clock genes and ccgs of cells in vitro and that transplantation of breast cancer cells as xenografts into circadian competent hosts re-establishes a circadian rhythm in the peripheral clock genes of tumor cells. cyclin protein behavior has not been systematically investigated in multinucleated cells with asynchronous mitoses. however, circadian variations in the duration of the various cell cycle phases (s, g2 and mitosis) have been disputed. the percent labelled mitoses method, which is traditionally used to obtain duration of cell cycle phases, is poorly suited for identification of circadian variations. these results are also compatible with circadian variations in the mitotic duration, but they may also represent artefacts due to sensitivity to model errors. cell division occurs at a specific time of day in numerous species, suggesting that the circadian and cell cycles are coupled in vivo. by measuring the cell cycle rhythm in real-time, we recently showed that the circadian and cell cycles are not coupled in immortalized fibroblasts, resulting in a rapid rate of cell division even though the circadian rhythm is normal in these cells. these data support our hypothesis that decoupling of the circadian and cell cycles may underlie aberrant cell division in tumor cells. 
Cellular differentiation of embryonic stem cells is accompanied by changes in replication timing, transcription and nuclear localization. [SEP] the cellular epigenetic landscape changes as pluripotent stem cells differentiate to somatic cells or when differentiated cells transform to a cancerous state. this global change in gene expression involves temporal regulation of differentiation-specific genes that are located throughout the genome, raising the idea that genome structure may also be re-organized during cell differentiation to facilitate regulated gene expression. recent evidence also indicates that cell differentiation can have dramatic effects on dna replication initiation and replication fork progression, at several of these loci. the temporal order of dna replication is regulated during development and is highly correlated with gene expression, histone modifications and 3d genome architecture. we tracked changes in replication timing, gene expression, and chromatin conformation capture (hi-c) a/b compartments over the first two cell cycles during differentiation of human embryonic stem cells to definitive endoderm. moreover, changes in a/b compartment and several histone modifications that normally correlate strongly with replication timing showed weak correlation during the early cell cycles of differentiation but showed increased alignment in later differentiation stages and in terminally differentiated cell lines. the nuclear landscape plays an important role in the regulation of tissue and positional specific genes in embryonic and developing cells. as development unfolds, dna replication is not only coordinated with cell proliferation, but is regulated uniquely in specific cell types and organs. this dynamic aspect of dna replication is highlighted by the finding that the distribution of replication origins varies between differentiated cell types and changes with differentiation. differentiation of pluripotent embryonic stem (es) cells through multipotent neural stem (ns) cells into differentiated neurons is accompanied by wholesale changes in transcriptional programs. 
Certain immunomodulator-human dialyzable leukocyte extract (hDLE) peptides are recognized by toll-like receptors (TLRs) on macrophages and dendritic cells. [SEP] receptors capable of discriminating these antigens on the basis of the pathogen-associated molecular patterns (pamp) belong to the toll-like receptor (tlr) family. toll-like receptors (tlr) are transmembrane pattern recognition receptors that recognize microbial ligands and signal for production of inflammatory cytokines and type i interferon in macrophages and dendritic cells (dc). toll-like receptors (tlrs) recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns, which are non-self macromolecular components of pathogens that allow the innate-immune system to recognize infection. tlrs are expressed on macrophages and dendritic cells (dc). tlrs sense microbial products and initiate adaptive immune responses by activating dendritic cells (dcs). toll-like receptors (tlrs) are able to interact with pathogen-derived products and their signals induce the coordinated activation of innate and adaptive immune mechanisms. toll-like receptors (tlrs) mediate recognition of microbial components. activation of dendritic cells by ligands for toll-like receptors (tlr) is a crucial event in the initiation of innate and adaptive immune responses. several classes of tlr ligands have been identified that interact with distinct members of the tlr-family. toll-like receptors (tlrs) play significant roles in recognizing the pathogen-associated molecular patterns that induce innate immunity, and subsequently, acquired immunity. 
Charcoal is an effective treatment for acute paraquat poisoning. [SEP] charcoal hemoperfusion is commonly employed to treat overdose of a number of drugs. herein is reported a case of ethchlorvynol overdose successfully treated with charcoal hemoperfusion within 5 h of ingestion of 12.5 g of the drug. prompt charcoal hemoperfusion may be an effective mode of treatment in cases of ethchlorvynol intoxication. charcoal haemoperfusion has been advocated as a means of removing delta aminolaevulinic acid, which accumulates in attacks of acute intermittent porphyria. charcoal haemoperfusion was successful in the treatment of severe butobarbitone poisoning complicated by resistant hypotension. administration of activated charcoal after pheniramine ingestion in dogs resulted in significantly lower blood levels. norit or another proven effective activated charcoal would be of value in first-aid treatment of pheniramine poisoning. paraquat has been demonstrated to be a highly toxic compound for humans and animals and many cases of acute poisoning and death have been reported over the past few decades. male adult rats received paraquat (pq) (1.5 mg/kg body weight) daily for three weeks. our results suggest an antitoxic effect of vitamin c against paraquat. 
Charcoal shows no benefit for acute paraquat poisoning. [SEP] there is currently no published clinical experience regarding the efficacy of this new antivenom for confirmed c helleri envenomation, and animal data suggest greatly diminished efficacy. agglutination tests are not suitable for the estimation of the protective antibody level in the sera of vaccinated animals and should not be used for the quality control testing of blackleg vaccines. no reports have investigated the effects of cap exposure on detoxification enzyme activities and detoxification-related gene expression in b. mori. the results reveal that corticosteroid had no demonstrable beneficial effect in the neurotoxic poisoning of the cobra. the combination of antivenom and corticosteroid had no effect on the development of local necrosis. poisoning with cartap is very rare and not yet reported from india. we report a 35-year-old lady with cartap poisoning who presented with nausea, vomiting, and dyspnea. activated charcoal (10 g) administered 1 h after a 600 mg oral dose of isoniazid to six healthy subjects did not reduce the area under the plasma concentration-time curve for isoniazid significantly. charcoal administration is unlikely to be of value in isoniazid poisoning if delayed by an hour or more after the overdose. ranavirus was not detected in any turtle. 
Chemical injury represses transglutaminase 2 activity. [SEP] transglutaminase 2 (tg2) is a widely expressed and multifunctional protein that modulates cell death/survival processes. overall, our results further clarify the role of tg2 in mediating the cellular response to ischemia and suggest that manipulating the conformation of tg2 might be of pharmacological interest as a therapeutic strategy for the treatment of ischemia-related pathologies. the activity of transglutaminase (tg), a ca(2+)-dependent enzyme contributing to cross-linkage formation of intracellular polypeptide chains decreased rapidly to ca. transglutaminase 2 (tg2) in the extracellular matrix is largely inactive but is transiently activated upon certain types of inflammation and cell injury. the enzymatic activity of extracellular tg2 thus appears to be tightly regulated. as tg2 is known to be sensitive to changes in the redox environment, inactivation through oxidation presents a plausible mechanism. although vicinal disulfide pairs are found in several transglutaminase isoforms, cys(230) is unique for tg2, suggesting that this residue acts as an isoform-specific redox sensor. our findings suggest that oxidation is likely to influence the amount of active tg2 present in the extracellular environment. the cross-linking enzyme, transglutaminase 2 (tgase 2), contributes to physiological homeostasis and plays a role in cell death and survival. to better define the action of tgase 2, its expression was blocked by small interfering rna. 
Chenodeoxycholic acid treatment decreases brown adipose tissue activity. [SEP] we demonstrated that calcitriol directly regulates adipocyte 11beta-hsd-1 expression and cortisol production in human adipocytes in vitro and dietary calcium inhibits visceral adipose tissue 11beta-hsd-1 expression in mice, indicating an interaction of calcitriol and cortisol in obesity. consequently, we have evaluated the gene expression profile of human subcutaneous adipocytes treated with calcitriol and/or cortisone. the calcitriol/cortisone combination resulted in significant additional up-regulation of 11beta-hsd-1 and down-regulation of adiponectin expression, while cortisone exerted little independent effect in the absence of calcitriol. overall, calcitriol stimulated a pattern of adipocyte gene expression which favored adipocyte proliferation, oxidative and inflammatory stress and visceral adiposity, and these effects were amplified in the presence of cortisone; however, this conclusion must be tempered by the adipocyte source (subcutaneous) and requires confirmation in visceral adipocytes. adipocytes were separated from the stromal-vascular cells by centrifugation and staining (oil red 0) for intracellular lipid. widdrol decreased lipid droplet accumulation and down-regulated adipogenic transcription factors such as c/ebpalpha, c/ebpbeta, and ppargamma. therefore, these findings clearly suggest that widdrol blocks preadipocyte growth and differentiation through the inhibition of mitotic clonal expansion by p21- and rb-dependent g1 arrest and can be developed as a potent anti-adipogenic agent for reducing obesity. plasma adiponectin levels and adiponectin mrna levels of adipose tissue were markedly decreased in l-name-treated rats. downregulation of adiponectin in inflamed adipocyte by feta through the mediation of wnt3a and pparγ is a new report. adiponectin is an anti-inflammatory and insulin-sensitizing adipocytokine, and its serum concentrations are reduced in obesity with visceral fat accumulation. 
Chenodeoxycholic acid treatment increases brown adipose tissue activity. [SEP] recent advances have been made in the understanding of pharmacological and dietary agents that contribute to browning of white adipose tissue in order to combat obesity by promoting energy expenditure. brown adipose tissue (bat) increases energy expenditure and is an attractive therapeutic target for obesity. 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11β-hsd1), an amplifier of local glucocorticoid activity, has been shown to modulate white adipose tissue (wat) metabolism and function. the brown adipose tissue is a potential target for the treatment of obesity and metabolic disorders. its activation by cold exposure or adrenergic drugs can increase systemic insulin sensitivity and improve lipid metabolism; however, little is known about the effects of specific dietary components on brown adipose tissue activity. the intervention resulted in significant increase in blood monounsaturated fatty acid levels, which was accompanied by increased brown adipose tissue activity in lean but not in overweight/obese volunteers. recently, there has been great attention given to the possibility of combating obesity by targeting brown fat activity or increasing differentiation of brown adipocytes in white fat depots through a process termed 'browning'. research on adipobiology has recognized the browning process of white adipocytes as a potential therapeutic strategy for the treatment of obesity and related morbidities. recruitment of the brown-like phenotype in white adipocytes (browning) and activation of existing brown adipocytes are currently being investigated as a means to combat obesity. modern science has given much attention to the treatment of obesity by activating brown adipose tissue (bat) and browning of white adipose tissue (wat). 
Chinese individuals with TT homozygosity in the MTHFR gene are less vulnerable to strokes caused by low levels of folate intake. [SEP] serum folate concentration is lower in individuals with the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (mthfr) 677tt genotype than in those with the mthfr 677cc or 677ct genotypes. plasma folate was significantly and inversely associated with thcy, irrespective of mthfr genotype. in conclusion, dietary folate intake was positively associated with plasma folate among those with the cc or ct genotypes and inversely associated with thcy among those with the cc genotype, but the associations were not clear among those with higher levels of thcy. we have investigated the relationships between two variants of the mthfr gene (c677t and a1298c) and blood folate, homocysteine, and genomic stability (strand breakage, misincorporated uracil, and global cytosine methylation in lymphocytes) in a study of 199 subjects. administration of folic acid decreases this risk. we suggest that homozygosity for the mthfr mutation may be a risk factor for transverse terminal limb defect/s by an effect mediated through altered folate and homocysteine metabolism. polymorphisms in the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (mthfr) gene reduce availability of 5-methyltetrahydrofolate, the predominant circulating form of folate. to determine the effect of mthfr c677t and mthfr a1298c genotypes and haplotypes on cl(p) risk and the interaction with maternal periconceptional dietary folate and folic acid supplement intake, the authors conducted a case-control triad study in the netherlands (1998-2000) among 179 cl(p) and 204 control families. mothers carrying the mthfr 677tt genotype and who either did not use folic acid supplements periconceptionally or had a low dietary folate intake, or both, had an increased risk of delivering a cl(p) child (odds ratio (or) = 5.9, 95% confidence interval (ci): 1.1, 30.9; or = 2.8, 95% ci: 0.7, 10.5; or = 10.0, 95% ci: 1.3, 79.1, respectively). although dietary folate fortification lowers plasma homocysteine and may reduce cardiovascular risk, high-dose folic acid therapy appears to not alter clinical outcome. 
Chinese individuals with TT homozygosity in the MTHFR gene are more vulnerable to strokes caused by low levels of folate intake. [SEP] the c677t polymorphism of the 5,10 methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (mthfr) gene is associated with decreased mthfr activity and elevated plasma homocysteine levels with the result of an increased risk for vascular disease. individuals who are homozygous for the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (mthfr) 677c --> t mutation have depressed serum folate (sf) and elevated plasma total homocysteine (thcy) concentrations, which may affect folate requirements and increase the risk for coronary artery disease. these data suggest that older women who are homozygous for the mthfr 677c --> t mutation may be at risk for greater elevations in plasma thcy in response to moderately low folate intake as compared with individuals with the normal or heterozygous genotypes. risk factors for elevated homocysteine include low folate and homozygosity for the t allele of the 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (mthfr) c677t polymorphism. homozygotes for the thermolabile mutation (tt genotype) of the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (mthfr; ec 1.5.1.20) enzyme have elevated plasma concentrations of the cardiovascular disease risk factor homocysteine, particularly if folate depleted. the tt genotype was associated with higher homocysteine and lower plasma folate than the cc and ct genotypes in both cases and controls and a nonsignificant increase in vascular disease risk (1.26; 95% ci: 0.88, 1.81; p = 0.20). the modest risk increase conferred by the tt genotype is mediated mainly by increased total homocysteine and low plasma folate concentrations. the t allele produces an enzyme with reduced folate-processing capacity, which has been associated with lower blood folate concentrations. we assessed the association between mthfr c677t genotypes and blood folate concentrations among healthy women aged 12-49 y. lower blood folate concentrations associated with this polymorphism could have implications for a population-level risk of neural tube defects. 
Chlamydia trachomatis is most prevalent in the UK among individuals in their 50s and 60s. [SEP] infection with chlamydia trachomatis accounts for the most common bacterial sexually transmitted infection in the uk. men between 20 and 24 years and women between 16 and 19 years have the highest prevalence of chlamydial infection. chlamydia trachomatis is the most common curable sexually transmitted infection in the uk. chlamydia trachomatis is the most common curable bacterial sexually transmitted infection in the uk. chlamydia trachomatis is the most common bacterial sexually transmitted infection (sti) throughout the world and its annual incidence is reported to be around 50 million cases. chlamydia trachomatis is the most common, treatable, bacterial sexually transmitted infection in england and wales. to estimate the prevalence of chlamydia trachomatis in young men in clinic and community based samples in north west london. the main outcome measure was prevalence of c trachomatis infection in men aged 18-35 years. chlamydia trachomatis (chlamydia) is the most commonly diagnosed sexually transmitted infection (sti) in england; approximately 70% of diagnoses are in sexually active young adults aged under 25. the number of genital tract chlamydia trachomatis infections is steadily increasing worldwide, with approximately 50-70% of infections asymptomatic. 
Chlamydia trachomatis is most prevalent in the UK among sexually-experienced individuals aged 16 to 24. [SEP] infection with chlamydia trachomatis accounts for the most common bacterial sexually transmitted infection in the uk. men between 20 and 24 years and women between 16 and 19 years have the highest prevalence of chlamydial infection. chlamydia trachomatis is the most common bacterial sexually transmitted infection (sti) in the uk. genital chlamydia trachomatis infection is the most common bacterial sexually transmitted infection (sti) in the uk. chlamydia trachomatis infection is now the commonest bacterial, sexually transmitted infection in the uk. chlamydia trachomitis is the most common sexually transmitted infection in the uk and the number of cases diagnosed each year continues to rise. chlamydia trachomatis is the most common bacterial sexually transmitted infection. young people aged 16 to 24 have the highest prevalence of genital chlamydia and gonorrhoea compared with other age groups and re-infection rates following treatment are high. co-infection with chlamydia trachomatis is reported in 10% to 40% of people with gonorrhoea in the us and uk. genital chlamydia infection is the most commonly diagnosed sexually transmitted infection in the uk. 
Cholesterol loading induces KLF4 expression in VSMCs, resulting in the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines. [SEP] the hypercholesterolemia-atherosclerosis association is now established; hypercholesterolemia may induce vascular-cell activation, subsequently increasing expression of adhesion molecules, cytokines, chemokines, growth factors, and other key inflammatory molecules. in atherosclerosis lipoproteins stimulate the innate immune response, leading to the release of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. hypercholesterolemia may activate the synthesis and release of inflammatory cytokines such as il-1, which induces tnf release in mast cells (mcs). tnf emerges as one of the most potent inflammatory cytokines involved in the response due to ldl. activation of vascular smooth muscle cells (vsmcs) by proinflammatory cytokines is a key feature of atherosclerotic lesion formation. in vascular smooth muscle cells (vsmcs), ang ii signaling activates interleukin (il)-6 expression, a cytokine producing acute-phase inflammation, mediated by the transcription factor nuclear factor kappab (nf-kappab). toll-like receptor 4 (tlr4) is important in promoting inflammation and vascular smooth muscle cell (vsmc) migration, both of which contribute to atherosclerosis development and progression. our findings suggest that reduced h3k9me2 in disease enhance binding of nfκb and ap-1 (activator protein-1) transcription factors at specific inflammation-responsive genes to augment proinflammatory stimuli in vsmc. we found that a pro-atherosclerotic factor (oxldl) induced the expression of krüppel-like factor 5 (klf5), which in turn increased mir-29a expression levels. in conclusion, our data are the first to reveal that the regulatory crosstalk between klf5, mir-29a, and fbw7/cdc4 cooperatively promotes atherosclerotic development. 
Chronic HIV stimulation of B cells leads to the premature exhaustion of B cells. [SEP] to define the impact of chronic viremia and associated immune activation on b-cell exhaustion in hiv infection. progressive hiv infection is marked by b-cell anergy and exhaustion coupled with dramatic hypergammaglobulinemia. chronic immune activation in hiv-infected individuals leads to accumulation of exhausted tissue-like memory b cells. these findings on hiv-associated b cell exhaustion define potential targets for reversing the deleterious effect of inhibitory receptors on immune responses against persistent viral infections. to discuss a component of the pathogenic mechanisms of hiv infection in the context of phenotypic and functional alterations in b cells that are due to persistent viral replication leading to aberrant immune activation and cellular exhaustion. hiv-associated b-cell exhaustion was first described in 2008, soon after the demonstration of persistent virus-induced t-cell exhaustion, as well as the identification of a subset b cells in tonsil tissues with immunoregulatory features similar to those observed in t-cell exhaustion. the phenomenon of b-cell exhaustion is now well established in hiv infection and other diseases characterized by immune activation. although t cells are the primary and most-studied targets of the human immunodeficiency virus (hiv), b cells, especially memory b lymphocytes, are also chronically depleted in the course of hiv disease. human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection is characterized by dysfunctional b cell responses. memory b-cell depletion, hyperimmunoglobulinemia, and impaired vaccine responses are the hallmark of b cell perturbations inhuman immunodeficiency virus (hiv) disease. 
Cis-acting lncRNAs control the expression of genes that are positioned in the vicinity of their transcription sites. [SEP] transcription of long noncoding rnas (lncrnas) regulates local gene expression in eukaryotes. many examples of how a single lncrna controls the expression of an adjacent or nearby protein-coding gene have been described. cis-acting lncrnas, which constitute a substantial fraction of lncrnas with an attributed function, regulate gene expression in a manner dependent on the location of their own sites of transcription, at varying distances from their targets in the linear genome. through various mechanisms, cis-acting lncrnas have been demonstrated to activate, repress or otherwise modulate the expression of target genes. we discuss the activities that have been ascribed to cis-acting lncrnas, the evidence and hypotheses regarding their modes of action, and the methodological advances that enable their identification and characterization. long noncoding rnas (lncrnas) localize in the cell nucleus and influence gene expression through a variety of molecular mechanisms. several nuclear localised intergenic long noncoding rnas (lncrnas) have been ascribed regulatory roles in transcriptional control and their number is growing rapidly. although the molecular mechanisms involved in targeting lncrnas to distal binding sites remain poorly understood, the spatial organisation of the genome may have a role in specifying lncrna function. the localization of long noncoding rnas (lncrnas) within the cell is the primary determinant of their molecular functions. one of the major functions of lncrnas is the regulation of specific gene expression at multiple steps including, recruitment and expression of basal transcription machinery, post-transcriptional modifications and epigenetics [1]. 
Citrullinated proteins externalized in neutrophil extracellular traps act indirectly to disrupt the inflammatory cycle. [SEP] neutrophils release extracellular traps (nets) in response to a variety of inflammatory stimuli. in response to various stimuli, neutrophils and eosinophils can release neutrophil extracellular traps (net) consisting of proteolytic enzymes, dna and other components of the cell nucleus. neutrophil extracellular traps or nets are released by highly activated neutrophils in response to infectious agents, sterile inflammation, autoimmune stimuli and cancer. neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) are a neutrophil defensive mechanism where chromatin is expelled together with antimicrobial proteins in response to a number of stimuli. neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) are reticular structures formed by myeloperoxidase (mpo), histones, and neutrophil elastase (ne) that are released from neutrophils in response to pathogenic stimuli. neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) are released upon neutrophil stimulation and consist of extracellular chromatin networks studded with cytotoxic proteins. neutrophil extracellular traps play a key role in defense against extracellular pathogens. neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) are implicated in autoimmune, thrombotic, malignant, and inflammatory diseases; however, little is known of their endogenous regulation under basal conditions. neutrophil extracellular traps (net), produced by activated polymorphonuclear neutrophils (pmn), are supposed to play a role in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (ra), a chronic inflammatory autoimmune disease characterized by anti-citrullinated protein antibodies (acpa). the antimicrobial defense activity of neutrophils partly depends on their ability to form neutrophil extracellular traps (nets), but the underlying mechanism controlling net formation remains unclear. 
Citrullinated proteins externalized in neutrophil extracellular traps act indirectly to perpetuate the inflammatory cycle via induction of autoantibodies. [SEP] in rheumatoid arthritis, an autoimmune inflammatory arthritis, citrullinated proteins are targeted by autoantibodies and thus thought to drive disease. neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) are a source of citrullinated proteins and are increased in rheumatoid arthritis and therefore also implicated in disease pathogenesis. neutrophil extracellular traps can contribute to autoimmunity by exposing autoantigens, inducing ifn-α production, and activating the complement system. the association of neutrophil extracellular traps with autoimmune diseases, particularly systemic lupus erythematosus, will be reviewed. neutrophil extracellular traps offer insight into the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases and provide promise in developing disease markers and novel therapeutic agents in systemic lupus erythematosus. neutrophil extracellular traps (net), produced by activated polymorphonuclear neutrophils (pmn), are supposed to play a role in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (ra), a chronic inflammatory autoimmune disease characterized by anti-citrullinated protein antibodies (acpa). neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) are a source of citrullinated autoantigens and activate ra synovial fibroblasts (fls), cells crucial in joint damage. neutrophil extracellular traps are a major source of citrullinated antigens and the immunomodulatory host defence peptide ll-37. neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus (sle), since netting neutrophils release potentially immunogenic autoantigens including histones, ll37, human neutrophil peptide (hnp), and self-dna. dysregulated neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) formation contributes to the pathogenesis of anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic ab (anca)-associated vasculitis (aav). 
Clathrin stabilizes the spindle fiber apparatus during mitosis. [SEP] the endocytic protein, clathrin, has a "moonlighting" role during mitosis, whereby it stabilizes the mitotic spindle. functional pathway analysis confirmed the reported role of clathrin in mitotic spindle stabilization for chromosome alignment and highlighted possible new mechanisms of clathrin action. clathrin ensures mitotic spindle stability and efficient chromosome alignment, independently of its vesicle trafficking function. here we test whether the recruitment of clathrin to the spindle is indicative of a critical functional contribution to mitosis. consequently this work highlights the need for a more detailed molecular understanding of the recruitment and function of clathrin at the spindle, since the localisation but not the impact of clathrin on mitosis appears to be robust in plants, mammalian and chicken b-cells. recent work has better defined the role of clathrin in the function of the mitotic spindle and proposed that clathrin crosslinks the microtubules (mts) comprising the kinetochore fibres (k-fibres) in the mitotic spindle. this review summarises the role of clathrin in mitotic spindle organisation with an emphasis on the recent discovery of the tacc3-ch-tog-clathrin complex. here this review mainly focuses on the clathrin-dependent mechanisms involved in spindle assembly and chromosome alignment. in mitosis, clathrin forms a complex with phosphorylated tacc3 to ensure spindle stability and proper chromosome alignment. here, we show that clathrin stabilizes fibres of the mitotic spindle to aid congression of chromosomes. 
Cnn1 recruitment varies with cell cycle timing. [SEP] the cell cycle is controlled by regulators functioning at the right time and at the right place. here, we identify cell-cycle-specific binding proteins of cam and examine their function during cell-cycle progression. cells initiate fate decisions during g1 phase by converting extracellular signals into distinctive cell cycle kinetics. the dna replication timing is determined in g1 phase; lengthened g1 and hastened s phases correlate with increased neurogenic propensity of neural progenitor cells (npcs), although the underlying molecular control remains elusive. precise timing of cell division is achieved by coupling waves of cyclin-dependent kinase (cdk) activity with a transcriptional oscillator throughout cell cycle progression. during drosophila development the cell cycle is subject to diverse regulatory inputs. later, in differentiated larval tissues, the cell cycle responds to nutrition via mechanisms that sense cellular growth. this study unveils fundamental design principles of mammalian g1-phase regulation that are likely to confer to mammalian cells the ability to faithfully control the occurrence and timing of their division process in various conditions. during embryonic development, changes in cell cycle kinetics have been associated with neurogenesis. this observation suggests that specific cell cycle regulators may be recruited to modify cell cycle dynamics and influence the decision between proliferation and differentiation. 
Cognitive behavioral therapy is an ineffective treatment for insomnia [SEP] practice guidelines recommend that chronic insomnia be treated first with cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia (cbt-i), and that hypnotic medication be considered only when cbt-i is unsuccessful. cognitive behavioural therapy (cbt) is effective in the treatment of insomnia but is seldom offered. in this study we examined the effectiveness of a guided internet-delivered cbt for adults with insomnia using a randomized controlled trial (rct). cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (cbt-i) is the preferred treatment for chronic insomnia and sleep-related cognitions are one target of treatment. cbt-i significantly reduced dysfunctional beliefs about sleep (g = -0.90, 95% ci -1.19, -0.62) at post-treatment. we concluded that cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia has moderate to large effects on dysfunctional beliefs about sleep. cognitive-behavioral treatment for insomnia (cbt-i) is an efficacious and durable treatment for comorbid insomnia in medical and psychiatric disorders. cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (cbt-i) is an effective treatment for primary insomnia, but there are no published results on the effects of cbt-i in patients with bipolar disorder. the existing literature does not address the question of whether cognitive-behavioral therapy would have an impact on insomnia in older adults who are chronic users of sleep medication and have current insomnia, but are also stable in their quantity of medication usage during treatment. the findings support the use of cognitive-behavioral therapy for insomnia in hypnotic-dependant older adults. 
Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion are more effective after 12 weeks of reatment compared to varenicline monotherapy. [SEP] varenicline, a new treatment for smoking cessation, has demonstrated significantly greater efficacy over placebo and sustained release bupropion (bupropion sr). a study was undertaken to compare a 12-week standard regimen of varenicline with a 10-week standard regimen of transdermal nicotine replacement therapy (nrt) for smoking cessation. the mainstay in smoking cessation is counselling in combination with varenicline, nicotine replacement therapy (nrt) or bupropion sr. varenicline and combination of two nrts is equally effective, while varenicline alone is more effective than either nrt or bupropion sr. nrt is extremely safe but cardiovascular and psychiatric adverse events with varenicline have been reported. among cigarette smokers, combined use of varenicline and bupropion, compared with varenicline alone, increased prolonged abstinence but not 7-day point prevalence at 12 and 26 weeks. the aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of varenicline in monotherapy or in combined therapy with bupropion and/or serotonin reuptake inhibitors (sris) in a specific cardiovascular smoking cessation service. bupropion was combined in patients that did not achieve complete tobacco abstinence in 2 or 3 weeks after starting varenicline use or if the patient presented uncomfortable abstinent symptoms. `varenicline use has been shown to produce greater long-term smoking cessation rates than bupropion but has no clear differences compared to the transdermal nicotine patch. varenicline and bupropion sustained release (sr) are both safe and effective for the treatment of tobacco dependence and have different mechanisms of action. combination therapy with varenicline and bupropion sr may be effective for increasing smoking abstinence rates above that observed with monotherapy. the findings support previous research showing a consistently favorable effect of both varenicline and the combination of varenicline and bupropion on smoking cessation compared with placebo. 
Commelina yellow mottle virus (ComYMV) has three typical badnavirus ORFs, capable of encoding proteins 23, 15, and 216 kD. [SEP] cucumber mosaic virus (cmv) contains three genomic rnas (rnas 1, 2, and 3) and a subgenomic rna (rna 4), a shared feature of the bromoviridae family which includes cucumoviruses, bromoviruses, alfalfa mosaic virus, and ilarviruses. we suggest that the proposed orf 2b may be expressed in other cucumoviruses, most likely via 4a-like subgenomic rnas, and that the predicted gene product may have a unique functional role in the infection process of cucumoviruses. cell-to-cell movement of beet necrotic yellow vein virus (bnyvv) requires three proteins encoded by a triple gene block (tgb) on viral rna 2. commelina yellow mottle virus (coymv) is the type member of the badnaviruses, a genus of plant pararetroviruses. members of the genus badnavirus have a single non-covalently closed circular double-stranded dna genome of 7.2-9.2kb. canna yellow mottle virus (caymv) is a badnavirus that has been described as the etiological cause of yellow mottle disease in canna, although only a 565bp fragment of the genome has been previously reported from cannas. two full-length sequences represent two badnavirus genomes were recovered and were determined to be 6966bp and 7385bp in length. these dnas represent a virus strain belonging to canna yellow mottle virus and a novel species tentatively termed canna yellow mottle associated virus. its genome organization is typical of badnaviruses, containing three open reading frames (orfs). orf3 encodes a large polyprotein that contains almost all of the conserved domains of badnaviruses. 
Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 2140 baise pairs. [SEP] the genome of patmmov consists of 4,214 nucleotides and has a typical umbravirus genome organization with four open reading frames. commelina yellow mottle virus (coymv) is a double-stranded dna virus that infects the monocot commelina diffusa. virus-derived small interfering rnas (vsirnas) of cucumber green mottle mosaic virus (cgmmv), a member of the genus tobamovirus, were characterised in cucumber plants by deep sequencing. complete genome sequences of 22 isolates of cucurbit aphid-borne yellows virus (cabyv), collected from melon plants showing yellowing symptom in korea during the years 2013-2014, were determined and compared with previously reported cabyv genome sequences. the genome comprises eight rnas for a total size of 20,079 nt and is distantly related to ramu stunt virus and maize yellow stunt virus, two tentative tenuiviruses. the complete nucleotide sequence of subterranean clover mottle virus (scmov) genomic rna has been determined. the scmov genome is 4,258 nucleotides in length. scmov rna encodes four overlapping open reading frames and has a genome organisation similar to that of cocksfoot mottle virus (cfmv). the complete nucleotide sequences of beet necrotic yellow vein virus rna-1 to rna-4 of the japanese isolate s (bnyvv-s) were determined and compared with those of french isolate (bnyvv-f2). here, we report the sequence of the complete genome of snmov. 
Comparative transcriptome analysis identified new platelet proteins with structural features suggesting a role in platelet function. [SEP] proteomic and genomic technologies have recently defined almost the complete platelet transcriptome and proteome as well as many important protein-protein interactions that are critical for platelet function under normal and pathological conditions such as an abnormal platelet function and cardiovascular disease (cvd). in comparison to previously published platelet proteomes, we identified 404 novel platelet proteins containing a high number of hydrophobic membrane proteins and hypothetical proteins. these technologies are beginning to define the complete platelet transcriptome and proteome as well as the protein-protein interactions critical for platelet function. here we summarize the findings of platelet proteome and transcriptome studies and their application to diseases of platelet function. areas covered: the present review presents the main findings of platelet proteomic studies to date in the context of drug target discovery and perspectives for the future ahead. a comprehensive knowledge of the platelet proteome is necessary for understanding thrombosis and for envisioning antiplatelet therapies. transcriptional studies provides a means for the identification and characterisation of novel platelet drug targets in all these categories. over 1100 platelet proteins have been identified using proteomic techniques. proteomic experiments in resting and activated platelets have identified novel signaling pathways and secreted proteins which may represent therapeutic targets, as well as potential cancer biomarkers. the final generated phylogenetic tree of human platelet glycoproteins was presented and discussed. 
Concentrations of SNV and CNV in stem-cell regulatory elements and binding sites of transcription factors in iPSC-lines are distinct from their founding cells. [SEP] induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) and embryonic stem cells (escs) share many common features, including similar morphology, gene expression and in vitro differentiation profiles. induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) show variable methylation patterns between lines, some of which reflect aberrant differences relative to embryonic stem cells (escs). we observed heterogeneity in neurogenic progenitors that differed between the ips cell-derived nsc lines and the fetal-derived nsc line, and we also observed differences in spontaneous differentiation potential for inhibitory and excitatory neurons between the ips cell-derived nsc lines and the fetal-derived nsc line. recent evidence suggests human embryonic stem cell (hesc) and induced pluripotent stem (ips) cell lines have differences in their epigenetic marks and transcriptomes, yet the impact of these differences on subsequent terminally differentiated cells is less well understood. comparison of the transcriptomes revealed limited gene expression variability between multiple lines of human ips-derived ecs or between lines of es- and ips-derived ecs. precise separation of spermatogonial stem cells (sscs) from progenitor spermatogonia that lack stem cell activity and are committed to differentiation remains a challenge. heterogeneity among induced pluripotent stem cell (ipsc) lines with regard to their gene expression profile and differentiation potential has been described and at least partly linked to the tissue of origin. here, we generated ipscs from primitive [lineage negative (lin(neg))] and nonadherent differentiated [lineage positive (lin(pos))] bone marrow cells (bm-ipsc), and compared their differentiation potential to that of fibroblast-derived ipscs (fib-ipsc) and embryonic stem cells (esc). however, substantial differences between ipsc clones were observed after induction of differentiation, which became most obvious upon cytokine-mediated instruction toward the hematopoietic lineage. tumor-initiating stem cells (scs) exhibit distinct patterns of transcription factors and gene expression compared to healthy counterparts. 
Consumption of whole fruits increases the risk of type 2 diabetes. [SEP] sugar has been suggested to promote obesity, diabetes and coronary heart disease (chd), yet fruit, despite containing sugars, may also have a low glycaemic index (gi) and all fruits are generally recommended for good health. we therefore assessed the effect of fruit with special emphasis on low gi fruit intake in type 2 diabetes. however, consumption of fruit in the form of juice is positively associated with type 2 diabetes risk, possibly due to resulting hyperglycemia. unhealthy diet deficient in fruits and vegetables but rich in calories is considered to be one factor responsible for the increased prevalence of insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes (t2d). the objective was to investigate whether an advice to reduce the intake of fruit to patients with type 2 diabetes affects hba1c, bodyweight, waist circumference and fruit intake. a recommendation to reduce fruit intake as part of standard medical nutrition therapy in overweight patients with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes resulted in eating less fruit. we recommend that the intake of fruit should not be restricted in patients with type 2 diabetes. background: findings on the relation between fruit consumption and the risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm) have been inconsistent.objectives: we examined whether the consumption of total, temperate, subtropical, and tropical fruit is associated with t2dm risk and whether differences in the carbohydrate quality of fruit influence t2dm risk in asians.design: we included 45,411 participants in the singapore chinese health study who were 45-74 y old and had no diabetes, cancer, or cardiovascular disease at recruitment (1993-1998). after adjustment for lifestyle and dietary risk factors, high total fruit consumption was not consistently associated with lower t2dm risk [men: hr of 1.33 (95% ci: 1.04, 1.71) for ≥3 servings/d compared with <1 serving/wk (p-trend = 0.17); women: hr of 0.88 (95% ci: 0.71, 1.11) (p-trend = 0.008); p-interaction = 0.003]. the impact of fruit consumption on the risk of diabetes may differ by the type of fruit, which may reflect differences in the glycemic impact or phytochemical content. 
Continued HHV-8 transmission among MSM in San Francisco may be explained by urogenital contact. [SEP] sexually transmitted infections (sti) and unprotected anal intercourse (uai) have been increasing among men who have sex with men (msm) in san francisco. to describe recent trends in sexual risk behaviour, sti, and hiv incidence among msm in san francisco and to assess whether increases in hiv serosorting (that is, selective unprotected sex with partners of the same hiv status) may contribute to preventing further expansion of the epidemic. many hiv-infected msm continue to engage in unsafe sex, and sexually transmitted infections (stis) or other factors may promote genital hiv shedding and transmission in this population despite haart. this mode of transmission is also responsible for other sexually transmitted infections (stis) such as herpes simplex, chlamydia and gonorrhoea, human papillomavirus (hpv)/genital warts and syphilis. msm may play a bridging role in the spread of hiv and other stds from the high-risk population to the general population. we investigate the role of chlamydia in the spread of hiv among msm and the possible impact of routine chlamydia screening among hiv-infected msm at hiv treatment centres on the incidence of chlamydia and hiv in the overall msm population. a mathematical model was developed to describe the transmission of hiv and chlamydia among msm. chlamydia infection could contribute to the transmission of hiv among msm. using multiple national surveillance data sources and population survey data, we estimated the risk of stis in hiv-positive msm and assessed whether transmission in hiv-positive msm has contributed to recent sti epidemics in england. bacterial sti re-infection rates were considerably higher in hiv-positive msm over a five-year follow-up period, indicative of rapid transmission in more dense sexual networks.these findings strongly suggest that the sexual health of hiv-positive msm in england is worsening, which merits augmented public health interventions and continued monitoring. 
Converting apoE4 to apoE3 by gene editing prevents the pathology associated with apoE4 in human iPSCderived neurons. [SEP] of the three major isoforms of human apolipoprotein e (apoe), apoe4 is a risk factor for the development of alzheimer's disease. apolipoprotein e (apoe) plays an important role in lipid metabolism and neuronal repair. compared to apoe3, apoe4 increases the risk to develop alzheimer's disease, particularly in women, and of developing cognitive impairments after specific environmental challenges. in studying how apoe expression is regulated in neurons, we identified a splicing variant of apoe mrna with intron-3 retention (apoe-i3). apoe-i3 mrna was detected in neuronal cell lines and primary neurons, but not in astrocytic cell lines or primary astrocytes, from humans and mice by reverse transcription (rt)-pcr. in both wild-type and human apoe knock-in mice, apoe-i3 was found predominantly in cortical and hippocampal neurons by in situ hybridization. in transfected primary neurons, apoe expression increased dramatically when intron-3 was deleted from a genomic dna construct and decreased markedly when intron-3 was inserted into a cdna construct, suggesting that intron-3 retention/splicing controls apoe expression in neurons. in response to excitotoxic challenge, the apoe-i3 mrna was markedly increased in morphologically normal hippocampal neurons but reduced in degenerating hippocampal neurons in mice; apoe mrna showed the opposite pattern. thus, neuronal expression of apoe is controlled by transcription of apoe-i3 under normal conditions and by processing of apoe-i3 into mature apoe mrna in response to injury. apolipoprotein e (apoe) is involved in lipid metabolism in the brain, but its effects on brain function are not understood. 
Converting apoE4 to apoE3 by gene editing worsens the pathology associated with apoE4 in human iPSCderived neurons. [SEP] in this review, we provide an overview of the literature describing apoe4's detrimental effects in the central nervous system (cns), specifically focusing on its contribution to neuronal subtype dysfunction or loss. we have shown in vitro and in vivo that apoe4 preferentially undergoes aberrant cleavage in neurons, yielding neurotoxic c-terminal-truncated fragments. compared to apoe3, apoe4 increases the risk of age-related cognitive decline in humans and female mice expressing apoe in neurons. because of its structural difference from apoe3, apoe4 undergoes neuron-specific proteolysis, generating fragments that enter the cytosol, interact with mitochondria, and cause neurotoxicity. apoe4-induced bioenergetic deficits led to extensive metabolic rewiring, but despite numerous cellular adaptations, apoe4-expressing neurons remained vulnerable to metabolic stress. ph002 also rescued apoe4-induced impairments of neurite outgrowth in neuro-2a cells and dendritic spine development in primary neurons. our results serve as a proof of concept that pharmacological intervention with apoe4 structure correctors negates apoe4 detrimental effects in neuronal cells and could be further developed as an alzheimer disease therapeutic. to investigate this neurotoxicity, we expressed apoe4 with c- or n-terminal truncations or mutations in transfected neuro-2a cells. a quadruple mutation in the lipid-binding region (i250a, f257a, w264r, and v269a) abolished the neurotoxicity of apoe4(1-272), and single mutations in the region of amino acids 273-299 (l279q, k282a, or q284a) made full-length apoe4 neurotoxic. thus, a new therapeutic target is to identify small molecules to modulate the inherent neuropathological structure of apoe4, i.e. 
Cost effectiveness evaluations based on cRCT data accurately reflect prices for patients in actual clinical practice. [SEP] cost-effectiveness is an essential part of treatment evaluation, in addition to effectiveness. the objective of this study was to evaluate the external validity of published cost-effectiveness studies by comparing the data used in these studies (typically based on rcts) to observational data from actual clinical practice. external validity should be an explicit requirement for cost-effectiveness analyses. randomised controlled trials (rcts) are generally regarded as the "gold standard" for providing quantifiable evidence around the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of new healthcare technologies. in order to perform the economic evaluations associated with rcts, there is a need for accessible and good quality resource-use data; for the purpose of discussion here, data that best reflect the care received. we identified full economic evaluations such as cost-effectiveness analysis (cea), cost-utility analysis (cua) and cost-benefit analysis (cba) alongside randomised controlled trials (rcts) that assessed the consequences and costs of acupuncture for any medical condition. in addition to providing comparable and verifiable evidence regarding outcomes, clinical trials could also serve as sources of accurate and replicable financial information. based on analyses of 97 clinical trial reports, this article proposes a standard costing format. with the active involvement of financial managers, a standard costing format for clinical trials can be achieved. using a lifetime time horizon and comparison with optimal medical therapy, the cost effectiveness of both crt-p and crt-d appears to meet the $50 000/qaly benchmark commonly used for health-care interventions in the usa, as well as similar thresholds used in europe. 
Cost effectiveness evaluations based on cRCT data lack external validity. [SEP] however, no data regarding the application of the precis tool in a cluster of rcts belonging to a specific discipline such as nursing are available. however, with a prolonged duration from recruitment to publication, high-cost trial implementation, and a rigid trial protocol, rcts are perceived as an impractical evaluation methodology for most mhealth apps. conducting well-designed rcts for surgical procedures is often challenged by inadequate recruitment accrual, blinding, or standardization of the surgical procedure, as well as lack of funding and evolution of the treatment strategy during the many years over which such trials are conducted. however, the results of an rct may remain meaningless for clinical practice in cases of poor intervention feasibility or fidelity (the extent to which the protocol was executed), or when health care professionals or patients experience the intervention as irrelevant or unpleasant. whilst representing a 'gold-standard' in health services research, rct evidence on the clinical and economic desirability of services and treatments is often absent. where rct evidence is lacking, or where it is infeasible to implement randomized controlled comparisons, longitudinal observational and naturalistic data sources when analysed appropriately can yield useful insights regarding the clinical effectiveness and economic efficiency of treatments. randomised controlled trials (rcts) are widely viewed as the gold standard for assessing effectiveness in health research; however many researchers and practitioners believe that rcts are inappropriate and un-doable in social care settings, particularly in relation to looked after children. cost-effectiveness analyses (ceas) that use patient-specific data from a randomized controlled trial (rct) are popular, yet such ceas are criticized because they neglect to incorporate evidence external to the trial. the bootstrap method of rct-based cea can be extended to incorporate external evidence, while preserving its appealing features such as no requirement for parametric modeling of cost and effectiveness outcomes. designs with strong causal inference-such as individual patient or cluster randomisation-can be inappropriate and infeasible to use in single-centre settings. 
Crossover hot spots are found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. [SEP] the rate of meiotic recombination in the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae varies widely in different regions of the genome with some genes having very high levels of recombination (hotspots). a variety of experiments done in yeast suggest that hotspots are a feature of chromatin structure rather than a feature of primary dna sequence. we have determined how most of the transcriptional regulators encoded in the eukaryote saccharomyces cerevisiae associate with genes across the genome in living cells. just as maps of metabolic networks describe the potential pathways that may be used by a cell to accomplish metabolic processes, this network of regulator-gene interactions describes potential pathways yeast cells can use to regulate global gene expression programs. in the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae, certain genomic regions have very high levels of meiotic recombination (hot spots). to determine whether this relationship between transcription factor binding and hot spot activity is general, we used dna microarrays to map all genomic bas1p binding sites and to map the frequency of meiosis-specific double-strand dna breaks (as an estimate of the recombination activity) of all genes in both wild-type and bas1 strains. here we examine the genome-wide location of representative members of these groups and their redistribution when the saccharomyces cerevisiae genome is reprogrammed by heat shock. in the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae, several abundant, sequence-specific dna binding proteins are involved in multiple aspects of chromosome function. to obtain insight into the genome-wide transcriptional response of heterologous carotenoid production in saccharomyces cerevisiae, the transcriptome of two different s. cerevisiae strains overexpressing carotenogenic genes from the yeast xanthophyllomyces dendrorhous grown in carbon-limited chemostat cultures was analysed. in the past year, genetic studies have provided a detailed understanding of the dna sequence elements that constitute saccharomyces cerevisiae origins of dna replication and have identified larger dna domains that direct dna replication in both schizosaccharomyces pombe and human cells. 
Cyclin A2 destruction is necessary to switch from unstable to stable kt-mt attachments in mitosis. [SEP] cyclin a2 is a crucial mitotic cdk regulatory partner that coordinates entry into mitosis and is then destroyed in prometaphase within minutes of nuclear envelope breakdown. conditional deletion of cyclin a2 from mouse oocytes has no discernible effect on mi but leads to disrupted mii spindles and increased merotelic attachments. however, whereas its degradation by the proteasome in mid mitosis was thought to be essential for mitosis to proceed, recent observations show that a small fraction of cyclin a2 persists beyond metaphase and is degraded by autophagy. since this gtpase is involved in both cell rounding early in mitosis and later, in the formation of the cleavage furrow, this suggests that cyclin a2 is a novel actor in cytokinesis. cyclin a2 is a key player in the regulation of the cell cycle. in this work, we focus on cyclin a2-rich foci detected in mitosis by high resolution imaging and analyse their movements. we demonstrate that cyclin a2 interacts with actin and rhoa during mitosis, and that cyclin a2 depletion induces a dramatic decrease in active rhoa in mitosis. our data suggest cyclin a2 participation in rhoa activation in late mitosis. human cyclin a2 is a key regulator of s phase progression and entry into mitosis. a portion of maternally derived cyclin a2 protein is stable during the first mitosis and persists in the cytoplasm, but is completely degraded at the second mitosis. 
Cytochrome c is transferred from cytosol to the mitochondrial intermembrane space during apoptosis. [SEP] the release of cytochrome c from the mitochondrial intermembrane space is a decisive event in programmed cell death. during apoptosis, cytochrome c (cyt c) is released from intermembrane space of mitochondria into the cytosol where it triggers the caspase-dependent machinery. human cytochrome c plays a central role in the mitochondrial electron transfer chain and in the intrinsic apoptosis pathway. in the intrinsic pathway of apoptosis, mitochondria play a crucial role by releasing cytochrome c from the intermembrane space into the cytoplasm. cytochrome c released from mitochondria into the cytoplasm plays a critical role in many forms of apoptosis by stimulating apoptosome formation and subsequent caspase activation. these data suggest that during apoptosis, cytochrome c is nitrosylated in mitochondria and then rapidly released into the cytoplasm in the absence of bcl-2 or bcl-x(l) overexpression. cyt c is ordinarily anchored to the mitochondrial membrane through interaction with cardiolipin (cl), however its release into the cytosol initiates apoptosis. to initiate cell death, cyt c dissociates from the inner mitochondrial membrane and migrates to the cytosol. in response to many different apoptotic stimuli, cytochrome c is released from the intermembrane space of the mitochondria into the cytoplasm, where it serves as a cofactor in the activation of procaspase 9. the release of cytochrome c (cyt c) from mitochondria is responsible for initiation of cell apoptosis. 
Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for TFRC1. [SEP] transferrin receptor (tfr) and ferritin, key proteins of cellular iron metabolism, are coordinately and divergently controlled by cytoplasmic proteins (iron regulatory proteins, irp-1 and irp-2) that bind to conserved mrna motifs called iron-responsive elements (ire). iron regulatory proteins (irp-1 and irp-2) control the synthesis of transferrin receptors (tfr) and ferritin by binding to iron-responsive elements, which are located in the 3'-untranslated region and the 5'-untranslated region of their respective mrnas. cellular iron levels affect binding of irps to iron-responsive elements and consequently expression of tfr and ferritin. post-transcriptional regulation of genes important in iron metabolism, ferritin and the transferrin receptor (tfr), is achieved through regulated binding of a cytosolic protein, the iron-responsive element binding protein (ire-bp), to rna stem-loop motifs known as iron-responsive elements (ires). iron-responsive elements (ires) are cis-acting mrna stem-loop structures that specifically bind cytoplasmic iron regulatory proteins (irps). iron regulatory proteins (irp1 and irp2) control the synthesis of transferrin receptors (tfr) and ferritin by binding to iron-responsive elements (ires) that are located in the 3' untranslated region (utr) and the 5' utr of their respective mrnas. iron regulatory proteins (irp1 and irp2) control the synthesis of transferrin receptors (tfr) and ferritin by binding to iron-responsive elements (ires) which are located in the 3' untranslated region (utr) and the 5' utr of their respective mrnas. binding of irf to iron-responsive elements (ire) in the 5' untranslated region (utr) of ferritin and erythroid 5-aminolevulinic acid-synthase mrnas inhibits their translation, whereas binding to ires in the 3' utr of transferrin receptor (tfr) mrna prevents the degradation of this mrna. these elements participate in the iron-induced regulation of the translation of ferritin and the stability of the transferrin receptor mrna. cellular iron uptake and storage are coordinately controlled by binding of iron-regulatory proteins (irp), irp1 and irp2, to iron-responsive elements (ires) within the mrnas encoding transferrin receptor (tfr) and ferritin. 
DMS3 protein enables Pol V transcription in vivo. [SEP] transcription by rna polymerase v (pol v) in plants is required for rna-directed dna methylation, leading to transcriptional gene silencing. global chromatin association of pol v requires components of the ddr complex drd1, dms3 and rdm1, but the assembly process of this complex and the underlying mechanism for pol v recruitment remain unknown. we hypothesize that both complexes are functional intermediates that mediate pol v recruitment. we investigated the distribution of pol iii and its associated transcription factors on the genome of mouse embryonic stem cells using a highly specific tandem chip-seq method. a few hundred sines were associated with the pol iii transcription machinery. we observed that pol iii and its transcription factors were present at 30 unannotated sites on the mouse genome, only one of which was conserved in human. the 3d transgene also lowered early viral loads when expressed in fvb-d(b) mice resistant to persistent tmev infection. initiation of human pol iii from tata box-containing pol ii promoters under conditions with impaired pol ii transcription activity have been described previously. here, i report that pol iii can, like pol ii, initiate transcription from most tested pol ii core promoters when assayed with crude human nuclear extracts (hsk, snf, or dignam). these findings provide functional evidence for a close similarity between the pol ii and pol iii transcription complexes, and additionally explain previous controversies in the literature. 
DRD1 proteins enable Pol V transcription in vivo. [SEP] transcription by rna polymerase v (pol v) in plants is required for rna-directed dna methylation, leading to transcriptional gene silencing. global chromatin association of pol v requires components of the ddr complex drd1, dms3 and rdm1, but the assembly process of this complex and the underlying mechanism for pol v recruitment remain unknown. we hypothesize that both complexes are functional intermediates that mediate pol v recruitment. plant multisubunit rna polymerase v (pol v) transcription recruits argonaute-small interfering rna (sirna) complexes that specify sites of rna-directed dna methylation (rddm) for gene silencing. pol v's largest subunit, nrpe1, evolved from the largest subunit of pol ii but has a distinctive c-terminal domain (ctd). escherichia coli polymerase v (pol v/umud(2)'c) is a low-fidelity dna polymerase that has recently been shown to avidly incorporate ribonucleotides (rntps) into undamaged dna. the pol v (umuc_f10l) mutant discriminates against rntp and incorrect dntp incorporation much better than wild-type pol v and although exhibiting a reduced ability to bypass a cpd in vitro, does so with high-fidelity and consequently produces minimal uv-induced mutagenesis in vivo. the plant-specific rna polymerases pol iv and pol v are essential to rna-directed dna methylation (rddm), which also requires activities from rdr2 (rna-dependent rna polymerase 2), dcl3 (dicer-like 3), ago4 (argonaute), and drm2 (domains rearranged methyltransferase 2). using a combination of molecular and cytological assays, we show that pol iv, rdr2, drm2, and pol v, actors of the rddm, are required to maintain a transcriptional silencing of 5s rna genes at chromosomes 4 and 5. in conclusion, our results highlight a new role for pol v on 5s rdna, which is rddm-independent and comes specifically at chromosome 4, in addition to the rddm pathway. 
DUSP4 decreases apoptosis. [SEP] while high level dux4 expression induces apoptosis, the effects of low level dux4 expression on human myogenic cells are not well understood. the programmed cell death 4 (pdcd4) tumor-suppressor gene regulates cell apoptosis, protein translation, signal transduction, and induction of mediators of inflammation. programmed cell death 4 (pdcd4), a novel tumor suppressor, inhibits neoplastic transformation and tumor invasion. the tumor suppressor gene pdcd4 (programmed cell death gene 4) has drawn considerable attention because its downregulation is involved in the development of several types of cancer. the programmed cell death 4 (pdcd4), a translation inhibitor, plays an essential role in tumor suppression, but its role in apoptosis remains unclear. here we show that pdcd4 is a critical suppressor of apoptosis by inhibiting the translation of procaspase-3 mrna. pdcd4 protein decreased more rapidly through microrna-mediated translational repression following apoptotic stimuli than did the activation of procaspase-3, cleavage of poly(adp)ribose polymerase (parp) by active caspase-3, and nuclear fragmentation. strikingly, the loss of pdcd4 by the specific rna interference increased procaspase-3 expression, leading to its activation and parp cleavage even without apoptotic stimuli, and sensitized the cells to apoptosis. thus, our findings provide insight into a novel mechanism for pdcd4 as a regulator of apoptosis. programmed cell death 4 (pdcd4), a tumour suppressor, is frequently down-regulated in various types of cancer. 
DUSP4 downregulation deactivates the Ras-ERK pathway [SEP] raf kinase inhibitor protein (rkip) is a major negative mediator of the extracellular signal-related kinase (erk)/mitogen-activated protein kinase (mapk) pathway. dusp4 (mkp-2), a member of the mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase (mkp) family and potential tumor suppressor, negatively regulates the mapks (mitogen-activated protein kinases) erk, p38 and jnk. previously, using microarray analyses we found a conspicuously frequent overexpression of dusp4 in colorectal cancer (crc) with high frequent microsatellite instability (msi-h) compared to microsatellite stable (mss) crc. here we studied dusp4 expression on mrna level in 38 crc (19 msi-h and 19 mss) compared to matched normal tissue as well as in crc cell lines by rt-qpcr. dusp4 was overexpressed in all 19 msi-h tumors and in 14 mss tumors. furthermore, no dusp4 mutation was found on genomic dna level in four crc cell lines. dusp4 overexpression in crc cell lines through dusp4 transfection caused upregulated expression of mapk targets cdc25a, ccnd1, egr1, fos, myc and cdkn1a in hct116 as well as downregulation of mismatch repair gene msh2 in sw480. furthermore, dusp4 overexpression led to increased proliferation in crc cell lines. our findings suggest that dusp4 acts as an important regulator of cell growth within the mapk pathway and causes enhanced cell growth in msi-h crc. the tumor suppressor gadd45alpha was earlier shown to be a repressed target of sustained receptor-mediated erk1/2 signaling. 
DUSP4 increases apoptosis. [SEP] the role of dusp4 in cancer development and progression appears to vary with the type of malignancy. dusp4 expression was investigated by immunohistochemistry. cytoplasmic dusp4 expression was observed. dusp4 expression was significantly correlated with a larger tumor size (>2 cm, p=0.015). we evaluated the impact of dusp4 expression on the survival of 120 patients with t1-stage tumors. interestingly, kaplan-meier survival curves revealed that dusp4 expression had a significant effect on both overall patient survival (p=0.034, log-rank test) and disease-free survival (p=0.045, log-rank test). in early t-stage breast cancer, dusp4 expression was associated with a worse prognosis. dusp4 is frequently upregulated in breast malignancy, and may play an important role in cancer development and progression. we found that dusp4 expression was upregulated in response to prolonged platelet-derived growth factor (pdgf)-bb stimulation. p53 has binding sites in the dusp4 promoter and was found to promote dusp4 expression. 
De novo assembly of sequence data has fewer specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. [SEP] the output of a genome assembler generally comprises a collection of contiguous dna sequences (contigs) whose relative placement along the genome is not defined. lacking quality reference genomes, de novo assembly is commonly used for rna-seq data of non-model organisms and metagenomic data. however, heterogeneous sequence coverage caused by heterogeneous expression or species abundance, similarity between isoforms or homologous genes, and large data size all pose challenges to de novo assembly. due to the lack of reference genomes, de novo transcriptome assembly is required. however, there is limited systematic research evaluating the quality of de novo transcriptome assemblies and how the assembly quality influences downstream analysis. we further identify four reasons for the differences in significant deg between reference genome and de novo transcriptome assemblies: incomplete annotation, exon level differences, transcript fragmentation and incorrect gene annotation, which we suggest that de novo assembly is beneficial even when a reference genome is available. we present ingap-cdg, which can construct full-length and non-redundant coding sequences from unassembled transcriptomes by using a codon-based de bruijn graph to simplify the assembly process and a machine learning-based approach to filter false positives. de novo rna-seq assembly is a powerful method for analysing transcriptomes when the reference genome is not available or poorly annotated. in this work we present a novel method that allows to perform high-quality de novo transcriptome assemblies by combining accuracy and reliability of short reads with exon structure information carried out from long error-prone reads. although these sequences are marginally represented in the assembly, they are often fully represented in whole-genome short-read datasets and contribute to inappropriate alignments and high read-depth signals that localize to a small number of assembled homologous regions. 
De novo assembly of sequence data has shorter contigs than unassembled sequence data. [SEP] this poses a challenge for the de novo assembly in terms of assembly quality and scalability for large-scale short read datasets. furthermore, when combined with velvet and abyss, the resulting decgpu-velvet and decgpu-abyss assemblers demonstrate the potential of our algorithm to improve de novo assembly quality for de-bruijn-graph-based assemblers. the main challenge in de novo genome assembly of dna-seq data is certainly to deal with repeats that are longer than the reads. in de novo transcriptome assembly of rna-seq reads, on the other hand, this problem has been underestimated so far. third, we turn our focus to full-length transcriptome assembly, and we show that exploring the topology of dbgs can improve de novo transcriptome evaluation methods. the purpose of de novo assembly is to report more contiguous, complete, and less error prone contigs. although many de novo algorithms have been proposed to solve these problems, the de novo assembly still remains a challenge. in this article, we developed an iterative seed-extension algorithm for de novo assembly, called isea. de novo sequence assembly is the problem of combining these reads back to the original genome sequence, without relying on a reference genome. lacking quality reference genomes, de novo assembly is commonly used for rna-seq data of non-model organisms and metagenomic data. 
Decrease of p62 in prostate tumor stroma results in defective autophagy. [SEP] the selective autophagy substrate p62 serves as a molecular link between autophagy and cancer. suppression of autophagy causes p62 accumulation and thereby contributes to tumorigenesis. here we demonstrate that autophagy deficiency promotes cell proliferation and migration through p62-dependent stabilization of the oncogenic transcription factor twist1. here, we report that p62-mediated autophagy degrades ar protein and suppresses apoptosis in prostate cancer lncap cells in hypoxia. these results demonstrate that hypoxia enhances the complex formation between p62 and ar by promoting phosphorylation of p62 at serine 403, probably through activating ampk, and that p62-mediated autophagy degrades ar protein for cell survival in hypoxia. however, the specific role of p63 in chondrocyte autophagy has never been fully understood. in summary, we first demonstrated that upregulation of p63 in the cartilage tissues of oa patients inhibited chondrocyte autophagy thereby contributing to the malignant progression of oa. suppression of autophagy is always accompanied by marked accumulation of p62, a selective autophagy substrate. because p62 interacts with the nrf2-binding site on keap1, which is a cullin 3-based ubiquitin ligase adapter protein, autophagy deficiency causes competitive inhibition of the nrf2-keap1 interaction, resulting in stabilization of nrf2 followed by transcriptional activation of nrf2 target genes. herein, we show that liver-specific autophagy-deficient mice harbor adenomas linked to both the formation of p62- and keap1-positive cellular aggregates and induction of nrf2 targets. 
Decreased conversion of PGE 2 to PPARy ligand 15-ket-PGE 2 causes accumulation of PGE. [SEP] prostaglandin e2 (pge2) is a product of cyclooxygenase (cox) and pge synthase (pges) and deactivated by 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase (pgdh). down-regulation of pgdh contributes to pge2 accumulation in lung and colon cancers but has not been identified in pancreatic cancer. these data indicate that in vivo exposure to the pge analog causes both homologous and heterologous desensitization of adenylate cyclase as well as an apparent quantitative decrease in g/f. the inhibition of pge2 synthesis (by cla treatment) enhanced the phagocytosis process in macrophages. 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase (hpgd) is the key enzyme responsible for the metabolic inactivation of prostaglandin e2 (pge2) catabolism. pge2 is one of the predominant catabolic factors involved in rheumatoid arthritis (ra). hydroxychloroquine induced a decrease in the release of pge2, which was restored by mitogen‑activated protein (map) kinase pathway inhibitors. the enzyme 15-prostaglandin dehydrogenase (15-pgdh) catalyzes the first step in the degradation of prostaglandins including pge2. accordingly, inhibitors of 15-pgdh are anticipated to elevate in vivo levels of pge2 and to promote healing and tissue regeneration. the small molecule sw033291 (1) inhibits 15-pgdh with ki = 0.1 nm in vitro, doubles pge2 levels in vivo, and shows efficacy in mouse models of recovery from bone marrow transplantation, ulcerative colitis, and partial hepatectomy. 
Decreased diastolic blood pressure (DBP) is associated with abdominal aortic aneurysm. [SEP] obstructed blood flow due to aortic coarctation leads to a pressure drop and loss of the pulse wave distal to the stenosis. this can be observed by echocardiography as typically decreased pulsatility of the abdominal aorta after cardiac systole. low diastolic blood pressure (dbp) is associated with increased risk of cardiovascular events. this study investigated the long-term effects of decreased aortic distensibility on the heart in relation to coronary perfusion. aortic distensibility is decreased in patients with atherosclerosis and hypertension and in the elderly. in patients with coronary artery disease (cad), low diastolic blood pressure (dbp) is associated with increased risk of myocardial infarction, but its association with angina is unknown. the goal of this study was to examine the association of low dbp and angina in patients with cad. in the unadjusted model, dbp was associated with angina with a j-shaped relationship (p = 0.017, p for nonlinearity = 0.027), with a progressive increase in odds of angina as dbp decreased below ∼70 to 80 mm hg. in patients with chronic cad, there seemed to be an association between lower dbp and increased odds of angina. epidemiological evidence supports a reduced prevalence of thoracic aortic aneurysm (taa) and abdominal aortic aneurysm (aaa) in patients with diabetes (dm). 
Deleting Raptor increases G-CSF levels. [SEP] we describe a deletion targeting dock4, a member of the cdm gene family encoding regulators of small gtpases. dock4 specifically activates rap gtpase, enhancing the formation of adherens junctions. deletion of the ecdysteroid udp-glucosyltransferase gene (egt) from the autographa californica nuclear polyhedrosis virus (acnpv) genome increases the speed of killing of this virus (d. r. o'reilly and l. k. miller, bio/technology 9:1086-1089, 1991). delta epidermal growth factor receptor (δegfr), an in-frame deletion mutant of the extracellular ligand-binding domain, which occurs in about 30% of glioblastoma, is a potent oncogene that promotes tumor growth and progression. an immunosuppressant rapamycin (rap) has been reported to cause g1 arrest by inhibiting p70 s6 kinase and g1 cyclin/cdks kinase activities when added to quiescent cells with mitogens. we examined the intracellular events after the treatment of rap in exponentially growing t cells and found that rap upregulated a cdks inhibitor, p27kip1 at both mrna and protein levels in rap-sensitive cells. antiproliferative effect of rap was mainly ascribed to the inhibition of cyclin e/cdk2 kinase activity through the formation of cyclin e/cdk2-p27kip1 complex rather than inhibition of p70 s6 kinase activity. furthermore, we showed that rap-sensitive cells with elevated p27kip1 expression lost sensitivity to rap when antisense p27kip1 was introduced, which indicates that the basal level of p27kip1 is one of the limiting factors that determine the sensitivity to rap in already cycling cells. rap may cause g1 arrest by upregulating the amount of p27kip1 beyond the threshold in some rap-sensitive cells that are exponentially growing. sirna-mediated depletion of deltaegfr led to reduction in the levels of phosphorylated akt in glioma cells, was associated with increased apoptosis, and induced partial arrest at the g2m phase of the cell cycle. 
Deletion of ATM and Rad3 related protein is not predictive of acute tissue loss. [SEP] although phosphorylation of p53 by atm was found previously to modulate p53 levels and transcriptional activities in vivo, it does not appear to be a major regulator of p53 stability. the primary responder to replicative stress is not ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (atm) but rather the kinase atm and rad3-related (atr). while loss-of-function mutations in genes that encode atm and p53 cause marked predispositions to cancer, the loss of these proteins does not appear to impact basic cell growth and proliferation. the atm protein kinase, mutations of which are associated with the human disease ataxia-telangiectasia, mediates responses to ionizing radiation in mammalian cells. atm (ataxia-telangiectasia mutated) is necessary for activation of chk1 by atr (atm and rad3-related) in response to double-stranded dna breaks (dsbs) but not to dna replication stress. specifically, although the ataxia-telangiectasia-rad3 related (atr) kinase has been shown to be activated in hypoxic cells, several studies have not been able to document down-stream consequences of atr activation in these cells. the ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (atm) protein kinase is activated in response to ionizing radiation (ir) and activates downstream dna-damage signaling pathways. although the role of atm in the cellular response to ionizing radiation has been well characterized, its role in response to other dna-damaging agents is less well defined. like genistein, quercetin induced phosphorylation of atm on serine 1981, and atm-dependent phosphorylation of histone h2ax on serine 139; however, p53 accumulation and phosphorylation on serines 6, 9, 15, 20, 46, and 392 occurred in atm-deficient cells, indicating that atm is not required for quercetin-induced phosphorylation of p53. atp failed to activate either a-t and rad3-related protein (atr) or dna-dependent protein kinase under these conditions, supporting the specificity for atm. 
Deletion of ATM and Rad3 related protein leads to acute tissue loss. [SEP] the ataxia telangiectasia mutated and rad3-related (atr) kinase is crucial for dna damage and replication stress responses. ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (atm) is a ser/thr protein kinase that plays a critical role in dna damage-induced signaling and initiation of cell cycle checkpoint signaling in response to dna-damaging agents such as ionizing radiation. analysis of associations among msi, atm gene mutation, and atm protein loss revealed highly co-existing atm gene alterations and msi. our study might be interpreted as that atm gene mutation at intron might be targeted by msi and lead to atm protein loss in a selected group of gc. here we show that loss of atm kinase activity elevates intracellular ros, leading to rac1 activation. expression of inactive ("kinase-dead") atm (atmkd) in mice leads to embryonic lethality, raising the question of whether conditional expression of atmkd in the murine nervous system would lead to a more pronounced neurological phenotype than atm loss. the gene responsible for ataxia telangiectasia (at) encodes atm protein, which plays a major role in the network of a signal transduction initiated by double strand dna breaks. the atm protein kinase, functionally missing in patients with the human genetic disorder ataxia-telangiectasia, is a master regulator of the cellular network induced by dna double-strand breaks. loss of atm kinase, a transducer of the dna damage response and redox sensor, causes the neurodegenerative disorder ataxia-telangiectasia (a-t). the ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (atm) protein kinase is activated by dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) through the mre11-rad50-nbs1 (mrn) dna repair complex and orchestrates signaling cascades that initiate the dna damage response. 
Deltex has no known interactions with eIF3f. [SEP] es2 is a gene deleted in digeorge syndrome (dgs) and velocardiofacial syndrome (vcfs) which has homologs in species as distant as caenorhabditis elegans and drosophila . the function of es2 is unknown, and the predicted protein sequence does not contain motifs which suggest a particular role in the developmental defects present in dgs and vcfs. drosophila belongs to the so-called "dnmt2 only" organisms, and does not contain any of the canonical dna methyltransferases (dnmt1 and dnmt3). deterin, a new apoptosis inhibitor from drosophila melanogaster, possesses an unusual structure of only a single baculovirus inhibitor of apoptosis (iap)-type repeat and no ring finger motif. the dominant negative c-terminal fragment that antagonized antiapoptotic activity of deterin did not affect antiapoptotic activity of diap1 or p35. whereas the nematode survivin-type iap has thus far been implicated only as a mitotic regulator, drosophila deterin constitutes the first invertebrate member of the survivin-type iap group to exhibit apoptosis-inhibitory activity. however, there are no reports on the association of dicer and drosha with the pathogenesis of autoimmune thyroid disease (aitd). deinococcus radiodurans lacks a homologue of the recb and recc genes, and the sbca/b genes, of escherichia coli. thus, dna strand break repair in deinococcus proceeds by pathways that do not utilize these proteins. hydrogen peroxide had no effect on cell survival of the mutant. 
Deltex interacts with eIF3. There is no known interaction between Deltex and elF3 [SEP] to investigate the regulation of deltex expression in both normal and transformed tissue, we have begun analyzing the deltex genomic locus. deltex is known as a notch signal mediator, but its physiological action mechanism is poorly understood. here we identified a new regulatory role of deltex in t-cell activation. deltex expression was constitutive in resting t cells and was reduced upon t-cell receptor (tcr)-stimulated activation. the biological role of deltex is supported by the enhanced t-cell activation when deltex1 was down-regulated by small interfering rna. our results reveal a novel mechanism as to how deltex selectively suppresses t-cell activation through degradation of a key signaling molecule, mekk1. deltex-3-like (dtx3l), an e3 ligase, which is also known as b-lymphoma and bal-associated protein (bbap), is a member of the deltex (dtx) family and was originally identified as a binding partner of diphtheria-toxin-like adp-ribosyltransferase-9 (artd9). human deltex 3-like (dtx3l) is a member of the deltex family of proteins. unlike other members of the deltex family of proteins, dtx3l lacks the highly basic n-terminal motif and the central proline-rich motif present in other deltex proteins, and instead contains other unique n-terminal domains. deltex is a cytosolic effector of notch signaling thought to bind through its n-terminal domain to the notch receptor. 
Depletion of T-helper 17 (Th17) cells during simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection decreases dissemination of Salmonella Typhimurium from the gut. [SEP] salmonella typhimurium causes a localized enteric infection in immunocompetent individuals, whereas hiv-infected individuals develop a life-threatening bacteremia. here we show that simian immunodeficiency virus (siv) infection results in depletion of t helper type 17 (th17) cells in the ileal mucosa of rhesus macaques, thereby impairing mucosal barrier functions to s. typhimurium dissemination. in siv-negative macaques, the gene expression profile induced by s. typhimurium in ligated ileal loops was dominated by th17 responses, including the expression of interleukin-17 (il-17) and il-22. th17 cells were markedly depleted in siv-infected rhesus macaques, resulting in blunted th17 responses to s. typhimurium infection and increased bacterial dissemination. il-17 receptor-deficient mice showed increased systemic dissemination of s. typhimurium from the gut, suggesting that il-17 deficiency causes defects in mucosal barrier function. we conclude that siv infection impairs the il-17 axis, an arm of the mucosal immune response preventing systemic microbial dissemination from the gastrointestinal tract. salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium avoids clearance by the host immune system by suppressing t cell responses; however, the mechanisms that mediate this immunosuppression remain unknown. in a previous study, we observed that suppression of t-cell proliferation induced by salmonella infection is associated with inhibition of tyrosine phosphorylation in t-cells, and that a cell-free salmonella typhimurium lt2 extract (lt2 extract) also suppressed mitogen-induced t-cell proliferation. our results advance knowledge of a mechanism used by salmonella typhimurium to inhibit t cell responses and mediate virulence, and provide new insights into the prerequisites of t cell activation. intragastrically inoculated salmonella typhimurium produces a systemic infection in mice with high mortality. 
Depletion of T-helper 17 (Th17) cells during simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection increases dissemination of Salmonella Typhimurium from the gut. [SEP] salmonella typhimurium causes a localized enteric infection in immunocompetent individuals, whereas hiv-infected individuals develop a life-threatening bacteremia. here we show that simian immunodeficiency virus (siv) infection results in depletion of t helper type 17 (th17) cells in the ileal mucosa of rhesus macaques, thereby impairing mucosal barrier functions to s. typhimurium dissemination. in siv-negative macaques, the gene expression profile induced by s. typhimurium in ligated ileal loops was dominated by th17 responses, including the expression of interleukin-17 (il-17) and il-22. th17 cells were markedly depleted in siv-infected rhesus macaques, resulting in blunted th17 responses to s. typhimurium infection and increased bacterial dissemination. il-17 receptor-deficient mice showed increased systemic dissemination of s. typhimurium from the gut, suggesting that il-17 deficiency causes defects in mucosal barrier function. we conclude that siv infection impairs the il-17 axis, an arm of the mucosal immune response preventing systemic microbial dissemination from the gastrointestinal tract. salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium avoids clearance by the host immune system by suppressing t cell responses; however, the mechanisms that mediate this immunosuppression remain unknown. our results advance knowledge of a mechanism used by salmonella typhimurium to inhibit t cell responses and mediate virulence, and provide new insights into the prerequisites of t cell activation. infection with salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium (s. typhimurium) causes a severe and lethal systemic disease in mice, characterized by poor activation of the adaptive immune response against salmonella-derived antigens. neutralization of il-17a and il-17f did not affect mucosal inflammation triggered by infection or spread of s. typhimurium to systemic sites by 48 h p.i. 
Depletion of nitric oxide is responsible for vasospasm. [SEP] reduced intravascular and perivascular nitric oxide (no) availability is a primary pathophysiology of cerebral vasospasm. the reduction in the level of nitric oxide (no) is a purported mechanism of delayed vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah). evidence in support of a causative role for no includes the disappearance of nitric oxide synthase (nos) from the adventitia of vessels in spasm, the destruction of no by hemoglobin released from the clot into the subarachnoid space, and reversal of vasospasm by intracarotid no. the authors sought to establish whether administration of l-arginine, the substrate of the no-producing enzyme nos, would reverse and/or prevent vasospasm in a primate model of sah. coronary artery vasospasm (constriction) caused by reduced nitric oxide bioavailability leads to myocardial infarction. reduced endothelial release of nitric oxide by the neurotransmitter acetylcholine, leads to paradoxical vasoconstriction as it binds to smooth muscle cell m3 receptors. endogenous overproduction of nitric oxide (no) is believed to be a primary cause of refractory hypotension in septic shock. reduced nitric oxide bioavailability contributes to endothelial dysfunction and hypertension. impaired endothelium-mediated vasodilatation (emvd) in congestive cardiac failure (ccf) has been linked to decreased nitric oxide (no) bioavailability because of its interaction with vascular superoxide (o2*-), derived predominantly from nad(p)h-dependent oxidases. overproduction of nitric oxide (no) is thought to be a key mediator of the vascular dysfunction and severe hypotension in patients with endotoxaemia and septic shock. 
Deregulation of HAND2 is a crucial step in endometrial carcinogenesis in mice. [SEP] type ii endometrial carcinomas are a highly aggressive group of tumour subtypes that are frequently associated with inactivation of the tp53 tumour suppressor gene. we show that mice with endometrium-specific deletion of trp53 initially exhibited histological changes that are identical to known precursor lesions of type ii endometrial carcinomas in humans and later developed carcinomas representing all type ii subtypes. consistent with this idea, analyses of 521 human endometrial carcinomas identified frequent mtorc1 pathway activation in type i as well as type ii endometrial carcinoma subtypes. these data suggest that the suppression of activin a signaling by des is involved in the induction of cervicovaginal adenosis and keratinization in the neonatal mouse vaginal epithelium. growth factors and estrogen receptor (er) signaling cooperate to play essential roles in cell proliferation, differentiation and tumor progression in mouse reproductive organs. egfr and erbb2 were activated in the vaginal epithelium of mice by estrogen treatment. gene expression relevant to abnormal cell differentiation and altered cell cycle in endometrial epithelial cells was investigated immunohistochemically in developing mouse uteri exposed neonatally to diethylstilbestrol (des). the endometrial epithelial cells of des-treated mice at 5-8 days of age showed enhanced staining intensity for the estrogen receptor alpha (er alpha), whereas the stromal cells showed decreased staining reaction; the epithelial cells showed that the protein encoded by the c-fos proto-oncogene, which plays a key role in regulating diverse estrogen-related cellular differentiation patterns, was enhanced. these results indicate that suppressed cell cycle activity of endometrial epithelial cells and abnormal estrogen-related differentiation at the developmental stage following neonatal des exposure may be caused, in part, by transient altered expression of er alpha and expression of the p21 gene, which appears to be induced by a p53-independent mechanism. notch1 plays an important role in epithelial differentiation and carcinogenesis. 
Destination container port throughput(CPT) is negatively related to dengue virus (DENV-1) diffusion in air traffic shipments. [SEP] dengue virus is a pathogen of global concern and has a huge impact on public health system in low- and middle-income countries. dengue virus (denv), a common and widely spread arbovirus, causes life-threatening diseases, such as dengue hemorrhagic fever or dengue shock syndrome. prostasin expression levels were confirmed by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction in patients with dengue fever and a denv-infected mice model. the increasing prevalence of dengue virus (denv) infection presents serious disease and economic burdens in countries where dengue epidemics are occurring. prophylactic and/or therapeutic treatment with pcz might reduce viral replication and relieve the clinical symptoms of patients with dengue. dengue virus (denv) is one of the most dangerous mosquito-borne human pathogens known to the mankind. dengue virus (denv) is the etiological agent of dengue fever. dengue virus (denv) is the most prevalent mosquito-borne flavivirus that infects humans. dengue virus (denv) is the most prevalent arbovirus in tropical and subtropical regions. transfusion-transmitted denv infections have already been reported and the risk for blood products to be contaminated by denv needs to be considered in dengue-endemic areas, especially during outbreaks. 
Destination container port throughput(CPT) is positively related to dengue virus (DENV-1) diffusion in air traffic shipments. [SEP] as the incidence of dengue increases globally, us travelers to endemic areas may be at an increased risk of travel-associated dengue. data from the us centers for disease control and prevention's laboratory-based passive dengue surveillance system (pdss) were used to describe trends in travel-associated dengue reported from january 1, 1996 to december 31, 2005. dengue virus (dv) is one of the most important vector-borne diseases in the world. dengue is one of the most important vector-borne viral diseases. vectorial capacity (vc) describes a vector's propensity to transmit dengue taking into account human, virus, and vector interactions. the spread of dengue virus (dv) via its aedes mosquito vector throughout most of the tropics has led to a worldwide resurgence of epidemic dengue, including dengue hemorrhagic fever. dengue virus (denv) is a vector-borne human pathogen that usually causes dengue fever; however, sometime it leads to deadly complications such as dengue with warning signs (dws+) and severe dengue (sd). this is largely mediated by the importation of dengue from endemic to non-endemic areas via the increasing connectivity of the global air transport network. the predictor variables identified as most important were the source country's dengue incidence rate, population size, and volume of air passengers. global phenomena such as urbanization and international travel are key factors in facilitating the spread of dengue. 
Dexamethasone increases risk of postoperative bleeding. [SEP] however, dexamethasone has the potential to increase blood glucose levels postoperatively, which is a known risk factor for complications after total joint arthroplasty. after controlling for confounding variables, patients who received dexamethasone had 4.07 (95% ci: 2.46, 6.72) and 3.08 (95% ci: 2.34, 4.04) higher odds of post-operative hyperglycemia in the first 24 and 72 h respectively. dexamethasone administration in diabetic patients undergoing primary arthroplasty increases post-operative hyperglycemia during the first 24 and 72 h. while our data did not investigate causation, dexamethasone use in this patient population should be thoughtfully considered, as post-operative hyperglycemia is a known risk factor for complications. however, some studies have raised concern that dexamethasone use may lead to higher rates of post-tonsillectomy hemorrhage. our objective was to determine whether higher doses of dexamethasone administered perioperatively during tonsillectomy procedures are associated with an increased risk of secondary post-tonsillectomy hemorrhage. dexamethasone is an effective prophylaxis against postoperative nausea and vomiting but is immunosuppressive and may predispose patients to an increased postoperative infection risk. this matched case-control study examined the association between the administration of a single intraoperative anti-emetic dose of dexamethasone (4 to 8 mg) and postoperative infection in patients undergoing non-emergency surgery in a university trauma centre. we conclude that intraoperative administration of dexamethasone for anti-emetic purposes may confer an increased risk of postoperative infection. dexamethasone is an effective prophylaxis but is immunosuppressive and may increase postoperative infection risk. this retrospective cohort study examined the association between the administration of a single intraoperative anti-emetic dose of dexamethasone (4 to 8 mg) and postoperative infection in 439 patients undergoing single procedure, non-emergency surgery in a university trauma centre. 
Diabetes remission occurs less in people treated with conventional therapy than in people treated with laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding surgery. [SEP] diabetes remission is not observed in all obese patients with type 2 diabetes submitted to bariatric surgery. not all people with type 2 diabetes who undergo bariatric surgery achieve diabetes remission. bariatric surgery is effective in the control of type 2 diabetes mellitus. laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding is a popular form of bariatric surgery, but very limited data are available on its long-term effect on type 2 diabetes mellitus. the present study examined the effect of gastric banding on a consecutive cohort of unselected patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus at a teaching hospital in birmingham, united kingdom. laparoscopic gastric banding can be considered a powerful treatment option in the management of obese patients with insulin-dependent diabetes and becomes increasingly effective with time ≤3 years after surgery. conversely, bariatric surgery has emerged as a cost-effective strategy for obese diabetic individuals; it has low complication rates and results in durable weight loss, glycemic control and improvements in the quality of life, obesity-related co-morbidity and overall survival. this paper examines the proposed mechanism of diabetes remission, the efficacy of different types of metabolic procedures, the durability of glucose control, and the risks and complications associated with this procedure. however, previous studies have noted that morbidly obese patients with t2dm experience less weight loss benefits than non-diabetic patients following bariatric surgery. these findings suggest that patients with a history of type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and/or dyslipidemia who undergo laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy are less likely to require disease-specific medications shortly after surgery. 
Diabetes remission occurs more in people treated with conventional therapy than in people treated with laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding surgery. [SEP] after laparoscopic roux-en-y gastric bypass (lrygb), diabetes remission occurs early and independently of weight loss. type of bariatric procedure (lrygb v. lsg), shorter duration of diabetes and the absence of long-acting insulin were independent predictors of diabetes remission after bariatric surgery. the goals of this study were to determine baseline and postbariatric surgical characteristics associated with type 2 diabetes remission and if, after controlling for differences in weight loss, diabetes remission was greater after roux-en-y gastric bypass (rygbp) than laparoscopic gastric banding (lagb). at two years, bariatric subjects experienced significantly higher diabetes remission rates [73.7% (95% ci: 70.6, 76.5)] compared to nonsurgical subjects [6.9% (95%ci: 6.9, 7.1)]. we conclude that bariatric surgery can effectively induce remission of diabetes among most severely obese adults, and this treatment approach appears to be superior to nonsurgical treatment in inducing diabetes remission. there is mounting evidence that bariatric surgery leads to higher remission rates of type 2 diabetes than any conventional medical treatment, lifestyle intervention, or medically supervised weight loss program. although remission rates of type 2 diabetes may be as high as 66.7 % after gastric bypass and 28.6 % after gastric band, very few bariatric surgery studies report long-term results with sufficient patient follow-up to minimize biased results. hence, trials that directly compare bariatric surgery procedures with medical and lifestyle intervention for patients with type 2 diabetes are the best candidate for assessing the role of bariatric surgery in diabetes remission. several conventional methods of bariatric surgery can induce long-term remission of type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm); novel gastrointestinal surgical procedures are reported to have similar effects. bariatric/metabolic surgery has proven to be effective in inducing and maintaining diabetes remission-although with a percentage of patients undergoing hyperglycemia relapse-weight loss, and improvement of the cardiovascular risk. 
Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience decreased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. [SEP] it is well established that, in patients with increased cholesterol concentrations and vascular disease, decreasing the cholesterol concentration significantly reduces the risk of coronary events. the risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ascvd) can be significantly reduced in patients with diabetes who are undergoing low-density lipoprotein cholesterol-reducing therapies. statins also reduce the risk of atherosclerosis in diabetic patients, but it is unknown whether they influence the glucose tolerance. hemoglobin a1c levels less than 7.0% and systolic blood pressure (sbp) less than 140 mmhg are each associated with lower risk of vascular complications in patients with diabetes mellitus. after acute coronary syndrome, diabetes conveys an excess risk of ischaemic cardiovascular events. a reduction in mean ldl cholesterol to 1·4-1·8 mmol/l with ezetimibe or statins reduces cardiovascular events in patients with an acute coronary syndrome and diabetes. sodium glucose transporter-2 inhibitors reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (mace) in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and a history of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. reductions in major adverse cardiovascular event (mace) outcomes are also observed, but confined largely to patients who have prior cardiovascular disease. cardiovascular outcome benefits extend to patients with type 2 diabetes and reduced estimated glomerular filtration (egfr) rate down to 30 ml/min/1.73 m2 and to patients with heart failure but without diabetes. impaired fasting glucose and diabetes mellitus are associated with poor short- and long-term outcomes in subjects with acute coronary syndromes (acss). 
Differentiated E2f-1, -2, -3 TKO cells in the intestine do not exhibit apoptosis. [SEP] an established cell line of murine teratoma cells (f9), which lacks serologically detectable h-2 that is determined by a wild-type t/t locus gene. these cells are not killed and do not react with cytotoxic t cells sensitized to h-2 antigens in a cell-mediated lympholysis assay. modification of spleen cells from the strain or origin (129) of this teratoma line with trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid allows the generation of syngeneic killer cells that display a cytotoxic effect against trinitrophenyl-modified splenic targets, but not against trinitrophenyl-modified f9 targets. iec-18 cells, a cell line derived from the ileum of rat intestine, have the characteristics of normal cells since they have a contact inhibited cell growth, do not form colonies in soft agar and are not tumorigenic when injected in nude mice. expression of these nuclear oncogenes did not result in the neoplastic transformation of the iec-18 cells, since none of the clones lost the anchorage dependence or were able to form tumors in vivo. we have characterized two murine teratocarcinoma cell lines and find no evidence that endogenous p53-regulated genes are correspondingly upregulated. the mechanism whereby the intestinal microenvironment promotes t cell development in the absence of the thymus is unknown. we show that the murine intestine-derived epithelial cell line, mode-k, can induce t cell differentiation marker expression in vitro on bone marrow (bm) t cell precursors. in contrast to wild-type tag, the d44n mutant is unable to induce enterocyte proliferation. by using cck8 assay and flow cytometry, we found that e2 was able to inhibit viability and proliferation of mtec1 cells. 
Differentiation of progenitor cells to myeloid cells is skewed upon activation of insulin signaling. [SEP] we found that pi3k/akt/rac-1 and ppar-γ signaling pathways are involved in the anti-inflammatory effect of insulin. insulin inhibited hg-induced activation of p38, nf-κb, and stat1 transcriptional activity by activating akt-rac-1 signaling. the aim of this study was to investigate the molecular mechanism of pancreatic islet-derived mesenchymal stem cell (pid-msc) differentiation into beta-cells in the presence of insulin and leptin resistance stimulators. we determined that beta-cell differentiation was stimulated by glucose, insulin, and leptin. the interaction of insulin with its receptor may be a regulator of growth and differentiation of leukemic cells. human promyelocytic leukemia cells (hl-60) demonstrate specific reversible insulin binding consistent with properties of human insulin receptor. this difference in insulin receptor expression correlated with binding characteristics in normal human peripheral granulocyte and monocytes. the hl-60 cell line offers a model for the study of the molecular events which lead to the contrasting insulin receptor expression during myeloid and monocytoid hematopoiesis. insulin is a potent inducer of adipogenesis, and differentiation of adipocytes requires many components of the insulin signaling pathway, including the insulin receptor substrate irs-1 and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (pi3k). insulin is a potent adipogenic hormone that triggers an induction of a series of transcription factors governing differentiation of pre-adipocytes into mature adipocytes. 
Differentiation of progenitor cells to myeloid cells is skewed when insulin signaling is suppressed. [SEP] we hypothesize that prolonged exposure of beta-cells to low concentrations of il-1β induce beta-cell dedifferentiation characterized by impaired glucose-stimulated insulin secretion, reduced expression of key beta-cell genes and changes in histone modifications at gene loci known to affect beta-cell function. the present article proposes the hypothesis that when multipotent vascular stem cells are exposed to excessive insulin in a rhythmic pattern of sharply rising and falling concentrations, their differentiation is misdirected toward adipogenic and osteogenic cell lineages. we conclude that activation of wnt/beta-catenin signaling in skeletal muscle cells improved insulin sensitivity by i) decreasing intramyocellular lipid deposition through downregulation of srebp-1c; ii) increasing insulin effects through a differential activation of the akt/pkb and ampk pathways; iii) inhibiting the mapk pathway. microarray analyses of insulin-producing cells exposed to interleukin-1beta+interferon-gamma showed decreased expression of genes related to beta-cell-differentiated functions and increased expression of members of the notch signaling pathway. transfection of insulin-producing ins-1e cells and primary rat beta-cells with a constitutively active form of the notch receptor down-regulated pdx1 and insulin expression in ins-1e cells but not in primary beta-cells. thus, activation of the notch pathway inhibits differentiated functions in dividing but not in terminally differentiated beta-cells. insulin-producing β cells become dedifferentiated during diabetes progression. type 2 diabetes develops when islet beta cells are deficient in producing sufficient insulin to overcome peripheral insulin resistance. insulin produced by islet β-cells plays a critical role in glucose homeostasis, with type 1 and type 2 diabetes both resulting from inactivation and/or loss of this cell population. islet-enriched transcription factors regulate β-cell formation and function, yet little is known about the molecules recruited to mediate control. 
Diminished ovarian reserve is a reliable indicator of infertility in a non-infertile population. [SEP] diminished ovarian reserve generally presages a poor response to any fertility treatment, and sharply limits the possibility of successful pregnancy. screening for ovarian reserve is a fundamental component of the initial infertility evaluation, since it is a key determinant of what, if any, treatment should be offered. this monograph presents basic elements of ovarian reserve testing as currently practiced, and provides insights into the interpretation and limitations of these assessments. studies of natural conception suggest that fecundity of women with a quantitative decline in ovarian reserve is similar to age-matched women with normal ovarian reserve. quantitative decline in ovarian reserve may not be necessarily accompanied by a qualitative decline. we investigated the results of ovarian reserve tests in unexplained infertility. although anti-müllerian hormone values and antral follicle count were higher than the low thresholds, a statistically significant decline of ovarian reserve in the unexplained infertility group was found in the present study. measurements of ovarian reserve play an important role in predicting the clinical results of assisted reproductive technology (art). to assess the relationship between diminished ovarian reserve and pregnancy outcomes in a large cohort of women achieving pregnancy through in vitro fertilization (ivf). secondarily, we assessed whether diminished ovarian reserve was associated with aneuploidy among spontaneous abortions. 
Distant CREs are important for transcriptional regulation. [SEP] cis regulatory elements (cres), located within promoter regions, play a significant role in the blueprint for transcriptional regulation of genes. transcription factors within cellular gene networks control the spatiotemporal pattern and levels of expression of their target genes by binding to cis-regulatory elements (cres), short (˜300-600 bp) stretches of genomic dna which can lie upstream, downstream, or within the introns of the genes they control. cres (i.e., enhancers/promoters) typically consist of multiple clustered binding sites for both transcriptional activators and repressors(1-3). hence, reporter gene activity is strongly influenced by the local chromatin and gene environment, limiting cre comparisons to being qualitative. with chromatin accessibility facilitating transcription factor access to dna, the identification of regions of open chromatin sheds light both on the function of the regulatory elements and their evolution, thus allowing the recognition of potential cres. a large number of distal cis-regulatory elements (cres) have been annotated in the human genome, which plays a central role in orchestrating spatiotemporal gene expression. since many cres regulate non-adjacent genes, long-range cre-promoter interactions are an important factor in the functional characterization of the engaged cres. in this regard, recent studies have demonstrated that identification of long-range target genes can decipher the effect of genetic mutations residing within cres on abnormal gene expression. in addition, investigation of altered long-range cres-promoter interactions induced by chromosomal rearrangements has revealed their critical roles in pathogenic gene expression. in this review, we briefly discuss how the analysis of 3d chromatin structure can help us understand the functional impact of cres harboring disease-associated genetic variants and how chromosomal rearrangements disrupting topologically associating domains can lead to pathogenic gene expression. 
Distant CREs are less conserved among species. [SEP] although the chloroplast genome contains many noncoding regions, relatively few have been exploited for interspecific phylogenetic and intraspecific phylogeographic studies. in vertebrates, conserved noncoding elements (cnes) are functionally constrained sequences that can show striking conservation over >400 million years of evolutionary distance and frequently are located megabases away from target developmental genes. conserved noncoding sequences (cnss) in plants are much shorter, and it has been difficult to detect conservation among distantly related genomes. they are not conserved across phylum boundaries, and they do not contain readily detectable sub-domains. our main findings are: (i) insect genomes contain 1.60 times less conserved information than vertebrates; (ii) vertebrate cnc have a higher persistence length than conserved coding regions or insect cnc; (iii) cnc have shorter persistence times as compared to conserved coding regions in both lineages. shorter persistence time might explain the previously puzzling observations of highly conserved cnc within each phylum, and of a lack of conservation between phyla. genome scans based on noncoding markers are less likely to detect molecular adaptation linked to genes in these species. querying their apparent importance, the number of cgis is reported to vary widely in different species and many do not co-localise with annotated promoters. genetic variations from few chloroplast dna fragments show lower discriminatory power in the delimitation of closely related species and less resolution ability in discerning interspecific relationships than from nrits. as expected, the estimated divergences between major clades and species are lower than those estimated from nrits probably due to the slow substitution rate of the plastomes. 
Drosophila supracellular actomyosin structures are found at boundaries in wing imaginal discs. [SEP] the adult appendages of drosophila develop from imaginal discs. the developing wing disc of drosophila is divided into distinct lineage-restricted compartments along both the anterior/posterior (a/p) and dorsal/ventral (d/v) axes. in drosophila wing imaginal discs, the wingless (wg) protein acts as a morphogen, emanating from the dorsal/ventral (d/v) boundary of the disc to directly define cell identities along the d/v axis at short and long range. the flight muscles, dorsal air sacs, wing blades, and thoracic cuticle of the drosophila adult function in concert, and their progenitor cells develop together in the wing imaginal disc. the drosophila wing disc is divided along the proximal-distal axis into regions giving rise to the body wall (proximal), wing hinge (central) and wing blade (distal). wing imaginal disc cells in drosophila develop by using information received from a signaling center associated with the anterior/posterior compartment border. in drosophila, muscles attach to epidermal tendon cells specified by the gene stripe (sr). these results identify the multiple regulatory elements involved in the positioning of drosophila flight muscle attachment sites. the eversion, migration, spreading, and fusion of the thoracic imaginal discs during metamorphosis of drosophila are described using timed whole-mount preparations and several molecular markers. cells throughout the drosophila wing primordium typically show subcellular localization of the unconventional myosin dachs on the distal side of cells (nearest the center of the disc). 
Dscam1 acts as a hypervariable pattern-recognition receptor for the immune system. [SEP] dscam1 appears to be involved in the immune response of some insects and crustaceans. agdscam is a hypervariable prr of the a. gambiae innate immune system. dscam1 potentially encodes 19,008 ectodomains of a cell recognition molecule of the immunoglobulin (ig) superfamily through alternative splicing. here we tackle this issue by assessing the function of dscam1 isoforms with altered binding specificities. the isoform diversity of the drosophila dscam1 receptor is important for neuronal self-recognition and self-avoidance. a canonical model suggests that homophilic binding of identical dscam1 receptor isoforms on sister dendrites ensures self-avoidance even when only a single isoform is expressed. we detected a cell-intrinsic function of dscam1 that requires the coexpression of multiple isoforms. arthropod dscam, the homologue of the human down syndrome cell adhesion molecule, is a receptor used by the nervous and immune systems. expressed by hemocytes, dscam is considered a phagocytic receptor but is also encountered in solution. alternative splicing of dscam generates an enormous molecular diversity with maximally 38,016 different receptors. 
During non-homologous end joining, the ligation step is not as tolerant of disrepairs and other distortions when joining 3' of strand breaks as compared to 5' strand breaks. [SEP] nonhomologous end-joining (nhej) of dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) entails two principal mechanisms: modification of dna ends prior to ligation (error-prone rejoining) or precise ligation without modification if the dna ends are complementary (error-free repair). eukaryotic dna ligases seal dna breaks in the final step of dna replication and repair transactions via a three-step reaction mechanism that can abort if dna ligases encounter modified dna termini, such as the products and repair intermediates of dna oxidation, alkylation, or the aberrant incorporation of ribonucleotides into genomic dna. dna double strand breaks with noncomplementary ends can be joined by mechanisms of nonhomologous recombination. non-homologous end joining (nhej) is one of two pathways responsible for the repair of double-strand breaks in eukaryotic cells. non-homologous end joining (nhej) is the main repair pathway for dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) in cells with limited 5' resection. when controlled for the extent of dsb formation, repair monitoring suggested that chromosomal 5' dsbs were rejoined more efficiently than 3' dsbs, consistent with a robust recruitment of nhej proteins to 5' dsbs. nonhomologous end joining (nhej) is essential for efficient repair of chromosome breaks. dna double-strand breaks can be eliminated via non-homologous end joining or homologous recombination. in contrast, homologous recombination entails nucleolytic resection of the 5'-strands, forming 3'-ssdna tails that become coated with replication protein a (rpa). in dna repair, the resection of double-strand breaks dictates the choice between homology-directed repair-which requires a 3' overhang-and classical non-homologous end joining, which can join unresected ends1,2. 
During non-homologous end joining, the ligation step is not as tolerant of disrepairs and other distortions when joining 5' of strand breaks as compared to 3' strand breaks. [SEP] nonhomologous end-joining (nhej) of dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) entails two principal mechanisms: modification of dna ends prior to ligation (error-prone rejoining) or precise ligation without modification if the dna ends are complementary (error-free repair). non-homologous end joining (nhej) is the main repair pathway for dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) in cells with limited 5' resection. when controlled for the extent of dsb formation, repair monitoring suggested that chromosomal 5' dsbs were rejoined more efficiently than 3' dsbs, consistent with a robust recruitment of nhej proteins to 5' dsbs. non-homologous end joining (nhej) is one of two pathways responsible for the repair of double-strand breaks in eukaryotic cells. dna double strand breaks with noncomplementary ends can be joined by mechanisms of nonhomologous recombination. nonhomologous end joining (nhej) is essential for efficient repair of chromosome breaks. however, the nhej ligation step is often obstructed by break-associated nucleotide damage, including base loss (abasic site or 5'-drp/ap sites). to repair the broken ends, nhej processes noncompatible ends into a ligatable form but suppresses processing of compatible ends. dna double-strand breaks can be eliminated via non-homologous end joining or homologous recombination. in contrast, homologous recombination entails nucleolytic resection of the 5'-strands, forming 3'-ssdna tails that become coated with replication protein a (rpa). 
During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer follicular areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. [SEP] after antigen encounter, activated b cells initially seek t-cell help at the follicle-t-zone boundary and then move to interfollicular and t-zone distal (outer) regions of the follicle. subsequently, some cells move to the follicle centre, become germinal centre b cells and undergo antibody affinity maturation. ebi2-deficient b cells failed to move to the outer follicle at day 2 of activation, and instead were found in the follicle centre, whereas ebi2 overexpression was sufficient to promote b cell localization to the outer follicle. these studies identify an important role for ebi2 in promoting b cell localization in the outer follicle, and show that differential expression of this receptor helps position b cells appropriately for mounting t-dependent antibody responses. after initial activation, b cells migrate into the primary follicles and, in association with follicular dendritic cells (fdcs), undergo clonal expansion and differentiation giving rise to germinal centers (gcs). in adaptive antibody responses, b cells are induced to grow either in follicles where they form germinal centers or in extrafollicular foci as plasmablasts. this primary b cell activation leads to migration of germinal center (gc) cell precursors into b cell follicles where they engage follicular dendritic cells (fdc) and t cells, and differentiate into memory b cells or plasma cells. mature recirculating b cells are generally assumed to exist in follicular niches in secondary lymphoid organs, and these cells mediate t-dependent humoral immune responses. antibody-forming cells develop in the outer parts of the periarteriolar lymphocyte sheaths (pals) while memory b cells develop in the lymphoid follicles. this primary b cell activation leads to migration of germinal center (gc) cell precursors into b cell follicles where they engage follicular dendritic cells (fdc) and t cells, and differentiate into memory b cells or plasma cells. 
EG7 tumors can be killed by systemic oxaliplatin primed CD8+ T cells from the tumor-draining lymph node cells. [SEP] a tumor-specific cd8+ t cell response was studied using adoptive transfer of ot-i tcr transgenic cells. challenge with e.g7 tumor, ot-i cells undergo cd4+ t cell-independent expansion at the tumor site and develop lytic function. peritumoral cpg-oligodeoxynucleotide (odn) treatment has been successful in tumor mouse models expressing strong antigens to induce activation of tumor-specific cd8+ t lymphocytes which contribute to the control of tumor growth. by triggering immunogenic cell death, some anticancer compounds, including anthracyclines and oxaliplatin, elicit tumor-specific, interferon-γ-producing cd8(+) αβ t lymphocytes (tc1 ctls) that are pivotal for an optimal therapeutic outcome. we described earlier that host cd8+ t cells are critical for tumor eradication and that successful treatment is associated with production of high levels of ifn-gamma and granulocyte/macrophage (gm)-csf by donor til in vitro. cd4+8- t lymphocytes with potent antitumor activity in vivo were obtained in peritoneal exudate cells by immunizing mice with irradiated mm48 tumor cells admixed with ok-432. efficacy, immunogenicity, and cd8+ t cells tumor infiltration were assessed. adoptive immunotherapy with anti-cd3/il-2 activated tumor-draining lymph node (ln) t cells is capable of eradicating tumor established at various histological sites. cd8+ cytotoxic t (tc) cells play a crucial role in host immune responses to cancer, and in this context, adoptive cd8+ tc cell therapy has been studied in numerous animal tumor models. we demonstrated that, when compared to cd8+ tc2, tc1 cells were significantly more effective in perforin-mediated cytotoxicity to tumor cells, had a significantly higher capacity for in vivo survival after the adoptive t cell transfer, and had a significantly stronger therapeutic effect on eradication of well-established tumors expressing ova in animal models. 
EGR2 is important to myelination of the peripheral nervous system. [SEP] early growth response protein 2 (egr2) is an essential transcription factor for peripheral nerve myelination. schwann cells (scs), the peripheral myelin-forming glial cells, express high levels of egr2 during postnatal myelination. the early growth response 2 (egr2) transcription factor plays a crucial role in peripheral nerve myelination. recently, it was reported that egr2 is directly involved in the transcriptional regulation of connexin 32, a myelin gene frequently mutated in peripheral neuropathies. to elucidate the mechanism by which egr2 regulates gene expression during myelination, we have performed chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis on myelinating rat sciatic nerve in vivo. finally, we have found that egr2 binds to promoters of several lipid biosynthetic genes, which is consistent with their dramatic up-regulation during the formation of lipid-rich myelin. overall, this analysis provides a locus-wide profile of egr2 binding patterns in major myelin-associated genes using myelinating peripheral nerve. the formation of peripheral myelin requires expression of the transcription factor egr2, which is responsible for inducing such essential myelin-associated genes as mpz, mbp, pmp22, and mag. similar to other egr2-dependent genes, it is induced during developmental myelination and remyelination after nerve injury. egr-2 plays essential roles in peripheral nerve myelination, adipogenesis, tissue repair and fibrosis, immune tolerance; however, its regulation and role in central nervous system (cns) remain poorly understood. 
ER-localized phosphatase Sac1 processes PI4P through coordination with OSBP and the endosome-localized protein sorting nexin 2. [SEP] yeast sac1, an integral endoplasmic reticulum (er) membrane protein, controls pi4p levels at the er, golgi, and plasma membrane (pm). we also show that the er membrane vap proteins, scs2/scs22, control pm pi4p levels and sac1 activity in vitro. we propose that osh3 functions at er/pm contact sites as both a sensor of pm pi4p and an activator of the er sac1 phosphatase. sac1 is an essential, conserved, er-localized phosphatase whose substrate, phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate (pi4p), coordinates secretory trafficking and plasma membrane function. sac1 phosphoinositide (pi) phosphatases are important regulators of ptdins(4)p turnover at the er, golgi, and plasma membrane (pm) and are involved in diverse cellular processes including cytoskeletal organization and vesicular trafficking. the lipid phosphatase sac1 dephosphorylates phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate (pi4p), thereby holding levels of this crucial membrane signaling molecule in check. the sac1 lipid phosphatase regulates endoplasmic reticulum (er) and golgi phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate [pi(4)p] in response to nutrient levels and cell growth stages. here, we demonstrate that the sac1 domain-containing protein sac2 is a pi 4-phosphatase that specifically hydrolyzes phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate in vitro. the yeast phosphoinositide phosphatase sac1p localizes to endoplasmic reticulum (er) and golgi membranes and has compartment-specific functions in these organelles. taken together this study provides evidence that sac1p is an important 4-phosphatase in the er controlling different aspects of er-based protein processing and secretion. 
ERAP1 SNPs are epistatic to HLA alleles for ankylosing spondylitis. [SEP] the susceptibility loci of erap1 polymorphisms have been found to be strongly associated with ankylosing spondylitis (as). endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 1 (erap1) and interleukin-23 receptor (il-23r) gene polymorphisms were found to be associated with ankylosing spondylitis (as) in a nonsynonymous single nucleotide polymorphism association study, and this has been replicated in several studies across different populations. a robust association between polymorphisms in the non-major histocompatibility complex gene erap1 and ankylosing spondylitis (as) in several populations was recently identified. to evaluate the association of erap1 gene single nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) with the risk of ankylosing spondylitis (as) and their role in modulation of the inflammatory interleukin (il)-17/il-23 axis in the disease. erap1 single nucleotide polymorphisms (snp) are associated with ankylosing spondylitis. erap1 rs30187 snp was shown to confer risk in the enthesitis-related arthritis (era) category of jia. snps in erap1 (rs30187) were genotyped in children with era (n = 271), ankylosing spondylitis (as) (n = 213) and healthy controls (n = 101), using taqman genotyping. the association of erap1 with ankylosing spondylitis (as)1 among hla-b27-positive individuals suggests that erap1 polymorphism may affect pathogenesis by altering peptide-dependent features of the hla-b27 molecule. a strong association between erap1 and ankylosing spondylitis (as) was recently identified by the wellcome trust case control consortium and the australo-anglo-american spondylitis consortium (wtccc-tasc) study. the interactions between erap1 snps and hla-b27 play critical roles in pmhc i pathway processing contributing to the pathogenesis of as in multiple populations. 
Early patent ductus ateriosus (PDA) screening decreases in-hospital mortality. [SEP] patent ductus arteriosus (pda) ligation in premature infants has been shown to have low surgical morbidity and mortality. early diagnosis of significant patent ductus arteriosus reduces the risk of clinical worsening in very low birth weight infants. a pda contributes to pathological conditions in the neonate and timely closure in these low-l birth-l weight infants could potentially prevent these complications. patent ductus arteriosus (pda) in extremely low-birth-weight infants puts this vulnerable population at high risks of morbidity and mortality. hemodynamically significant (hs) patent ductus arteriosus (pda) is a significant cause of mortality in preterm neonates. to evaluate the association between early screening echocardiography for pda and in-hospital mortality. patent ductus arteriosus is a common congenital cardiac condition. earlier and more accurate identification of a high-risk group of preterm infants that are likely to develop a hemodynamically significant patent ductus arteriosus (hspda) would allow specific targeting of early treatment and thus possibly minimize the morbidity and mortality associated with a pda in extremely low birth weight (elbw) infants. patent ductus arteriosus (pda) in premature infants is a current challenge to pediatricians. patent ductus arteriosus (pda) is associated with increased mortality and morbidity in preterm infants. 
Early patent ductus ateriosus (PDA) screening increases in-hospital mortality. [SEP] patent ductus arteriosus (pda) is an uncommon clinical finding in adult primary care patients. hemodynamically significant (hs) patent ductus arteriosus (pda) is a significant cause of mortality in preterm neonates. a significant patent ductus arteriosus (pda) is a common finding in the first days of life and, if persistent, is associated with an increased morbidity and mortality in the preterm newborn. patent ductus arteriosus (pda) with significant left to right shunt in preterm infants increases morbidity and mortality. patent ductus arteriosus (pda) with significant left to right shunt in preterm infants increases morbidity and mortality. patent ductus arteriosus (pda) is associated with increased morbidity and mortality in premature infants. the present study examined whether early patent ductus arteriosus (pda) surgical ligation at ≤2 weeks of life was associated with increased morbidities and mortality in very low birth weight infants (vlbwis) who were diagnosed with hemodynamically significant (hs) pda. patent ductus arteriosus (pda) is associated with increased morbidity and mortality in very low-birthweight (vlbw) preterm infants due to significant left-to-right shunting, which leads to pulmonary edema/hemorrhage, intracranial hemorrhage, acute renal failure and necrotizing enterocolitis. patent ductus arteriosus (pda) is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in preterm infants. patent ductus arteriosus (pda) is considered to be an important cause of morbidity and mortality among preterm infants. 
Ectopic expression of Sall4, Nanog, Esrrb, and Lin28 generates induced pluripotent stem cells from mouse embryonic fibroblasts more efficiently than other factor combinations. [SEP] we have previously shown that pluripotent stem cells can be induced from mouse fibroblasts by retroviral introduction of oct3/4 (also called pou5f1), sox2, c-myc and klf4, and subsequent selection for fbx15 (also called fbxo15) expression. here we show that selection for nanog expression results in germline-competent ips cells with increased es-cell-like gene expression and dna methylation patterns compared with fbx15 ips cells. reprogramming of mouse and human somatic cells into induced pluripotent stem (ips) cells has been made possible with the expression of the transcription factor quartet oct4, sox2, c-myc, and klf4. here, we compared ips cells derived from mouse embryonic fibroblasts with the 4 factors to embryonic stem cells by electron microscopy. induced pluripotent stem (ips) cells, which are functionally comparable to embryonic stem (es) cells, can be generated from mouse fibroblasts by expression of a defined set of transcription factors oct4, sox2, klf4, and c-myc. mouse ips cells generated in the condition express es cell marker genes such as oct4, sox2, rex1, and nanog at levels comparable to those of es cells. in mice, induced pluripotent stem (ips) cells with embryonic stem (es)-like characteristics have been derived by ectopic expression of four transcription factors in somatic cells: sox2, oct3/4, klf4 and/or c-myc. induced pluripotent stem (ips) cells have recently been established by transfecting mouse and human fibroblasts with the transcription factors oct3/4, sox2, klf4 and c-myc, known to be expressed at high levels in embryonic stem (es) cells. mouse embryonic fibroblasts can be reprogrammed to embryonic stem (es) cell-like pluripotent stem cells by the forced expression of four transcription factors-oct4, sox2, klf4, and c-myc. the induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) are derived from somatic cells by using reprogramming factors such as oct4, sox2, klf4, and c-myc (oskm) or oct4, sox2, nanog and lin28 (osnl). 
Egr2 regulates the homeostasis of B and T cells. [SEP] early growth response gene (egr)-2 is important for the maintenance of t cell homeostasis and controls the development of autoimmune disease. t cells lacking egr-2 show increased propensity for th17, but not th1 or th2, differentiation. thus, egr-2 plays an important role to intrinsically control th17 differentiation. being a member of the early growth response (egr) family of transcription factors, egr-2 is expressed in a variety of cell types of the immune system. recent findings imply that egr-2 is important in the development and function of t helper (th) 17 cell, regulatory t (treg) cell, as well as dendritic cell (dc). although these cells perform significantly in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases, such as systemic lupus erythematosus, multiple sclerosis, and systemic sclerosis, the roles of egr-2 in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases can not be neglected. in this article, we will discuss recent findings about the important roles of egr-2 in immune cells and the possible pathological roles of egr-2 in autoimmune diseases. egr2 and 3 are important for maintaining immune homeostasis. here we define a fundamental function of egr2 and 3 operating as a checkpoint that controls the transition between clonal expansion and differentiation of effector t cells. egr2 and 3 expression in t cells was regulated reciprocally by antigen and ifnγ, providing a mechanism for adjusting proliferation and differentiation of individual t cells. 
Egr3 regulates the homeostasis of B and T cells. [SEP] egr2 and 3 are important for maintaining immune homeostasis. here we define a fundamental function of egr2 and 3 operating as a checkpoint that controls the transition between clonal expansion and differentiation of effector t cells. egr2 and 3 deficiency resulted in defective clonal expansion but hyperactivation and excessive differentiation of t cells in response to viral infection. egr2 and 3 expression in t cells was regulated reciprocally by antigen and ifnγ, providing a mechanism for adjusting proliferation and differentiation of individual t cells. thus, egr2 and 3 are upstream regulators of effector cd4 and cd8 t cells that are essential for optimal responses with limited immunopathology. the transcription factor early growth response 3 (egr3) has been shown to play an important role in negatively regulating t cell activation and promoting t cell anergy in th1 cells. we sought to determine the role of egr3 in a th17 response using transgenic mice that overexpress egr3 in t cells (egr3 tg). overall our findings strengthen the role for egr3 in promoting γδ t cell development and show that egr3-induced γδ t cells are both functional and capable of altering the adaptive immune response in a th17-biased manner. our data also demonstrates that the role played by egr3 in t cell activation and differentiation is more complex than previously thought. thus, egr2 and 3 are antagonists of t-bet function in effector t cells and are important for the control of inflammatory responses of t cells. 
Eilat virus (EILV) produced in mosquitos elicits rapid and long-lasting neutralizing antibodies in nonhuman primates. [SEP] this study describes the development of the first neutralizing antibodies against western equine encephalitis virus (weev), a member of the genus alphavirus. in this study, two immune antibody gene libraries were constructed from two macaques immunized with inactivated weev. neutralization of flaviviruses in vivo correlates with the development of an antibody response against the viral envelope (e) protein. this study describes the natural history of dengue virus (denv) infection in rhesus monkeys exposed to the bites of denv-infected aedes aegypti mosquitoes. each of the six rhesus monkeys that were fed upon by intrathoracically infected mosquitoes developed non-structural protein 1 (ns1) antigenemia and an igm response; viremia was detected in 4/6 individuals. no virological or immunological evidence of denv infection was detected in the three monkeys exposed to mosquitoes that had been orally infected with denv. these results demonstrate the utility of mosquito-borne challenge of rhesus monkeys with denv. research focused on protection and therapy for ebola virus infection has investigated the potential role of antibodies. recent evidence suggests that antibodies can be effective in protection from lethal challenge with ebola virus in nonhuman primates. to this end, we characterized the profile of antibodies against individual viral proteins of sudan ebola virus (gulu) in human survivors and nonsurvivors of the outbreak in gulu, uganda, in 2000-2001. 
Elevated cell-free mitochondrial DNA levels are associated with mortality. [SEP] potentially hazardous cpg-containing cell-free mitochondrial dna (cf-mtdna) is routinely released into the circulation and is associated with morbidity and mortality in critically ill patients. cell-free plasma mitochondrial dna (mt-dna) and nuclear dna (n-dna) are biomarkers with prognostic utility in conditions associated with a high rate of cell death. by stepwise logistic regression, a plasma mt-dna concentration greater than 3,380 ge/ml (adjusted odds ratio (or), 8.22; 95% ci, 1.72 to 39.18; p < 0.001) and a plasma value of h-fbap >6.8 ng/ml (or, 5.36; 95% ci, 1.06 to 27.08; p < 0.01) were the only independent predictors of mortality. cell-free mitochondrial dna (mtdna) is proinflammatory and has been detected in high concentrations in trauma patients' plasma. increased plasma cell-free mitochondrial dna (cf-mdna), a damage-associated molecular pattern (damp) produced by cellular injury, contributes to neutrophil activation/inflammation in trauma patients and arises in cancer and autoimmunity. cell-free plasma mitochondrial dna (mtdna) levels are associated with endothelial dysfunction and differential outcomes in critical illness. differential metabolic profiles during critical illness are associated with cell-free plasma nd1 mtdna levels that are indicative of cell damage. we hypothesized that increased levels of mitochondrial biomarkers would be associated with mortality and neurological morbidity in post-cardiac arrest subjects. circulating mitochondrial dna (mtdna) released during critical illness causes endothelial dysfunction and lung injury in experimental models. chronic increases in oxygen radical production in the mitochondria can lead to a catastrophic cycle of mitochondrial dna (mtdna) damage as well as functional decline, further oxygen radical generation, and cellular injury. 
Eliminating the last sporadic cases of malaria requires considerable funding. [SEP] despite the enormous financial resources committed, if malaria elimination is perceived as failing it is likely that this funding will not be sustained. historic levels of funding have reduced the global burden of malaria in recent years. this study estimates the financing required for malaria control and elimination over the 2016-2030 period. in the last phases of malaria elimination, as universal interventions reap diminishing marginal returns, national resources must become increasingly devoted to identifying where residual transmission is occurring. today, many countries are striving for malaria elimination. achieving the regional goal of malaria elimination by 2030 will require an intensification of efforts and a plan for sustainable financing. this study aims to 1) assess past total and global fund funding to the 34 current malaria-eliminating countries, and 2) estimate their future funding needs to achieve malaria elimination and prevent reintroduction through 2030. the total amount of projected funding needed for the current malaria-eliminating countries to achieve elimination and prevent reintroduction through 2030 is approximately us$8.5 billion, or about $1.84 per person at risk per year (ppy) (ranging from $2.51 ppy in 2014 to $1.43 ppy in 2030). although external donor funding, particularly from the global fund, has been key for many malaria-eliminating countries, sustained and sufficient financing is critical for furthering global malaria elimination. projected cost estimates for elimination provide policymakers with an indication of the level of financial resources that should be mobilized to achieve malaria elimination goals. 
Emodin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. [SEP] the diphthamide biosynthesis 1 (dph1) gene encodes one of the essential components of the enzyme catalyzing the first step of diphthamide formation on eukaryotic elongation factor 2 (eef2). several egf-like modules with the consensus sequence for hydroxylation bind ca2+, and it has therefore been suggested that the hydroxyl group is essential for ca2+ binding. we have previously shown that emodin suppresses tyrosine kinase activity of her-2/neu-encoded p185neu receptor tyrosine kinase. in this study, we examine the relationship between the chemical structure and the activity of emodin and nine derivatives, and identified that one methyl, one hydroxy, and one carbonyl functional groups are critical for the biological activities of emodin. using mutation-activated her-2/neu transformed 3t3 cells, we also investigated whether emodin and dk-v-47 can inhibit malignant transformation induced solely by the her-2/neu oncogene. our results also support the chemotherapeutic implications of the use of either emodin or dk-v-47 to target her-2/neu-overexpressing cancer cells. pedf is found within tissues rich in the glycosaminoglycan hyaluronan (ha), and its amino acid sequence contains putative ha-binding motifs. pedf chemically modified with fluorescein retained the capacity for interacting with ha but lacked heparin affinity, suggesting one or more distinct ha-binding regions on pedf. single-point and cumulative alterations at basic residues within the putative ha-binding motif k189a/k191a/r194a/k197a drastically reduced the ha-binding activity without affecting heparin- or collagen i binding of pedf. induced fit docking study of pdp with endopolygalacturonase (1hg8) showed a bifurcated hydrogen bond interaction with the protein at lys 244 with a docking score of -3.6 and glide energy of -37.30 kcal/mol. 
Energy balance requires hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission. [SEP] hypothalamic agouti-related peptide (agrp) and pro-opiomelanocortin (pomc) expressing neurons play critical roles in control of energy balance. the hypothalamus plays a major part in regulating energy homeostasis by integrating hormonal and nutritional signals. glucose sensing by specialized neurons of the hypothalamus is vital for normal energy balance. understanding the role of hypothalamic neuropeptides and hormones in energy balance is paramount in the search for approaches to mitigate the obese state. hypothalamic neurons are main regulators of energy homeostasis. increasing evidence suggests that glutamate may also involve in the regulation of the neuroendocrine system at the hypothalamus. neuronal systems that are involved in energy homeostasis as well as reproduction traverse the hypothalamus; however, the mechanism by which they control energy homeostasis is not fully understood. glucose and glycogen are essential sources of energy for maintaining glutamate homeostasis as well as glutamatergic neurotransmission. body weight stability requires homeostatic regulation to balance energy intake and energy expenditure. research on this system and how it is affected by obesity has largely focused on the role of hypothalamic neurons as integrators of information about long-term fuel storage, short-term nutrient availability and metabolic demand. 
Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines damages viral control in the lung. [SEP] for example, in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd), viruses cause more severe disease exacerbation, heightened inflammation, and accelerated loss of lung function compared with other causes of disease exacerbation. to test the hypothesis that these outcomes are caused by cs-induced alterations in innate immunity, we defined the effects of cs on pathogen-associated molecular pattern-induced (pamp-induced) pulmonary inflammation and remodeling in mice. cs was found to enhance parenchymal and airway inflammation and apoptosis induced by the viral pamp poly(i:c). these studies demonstrate that cs selectively augments the airway and alveolar inflammatory and remodeling responses induced in the murine lung by viral pamps and viruses. virus-induced inflammation can be detrimental to the host, causing symptoms during acute infection and leading to damage that contributes to long-term residual lung disease. pulmonary virus infections predispose to secondary bacterial pneumonias by suppressing the antibacterial defenses of the lung. these data demonstrated that immunosuppression modulates virus-induced suppression of pulmonary antibacterial defenses with high doses of cy aggravating and low doses ameliorating the defect. inflammation may be maladaptive to the control of viral infection when it impairs interferon (ifn) responses, enhancing viral replication and spread. inflammation may prevent the control of viral infection when it impairs the innate immune response, enhancing viral replication and spread. blunted immunity as a result of inappropriate innate inflammatory responses is a common characteristic of chronic viral infections. 
Environmental factors can influence the development of breast cancer. [SEP] environmental and lifestyle factors are considered significant components of the increasing breast cancer risk in the last 50 years. this review summarizes the results of studies on the effects of environment on breast cancer risk. as known risk factors such as reproductive life, inheritance, and socioeconomic status are estimated to explain only about half of the breast cancer cases, it has been thought that environmental factors could also be related to the risk of this disease. although evidence about the effect of environmental factors on the risk of breast cancer is not convincing, some of these factors together with inheritance, reproductive life, and age at exposure could be associated with an increased risk of the disease. environmental factors are believed to explain a large proportion of breast cancer incidence. although, most of the environmental factors discussed in this review have not been convincingly found to influence breast cancer risk, research suggests that environmental exposure in combination with genetic pre-disposition, age at exposure, and hormonal milieu have a cumulative effect on breast cancer risk. environmental exposures, timing and duration of exposure, and one's genetic susceptibility all contribute to breast carcinoma and its progression. the purpose of this article was to identify known and suspected environmental causes of breast carcinoma, identify some environmental risk factors that may represent significant risk factors for certain groups, and describe current studies, supported by the national institutes of health/national institute of environmental health sciences, that clarify how environmental factors contribute to the development of breast carcinoma. knowing the environmental factors for breast carcinoma development is an area that should be investigated intensely because it offers our best hope for prevention. breast cancer is likely caused by the interaction of exposure to environmental carcinogens at an early age, resulting in initiation of neoplastic transformation and growth factors that determine the likelihood of progression to clinical disease. 
Environmentally-induced senescence is mimicked in disease modeling by adding specific molecules to the culture system. [SEP] one fundamental aging process that is often operative at sites of the pathology underlying chronic age-related diseases is cellular senescence. human aging is correlated with reduced proliferation of various cell types, a phenomenon that can be reproduced in in vitro models of replicative senescence. cellular senescence, an irreversible state of growth arrest, underlies organismal aging and age-related diseases. recent evidence suggests that aging intervention based on inhibition of cellular senescence might be a promising strategy for treatment of aging and age-related diseases. cellular senescence has evolved from an in-vitro model system to study aging in vitro to a multifaceted phenomenon of in-vivo importance as senescent cells in vivo have been identified and their removal delays the onset of age-associated diseases in a mouse model system. the senescence-accelerated mouse is a model for senescence acceleration, a higher oxidative stress status, and age-associated disorders. we studied whether fibroblasts cultured from accelerated senescence-prone samp11 mice could be used as in vitro models for oxidative stress in senescence. using human umbilical vein endothelial cells (huvec), we have established an in vitro senescence model for human endothelial cells. moreover, this cellular senescence in culture has been proposed to reflect processes that occur in the organism in vivo and free radical theory is accepted to be the most plausible explanation for this process. we have screened proteins involved in both cellular senescence and reactive oxygen species induced condition using 2-d gel analysis and found that ubiquitin carboxyl terminal hydrolase l1, peroxyredoxin 2, peroxyredoxin 4, fatty acid binding proteins (fabps), and 5'-amp-activated protein kinase beta-1 subunit were candidate aging-related proteins. 
Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in high economic settings. [SEP] the increased prevalence of non-communicable chronic diseases (ncds) is reflected in the rising economic burden of health conditions. non-communicable diseases (ncds), while traditionally considered a "rich world"-problem, have been spreading fast in low and middle income countries and by now account for a large share of mortality and ill-health in these countries, too. there is significant evidence of substantial cost burden placed by ncds on patients living in low and middle income countries, with most of it being heavily concentrated among low socioeconomic status groups. introduction: in the modern world, the problem of non-communicable diseases, which nowadays constitute the main cause of social and economic losses, is extremely topical: the main causes of disability and mortality of the working population are caused by non-communicable diseases. noncommunicable diseases--cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease, pulmonary diseases, liver disease, cancer, diabetes, osteoporosis and trauma--constitute the major cause of death in developed countries and are predictably emerging as significant threats to health in countries at intermediate stages of the epidemiological transition. in sub-saharan africa, the burden of non-communicable diseases (ncds) remains under appreciated, but emerging evidence suggests it to be substantial. the rapidly rising prevalence of non-communicable diseases (ncds) represents a major challenge to public health and clinical medicine globally. non-communicable diseases (ncds) are increasing in prevalence and straining health systems globally. there is an increasing incidence in non-communicable diseases (ncd) such as obesity, diabetes and metabolic syndrome all over the world, despite of the governmental investments in healthy policies. some of these diseases represent a high economic burden to individuals and society, demanding urgency in the identification of risk factors and appropriate solutions. 
Ethanol stress increases the expression of IBP in bacteria. [SEP] we previously identified specific proteins associated with ethanol stress response in a lactobacillus buchneri strain capable of growing in 10% ethanol. in the current study, the exceptional roles of ethanol responsive genes are examined to determine if they can increase ethanol tolerance in e. coli host cells. the heat and ethanol stress response of bacillus licheniformis dsm13 was analyzed at the transcriptional and/or translational level. ethanol stress led to an induction of the sigb, hrca, and ctsr regulons. as indicated by the upregulation of a sigm-dependent protein, ethanol also triggered a cell wall stress. pseudomonas aeruginosa frequently resides among ethanol-producing microbes, making its response to the microbially produced concentrations of ethanol relevant to understanding its biology. at concentrations similar to those produced by environmental microbes, we found that ethanol stimulated expression of trehalose-biosynthetic genes and cellular levels of trehalose, a disaccharide that protects against environmental stresses. in addition, we detected the induction of genes encoding stress proteins, including upsa, hsp90, groel and lon as well as permeases, efflux pumps and a secreted phospholipase c. in stationary phase, ethanol strongly induced several genes involved with iron assimilation and a high-affinity phosphate transport system, indicating that a. baumannii makes a better use of the iron and phosphate resources in the medium when ethanol is used as a carbon source. we suggest that the effect of ethanol on the virulence of a. baumannii is multifactorial and includes a general stress response and other specific components such as phospholipase c. further, it was shown that ethanol modulates both the expression and activity of several intracellular signaling molecules and transcription factors in kupffer cells and chronic ethanol treatment enhances kupffer cell sensitivity to endotoxin. 
Ethanol stress increases the expression of PSP in bacteria. [SEP] we previously identified specific proteins associated with ethanol stress response in a lactobacillus buchneri strain capable of growing in 10% ethanol. in the current study, the exceptional roles of ethanol responsive genes are examined to determine if they can increase ethanol tolerance in e. coli host cells. the in vivo activation of saccharomyces cerevisiae plasma membrane h+-atpase by ethanol was observed during ethanol-stressed cultivation or following the rapid incubation of cells with ethanol (6% (v/v)). the phage shock protein (psp) operon (pspabce) of escherichia coli is strongly induced in response to a variety of stressful conditions or agents such as filamentous phage infection, ethanol treatment, osmotic shock, heat shock, and prolonged incubation in stationary phase. we report here the identification of a transcriptional activator gene, designated pspf, which controls expression of the psp operon in e. coli. pseudomonas putida s12 was more tolerant to ethanol when preadapted to supersaturating concentrations of toluene. when a high ethanol condition is induced to zymomonas mobilis zm4, a representative ethanologenic organism, this bacterium overexpresses several genes to overcome this ethanol stress. based on these results, we over-expressed genes strongly induced by hhp in the same wild yeast strain and identified genes, particularly sym1, whose over-expression results in enhanced ethanol production and stress tolerance upon fermentation. through screening 172 ethanol-resistant related genes by electrophoretic mobility shift and quantitative reverse transcription-pcr (rt-qpcr) assays, six genes were identified to be regulated by acrr under ethanol stress. membrane fluorescence anisotropy analysis of acrr knockout and overexpression strains showed that acrr could increase membrane fluidity under ethanol stress. 
Ethanol stress increases the expression of SRL in bacteria. [SEP] we previously identified specific proteins associated with ethanol stress response in a lactobacillus buchneri strain capable of growing in 10% ethanol. in the current study, the exceptional roles of ethanol responsive genes are examined to determine if they can increase ethanol tolerance in e. coli host cells. the heat and ethanol stress response of bacillus licheniformis dsm13 was analyzed at the transcriptional and/or translational level. ethanol stress led to an induction of the sigb, hrca, and ctsr regulons. through screening 172 ethanol-resistant related genes by electrophoretic mobility shift and quantitative reverse transcription-pcr (rt-qpcr) assays, six genes were identified to be regulated by acrr under ethanol stress. our transcriptome analysis found that genes involved in trehalose metabolism were induced by low concentrations of ethanol, and biochemical assays showed that levels of intracellular trehalose increased significantly upon growth with ethanol. at concentrations similar to those produced by environmental microbes, we found that ethanol stimulated expression of trehalose-biosynthetic genes and cellular levels of trehalose, a disaccharide that protects against environmental stresses. here we present the changes in gene expression by staphylococcus aureus 8325-4, in response to ethanol. ethanol upregulated the expression of multiple toxins and increase the pathogen potential of s. aureus strain 8325-4. these results, taken together, suggest that exposure to ethanol increases pathogenic traits and induce oxidative-stress responses. 
Ethanol stress lowers the expression of PSP in bacteria. [SEP] ethanol toxicity and its effect on ethanol production by the recombinant ethanologenic escherichia coli strain ko11 were investigated in batch and continuous fermentation. ethanol inhibition is a commonly encountered stress condition during typical yeast fermentations and often results in reduced fermentation rates and production yields. while past studies have shown that acetaldehyde addition has a significant ameliorating effect on the growth of ethanol-stressed saccharomyces cerevisiae, this study investigated the potential ameliorating effect of acetaldehyde on a wide range of ethanol-stressed yeasts. to find out membrane tolerance strategy to ethanol in bacillus subtilis that possesses a powerful system of protection against environmental stresses. our previous studies showed that several transcriptional regulators were differentially regulated by exogenous ethanol in synechocystis. in this study, by constructing knockout mutants of 34 synechocystis putative transcriptional regulator-encoding genes and analyzing their phenotypes under ethanol stress, we found that three mutants of regulatory gene sll1392, sll1712 and slr1860 grew poorly in the bg11 medium supplemented with ethanol when compared with the wild type in the same medium, suggesting that the genes may be involved in the regulation of ethanol tolerance. under these conditions, yeast accumulates stress protectors, primarily trehalose and hsp104, a protein required for yeast to survive ethanol stress. saccharomyces cerevisiae (s. cerevisiae) encounters a multitude of stresses during industrial processes such as wine fermentation including ethanol toxicity. high levels of ethanol reduce the viability of yeast and may prevent completion of fermentation. the identification of ethanol-tolerant genes is important for creating stress-resistant industrial yeast, and s. cerevisiae genomic resources have been utilized for this purpose. 
Ethanol stress reduces the expression of SRL in bacteria. [SEP] the general stress response of the bacterium bacillus subtilis is controlled by the sigmab transcription factor. here we show that loss of sigmab reduces stationary-phase viability 10-fold in either alkaline or acidic media and reduces cell yield in media containing ethanol. this rna was earlier described as sigb-dependent regulatory rna s1136 and reported to reduce the amount of the small ribosomal subunit under ethanol stress. about three-fold higher amounts of sr7p were detected in b. subtilis cells exposed to salt, ethanol, acid or heat stress. our previous studies showed that several transcriptional regulators were differentially regulated by exogenous ethanol in synechocystis. in this study, by constructing knockout mutants of 34 synechocystis putative transcriptional regulator-encoding genes and analyzing their phenotypes under ethanol stress, we found that three mutants of regulatory gene sll1392, sll1712 and slr1860 grew poorly in the bg11 medium supplemented with ethanol when compared with the wild type in the same medium, suggesting that the genes may be involved in the regulation of ethanol tolerance. the rpos-regulated bola gene in escherichia coli is important for the decrease in cell size during stationary phase or sudden carbon starvation. sigmae is an alternative sigma factor involved in a pathway of extracytoplasmic stress responses in escherichia coli. transcriptome analysis of a k. pneumoniae gem167 mutant strain derived by irradiation with gamma rays, which exhibited high-level production of ethanol from glycerol, showed that the mutant expressed adhe at a high level. bacterial growth was also reduced under such conditions, showing that adhe plays a critical role in maintenance of redox balance by catalyzing ethanol production. 
Excess gestational weight gain is associated with obesity-related pregnancy outcomes. [SEP] excessive weight gain during pregnancy is associated with adverse maternal and neonatal consequences and increases the risk of long-term obesity. the prevalence of excess gestational weight gain is increasing worldwide and is associated with pregnancy complications, including gestational diabetes mellitus, pre-eclampsia, preterm birth, macrosomia, and development of obesity in offspring. high gestational weight gain is the strongest predictor of maternal overweight or obesity following pregnancy. importantly, excess gestational weight gain is highly predictive of maternal postpartum weight retention and risk of overweight and obesity in mothers and their children later in life. obesity and excessive weight gain during pregnancy have a serious impact on maternal, fetal and neonatal outcomes. pre-conceptional obesity and excessive weight gain during pregnancy are associated with weight gain in women following childbirth leading to associated risks such as metabolic syndrome, cardiovascular disease and diabetes. excessive gestational weight gain might also influence the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes. our study shows that maternal obesity and excessive weight gain during pregnancy are associated with socio-demographic, lifestyle, and genetic factors and with increased risks of adverse maternal, fetal and childhood health outcomes. excessive gestational weight gain is, in turn, associated with maternal complications such as cesarean delivery, hypertension, preeclampsia, impaired glucose tolerance, and gestational diabetes mellitus. obesity during pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of short- and long-term metabolic dysfunction in the mother and her offspring. 
Exercise increases cancer mortality rates among Chinese citizens. [SEP] the burden of cancer in china is high, and it is expected to further increase. we estimated the number and proportion of cancer deaths and cases attributable to ever-smoking, second-hand smoking, alcohol drinking, low fruit/vegetable intake, excess body weight, physical inactivity, and infections in china, using contemporary data from nationally representative surveys and cancer registries. effective public health interventions to eliminate or reduce exposure from these risk factors, notably tobacco control and vaccinations against carcinogenic infections, can have considerable impact on reducing the cancer burden in china. cancer risk increases with age, creating a challenge for the chinese health system. to inform public health policy and research, we evaluated the cancer burden in elderly chinese. based on the published chinese cancer registry annual report or related literature and the china population and employment statistics yearbooks, we estimated the cancer burden of elderly chinese, who were representative of the chinese population. lung cancer, caused mainly by smoking, is one of the most prevalent diseases in china, resulting in high mortality rates. the increasing incidence of chronic disease due to lung cancer places a huge burden on the welfare and cost to the chinese society. background: china's lung cancer crude death rate has increased 6.9-fold from 1973 to 2014. it is important to understand the effects of risk factors on lung cancer mortality (lcm) for better allocation of limited resources of cancer prevention and control in china.methods: using three nationwide mortality surveys from 1973 to 2005, global health data exchange data in 2013, three nationwide smoking surveys from 1984 to 2013, four population censuses from 1964 to 2000, and other datasets, we have compiled datasets and developed spatial random effect models to assess the association of various area-level-contributing factors on lcm. 
Exercise reduces cancer mortality rates among Chinese citizens. [SEP] exercise is associated with significant reductions in the recurrence and mortality rates of several common cancers. evidence has been accumulating that suggests that physical activity may help reduce the risk of cancer. physically active people have been shown to have a decreased rate of all-cancer mortality. purpose: exercise could lower the risk of cancer recurrence and improve mortality, exercise capacity, physical and cardiovascular function, strength, and quality of life in patients with cancer. exercise significantly reduced the risk of mortality in patients with cancer and in cancer survivors (risk ratio [rr] = 0.76, 95% ci = 0.40-0.93, i2 = 0%, p = .009). conclusion: this study found that exercise has a favorable effect on mortality and recurrence in patients with cancer. in brief: epidemiological studies suggest that exercise reduces the risk of cancer. the conclusion, based on the literature, is that exercise may help defend against cancer by preventing obesity, stimulating lymphokines, and/or facilitating other healthful changes in behavior. evidence is accumulating that high levels of physical activity are associated with a reduced risk of some cancers. physical activity is associated with a reduced risk of developing specific types of cancer and cancer overall, depending upon the activity level and lifestyle of the individual. 
Exhaustion of B cells contributes to poor Ab response in HIV-infected individuals. [SEP] chronic immune activation in hiv-infected individuals leads to accumulation of exhausted tissue-like memory b cells. these findings on hiv-associated b cell exhaustion define potential targets for reversing the deleterious effect of inhibitory receptors on immune responses against persistent viral infections. while the hallmark of hiv-1 infection is the progressive depletion of cd4(+) t cells, extensive b-cell dysfunction ensues that impairs the quality of the humoral response. memory b-cell depletion, hyperimmunoglobulinemia, and impaired vaccine responses are the hallmark of b cell perturbations inhuman immunodeficiency virus (hiv) disease. hiv infection is associated with b cell dysfunction, which includes b cell hyperactivation, hypergammaglobulinemia, impaired production of antibodies against specific antigens, and a loss of b cell memory. to define the impact of chronic viremia and associated immune activation on b-cell exhaustion in hiv infection. progressive hiv infection is marked by b-cell anergy and exhaustion coupled with dramatic hypergammaglobulinemia. individuals infected with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) have low numbers of functional epstein-barr virus (ebv)-specific cd8+ t cells in the face of a high ebv load, suggesting that these cells have become exhausted. although t cells are the primary and most-studied targets of the human immunodeficiency virus (hiv), b cells, especially memory b lymphocytes, are also chronically depleted in the course of hiv disease. although the lack of cd4+ t cell help may explain these deficiencies, intrinsic defects in b lymphocytes appear to contribute to b cell depletion and reduced antibody (ab) production in the setting of hiv, especially of some antigens eliciting t cell-independent responses. 
Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is unrelated to anxiety prevalence. [SEP] air pollutants have not been associated with ambulatory electrocardiographic evidence of st-segment depression ≥ 1 mm (probable cardiac ischemia). here, we investigated associations of prenatal and postnatal exposures to outdoor nitrogen dioxide (no2), sulphur dioxide (so2), and pm10 (particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter ≤ 10 μm) with asthma, wheeze, hay fever, rhinitis, pneumonia, and eczema in childhood. our results indicated that prenatal and postnatal exposures to outdoor no2 could be risk factors for allergies and airway diseases in childhood. a sensitive lung function test does not show difference due to air pollution between lifetime residents in a rural area and those in a small industrial town in connecticut. also, there is no evidence that higher air pollutant concentrations elsewhere have any marked effects on the lungs. severe pollution is dangerous and must be avoided, but at present, air pollution control outdoors does not deserve priority as a means of preventing chronic lung diseases. in a general population sample, use of pressurized aerosols appears to be associated with transient symptoms, but it does not appear to lead to chronic respiratory complaints or to functional abnormalities. furthermore, changing patterns of aerosol use are not associated with changes in respiratory symptoms. thus, household and cosmetic aerosols do not appear to be important risk factors for respiratory diseases. the concentration-response relationship between daily ambient inhalable particle (particulate matter less than or equal to 10 micro m; pm(10)) concentrations and daily mortality typically shows no evidence of a threshold concentration below which no relationship is observed. 
Expression of MSX2 is induced 3 hours after the addition of BMP4, which is earlier than T and CDX2. [SEP] the bmp2-dependent onset of osteo/chondrogenic differentiation in the acknowledged pluripotent murine mesenchymal stem cell line (c3h10t1/2) is accompanied by the immediate upregulation of fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (fgfr3) and a delayed response by fgfr2. northern and western analyses demonstrated that big-3 mrna and protein were induced after 24 h of bmp-2 treatment. zhx3 mrna expression was upregulated within 1-6 h after incubation of mscs in the osteogenic induction medium, and reached maximum levels after 24 h of incubation. in contrast, runt-related transcription factor2 (runx2) mrna expression was downregulated at 2-4 h after incubation, and levels were only enhanced 1.4-fold after 12 and 24 h of incubation. further, osterix mrna levels increased only 1.6-fold after 4 and 24 h of incubation. to examine the potential interactions between big-3 and the bmp-2 pathway during osteoblastic differentiation, mc3t3-e1 cells stably transfected with big-3 (mc3t3e1-big-3), or with the empty vector (mc3t3e1-ev), were treated with noggin. to determine whether the actions of big-3 on osteoblast differentiation converged upon the bmp pathway or involved an alternate signaling pathway, smad1 phosphorylation was examined. these observations suggest that big-3 accelerates osteoblast differentiation in mc3t3-e1 cells by inducing phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of smad1 independently of endogenously produced bmps. the osteoinductive bmp2 signal facilitates commitment to the osteoblast phenotype by inducing several classes of early response genes. here we demonstrate molecular events among bmp2-induced transcription factors that constitute a network of molecular switches on promoters of bone-related genes to coordinate their temporal expression during cellular differentiation. 
Expression of oncolytic virus antigens as peptides makes relapse more likely. [SEP] viral oncogenes are responsible for oncogenesis resulting from persistent virus infection. although different human tumor viruses express different viral oncogenes and induce different tumors, their oncoproteins often target similar sets of cellular tumor suppressors or signal pathways to immortalize and/or transform infected cells. viruses can produce viral oncoproteins that drive multiple genetic alterations as the consequence of neoplastic transformation. viral proteins encoded by onco-related viruses such as polyomavirus sv40 or epstein-barr virus are involved in cellular processes resulting in imbalance between proliferation and cell death, knowledge of which continues to be crucial for combating cancer. a key principle of oncolytic viral therapy is that many cancers develop defects in their antiviral responses, making them more susceptible to virus infection. replication-competent oncolytic viruses hold great potential for the clinical treatment of many cancers. thus, oncolysis by these viruses may be influenced by both oncogenic activation and tumor suppressor status. retroviruses cause cancer by several different mechanisms including addition of an oncogene, addition of a modified viral glycoprotein, activation of a proto-oncogene, transactivation of a proto-oncogene, immune depression, and stimulation of lymphoid cell proliferation. both the evolution of oncogenes and tumor induction by most retroviruses is multi-step. cellular oncogenes and their activated and retrovirus-coded counterparts play an important role in cellular regulation. 
Expression of oncolytic virus antigens as peptides permits additional protection against relapse. [SEP] oncolytic viruses are novel immunotherapeutic agents that appear to mediate potent antineoplastic effects in both preclinical and clinical settings. oncolytic viruses are emerging as promising options for clinical cancer treatment due to their inherent ability of tumor tropism and oncolytic property. aside from tumor lysis, oncolytic viruses can induce host immune responses against tumor cells and may thus be viewed as a form of immunotherapy. the efficacy of oncolytic viruses depends on multiple actions including direct tumor lysis, modulation of tumor perfusion, and stimulation of tumor-directed immune responses. alternatively, the oncolytic virus construct has been modified to express factors that boost oncolytic virus function. compared with conventional immunotherapy, oncolytic viruses have the advantages of simultaneous cytoreduction and conferring personalized anticancer immunity, but without the need of personalized manufacture. additionally, oncolytic viruses can be further engineered to delete immunosuppressive viral components and to insert transgenes that enhance antitumor immunity. oncolytic viruses rewire the immune system and can lead to long-lasting antitumor defenses against primary and metastatic tumors. aside from tumor lysis, oncolytic viruses can induce host immune responses against cancer cells and may thus be viewed as a form of immunotherapy. oncolytic vaccinia virus is an attractive platform for immunotherapy. 
F4/80+ macrophages regulate mature osteoblast maintenance. [SEP] mounting evidence supporting the critical contribution of macrophages, in particular osteal macrophages, to bone regeneration is reviewed. we specifically examine the potential role of macrophages in the basic multicellular units coordinating lifelong bone regeneration via remodelling and bone regeneration in response to injury. we review and discuss the distinctions between macrophage and osteoclast contributions to bone homeostasis, particularly the dichotomous role of the colony-stimulating factor 1-colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor axis. the heterogeneity and plasticity of macrophages make them a prime target for immune system modulation to enhance bone repair and regeneration. as a component of the innate immune system, macrophages play a critical role in bone homeostasis. in addition, we overview m1 and m2 macrophages for their role in osteoclastogenesis and osteogenesis as well as relevant signaling cascades involved. cells of the monocyte-macrophage series play multiple roles in bone resorption; they appear to act as osteoclast precursors and are known to elaborate several substances which promote osteoclast activity. because bone formation is closely linked (coupled) to resorption under physiological conditions, we explored the possibility that macrophages also elaborate a stimulator of bone formation. soluble products produced by activated macrophages regulate progenitor cell proliferation, recruitment, differentiation, and activity of osteoblasts and osteoclasts. this study examines the contribution of resident tissue macrophages to bone physiology. 
FACT and other histone chaperone(s) compensate for Histone 2A (H2A)-histone 2B (H2B) dimer eviction during the histone exchange process. [SEP] the essential histone chaperone fact plays a critical role in dna replication, repair, and transcription, primarily by binding to histone h2a-h2b dimers and regulating their assembly into nucleosomes. while fact histone chaperone activity has been extensively studied, the exact nature of the h2a and h2b residues important for fact binding remains controversial. we found that mutations in essential acidic patch residues cause a defect in histone occupancy in yeast, even though most of these histone mutants are expressed normally in yeast and form stable nucleosomes in vitro instead, we show that two acidic patch residues, h2b l109 and h2a e57, are important for histone binding to fact in vivo we systematically screened mutants in other h2a and h2b residues previously suspected to be important for fact binding and confirmed the importance of h2b m62 using an in-vivo fact-binding assay. fact has been proposed to function by displacing h2a-h2b dimers from nucleosomes to form hexasomes. facilitates chromatin transcription (fact) is a conserved histone chaperone that reorganizes nucleosomes and ensures chromatin integrity during dna transcription, replication and repair. fact is a heterodimeric histone chaperone consisting of the ssrp1 and spt16 proteins and is conserved among eukaryotes. fact (facilitates chromatin transcription/transactions) is a histone chaperone that can destabilize or assemble nucleosomes. acetylation of histone h3-k56 weakens a histone-dna contact that is central to fact activity, suggesting that this modification could affect fact functions. the essential histone chaperone fact (facilitates chromatin transcription) promotes both nucleosome assembly and disassembly. facilitates chromatin transcription (fact) is a histone chaperone that functions as a nucleosome remodeler and a chaperone. 
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have decreased risk for dementia. [SEP] recent genetic studies show that the apolipoprotein e epsilon 4 allele (apoe-epsilon 4) is a risk factor for alzheimer's disease (ad). inheritance of the apolipoprotein e (apoe) epsilon 4 allele is a risk factor for developing alzheimer's disease (ad) and is associated with a lower age of dementia onset. apoliprotein e, type epsilon 4 allele (apoe-epsilon 4) is associated with late-onset sporadic alzheimer's disease (ad). the apolipoprotein e (apoe) e4 allele is the most prevalent genetic risk factor for alzheimer's disease (ad). the epsilon4 allele of apolipoprotein e apoe is a risk factor for alzheimer's disease (ad) and cerebral amyloid angiopathy (caa), and the epsilon2 allele is associated with a decreased risk for ad. the apolipoprotein e (apoe) ε4 allele is the major genetic risk factor for the development of late-onset alzheimer's disease (ad), whereas the presence of the apoe ε2 allele seems to confer protection. each additional copy of the apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4) allele is associated with a higher risk of alzheimer's dementia, while the apoe2 allele is associated with a lower risk of alzheimer's dementia, it is not yet known whether apoe2 homozygotes have a particularly low risk. the presence of apolipoprotein e (apoe) ε4 allele is a risk factor for alzheimer's disease (ad) and associated with a more pronounced reduction of amyloid-β 1-42 (aβ1-42) in the cerebrospinal fluid (csf). the ε4 allele of the apolipoprotein e (apoe) gene and lower apolipoprotein e (apoe) protein levels in plasma are risk factors for alzheimer disease, but the underlying biological mechanisms are not fully understood. to investigate associations between the presence of apoe in different lipoproteins with cognitive function, particularly the risk of dementia. 
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for Alzheimer's disease. [SEP] an apolipoprotein e (apoe) 4 genotype is the most important, common genetic determinant for alzheimer disease (ad), and female apoe4 carriers present with an increased risk compared with males. the apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4) gene is a well-known risk factor for alzheimer's disease (ad) and other neurological disorders. post-menopausal women with ad who express at least one apoe4 gene have more severe neuropathology and worsened cognitive scores than their non-expressing counterparts. the epsilon4 allele of the apolipoprotein e (apoe) gene is a major genetic risk factor for alzheimer's disease but appears to be associated with greater risk in women than in men. an allele dependent modulation of oestrogen induced regulation of apoe might be involved in the increased risk for alzheimer's disease in women bearing an epsilon4 allele. elderly females, particularly those carrying the apolipoprotein e (apoe)-ε4 allele, have a higher risk of developing alzheimer's disease (ad). the apolipoprotein e-epsilon4 (apoe-epsilon4) allele is a powerful genetic risk factor for the development of alzheimer's disease (ad). polymorphic alleles in the apolipoprotein e (apoe) gene are the main genetic determinants of late-onset alzheimer's disease (ad) risk. apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4) encoded by epsilon 4 allele is a strong genetic risk factor for alzheimer's disease (ad). apolipoprotein (apo) e4 is the major genetic risk factor for alzheimer's disease (ad). 
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have longer lifetime exposure to estrogen due to an increased reproductive period. [SEP] apolipoprotein (apo)e gene epsilon4 allele carrier status modulates the responses of lipoprotein metabolism to hormone-replacement therapy (hrt). we investigated the effect of long-term hrt on the progression of atherosclerosis in postmenopausal women with or without apoe epsilon4 allele. the epsilon4 allele of the apolipoprotein e (apoe) gene is a major genetic risk factor for alzheimer's disease but appears to be associated with greater risk in women than in men. apoe expression is influenced by oestrogen and oestrogen therapy may not benefit women bearing an apoe epsilon4 allele. apoe epsilon2/epsilon3/epsilon4 coding and -219 g/t promoter polymorphisms influenced binding to the oestrogen receptor and altered transcriptional activity in response to oestrogen. an allele dependent modulation of oestrogen induced regulation of apoe might be involved in the increased risk for alzheimer's disease in women bearing an epsilon4 allele. previous evidence indicates that, in carriers of apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4), estrogen therapy increased the risk of late-onset alzheimer's disease (ad), whereas in individuals carrying apoe2/3, estrogen therapy reduced the risk of ad [cauley ja, zmuda jm, yaffe k, kuller lh, ferrell re, wisniewski sr, cummings sr (1999) j bone miner res 14:1175-1181; yaffe k, haan m, byers a, tangen c, kuller l (2000) neurology 54:1949-1954]. the present study aimed to investigate possible association of the apolipoprotein e (apoe) gene polymorphisms with age at natural menopause (anm) in caucasian females. high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (hdl-c) levels in premenopausal and postmenopausal women are differentially affected by exogenous sex hormones depending on their apolipoprotein e (apo e) genotype. the degree to which childbearing adversely affects long-term hdl-c declines varies by apo e phenotype, based on a method that accurately classifies genotype. 
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have shorter lifetime exposure to estrogen due to a decreased reproductive period. [SEP] recent genetic studies show that the apolipoprotein e epsilon 4 allele (apoe-epsilon 4) is a risk factor for alzheimer's disease (ad). if apoe-epsilon 4 individuals develop ad as they get older, we would expect a decrease in apoe-epsilon 4 allele frequency with increasing age. we found a marked decline in apoe-epsilon 4 allele frequency with advancing age in both ad and cognitively normal controls (p < 0.003), although in all age groups the apoe-epsilon 4 allele was overrepresented (p < 0.0001). apoliprotein e, type epsilon 4 allele (apoe-epsilon 4) is associated with late-onset sporadic alzheimer's disease (ad). inheritance of the apolipoprotein e (apoe) epsilon 4 allele is a risk factor for developing alzheimer's disease (ad) and is associated with a lower age of dementia onset. the alternative "prodrome" hypothesis predicts that the apoe-ε4 allele would be associated with longitudinal cognitive decline as early as midlife due to prodromal effects of ad. we observed a longitudinal decrease in older apoe-ε4 carriers, suggesting an ad prodrome. the ε4 allele of the apolipoprotein e (apoe) gene and lower apolipoprotein e (apoe) protein levels in plasma are risk factors for alzheimer disease, but the underlying biological mechanisms are not fully understood. familial dysbetalipoproteinemia associated with the apolipoprotein e2 (apoe2) genotype is a recessive disorder with low penetrance. after age, the second largest risk factor for alzheimer's disease (ad) is apolipoprotein e (apoe) genotype, where apoe4 is associated with lower apoe protein levels, more severer brain pathology, enhanced inflammation and disease. 
Fibroblast Growth Factor is a ligand which signals through receptor tyrosine kinases. [SEP] binding of fibroblast growth factor (fgf) to the high affinity receptor-1 (fgfr-1) leads to activation of its endogenous tyrosine kinase activity. transphosphorylation of tyrosine residues in the kinase domain of fgfrs leads to activation of intracellular signaling cascades, including those mediated by mitogen-activated protein kinases (mapks). the fibroblast growth factor (fgf) regulates a broad spectrum of biological activities by activation of transmembrane fgf receptor (fgfr) tyrosine kinases and their coupled intracellular signaling pathways. binding of the fibroblast growth factor (fgf) to the fgf receptor (fgfr) tyrosine kinase leads to receptor tyrosine autophosphorylation as well as phosphorylation of multiple downstream signaling molecules that are recruited to the receptor either by direct binding or through adaptor proteins. fibroblast growth factors (fgfs) mediate cell growth, differentiation, migration, and morphogenesis by binding to the extracellular domain of cell surface receptors, triggering receptor tyrosine phosphorylation and signal transduction [1-5]. fibroblast growth factors (fgf) are secreted molecules which function through the activation of specific tyrosine kinases receptors, the fgf receptors that transduce the signal by activating different pathways including the ras/map kinase and the phospholipase-c gamma pathways. fibroblast growth factors (fgfs) induce proliferation and differentiation of a wide variety of cells by stimulation of cell surface expressed high affinity-binding receptor tyrosine kinases. fibroblast growth factors (fgfs) mediate a multitude of physiological and pathological processes by activating a family of tyrosine kinase receptors (fgfrs). fibroblast growth factors (fgfs) are growth factors that have diverse biological activities including broad mitogenic and cell survival activities. fibroblast growth factors (fgfs) orchestrate a variety of cellular functions by binding to their transmembrane tyrosine-kinase receptors (fgfrs) and activating downstream signalling pathways, including ras/mapk, plcγ1, pi3k, and stats. 
Fibroblast growth factor 21 protects against atherosclerosis by modulating adiponectin and SREBP2 levels. [SEP] fibroblast growth factor-21 (fgf-21) is a metabolic regulator with beneficial effects on glucolipid metabolism. since fgf-21 has lipid-lowering, anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant properties, it may play a protective role against atherosclerosis. fibroblast growth factor 21 (fgf21) is a new member of fgf super family that is an important endogenous regulator for systemic glucose and lipid metabolism. this study aimed to explore whether fgf21 reduces atherosclerotic injury and prevents endothelial dysfunction as an independent protection factor. fgf21 may be a signal of injured target tissue, and may play physiological roles in improving the endothelial function at an early stage of atherosclerosis and in stopping the development of coronary heart disease. fibroblast growth factor 21 (fgf21), a regulator of energy metabolism, has been reported to suppress the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. in this study, we investigated whether up-regulation of fgf21 affected inflammation and oxidative stress in atherosclerotic rats and whether the nrf2-signaling pathway was involved in fgf21-mediated effects. compared with model rats, up-regulation of fgf21 could increase the expression of nrf2-are signaling related proteins and the level of anti-oxidative indicators, decrease the levels of endothelial dysfunction, and reduce inflammatory indicators. therefore fgf21 reduces inflammation and oxidative stress in atherosclerotic rats via nrf2-are signaling pathway. adiponectin, an adipocyte-derived peptide with antiinflammatory and antiatherogenic effects, is known to protect against the initiation and progression of atherosclerosis. 
Flexible molecules experience less steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. [SEP] to penetrate solid tumors, low molecular weight (mw < 10 kda) compounds have an edge over antibodies: their higher penetration because of their small size. because of the dense stroma and high interstitial fluid pressure of solid tumors, the penetration of higher mw compounds is unfavored and being small thus becomes an advantage. the capillary networks of solid tumors are more permeable and less well organized than those of normal tissue. the downstream effects of faa and dmxaa on the tumor microcirculation are complex, involving both direct and indirect effects on vascular endothelial cells. the size of anticancer agent-incorporating micelles can be controlled within the diameter range of 20-100 nm to ensure that they do not penetrate normal vessel walls. consequently, a polymer micelle carrier can be delivered selectively to a tumor by utilizing the enhanced permeability and retention effect. the disadvantage of flexible bonds in supramolecular host-guest complexes is much smaller than usually assumed. metastatic cancer cells are known to have a smaller cell stiffness than healthy cells because the small stiffness is beneficial for passing through the extracellular matrix when the cancer cells instigate a metastatic process. here we developed a simple and handy microfluidic system to assess metastatic capacity of the cancer cells from a mechanical point of view. small molecule targeted therapeutics have a number of advantages over toxic immunoconjugates including better tumor penetration, lack of neutralizing host immune response and superior flexibility in selection of drug components with optimal specificity, potency and stability in circulation. 
Folate and vitamin B12 levels influence the association between homocysteine and preeclampsia. [SEP] this study aimed to evaluate the associations between subsequent events of adverse pregnancy outcome and early variables of homocysteine, folate, and vitamin b12 in pregnant women. the associations between subsequent events of adverse pregnancy outcome and early variables of homocysteine, folate, and vitamin b12; metabolic parameters; inflammatory markers; anthropometrics; and lifestyle habits at 11-12 weeks of gestation were analyzed using the logistic regression model. after adjusting for confounding factors, multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that besides systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, body mass index and age, homocysteine (iv vs i quartile, aor 5.89, 95% ci 4.08-8.51, p < 0.001), folate (iv vs i quartile, aor 0.35, 95% ci 0.25-0.50, p < 0.001), folate supplementation (yes vs no, aor 0.55, 95% ci 0.35-0.86, p = 0.010) during early pregnancy were independently associated with subsequent events of adverse pregnancy outcome, and vitamin b12 was rejected. higher homocysteine concentration and lower folate level during early pregnancy were associated with adverse pregnancy outcome. the present study examined the levels of maternal and cord plasma folate, vitamin b12, homocysteine, and their association with birth outcome in women with preeclampsia (pe). to study folate, vitamin b12 and homocysteine levels in cord blood and maternal blood in preeclampsia. elevated homocysteine and folate and vitamin b12 deficiency during pregnancy may be a risk factor for preeclampsia and future risk of cardiovascular risk. plasma homocysteine is increased in preeclampsia. therefore, we investigated whether there were racial differences in plasma homocysteine, folic acid, and vitamin b12 among women with preeclampsia. we tested for an association between homocysteine and folic acid and b12, and we hypothesized an inverse relationship of homocysteine and folic acid in preeclampsia, more so in black women in whom preeclampsia developed. 
For every 1,000 children with cerebral palsy, more than 300 of them are premature or underweight at birth. [SEP] approximately 400,000 preschool children have a major neurodevelopmental disorder impacting on mobility, cognitive-adaptive, or communicative skills. in the past decade over 500,000 preschool children have survived being born with very low birth weight (1001-1500 g) or extremely low birth weight status (< or =1000 g). according to the world health organization (who), an estimated 303,000 neonates die within their first month of age every year globally as a result of a birth defect. these low-birth weight newborns are at increased risk of neonatal morbidity such as hypoxia and hypoglycaemia. approximately 3% of infants born have at least one serious congenital malformation. in the u.s., an average of 10 infants per thousand die before 1 y of life; about half of these deaths can be attributed to birth defects, low birth weight or prematurity. follow-up at 30 months' corrected age reveals eye and visual problems in one-third of children born extremely prematurely (<27 weeks' gestation). one-third of the extremely prematurely born children in this study had some kind of eye or visual problems, such as visual impairment, strabismus, or major refractive error. approximately one third of all infant deaths in the u.s. are related to preterm birth. data for this analysis came from the cohort of infants in the moderately premature infant project (mpip) database, a multicenter cohort study of 850 infants born at gestational age 30⁰/₇ and 34⁶/₇ weeks, with birth weight between 591 to 3540 g. [corrected], who were discharged to home alive. 
Forkhead 0 (fox0) transcription factors are involved in apoptosis. [SEP] forkhead box transcription factor, class 0 (foxo) is a mammalian homologue of daf-16, which is known to regulate the lifespan of caenorhabditis elegans and includes subfamiies of forkhead transcription factors such as foxo1 (fkhr). foxo3a is a member of the forkhead box class o (foxo) transcription factor family and an important regulator of apoptosis. it thus appears that foxo3a plays a crucial mediatory role in the tgf-beta1 signaling pathway leading to apoptosis. the forkhead box o (foxo) family of transcription factors regulates a variety of cellular programs, including cell cycle arrest, reactive oxygen species (ros) scavenging, and apoptosis, and are of key importance in the decision over cell fate. the forkhead box (fox) family of transcription factors plays important roles in regulating expression of genes involved in cellular proliferation and differentiation. forkhead box o (foxo) transcription factors are important downstream targets of the pi3k/akt signaling pathway and crucial regulators of cell fate. forkhead box protein a1 (foxa1) is an evolutionarily conserved winged helix transcription factor that was traditionally considered to be involved in embryonic development and cell differentiation. these results indicate that foxa1 plays a pro-apoptotic role by inhibiting the expression of anti-apoptotic gene bcl2. as a crucial member of the forkhead box family, class o (foxo) plays an essential role in growth, cell differentiation, metabolism, immunization, and apoptosis. foxo3a, a member of the foxo family of transcription factors, is expressed in adult liver and modulates the expression of genes involved in apoptosis. 
Forkhead 0 (fox0) transcription factors are involved in cellular differentiation. [SEP] forkhead box transcription factor, class 0 (foxo) is a mammalian homologue of daf-16, which is known to regulate the lifespan of caenorhabditis elegans and includes subfamiies of forkhead transcription factors such as foxo1 (fkhr). forkhead factors are important regulators of animal development and homeostasis. many liver-specific genes are under the control of foxa2, a liver-enriched forkhead protein. the foxa2-winged helix/forkhead box transcription factor (tf) is absolutely required for endoderm formation and organogenesis. forkhead box o (foxo) transcription factors are emerging as critical transcriptional integrators among pathways regulating differentiation, proliferation, and survival, yet the role of the distinct foxo family members in angiogenic activity of endothelial cells and postnatal vessel formation has not been studied. the forkhead box (fox) transcription factors play diverse roles in differentiation, development, hormone responsiveness, and aging. a pioneer activity of the forkhead factors in developmental processes has been reported, but how this may apply to other contexts of forkhead factor regulation remains unexplored. foxo transcription factors are an evolutionary conserved subfamily of the forkhead transcription factors, characterized by the forkhead dna-binding domain. fox (forkhead/winged helix) genes encode a family of transcription factors that are involved in embryonic pattern formation, regulation of tissue specific gene expression and tumorigenesis. members of the forkhead box (fox) transcription factors family foxa1 (hnf-3 alpha), foxa2 (hnf-3 beta) are known to influence gene expression in endodermally derived tissues including lung, liver, pancreas, stomach, and intestine. 
Formation of N-terminal pyroglutamate by glutamine cyclase (GC) competes with NTAQ1 for Nt-Gln substrates. [SEP] glutamine synthetase (gs) is a key enzyme in the regulation of glutamate neurotransmission in the central nervous system. glutamate carboxypeptidase ii (gcp ii) is a glial enzyme responsible for the hydrolysis of n-acetylaspartylglutamate (naag) into glutamate and n-acetylaspartate (naa). the n-terminal glutamic acid (glu) can be cyclized to form pyroglutamate (pglu). recent studies have suggested that n-terminal pglu formation is an important posttranslational or co-translational event and is greatly facilitated by the enzyme glutaminyl cyclase, although the impact of the n-terminal cyclization on the potency and overall stability of mabs is not been well known. since most recombinant monoclonal antibodies (mabs) contain glutamic acid and/or glutamine at their n-terminus, understanding the cyclization mechanisms may shed light on the factors that control the pglu formation in therapeutic mab development. glutamine synthetase (gs) converts glutamate to glutamine in the presence of atp and ammonia and requires two divalent metal ions, designated n1 and n2, for catalysis. the neuropeptidase glutamate carboxypeptidase ii (gcpii) hydrolyzes n-acetyl-l-aspartyl-l-glutamate (naag) to liberate n-acetylaspartate and glutamate. human glutaminyl cyclase (hqc) is an important enzyme for post-translational modification by converting the n-terminal glutaminyl and glutamyl into pyroglutamate (pglu) through cyclization. glutamate carboxypeptidase ii (gcpii) is an exopeptidase that catalyzes the hydrolysis of n-acetylated aspartate-glutamate (naag) to n-acetyl aspartate (naa) and glutamate. nh4+ inhibits glutaminase, the enzyme presumed to cleave glutamine into glutamate in synaptic terminals. 
FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is inhibited by reactive oxygen species (ROS). [SEP] cytosolic foxo1 can also suppress tumour growth by triggering autophagy and ultimately cell death in a transcription-independent manner. foxo3a plays an important role in the aging process and decreases with age. however, the potential regulatory roles of foxo3a in processes involved in cardiac microvascular endothelial cell (cmec) senescence, and its underlying molecular mechanisms have not been elucidated. this study demonstrates that foxo3a is deactivated in senescent cmecs together with the inhibition of proliferation and tube formation. however, foxo3a overexpression in primary low-passage cmecs not only significantly suppressed the senescence process by increasing the activation of catalase and sod but also markedly inhibited ros generation and p27(kip1) activation, although it failed to reverse cellular senescence. in addition, foxo3a, deficiency in low-passage cmecs, accelerated the senescence process. collectively, our data suggest that foxo3a suppresses the senescence process in cmecs by regulating the antioxidant/ros/p27(kip1) pathways, although it fails to reverse the cellular senescent phenotype. foxo3a, a member of the foxo family of transcription factors, is expressed in adult liver and modulates the expression of genes involved in apoptosis. foxo3a is post-translationally regulated, negatively by pi3k/akt and mapk/erk and positively by oxidative stress/jnk pathways. to investigate the post-translational signal events triggered by the oxidative stress induced by ifn-α2b and the modulation of foxo3a transcriptional activity during these events in rat preneoplastic liver. 
Foxk2 regulates autophagy genes in muscle cells and fibroblast cells. [SEP] foxo proteins primarily function as transcription factors, but recent study suggests that cytosolic foxo1 participates in the regulation of autophagy. in contrast to foxo1, we find the closely related foxo3a is a negative regulator of autophagy in multiple cancer cell lines, a previously unrecognized function for this protein, different from its function in benign fibroblast and muscle cells. the induction of autophagy by the knockdown of foxo3a was found not to be mediated through the suppression of mtorc1 signaling; rather, the regulatory role of foxo3a on autophagy was determined to be through its ability to transcriptionally suppress foxo1. although foxo3 was shown to promote the expression of autophagy-related genes in skeletal muscle, the mechanisms triggering autophagy are unclear. in skeletal muscle, autophagy is activated in multiple physiological and pathological conditions, notably through the transcriptional regulation of autophagy-related genes by foxo3. foxo transcription factors promote autophagy in skeletal muscle and have additional roles in regulation of cell size, proliferation, and metabolism. here we investigate the role of foxo transcription factors in regulating autophagy and cell size in cardiomyocytes. together these results provide evidence for an important role for foxo1 and foxo3 in regulating autophagy and cell size in cardiomyocytes. here we demonstrated that foxo1, a forkhead o family protein, is a mediator of autophagy. our studies provide evidence that cytosolic foxo1-induced autophagy is associated with tumor suppression function. 
Foxp3 enables the expression of transcriptional regulators implicated in memory T cell development. [SEP] the lineage-specific transcription factor foxp3 has a critical role in treg-cell biology. expression of the lineage-specific dna-binding factor foxp3 controls the development and function of naturally occurring regulatory t cells. foxp3 plays a critical role in development of cd4+ regulatory t lymphocytes (tregs). we further investigated the association between foxp3 expression and proliferation of peripheral blood cd4+ and cd8+ t lymphocytes and focused on virus-specific memory cd8+ t lymphocytes. foxp3, forkhead/winged helix transcription factor 3, is a master transcription factor for the development and function of regulatory t cells. foxp3 regulates other critical gene transcriptions. we identified foxp3-interacting proteins in human t cells by co-immunoprecipitation/ms. the forkhead-family transcription factor foxp3 is important for the development and function of cd4+cd25+ regulatory t cells. these data demonstrate that foxp3 levels regulate t cell function, and that foxp3 itself is dynamically regulated during effector t cell differentiation. although foxp3 maintains a pattern of gene expression necessary for t reg cell function, other transcription factors are emerging as important determinants of t reg cell development. 
Foxp3 represses the expression of transcriptional regulators implicated in memory T cell development. [SEP] foxp3 acts as transcription repressor and exerts its suppressing function via directly associating with and inhibiting the function of other transcriptional regulators. the gene transcription of foxp3 is regulated by diverse mechanisms at the cellular and molecular levels including the pleiotropic cytokine transforming growth factor-beta (tgf-beta). forkhead box p3 (foxp3) is a lineage-specific transcription factor that controls the differentiation of cd4(+) regulatory t cells. the expression of foxp3 in regulatory t cells is crucial for the upregulation of immunosuppressive effector molecules, whereby foxp3 disruption leads to the breakdown of immune tolerance and the development of autoimmune disease. this finding indicates that foxp3 is more widely expressed in the immune cells than previously thought. using chromatin immunoprecipitation, we have demonstrated that foxp3 binds to the endogenous il-2 and ifngamma loci in t cells, but only after t cell receptor stimulation. transcription factor foxp3 (forkhead box p3), restricted in its expression to a specialized regulatory cd4+ t-cell subset (t(r)) with a dedicated suppressor function, controls t(r) lineage development. we find that a large number of foxp3-bound genes are up- or downregulated in foxp3+ t cells, suggesting that foxp3 acts as both a transcriptional activator and repressor. foxp3 is a master regulator of cd4(+)cd25(+) regulatory t-cell (treg) function and is also a suppressor of skp2 and her2/erbb2. the forkhead-box protein p3 (foxp3) is a key transcription factor for the development and suppressive activity of regulatory t cells (tregs), a t cell subset critically involved in the maintenance of self-tolerance and prevention of over-shooting immune responses. 
G-CSF increases the expansion and infiltration of MDSCs into tumors. [SEP] to explore the mechanisms of mdsc trafficking and accumulation during tumor progression. in this study, we show that the metastatic tumors we examined overexpress granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (g-csf), which expands and mobilizes ly6g+ly6c+ granulocytes and facilitates their subsequent homing at distant organs even before the arrival of tumor cells. finally, we show that administration of recombinant g-csf is sufficient to increase the numbers of ly6g+ly6c+ cells in organ-specific metastatic sites and results in enhanced metastatic ability of several tumors. in an effort to identify molecular mediators responsible for expansion and the tumor-promoting function of mdscs, we discovered ccaat/enhancer binding protein alpha (c/ebpα) expression was significantly reduced in mdscs from tumor-bearing mice compared to non-tumor-bearing hosts. accordingly, tumors growing in c/ebpα conditional null mice displayed greater mdsc infiltration, increased vascularization and accelerated tumor growth. a large body of experimental evidence indicates that gm-csf, which is frequently upregulated in multiple types of human cancers, effectively marks cancer cells with a 'danger flag' for the immune system. however, recent studies have suggested that gm-csf also promotes immune-independent tumor progression by supporting tumor microenvironments and stimulating tumor growth and metastasis. although some studies have suggested that gm-csf has inhibitory effects on tumor growth and metastasis, an even greater number of studies show that gm-csf exerts stimulatory effects on tumor progression. we then discuss the potential roles of gm-csf in the progression of multiple types of cancer to provide insights into some of the complexities of its clinical applications. it seems that gm-csf increases the relative number of cells in the s phase of the cell cycle and enhances the activity of dna polymerases, enzymes that are essential to nucleotide incorporation into dna. 
GATA3 regulates cell cycle progression in bone marrow hematopoietic stem cells. [SEP] gata-1 mutations are associated with hematopoietic precursor proliferation and leukemogenesis, suggesting a role in cell cycle control. molecular studies combined with microarray transcriptome analysis revealed an extensive gata-1-regulated program of cell cycle control in which numerous growth inhibitors were upregulated and mitogenic genes were repressed. the transcription factor gata-3 is expressed and required for differentiation and function throughout the t lymphocyte lineage. here we found gata-3 was in the cytoplasm in quiescent long-term stem cells from steady-state bone marrow but relocated to the nucleus when hscs cycled. deletion of gata3 enhanced the repopulating capacity and augmented the self-renewal of long-term hscs in cell-autonomous fashion without affecting the cell cycle. the transcription factor gata-2 is predominantly expressed in hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells and counteracts the erythroid-specific transcription factor gata-1, to modulate the proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic cells. during hematopoietic cell differentiation, gata-2 exhibits dynamic expression patterns, which are regulated by multiple transcription factors. the gata family consists of six transcription factors that function in hematopoietic and endodermal development. gata-1, an important hematopoietic transcription factor, plays a critical role in differentiation and maturation of erythroid and megakaryocytic cell lines. gata1 is a transcription factor expressed in several hematopoietic lineages and essential for proper erythropoiesis and megakaryopoiesis. 
GATA3 regulates self-renewal capacity in bone marrow hematopoietic stem cells. [SEP] as a part of this network, the heteromeric transcription factor ga-binding protein (gabp) plays a crucial role in self-renewal of murine hematopoietic and leukemic stem cells. the transcription factor gata-2 is expressed in both hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells and is essential for cell proliferation, survival, and differentiation. bone marrow stromal cells provide the microenvironment for self-renewal and differentiation of hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells through complex cell-cell interaction. hematopoietic homeostasis depends on appropriate self-renewal and differentiation capacity of hematopoietic stem cells. several factors have been described as positive and negative regulators of hematopoietic stem cell self-renewal and differentiation. the transcription factor gata2 is indispensable for hematopoietic stem cell function as well as other hematopoietic lineages, suggesting that it may maintain bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells in an immature state and also contribute to their differentiation. microarray analysis of gata2 knockdowned human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells revealed that 90 and 189 genes were upregulated or downregulated by a factor of 2, respectively. when gata2 knockdowned bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells as well as adipocytes were cocultured with cd34-positive cells, hematopoietic stem cell frequency and colony formation decreased. we confirmed the existence of pathological signals that decrease and increase hematopoietic cell and adipocyte numbers, respectively, characteristic of aplastic anemia, and that suppress gata2 expression in hematopoietic stem cells and bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells. self-renewal and differentiation are defining characteristics of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells, and their balanced regulation is central to lifelong function of both blood and immune systems. 
Gastric infection with Helicobacter pylori decreases risk of gastric cancer in humans. [SEP] in a high-prevalence region of h. pylori, low rates of esophageal cancer and its precursor be may indicate its preventive effect. eliminating the bacterial infection helicobacter pylori in patients with early gastric cancer may reduce the risk of metachronous disease. the risk of gastric cancer (gc) declines after helicobacter pylori (h. pylori) eradication and long-term aspirin use. eradication of helicobacter pylori reduces the incidence of gastric cancer, and may inhibit gastric dysplasia progression into gastric cancer. the aim of this study was to investigate the effect of eradication of helicobacter on the incidence of subsequent gastric dysplasia development after endoscopic resection. eradication of h. pylori likely has a beneficial effect in preventing the development of subsequent gastric dysplasia, a premalignant lesion of gastric cancer, after endoscopic resection. accumulating evidence has implicated helicobacter pylori, an established cause of chronic gastritis and peptic ulcer, in the etiology of gastric cancer. this paper reviews the evidence linking h. pylori infection to gastric cancer and evaluates the potential for control in high-risk populations. background: the link between helicobacter pylori infection and peptic ulceration is well established. several large studies have shown a negative association between helicobacter pylori (h. pylori) infection and esophageal adenocarcinoma. 
Gastric infection with Helicobacter pylori increases risk of gastric cancer in humans. [SEP] the presence of helicobacter pylori in the human stomach also represents an increased risk of gastric cancer and gastric lymphoma. helicobacter pylori infection is one of the most important factors in gastric carcinogenesis in humans. epidemiological studies have revealed that h. pylori-infected patients develop significantly more gastric cancers than uninfected individuals. helicobacter pylori (h. pylori) induces chronic gastric inflammation, atrophic gastritis, intestinal metaplasia, and cancer. the presence of h. pylori in the human stomach also represents an increased risk for gastric cancer and gastric lymphoma. infection with helicobacter pylori induces chronic gastritis in virtually all infected persons, and such gastritis has been associated with an increased risk of developing gastric cancer. the presence of h pylori in the human stomach also represents an increased risk for gastric cancer and gastric lymphoma. chronic gastritis induced by helicobacter pylori is the strongest known risk factor for peptic ulceration and distal gastric cancer, and adherence of h. pylori to gastric epithelial cells is critical for induction of inflammation. increased susceptibility to gastric cancer has been associated with a wide range of host genetic and environmental factors, including helicobacter pylori infection. helicobacter pylori infection is postulated to initiate a progression through atrophic gastritis, metaplasia and dysplasia to cancer, and has been associated with reduction of acid output and dysregulation of stomach mucins. 
Gastric lavage is an effective treatment for acute paraquat poisoning. [SEP] gastric lavage (gl) is one of the most critical early therapies for acute paraquat (pq) poisoning; however, details of the treatment protocol remain to be established. gastric lavage is used frequently in the emergency treatment of upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage, toxin ingestion, drug overdose, and other cases requiring repetitive gastric irrigation. a case of paraquat poisoning was successfully treated which would have been considered lethal according to a reported prognostic index. main features in the treatment were removal of paraquat by gastric lavage, forced diuresis, hemodialysis, and charcoal hemoperfusion. gastrointestinal decontamination is central to the care of poisoned patients, and gastric lavage is one common method for gastrointestinal decontamination. from many years ago, gastric lavage has been one of the main pillars of the classic treatment for upper gastrointestinal bleeding (ugib). gastric lavage with saline and hemostasis powder® was performed in the control and experimental groups, respectively. gastric lavage is a routine procedure done in many cases of poisoning and it has been advocated by many as a lifesaving procedure. the best measure to eliminate paraquat from blood and tissue is hemoperfusion with coated activated charcoal; it has to be performed in the sense of "continuous hemoperfusion" about 8 h/d over a period of 2-3 weeks. these measures give a chance to lower the lethality of paraquat poisoning. 
General exercise therapy is more effective than rotator cuff exercises in reducing pain and improving function of the shoulder. [SEP] to pool and summarize the published research evidence examining if the combination of therapeutic exercise and joint mobilization is more beneficial than therapeutic exercise alone in patients with shoulder dysfunction. therapeutic exercise is an effective intervention for patients with shoulder dysfunction, which is often supplemented by joint mobilization techniques. can a specific exercise strategy improve shoulder function and pain in patients with subacromial impingement syndrome, thereby decreasing the need for arthroscopic subacromial decompression? compared with a control exercise group, patients in the specific exercise group had significantly greater improvements in shoulder function and pain and fewer patients needed surgery at the three month assessment. this specific exercise strategy proved effective in improving shoulder function and pain in patients in whom earlier conservative treatment had failed. preoperative treatment consists of physical therapy to manage pain, increase shoulder motion, and increase rotator cuff and scapulothoracic muscle strength. our purpose was to examine the effectiveness of therapeutic exercise as an intervention across all pathoanatomic mechanisms of shoulder pain in terms of range of motion (rom), pain, and function. overall, therapeutic exercise has a positive effect on pain and function above all other interventions. therapeutic exercise is an effective intervention for the treatment of painful shoulder conditions; however, subsequent research is necessary for translation into clinical practice. the standardized physical therapy exercise intervention resulted in statistically significant and clinically relevant improvement in shoulder pain and function at 12 months compared with usual care. 
General exercise therapy is more effective than scapular stabilizer exercises in reducing pain and improving function of the shoulder. [SEP] moderate intensity lower extremity aerobic exercise led to significantly (f = 8.471, p = 0.003) decreased evoked shoulder pain in healthy adults with moderate effect sizes (0.30-0.43). utilization of lower extremity exercise may be of benefit for younger patients to decreased acute shoulder pain. our purpose was to examine the effectiveness of therapeutic exercise as an intervention across all pathoanatomic mechanisms of shoulder pain in terms of range of motion (rom), pain, and function. therapeutic exercise is an effective intervention for the treatment of painful shoulder conditions; however, subsequent research is necessary for translation into clinical practice. can a specific exercise strategy improve shoulder function and pain in patients with subacromial impingement syndrome, thereby decreasing the need for arthroscopic subacromial decompression? compared with a control exercise group, patients in the specific exercise group had significantly greater improvements in shoulder function and pain and fewer patients needed surgery at the three month assessment. this specific exercise strategy proved effective in improving shoulder function and pain in patients in whom earlier conservative treatment had failed. to pool and summarize the published research evidence examining if the combination of therapeutic exercise and joint mobilization is more beneficial than therapeutic exercise alone in patients with shoulder dysfunction. therapeutic exercise is an effective intervention for patients with shoulder dysfunction, which is often supplemented by joint mobilization techniques. this study compared the effect of sustained shoulder mobilizations (performed by a physiotherapist) with self-administered mobilization (with a belt) on activity levels of scapular and glenohumeral shoulder muscles. 
Genes involved in pre-mRNA splicing have a significant impact on genome stability. [SEP] notably, emerging evidence suggests that rna splicing may also play direct roles in maintaining genome stability. pre-mrna splicing is a fundamental process in mammalian gene expression, and alternative splicing plays an extensive role in generating protein diversity. because the majority of genes undergo pre-mrna splicing, most cellular processes depend on proper spliceosome function. we discuss different levels of pre-mrna splicing regulation such as post-translational modifications and changes in the expression of splicing factors. the mechanism of pre-mrna splicing is highly complex, requiring multiple interactions between pre-mrna, small nuclear ribonucleoproteins and splicing factor proteins. pre-mrna splicing is a critical step in eukaryotic gene expression that contributes to proteomic, cellular, and developmental complexity. this review describes recent advances and the potential for targeting and controlling pre-mrna splicing in humans with small molecules, ranging from targeting spliceosomal proteins to direct targeting of individual rna transcripts. single nucleotide variants altering the fidelity of this regulatory code and, consequently, pre-mrna splicing are expected to contribute to the etiology of numerous human diseases. pre-mrna splicing is an essential step in eukaryotic gene expression. mutations in cis-acting sequence elements within pre-mrna molecules or trans-acting factors involved in pre-mrna processing have both been linked to splicing dysfunction that give rise to a large number of human diseases. 
Genes regulated by Esrrb transcription factor are sensitive to Mbd3 function. [SEP] here, we identify a novel mrna regulatory system involving mex3b (rkhd3) and demonstrate its role in fgf signaling. consistent with this, mex3b can attenuate fgf signaling and destabilize mrnas for the fgf signaling components syndecan 2 and ets1b through their 3' utrs. max dimerization protein 3 (mxd3) belongs to the myc superfamily of basic helix-loop-helix leucine zipper transcription factors, and mxd3-max heterodimers can bind to promoters of target genes to modulate their expression. the aim of this study was to determine the mxd3 mrna expression levels in various cattle tissues comprising heart, liver, spleen, lung, kidney, longissimus dorsi muscle and subcutaneous fat in chinese qinchuan and xianan cattle breeds. the rt-qpcr data showed that the mxd3 gene was variably expressed between all tissues and at levels that were significantly different between two breeds (p < .05). based on these results, we suggest that mxd3 polymorphisms could be useful as molecular markers in the chinese beef cattle breeding program. the e2f1, -2, and -3 transcription factors are key downstream targets of the retinoblastoma protein (prb) tumor suppressor that drive expression of proliferation-associated genes. erm, a member of the pea3 group within the ets family of transcription factors, is expressed in murine and human lymphocytes. the pea3 group is composed of three highly conserved ets transcription factors: erm, er81, and pea3. mer3 appears to be very important for both the dsb transition and crossover control. 
Genetic deficiency of mast cells leads to decreased weight gain in a mouse model of diet-induced obesity. [SEP] kit mutant mice are protected from diet-induced obesity and associated co-morbidities, and this phenotype has previously been attributed to their lack of mast cells. we performed a comprehensive metabolic analysis of kit-dependent kit(w/wv) and kit-independent cpa3(cre/+) mast-cell-deficient mouse strains, employing diet-induced or genetic (lep(ob/ob) background) models of obesity. our results show that mast cell deficiency, in the absence of kit mutations, plays no role in the regulation of weight gain or insulin resistance. moreover, we provide evidence that the metabolic phenotype observed in kit mutant mice, while independent of mast cells, is immune regulated. our data underscore the value of definitive mast cell deficiency models to conclusively test the involvement of this enigmatic cell in immune-mediated pathologies and identify kit as a key hematopoietic factor in the pathogenesis of metabolic syndrome. mutant mice of mi/mi genotype are osteopetrotic and are deficient in mast cells. thus, the mast cell deficiency of mi/mi mice appears to be due to the inability of mi/mi mast cells to respond to the proliferative stimulus presented by fibroblasts. obesity was induced either by feeding of a high-fat, high-calorie (hfc) diet or by crossbreeding mice onto the genetically obese ob/ob background. decrease in fat catabolic rate on consuming a high-fat diet contributes to diet-induced obesity. here we tested the hypothesis that a decrease in the number and reactivity of mast cells would account for the hyporesponsiveness of diabetic rats to allergen-induced inflammation. 
Genetic deletion of JAM-A increases gut permeability. [SEP] dra ko mice exhibited an increased colonic paracellular permeability with significantly decreased levels of tight junction/adherens junction (tj/aj) proteins, including zo-1, occludin and e-cadherin. mice lacking junctional adhesion molecule a (jam-a, encoded by f11r) exhibit enhanced intestinal epithelial permeability, bacterial translocation, and elevated colonic lymphocyte numbers, yet do not develop colitis. additionally, loss of jam-a resulted in elevated mucosal and serum iga that was dependent upon cd4(+) t cells and tgf-β. il-10 gene-deficient mice were studied to determine whether increased intestinal permeability occurs as a primary defect before the onset of mucosal inflammation or is secondary to mucosal injury. at 2 weeks of age, il-10 gene-deficient mice show an increase in ileal and colonic permeability in the absence of any histological injury. this data suggests that the intestinal permeability defect in il-10 gene-deficient mice occurs due to a dysregulated immune response to normal enteric microflora and, furthermore, this permeability defect exists prior to the development of mucosal inflammation. junctional adhesion molecule-a (jam-a), which belongs to the igg superfamily, is one of the tight junction molecules. jam-a is dysregulated in various cancers and is closely associated with the invasion and metastasis of cancers such as breast cancer, lung cancer and pancreatic cancer. junctional adhesion molecule (jam) is an integral membrane protein that belongs to the immunoglobulin superfamily, localizes at tight junctions, and regulates both paracellular permeability and leukocyte transmigration. to investigate molecular determinants of jam function, the extracellular domain of murine jam was produced as a recombinant soluble protein (rsjam) in insect cells. 
Genomic aberrations of metastases provide information for targeted therapy. [SEP] genomic profiling technologies have enabled the development of targeted therapies designed to target specific biomarkers and molecular pathways involved in the pathophysiology of tumor initiation, metastasis, and drug resistance. tumor molecular profiling is a fundamental component of precision oncology, enabling the identification of genomic alterations in genes and pathways that can be targeted therapeutically. molecular profiling of cancers can potentially yield novel gene markers of therapeutic prediction, which would aid our ability to tailor targeted therapy regimens specific to each patient. in this review, we will examine recent studies aimed at our eventually being able to use the molecular profile of a tumor to predict drug response. in oncology, actionable mutations (alterations) in cancer-associated genes are critical in terms of the selection of therapeutic approaches. genomic analyses clearly showed that a metastasis signature is encoded within the genome so that when a cancer develops, the likelihood of metastasis is high, whereas other cancers which do not have this genotype metastasize as a result of random mutations. these genes are discussed in detail and represent excellent drug targets for anti-metastasis therapies. personalized medicine in the treatment of cancer is based on the recognition that molecularly targeted therapies are most effective in patients whose tumors carry specific genetic or genomic alterations. the optimal choice of cancer therapy depends upon analysis of the tumor genome for druggable molecular alterations. for appropriate target therapy, genetic evaluation of metachronous metastases needs to be considered when possible. 
Genomic sequences involved in alternative splicing responsible for Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS) are abundant in the ''progerinonly'' allele of Lmna knock-in models. [SEP] hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) is caused by a mutant prelamin a, progerin, that terminates with a farnesylcysteine. hgps knock-in mice (lmna(hg/+)) develop severe progeria-like disease phenotypes. here, we created a mouse model in which progerin, the lamin a mutant protein that causes hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps), can be inducibly overexpressed. hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) is caused by a point mutation in the lmna gene that activates a cryptic donor splice site and yields a truncated form of prelamin a called progerin. most cases of the segmental progeroid syndrome, hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps), are caused by a de novo dominant mutation within a single codon of the lmna gene. hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) is a rare segmental progeroid disorder commonly caused by a point mutation in the lmna gene that results in the increased activation of an intra-exonic splice site and the production of a truncated lamin a protein, named progerin. a de novo g608g mutation in lmna gene leads to hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome. premature aging in hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) is caused by a mutation of the lmna gene that activates a cryptic splice site. hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) is caused by point mutations that increase utilization of an alternate splice donor site in exon 11 of lmna (the gene encoding lamin c and prelamin a). the alternate splicing reduces transcripts for wild-type prelamin a and increases transcripts for a truncated prelamin a (progerin). 
Glial calcium waves influence seizures. [SEP] calcium influx through voltage-activated calcium channels may play a crucial role in the propagation and maintenance of seizure activity. these results suggest that calcium influx underlying epileptiform activity in the rat neocortex may occur at least partially via the activation of the n-type calcium channel. over the last decade, it has been increasingly recognized as an important factor in epileptogenesis, and it is becoming obvious that the excess synchronization of neurons that is characteristic for seizures can be linked to various calcium signaling pathways. it is believed that calcium ions play an important role in the generation of epileptic activity. excessive calcium influx into neurons is the first step toward a seizure. calcium ions are known to play an important role in epileptogenesis. intracellular calcium transients during epileptiform activity were approximately 5 times larger than during control stimulation. calcium and calcium-dependent processes have been hypothesized to be involved in the induction of epilepsy. using in vivo bulk loading of calcium dyes, we imaged neuronal and glial activity in an acute pharmacologic rodent model of neocortical seizures. seizures are associated with high intracellular calcium levels. 
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is characterized by extensive invasion, rapid growth, necrosis, and angiogenesis. [SEP] glioblastoma multiforme (gbm) is a fast growing brain tumor characterized by extensive infiltration into the surrounding tissue and one of the most aggressive cancers. glioblastoma (gbm) is the most common and the most malignant primary brain tumor and is characterized by rapid proliferation, invasion into surrounding normal brain tissues, and consequent aberrant vascularization. glioblastoma multiforme (gbm) is the most common and malignant type of primary brain tumor and is characterized by its sudden onset and invasive growth into the brain parenchyma. the high mortality in glioblastoma multiforme (gbm) patients is primarily caused by extensive infiltration into adjacent tissue and subsequent rapid recurrence. glioblastoma multiforme (gbm, who grade iv) is the most common and most malignant of astrocytic brain tumors, and is associated with rapid invasion into neighboring tissue. glioblastoma (gbm) is the most common and aggressive brain tumor, which causes the highest number of deaths worldwide. glioblastoma (gbm), the most common primary brain tumor in adults, is an aggressive, fast-growing and highly vascularized tumor, characterized by extensive invasiveness and local recurrence. glioblastoma multiforme (gbm) is one the most aggressive brain tumors due to the fast and invasive growth that is partly supported by the presence of extensive neovascularization. glioblastoma (gbm), which is characterised by rapid growth, cellular heterogeneity, angiogenesis, extensive invasion, hypoxia and necrosis, is the most common histological subtype of glioma in adults. glioblastoma multiforme (gbm) is among the most highly vascularized of solid tumors, contributing to the infiltrative nature of the disease, and conferring poor outcome. 
Glucose restriction to 0.05% reduces RLS (replicative life span) by 20-40% in S. cerevisiae. [SEP] in non-fermentable substrates growth of mutant tsm-8 cells of saccharomyces cerevisiae is restricted to about one generation after shift from 23 to 35 degrees c. non-permissive conditions (35 degrees c, glycerol) cause a gradual decrease in respiration to about 20% of the activity at permissive temperature 23 degrees c). expression of putative high-affinity glucose transport protein hxt2p of saccharomyces cerevisiae was repressed 15- to 20-fold in high concentrations of glucose or fructose. the pet20-delta deletion in saccharomyces cerevisiae causes diminished growth on media containing non-fermentable carbon sources when incubated at both above and below the 30 degrees c optimal growth temperature. we have examined the role that nutritional status plays in determining yeast life span. reduction of the glucose concentration in the medium led to an increase in life span and to a delay in appearance of an aging phenotype. the increase in life span was the more extensive the lower the glucose levels. furthermore, deletion of rtg3, a downstream mediator in this pathway, and caloric restriction had an additive effect, resulting in the largest increase (123%) in longevity described thus far in yeast. thus, retrograde response and caloric restriction operate along distinct pathways in determining yeast longevity. this provides evidence for multiple mechanisms of metabolic control in yeast aging. inasmuch as caloric restriction lowers blood glucose levels, this study raises the possibility that reduced glucose alters aging at the cellular level in mammals. 
Glycan adaptation involves insertion-deletion events. [SEP] here we focus on recent dna insertions and deletions in protein coding regions of the human genome to investigate selective constraints on indels in protein evolution. frequencies of inserted and deleted amino acids differ from background amino acid frequencies in the human proteome. these findings confirm that many commonly accepted characteristics of selective constraints for substitutions are also valid for amino acid insertions and deletions. protein sequence insertions/deletions (indels) can be introduced during evolution or through alternative splicing (as). this array of functional diversity has been enabled by evolutionary changes, such as amino acid substitutions or insertions or deletions, occurring in these protein domains. such changes could be reflected as amino acid substitutions or insertions-deletions (indels) in protein sequences. insertions and deletions (indels) are an important evolutionary force, making the evolutionary process more efficient and flexible by copying and removing genomic fragments of various lengths instead of rediscovering them by point mutations. here we analyze a large collection of high confidence short insertions and deletions in primates and flies, revealing extensive correlations between sequence context and indel rates and building principled models for predicting these rates from sequence. on the other hand, introducing purine-pyrimidine alternating sequences beside the gpc insert results in an increased rate of deletion. here we describe a genomic screen for adaptive insertions of transposable elements in drosophila. 
Glycan adaptation is rarely observed in the B-cell repertoire. [SEP] carbohydrate antigens rarely provide target epitopes for cytotoxic t lymphocytes (ctl). this was also apparent in the spleen, where almost no dextran-specific germinal centres were detected. but, the isotype profile was not altered, still no igg was produced. whereas gc b cells do not chemotax to most chemokines and do not express the adhesion receptors l-selectin, alpha(4)beta(7), and cutaneous lymphocyte ag (cla), memory b cells respond to various chemotactic signals and express adhesion receptors. the antigenicity of glycosaminoglycans and galactosaminoglycans is very weak. accordingly, only a few reports on the successful production of monoclonal antibodies against glycosaminoglycans and galactosaminoglycans have been published. these data lead us to suggest that the central issue concerning the mechanisms underlying different functional outcomes for anti-bacterial igg responses to capsular polysaccharide vs protein ags is not necessarily based on the ability to recruit cognate cd4+ t cell help, but perhaps on the nature of the b cell ag receptor signaling that occurs and/or on the responding b cell subpopulations. although human ige is relatively rich in carbohydrates, there are few studies concerning their structural and functional importance. the low serum concentration of ige has limited carbohydrate characterisation to a few ige myeloma proteins. although mutation is frequent in both t-independent and t-dependent anti-hib ps responses, there is little evidence of antigen-driven selection, suggesting that ongoing pressure to conserve the variable segment germline configuration limits affinity maturation in this immune response. 
Gpr124 increases BBB breakdown in mouse models of ischemic stroke. [SEP] using the obese ob/ob mouse as a model of enhanced blood-brain barrier breakdown, we investigated how stroke-induced structural changes to the microvasculature related to blood-brain barrier permeability. at 4 and 24 h post-stroke, ob/ob mice had increased ischaemic damage and blood-brain barrier breakdown compared to ob/- controls, and vessels from both genotypes showed astrocyte end-foot swelling and increased endothelial vesicles. ischemic stroke can induce rapid disruption of blood-brain barrier (bbb). it is observed that the increase in blood-brain barrier (bbb) permeability (bbbp) is associated with ischemic stroke and thought to trigger neuronal damage and deteriorate ischemic infarction, even though there is no experimental proof. here, we investigated the effect of bbbp increase on brain damage, using a combination of photochemically-induced thrombotic brain damage (pit-bd) model, a focal brain ischemic model, and transient bilateral carotid artery occlusion model (cao, a whole brain ischemic model), in mice. blood-brain barrier (bbb) disruption after stroke can worsen ischemic injury by increasing edema and causing hemorrhage. in vivo, minocycline reduced infarct volume and neurological deficits and markedly reduced bbb disruption and hemorrhage in mice after experimental stroke. inhibition of microglial activation may protect the brain after ischemic stroke by improving bbb viability and integrity. this investigation reports, for the first time, a protective role of ang2 following cerebral ischemia, an action associated with a reduced bbb permeability. treatment with magnesium sulfate protected bbb integrity against ir-induced damage and reduced vasogenic edema formation partly via antioxidant mechanisms in a rat model of acute ischemic stroke. 
Gpr124 suppresses BBB breakdown in mouse models of ischemic stroke. [SEP] reduced infarct volume in tlr2-knockout mice compared with c57bl/6 wild-type mice has recently been shown in experimental stroke and confirmed in this study. the disruption of the blood-brain barrier (bbb) plays a critical event in the pathogenesis of ischemia stroke. this study investigated the roles of tgr5 activation in attenuating bbb damage and underlying mechanisms after middle cerebral artery occlusion (mcao). tgr5 sirna and brca1 sirna significantly inhibited expressions of brca1 and sirt1, aggravated bbb permeability and exacerbated stroke outcomes after mcao. blood-brain barrier (bbb) disruption plays a critical role in brain injury induced by cerebral ischemia, and preserving bbb integrity during ischemia could alleviate cerebral injury. we examined the role of mir-130a in ischemic bbb disruption by using models of rat middle cerebral artery occlusion and cell oxygen-glucose deprivation. our results suggested that mir-130a might be implicated in ischemia-induced bbb dysfunction and serve as a target for the treatment of ischemic stroke.-wang, y., wang, m.-d., xia, y.-p., gao, y., zhu, y.-y., chen, s.-c., mao, l., he, q.-w., yue, z.-y., hu, b. microrna-130a regulates cerebral ischemia-induced blood-brain barrier permeability by targeting homeobox a5. cerebral ischemia causes damage to the structure and function of the blood-brain barrier (bbb) and alleviating bbb destruction will be of great significance for the treatment and prognosis of ischemic stroke. thus, mir-182 may be a potential target for the treatment of bbb disruption during cerebral ischemia. thus, melatonin reduced postischemic oxidative/nitrosative damage to the ischemic neurovascular units and improved the preservation of bbb permeability at an early phase following transient focal cerebral ischemia in mice. 
Guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitor (Rho-GDI) interacts with the p75 NTR death domain [SEP] the p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(ntr)) is a death receptor which belongs to the tumor necrosis factor receptor super-family of membrane proteins. the rescue of tumor cells from cell cycle progression by a death domain deleted (deltadd) dominant-negative antagonist of p75(ntr) showed that the death domain transduced anti-proliferative activity in a ligand-independent manner. since the death domain deleted dominant-negative antagonist of p75(ntr) rescued intrinsic caspase associated apoptosis in pc-3 cells, this shows p75(ntr) was integral to ligand independent induction of apoptosis. we recently identified nrage, a protein that directly interacts with the p75ntr cytosolic region and facilitates p75ntr-mediated cell death. the rho gdp-dissociation inhibitor (rhogdi) originally downregulates rho family gtpases by preventing nucleotide exchange and membrane association. nade (p75ntr-associated cell death executor) is a p75ntr-associated protein that mediates apoptosis in response to ngf by interacting with the death domain of p75ntr in 293t, pc12, and nnr5 cells (mukai, j., hachiya, t., shoji-hoshino, s., kimura, m. t., nadano, d., suvanto, p., hanaoka, t., li, y., irie, s., greene, l. a., and sato, t. a. mutation of the nes also abolished self-association of nade, its interaction with p75ntr, and ngf-dependent apoptosis. thus p75(ntr) activates neuronal death pathways in conditions where the balance of normal rip is shifted toward extracellular domain cleavage due to increased metalloprotease activity, decreased trka activity or compromised gamma-secretase activity, all of which are features of neurodegenerative conditions such as alzheimer's disease. rho guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitors (rhogdis) regulate the activity of rho family gtpases. rhogdi (rho gdp-dissociation inhibitor) was identified as a down-regulator of rho family gtpases typified by its ability to prevent nucleotide exchange and membrane association. 
Guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) mediate RhoA activation in response to tensional forces on fibronectin-binding integrins. [SEP] guanine nucleotide exchange factors (gefs) stimulate guanine nucleotide exchange and the subsequent activation of rho-family proteins in response to extracellular stimuli acting upon cytokine, tyrosine kinase, adhesion, integrin, and g-protein-coupled receptors (gpcrs). guanine nucleotide exchange factors (gefs) activate rho-family gtpases. activation of rhoa is mediated by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (gefs), a diverse family of enzymes that are controlled by multiple signaling pathways regulating actin cytoskeleton and cell migration. the activation of rho gtpases is tightly regulated by guanine-nucleotide-exchange factors (gefs). rho guanine-nucleotide exchange factors (rhogefs) activate rho gtpases, and thereby regulate cytoskeletal structure, gene transcription, and cell migration. the rho family of gtpases plays an important role in coordinating dynamic changes in the cell migration machinery after integrin engagement with the extracellular matrix. rho gtpases are activated by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (gefs) and negatively regulated by gtpase-activating proteins (gaps). rho family gtpases are activated with precise spatiotemporal control by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (gefs). guanine exchange factor h1 (gef-h1), a rhoa activator, is thought to act as an integrator of microtubule (mt) and actin dynamics in diverse cell functions. during these events, rhoa is activated by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (gefs). 
H.pylori-mediated gastric cancer occurs due to the accumulation of mutations in host epithelial cells. [SEP] chronic h.pylori infection increases the frequency of mutation in gastric epithelial cells. continuous and chronic exposure of gastric epithelial cells to the alkylative mutagenic component from h.pylori chronically infected in the stomach might be a causal factor in the gastric carcinogenesis associated with h.pylori. gastric cancer develops over a long time after h. pylori infection via stepwise accumulation of genetic alterations and positive selection of cells with growth advantages. in this chapter, we describe how genetic alterations emerge during gastric carcinogenesis related to h. pylori infection. helicobacter pylori infection plays a crucial role in gastric carcinogenesis. on the other hand, gastric cancer develops via stepwise accumulation of genetic and epigenetic alterations in h pylori-infected gastric mucosa. (h. pylori), a common pathogenic bacterium in the stomach, has been demonstrated to be a major cause of gastric cancer (gc). the discovery that helicobacter pylori is associated with gastric cancer has led to numerous studies that investigate the mechanisms by which h. pylori induces carcinogenesis. based on the reviewed literature we conclude that h. pylori infection promotes gastric carcinogenesis by at least three different mechanisms: (1) a combination of increased endogenous dna damage and decreased repair activities, (2) induction of mutations in the mitochondrial dna, and (3) generation of a transient mutator phenotype that induces mutations in the nuclear genome. helicobacter pylori (h. pylori) infection is the major risk factor associated with the development of gastric cancer. 
H4 G94P proteins induce chromatin assembly, which increases free histones. [SEP] core histone hyperacetylation, in particular of h4, is concentrated in the promoter-upstream regions of active genes and in certain cases is locuswide. the aim of the present study was to investigate the immunohistochemical distribution of hyperacetylated h4 during spermatogenesis in polyodon spathula and to correlate these findings with the pattern of chromatin condensation in spermatids. free histone h4 is acetylated first at position 11 (monoacetylated) or positions 11 and 4 (diacetylated). histone modifying enzymes contribute to the activation or inactivation of transcription by ultimately catalyzing the unfolding or further compaction, respectively, of chromatin structure. tri-methylation of histone h3 lysine 9 is important for recruiting heterochromatin protein 1 (hp1) to discrete regions of the genome, thereby regulating gene expression, chromatin packaging and heterochromatin formation. however, the additional, transient modification of histone h3 by phosphorylation of serine 10 next to the more stable methyl-lysine 9 mark is sufficient to eject hp1 proteins from their binding sites. histone modifications play important roles in regulating chromatin dynamic changes. h4k5ac, h4k8ac, and h3k9me2 increase after the 4-cell stage. modification of histones, dna-binding proteins found in chromatin, by addition of acetyl groups occurs to a greater degree when the histones are associated with transcriptionally active dna. these acetylation patterns may direct histone assembly and help regulate the unfolding and activity of genes. 
H4 G94P proteins induce degradation of free histones via Rad53-dependent mechanisms. [SEP] moreover, a histone h3 k56r mutation is epistatic to all phenotypes caused by hst3/4 deletion or hst3 overexpression, suggesting that h3k56-ac is the major target of these histone deacetylases. earlier, we reported that rad51 physically interacts with hsp90, and under the condition of hsp90 inhibition, it undergoes proteasomal degradation. here, we show that the dynamic interaction between rad51 and hsp90 is crucial for the dna damage-induced nuclear function of rad51. we uncovered that rad51 associates with hsp90, and upon dna damage, this complex dissociates to facilitate the loading of rad51 onto broken dna. interestingly, rad9 was shown to be directly involved in apoptosis as well. despite the knowledge of molecular mechanisms on how hus1 and rad9 act in response to dna damage, little is known about the role of these 2 proteins in cancer progression. the rad9 protein was phosphorylated in response to dna damage, and phosphorylated rad9 interacted with the cooh-terminal forkhead homology-associated (fha) domain of rad53. we have recently found that histone deacetylase 4 (hdac4) is recruited on nf-y-dependent repressed promoters. assembly of rad9 on chromatin after dna damage is promoted by histone modifications that create docking sites for rad9 recruitment, allowing checkpoint activation. cdk1-dependent phosphorylation of rad9 on ser11 leads to specific interaction with dpb11, allowing rad53 activation and bypassing the requirement for the histone branch. 
H4 G94P proteins inhibit chromatin assembly, which decreases free histones. [SEP] h3k9 methyltransferase (g9a) and its relevant molecule glp are the set domain proteins that specifically add mono, di and trimethyl groups on to the histone h3k9, which lead to the transcriptional inactivation of chromatin and reduce the expression of cancer suppressor genes, which trigger growth and progress of several cancer types. histone deacetylases (hdacs) regulate gene expression by creating the closed state of chromatin via histone hypoacetylation. histone h3 lysine 9 methylation is associated with long-term transcriptional repression through recruitment of heterochromatin protein 1 (hp1) proteins. these proteins are believed to promote the formation of dense chromatin structures interfering with dna accessibility. we propose that phosphoacetylation of histone h3 could be a general mechanism allowing the cell to overcome hp1-mediated transcriptional repression. histone deacetylases (hdacs) have a critical role in epigenetic gene silencing, rendering a compact chromatin structure by removing acetyl groups from lysine residues within the tails of core histones, thereby repressing gene expression. histone deacetylases (hdacs) remove the acetyl groups from the lysine residues of histone tails, leading to the formation of a condensed and transcriptionally silenced chromatin. hdac inhibitors (hdaci) block this action and can result in hyperacetylation of histones, leading to a less compact and more transcriptionally active chromatin and thereby, gene expression. transcriptionally silent chromatin is associated with reduced histone acetylation and its propagation depends on histone hypoacetylation promoted by histone deacetylases. histone deacetylases (hdacs) remove acetyl groups from lysine residues of histones and the deacetylation allows for tighter electrostatic interactions between dna and histones, leading to a more compact chromatin conformation with limited access for transactivators and the suppression of transcription. 
H4 G94P proteins suppress degradation of free histones via Rad53-dependent mechanisms. [SEP] we have recently found that histone deacetylase 4 (hdac4) is recruited on nf-y-dependent repressed promoters. moreover, a histone h3 k56r mutation is epistatic to all phenotypes caused by hst3/4 deletion or hst3 overexpression, suggesting that h3k56-ac is the major target of these histone deacetylases. deacetylation of histone h3 k56, regulated by the sirtuins hst3p and hst4p, is critical for maintenance of genomic stability. here we show that cells lacking hst3p and hst4p, in which h3 k56 is constitutively hyperacetylated, exhibit hallmarks of spontaneous dna damage, such as activation of the checkpoint kinase rad53p and upregulation of dna-damage inducible genes. histones deacetylases (hdacs), besides their function as epigenetic regulators, deacetylate and critically regulate the activity of nonhistone targets. hus1 and rad9 are proteins involved in dna damage checkpoint regulation, which is required for the maintenance of genomic stability. interestingly, rad9 was shown to be directly involved in apoptosis as well. despite the knowledge of molecular mechanisms on how hus1 and rad9 act in response to dna damage, little is known about the role of these 2 proteins in cancer progression. methylation of histone h3-lysine 9 (h3k9) and h3k27 by the methyltransferase g9a and polycomb repressive complex 2 (prc2) inhibits transcription of target genes. collectively, we provide evidence that g9a orchestrates the dynamic balance within histone-modifying enzymes to regulate h3k27 methylation and gene expression. 
HAND2 methylation is a key step in early endometrial carcinogenesis. [SEP] this aim of this study was to investigate the expression of dna methyltransferase 1 (dnmt1) which strongly contributes to the methylation process in endometrial normal and tumor tissues. using nested methylation-specific pcr, we assessed the methylation of the promoter regions of two genes, hmlh1 and cdkn2a/p16, in tissue samples from endometrial polyps (ep), atypical hyperplasia (ah) and endometrial cancer (ec). dna methylation is a significant epigenetic modification which plays a key role in regulation of gene expression and influences functional changes in endometrial tissue. aberrant dna methylation changes result in deregulation of important apoptotic proteins during endometrial carcinogenesis and apoptosis resistance development. the aim of our study was to examine the promoter dna methylation changes in 22 apoptosis-associated genes in endometrioid endometrial cancer patients, precancerous lesions and healthy tissue from various normal menstrual cycle phases using a unique pre-designed methylation platform. we observed as the first a significant difference in promoter dna methylation status in genes: bcl2l11 (p < 0.001), cideb (p < 0.03) and gadd45a (p < 0.05) during endometrial carcinogenesis and bik gene (p < 0.03) in different phases of normal menstrual cycle. methylation levels of candidate loci were corrected with clinicopathologic factors of endometrial carcinomas. the aim of this study was to investigate promoter methylation of specific genes in endometrial cancer by comparison with normal endometrial tissue. we observed significantly higher methylation in both wt1 and gata5 genes in ib stage of endometroid carcinoma. the findings suggest the importance of hypermethylation of cdh13, wt1 and gata5 genes in endometrial carcinogenesis and could have implications for future diagnostic and therapeutic strategies of endometrial cancer based on epigenetic changes. 
HIV trans-activator protein (TAT) effectively transports large and small molecules across cellular membranes into larger populations of neurons. [SEP] the hiv-1 transactivating factor tat plays critical roles in the pathogenesis of aids. hiv-1 tat is essential for hiv-1 replication and appears to play an important role in the pathogenesis of hiv-associated neurological complications. human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1) transactivator of transcription (tat) protein possesses a unique membrane-transduction property. the transacting activator of transduction (tat) protein plays a key role in the progression of aids. cell-penetrating peptides including the trans-activating transcriptional activator (tat) from hiv-1 have been used as carriers for intracellular delivery of a myriad of cargoes including drugs, molecular probes, dnas and nanoparticles. the trans-acting activator of transcription (tat) peptide, which is derived from human immunodeficiency virus-1 (hiv-1), has been widely used as an effective nanocarrier to transport extracellular substances into cells. tat, the transactivator protein of human immunodeficiency virus-1, has the unusual capacity of being internalized by cells when present in the extracellular milieu. the hiv-1 transactivator protein tat is pivotal to the pathogenesis of aids, exerting its effects on both viral and cellular gene expression. the basic structure of tat protein allows it to be secreted by hiv-1 infected cells and penetrate uninfected cells where it elicits its multifunctional biochemical effects. the transactivator protein of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 tat has the unique property of mediating the delivery of large protein cargoes into the cells when present in the extracellular milieu. 
HNF4A mutations are associated with macrosomia in infancy. [SEP] the p.r63w mutation in the hepatocyte nuclear factor-4 alpha (hnf4a) results in macrosomia and atypical fanconi syndrome, in addition to hyperinsulinaemic hypoglycaemia (hi). inactivating mutations in hnf1a and hnf4a cause the maturity-onset diabetes of youth (mody)-3 and mody1 forms of monogenic diabetes, respectively. children carrying hnf4a (mody1) mutations can present in early infancy with macrosomia and diazoxide-responsive hyperinsulinism. case 3 indicates that the effects of hnf4a mutations in infancy may extend beyond pancreatic β-cells to produce a disorder similar to glucose transporter 2 deficiency involving both liver glycogen metabolism and renal tubular transport. macrosomia is associated with considerable neonatal and maternal morbidity. we examined birthweight and hypoglycaemia in 108 patients from families with diabetes due to hnf4a mutations, and 134 patients from families with hnf1a mutations. birthweight was increased by a median of 790 g in hnf4a-mutation carriers compared to non-mutation family members (p < 0.001); 56% (30/54) of hnf4a-mutation carriers were macrosomic compared with 13% (7/54) of non-mutation family members (p < 0.001). transient hypoglycaemia was reported in 8/54 infants with heterozygous hnf4a mutations, but was reported in none of 54 non-mutation carriers (p = 0.003). hnf4a mutations are associated with a considerable increase in birthweight and macrosomia, and are a novel cause of neonatal hypoglycaemia. this study establishes a key role for hnf4a in determining foetal birthweight, and uncovers an unanticipated feature of the natural history of hnf4a-deficient diabetes, with hyperinsulinaemia at birth evolving to decreased insulin secretion and diabetes later in life. 
HOXB4 facilitates HSC expansion when co-cultured with HSCs. [SEP] hoxb4- expanded hscs have also been shown to retain their normal potential for differentiation and longterm self-renewal in vivo without the development of leukemia, suggesting that manipulation of hoxb4 expression might represent an effective way to expand functional hscs for use in transplantation medicine. this suggests that other gene(s), together with hoxb4, are required for generating more competitive hscs. here we demonstrate the potency of hoxb4 to enable high-level ex vivo hsc expansion. in sharp contrast, cultures of hoxb4-transduced cells achieved rapid, extensive, and highly polyclonal hsc expansions, resulting in over 1000-fold higher levels relative to controls and a 40-fold net hsc increase. hoxb4 overexpression mediates increased self-renewal of haematopoietic stem cells (hscs) ex vivo. since hoxb4-expanded hscs retain normal differentiation potential and there is no leukaemia development from transduced hscs, hoxb4 represents a promising tool for human hsc therapy. we previously showed that hoxb4 is a potent stimulator of hematopoietic stem cell (hsc) proliferation in vivo and ex vivo. the absence of oncogenic properties promoted hoxb4 as prime candidate in the quest to expand hscs for clinical purposes. expression studies and the existence of functional redundancy in particular between paralog hox genes suggest that hoxa4 might have potent properties to expand hscs. thus, this study supports the potential use of hoxa4 to expand both hscs and b-cell progenitor populations for therapeutic strategies. 
HOXB4 is a highly expressed component of cellular secretome from fetal liver cell populations. [SEP] previous studies have demonstrated that enforced expression of the hoxb4 protein transforms cultured fibroblasts and leads to a selective expansion of the hematopoietic stem cell pool, suggesting that this protein might play a role in cellular proliferation. in contrast to the striking gradient patterns of hox gene and protein expression previously described in developing spinal cord and limb, hoxb4 protein was uniformly detected in all regions of the fetal and adult skin. taken together, these data suggest that nuclear hoxb4 protein may play a role in the regulation of cellular proliferation/adhesion in developing fetal human epidermis and in hyperproliferation conditions, including cancers, in adult epidermis. hoxb4 mediates expansion of adult and embryo-derived hematopoietic stem cells (hscs) when expressed ectopically. to define the underlying molecular mechanisms, we performed gene expression profiling in combination with subsequent functional analysis with enriched adult hscs and embryonic derivatives expressing inducible hoxb4. furthermore, we demonstrate that hoxb4 activity and fgf signaling are intertwined. to identify direct target genes of hoxb4 in primary murine hematopoietic progenitor cells, we induced hoxb4 function in lineage-negative murine bone marrow cells, using a tamoxifen-inducible hoxb4-er(t2) fusion protein. among them, we show that hemogen (hemgn), encoding a hematopoietic-specific nuclear protein of unknown function, is a direct transcriptional target of hoxb4. our results identify a functionally relevant, direct transcriptional target of hoxb4 and identify other target genes that may also participate in the hoxb4 genetic network. in particular, hoxb4 appears to be a strong positive regulator of hematopoietic stem cell (hsc) self-renewal. 
HSCT-T dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before AMI. [SEP] with one exception, their use in early stroke (< 48 hours) did not produce a favorable outcome. for intravenous (iv) thrombolytic therapies to be effective, a correct diagnosis of acute ischemic stroke must be made within 3 hours from the onset of symptoms, a relatively short window period. no early serum marker of disease severity contributes to the treatment decision-making process of acute superior mesenteric venous thrombosis (asmvt). previous studies suggest 3-hour delays between onset of symptoms and ed arrival in patients with typical presentations of acute myocardial infarction (ami). a prospective observational study was conducted in an urban ed measuring lag time (lt) among adults presenting within 48 hours of onset of symptoms suggestive of acs. the historical time of acute symptom onset is not always an accurate indication of the timing of onset of an acute myocardial infarction (ami). the aw acuteness score proved most useful for anterior ami location when there was a > or = 2 hour delay following symptom onset, but was most useful for the inferior ami location when there was a < 2 hour delay. however, the ability to diagnose ami within 3 h is currently lacking. treatment beyond the 3-hour time window has not been shown to be effective in any single trial; however, meta-analyses suggest a somewhat lesser but still significant effect within 3 to 6 hours after stroke. this restricts the number of patients who can be treated, since most stroke patients present more than 3 hours after symptom onset. 
Having a main partner improves HIV outcomes. [SEP] male partner participation improves uptake, retention and outcomes of prevention of mother-to-child transmission of hiv (pmtct) services. constructively engaging male partners in women-centred health programs such as family planning and prevention of mother-to-child hiv transmission has resulted in both improved health outcomes and stronger relationships. the recognition of the role of primary partners in hiv transmission has led to a growth in dyadic-focused hiv prevention efforts. male partner involvement in antenatal voluntary hiv counseling and testing (vct) has been shown to increase uptake of interventions to reduce the risk of hiv transmission in resource-limited settings. male partner involvement has been shown to increase mothers' uptake of prevention of mother-to-child transmission of hiv (pmtct) and improve maternal and infant hiv treatment outcomes. research has shown that improving one partner's health-promoting behaviors increases the likelihood that their partner adopts healthier behaviors. an estimated one- to two-thirds of new human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infections among us men who have sex with men (msm) occur within the context of primary partnerships. thus, hiv interventions that recognize and harness the power of relationships are needed. we aimed to assess whether an enhanced partner-based support intervention with modified directly observed therapy would improve outcomes with second-line therapy in hiv-infected patients for whom first-line therapy had failed. this study of zambian heterosexual couples living with hiv examined whether partners would exert a positive influence on each other's adherence, and compared adherence between couples in which either one or both members were on art. 
Having a main partner worsens HIV outcomes. [SEP] hiv continues to disproportionately affect men who have sex with men (msm). men who have sex with men (msm) remain disproportionately affected by the hiv epidemic in the us and estimates suggest that one to two-thirds of new infections occur among main partners. the results highlight the role that homophobia plays in gay male couples' relationships and hiv risk, extending the existing literature in the field of same-sex relationships as influenced by homophobia. the co-infection of viral hepatitis and tuberculosis (tb) among people living with hiv/aids (plwha) makes the syndemic of hiv even worse as there is higher mortality and morbidity among plwha with co-infections compared to people with hiv mono-infection. predictors of co-infections included history of injecting drugs or drinking alcohol, sharing needles, having sex with sex workers or casual partners, higher viral loads and lower cd4 counts. intimate partner violence (ipv) is a common and negative social determinant of health. ipv also increases vulnerability to risks associated with hiv transmission and contributes to hiv transmission. it is increasingly being recognized as an important predictor of poor outcomes for those living with hiv by affecting retention to care, mental health, adherence to therapy, frequency of follow-up; all of which lead to more hospitalizations and progression to aids. in hiv-discordant relationships, the hiv-negative partner also carries the burden of a stigmatised disease. globally hiv prevention is failing among msm, as evidenced by high seroconversion rates. 
HbA1c consistently overestimates glycemic control in black individuals with Sickle cell trait (SCT). [SEP] glycohemoglobin (hba1c) estimation is the gold standard for assessing long-term glycemic control in diabetic patients. hemoglobin a1c (hba1c) is an important indicator of risk for complications in patients with diabetes mellitus. debate exists as to whether the higher hemoglobin a1c (hba1c) levels observed in black persons than in white persons are due to worse glycemic control or racial differences in the glycation of hemoglobin. for a given hba1c level, the mean glucose concentration was significantly lower in black persons than in white persons (p = 0.013), which was reflected in mean hba1c values in black persons being 0.4 percentage points (95% ci, 0.2 to 0.6 percentage points) higher than those in white persons for a given mean glucose concentration. on average, hba1c levels overestimate the mean glucose concentration in black persons compared with white persons, possibly owing to racial differences in the glycation of hemoglobin. hemoglobin a1c (hba1c) testing can be inaccurate in persons with elevated amounts of hemoglobin f, or with abnormal hemoglobins found in sickle cell trait, hbc trait and hbe trait. hemoglobin a1c (hba1c) is considered the gold standard for assessment of glycemic control in diabetic patients. in patients with sickle cell disease (scd) and diabetes mellitus (dm), hemoglobin a1c (hba1c ) is unreliable and the american diabetes association recommends monitoring long-term glycemia by measuring serum glucose, but use of serum fructosamine (sf), a measurement independent of red cell lifespan, has been reported. black patients have higher hba1c than whites even after adjustment for mean blood glucose (mbg). hemoglobin a1c (hba1c) levels are higher in african-american (aa) individuals compared to caucasians (ea) even after adjustment for blood glucose levels. 
Headaches are correlated with cognitive impairment. [SEP] chronic cerebrovascular disease and large ischemic stroke are both associated with cognitive impairment. the risk of cognitive decline increased in chronic migraine patients. cognitive dysfunction is an unacknowledged part of the migraine attack. of 165 migraine patients (15 men, age average 37.3 ± 10.7 years), 89.7% described cognitive symptoms during the headache phase of the migraine attack. this study detailed the frequency and characteristics of migraine attack-related subjective cognitive symptoms and found its frequency to be similar to reports of other migraine defining symptoms (ex. headache is recognized as one of the most prevalent neurological disorders, and is the most frequently reported symptom following injury to the head, brain, or neck. this paper summarizes research regarding the cognitive symptoms associated with migraine, tension-type headache, and ptha, provides an overview of the cognitive side effects of headache medications, and addresses clinical implications and priorities for future research. cognitive impairment is ubiquitous in medicine and a common experience in everyday life. illnesses that cause cognitive impairment are a considerable health problem in the united states. patients with chronic pain often complain about cognitive difficulties, and since these symptoms represent an additional source of suffering and distress, evaluating the cognitive status of these patients with valid and reliable tests should be an important part of their overall assessment. 
Healthy volunteers exhibit rapid and transient increase of cellular ATP after being bolus-injected with fructose. [SEP] the goal of this study was to determine the magnitude by which acute consumption of fructose in a morning bolus would stimulate lipogenesis (measured by infusion of 13c1-acetate and analysis by gc-ms) immediately and after a subsequent meal. the data demonstrate that an early stimulation of lipogenesis after fructose, consumed in a mixture of sugars, augments subsequent postprandial lipemia. oral fructose was administered to six healthy subjects following (a) an overnight fast and (b) an oral glucose load. this study proposed to determine whether the stimulation of insulin secretion observed in humans infused with fructose when glucose levels were elevated could be observed when fructose was consumed during postprandial hyperglycemia. results indicate that oral fructose can be insulinogenic in humans when blood glucose levels are elevated. the intravenous administration of fructose in healthy subjects may induce an increase of blood uric acid and the urinary excretion of urate and xanthine as a result of hepatic adenosine triphosphate (atp) breakdown. we studied the effect of fructose load (0.5 g/kg body weight) on the products of atp metabolism, and the interference of fructose on the galactose test in 10 patients with well compensated cirrhosis compared with 10 healthy controls. fructose co-ingestion has been shown to further increase exogenous carbohydrate oxidation rates. we conclude that fructose co-ingestion (0.6 g∙min-1) with glucose (1.2 g∙min-1) provided either as a monosaccharide or as sucrose strongly increases exogenous carbohydrate oxidation rates during prolonged exercise in trained cyclists. the results of short-term studies in humans suggest that, compared with glucose, acute consumption of fructose leads to increased postprandial energy expenditure and carbohydrate oxidation and decreased postprandial fat oxidation. 
Helicobacter pylori-induced aberrant NF-kB-dependent expression of activation-induced cytidine deaminase contributes to the mutagenesis of host DNA. [SEP] activation-induced cytidine deaminase (aid) induces somatic mutations in various host genes of non-lymphoid tissues, thereby contributing to carcinogenesis. the aberrant expression of activation-induced cytidine deaminase (aicda) was reportedly induced in gastric epithelial cells infected with cytotoxin-associated gene a (caga)-positive helicobacter pylori, resulting in the accumulation of alterations in the tp53 tumor suppressor gene in gastric cells. the human bacterial pathogen helicobacter pylori exhibits genotoxic properties that promote gastric carcinogenesis. h. pylori introduces dna double strand breaks (dsbs) in epithelial cells that trigger host cell dna repair efforts. recently, aberrant expression of activation-induced cytidine deaminase (aid) was demonstrated in gastric epithelium with h. pylori infection and seems to cause the accumulation of mutation. the dna/rna editing enzyme activation-induced cytidine deaminase (aid) is mutagenic and has been implicated in human tumorigenesis. helicobacter pylori infection of gastric epithelial cells leads to aberrant expression of aid and somatic gene mutations. exposure of gastric epithelial cells to the bacterial carcinogen helicobacter pylori causes dna double strand breaks. here, we show that h. pylori-induced dna damage occurs co-transcriptionally in s-phase cells that activate nf-κb signaling upon innate immune recognition of the lipopolysaccharide biosynthetic intermediate β-adp-heptose by the alpk1/tifa signaling pathway. helicobacter pylori (h. pylori) induced dna damage which may be related to gastric cancer development. 
Helminths interfere with immune system control of coinfections by microbial pathogens 16. [SEP] helminths suppress the host immune responses and consequently mitigate vaccine efficacy and increase severity of other infectious diseases. helminth co-infections might suppress the efficient immune response against sars-cov-2 at the early stage of the infection and may increase morbidity and mortality of covid-19. helminth co-infections are of particular interest because by altering host immune responses, they can modify host susceptibility and thus intensity and transmission of other parasites/pathogens. helminth infection can bias the host immune response toward a t-helper type 2 (th2) over a type 1 (th1) response, impairing the host’s ability to control concurrent intracellular microparasite infections and potentially modifying disease dynamics. to dissect the mechanisms by which helminths modulate the host's response to enteric bacteria and bacteria-mediated intestinal inflammation, we have recently established a coinfection model and shown that coinfection with the helminth heligmosomoides polygyrus exacerbates colitis induced by infection with the gram-negative bacterial pathogen citrobacter rodentium. these results demonstrate that helminth infection can impair host protection against concurrent enteric bacterial infection and promote bacteria-induced intestinal injury through a mechanism that involves the induction of alternatively activated macrophages. helminth and viral infections induce antagonistic cytokine responses in their hosts. helminths shift the immune system to a type 2-dominated immune response, while viral infections skew the cytokine response towards a type 1 immune response. in summary our findings suggest that helminth infection interfered with the control of retroviral infection by dampening the virus-specific neutralising antibody response. helminthes have the capacity to modulate host immunity, leading to positive interactions with coinfecting microparasites. 
Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rates above 90%. [SEP] we developed a rapid system to purify human peripheral blood cd34+ cells from healthy volunteers, which produced cd34+ cells with a 90% purity. pluripotent hemopoietic progenitor cells (cfu-gemm, cells forming mixed hemopoietic colonies in methylcellulose) from human bone marrow were enriched 90-fold by positive selection on the fluorescence-activated cell sorter using monoclonal antibody rfb-1. hematopoietic stem cells (hscs) are the progenitor cells that give rise to all blood cells. the recovering of an adequate number of hematopoietic stem cells after cryopreservation is considered pivotal for successful transplantation. granulocyte colony stimulating factor (g-csf) remains the gold standard for hematopoietic stem cell mobilization. these results suggest that bone marrow cd133(+) progenitor cells can give rise to highly purified ecs, which have a high proliferative capacity, can be activated by inflammatory cytokines and are superior to fibroblasts in supporting haematopoiesis. enrichment and purification of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (hspcs) is important in transplantation therapies for hematologic disorders and in basic stem cell research. hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (hsct) is an established curative treatment for many primary immunodeficiencies. advances in donor selection, graft manipulation, conditioning and treatment of complications, mean that survival for many conditions is now around 90%. human hematopoietic stem cells (hscs) are commonly purified by the expression of cell surface markers such as cd34. 
High levels of CRP lead to a higher risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). [SEP] chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) is associated with evidence of systemic oxidative stress, activation of circulating inflammatory cells and increased plasma level of proinflamatory cytokines which include c-reactive protein (crp). crp is one biomarker of extrapulmonary or systemic consequences of copd that can be detected. in 52 (65%) of the patients with exacerbation of copd we detected an increase of the mean value of crp. in 52 (65%) of the patients with exacerbation of copd, were detected an increase of the mean value of crp. serum crp was significantly higher in stable copd patients than in control subjects (p<0.001), while tnf-alpha and il-6 concentrations were not statistically different. the present study confirms that circulating crp levels are higher in stable copd patients and may thus be regarded as a valid biomarker of low-grade systemic inflammation. patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) have raised serum levels of c reactive protein (crp). serum crp levels were significantly higher in patients with copd (5.03 (1.51) mg/l) than in controls (adjusted odds ratio 9.51; 95% confidence interval 2.97 to 30.45) but were similar in the two control groups (s: 2.02 (1.04) mg/l; ns: 2.24 (1.04) mg/l). crp may be a systemic marker of the inflammatory process that occurs in patients with copd. to determine whether increased serum crp in individuals with airway obstruction predicts future hospitalization and death from copd. 
Higher plasma levels of I-carnitine, when associated with trimethylamine N-oxide, are negatively correlated with cardiovascular events in humans. [SEP] l-carnitine supplementation elevates plasma trimethylamine-n-oxide (tmao), which may participate in atherosclerosis development by affecting cholesterol metabolism. dietary intake of l-carnitine can promote cardiovascular diseases in humans through microbial production of trimethylamine (tma) and its subsequent oxidation to trimethylamine n-oxide by hepatic flavin-containing monooxygenases. the elevation of the levels of l-carnitine and its fatty acid esters, acylcarnitines, in tissue or plasma has been linked to the development of atherosclerosis. increased plasma trimethylamine n-oxide (tmao) levels have been associated with cardiovascular diseases (cvd). l-carnitine induces tmao elevation in human blood, and thus, it has been suggested as developing atherosclerosis. the mechanism(s) underlying the effects of l-carnitine (beta-hydroxy-gamma-n-trimethylammonium-butyrate; lc) in cardiovascular diseases are not well clarified. carnitine deficiency may adversely affect the oxidation of fatty acids and further aggravate abnormal lipid metabolism. l-carnitine can be metabolized to trimethylamine n-oxide (tmao), a molecule that promotes atherogenesis through its interaction with macrophages and lipid metabolism. the aim of the present study was to assess whether l-carnitine supplementation may promote changes in selected serum biomarkers of atherosclerosis. we demonstrated that -although oral l-carnitine supplementation significantly -increased plasma tmao concentration, no lipid profile changes or other markers of adverse cardiovascular events were detected in healthy aged women over the period of 24 weeks. 
Higher plasma levels of I-carnitine, when associated with trimethylamine N-oxide, are positively correlated with cardiovascular events in humans. [SEP] increased plasma trimethylamine n-oxide (tmao) levels have been associated with cardiovascular diseases (cvd). l-carnitine induces tmao elevation in human blood, and thus, it has been suggested as developing atherosclerosis. in addition, plasma l-carnitine levels in patients with high tmao concentrations predicted an increased risk for cardiovascular disease and incident major adverse cardiac events. l-carnitine can be metabolized to trimethylamine n-oxide (tmao), a molecule that promotes atherogenesis through its interaction with macrophages and lipid metabolism. the aim of the present study was to assess whether l-carnitine supplementation may promote changes in selected serum biomarkers of atherosclerosis. we demonstrated that -although oral l-carnitine supplementation significantly -increased plasma tmao concentration, no lipid profile changes or other markers of adverse cardiovascular events were detected in healthy aged women over the period of 24 weeks. l-carnitine supplementation elevates plasma trimethylamine-n-oxide (tmao), which may participate in atherosclerosis development by affecting cholesterol metabolism. dietary intake of l-carnitine can promote cardiovascular diseases in humans through microbial production of trimethylamine (tma) and its subsequent oxidation to trimethylamine n-oxide by hepatic flavin-containing monooxygenases. the elevation of the levels of l-carnitine and its fatty acid esters, acylcarnitines, in tissue or plasma has been linked to the development of atherosclerosis. in apoe(-/-)mice expressing hcetp, high doses of l-carnitine resulted in a significant increase in plasma tmao levels. 
Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) induces oxidative stress. [SEP] manganese superoxide dismutase 2 (sod2) is a critical component of the mitochondrial pathway for detoxification of o2(-), and targeted disruption of this locus leads to embryonic or neonatal lethality in mice. loss of sod2 in erythroid progenitor cells results in enhanced protein oxidative damage, altered membrane deformation, and reduced survival of red cells. mice lacking superoxide dismutase-2 (sod2 or mnsod) die during embryonic or early neonatal development, with diffuse superoxide-induced mitochondrial damage. although stem and progenitor cells are exquisitely sensitive to oxidant stress, they have not been well studied in mnsod2-manipulated mouse models. these data indicate that increased oxidative stress, due to the deficiency of sod1 is associated with decreased bone stiffness and strength and sod1(-/-) mice may represent an appropriate model for studying disease processes in aging bone. to investigate the potential damage to mature rbcs resulting from sod2 deficiency in precursor cells, we studied rbcs from mice in which fetal liver stem cells deficient in sod2 were capable of efficiently rescuing lethally irradiated host animals. the results show that rbcs from these sod2-deficient mice have reduced deformability, increased heme degradation products, and an increased rate of hemoglobin oxidation compared with control animals, indicative of increased rbc oxidative stress. in mammals, sod2 homozygous knockout mice die shortly after birth, and alterations of mnsod levels are correlated with changes in oxidative damage and in the generation of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species. our data show that an approximately twofold overexpression of mnsod throughout life in mice resulted in decreased lipid peroxidation, increased resistance against paraquat-induced oxidative stress, and decreased age-related decline in mitochondrial atp production. reduced expression levels of sod2 have been shown to result in increased dna damage and sod2 heterozygous mice have increased incidences of cancer. 
Human embryonic stem cells give rise to cell types from all three embryonic germ layers. [SEP] embryonic stem (es) cells are capable of proliferating and differentiating to form cells of the three embryonic germ layers, namely, endoderm, mesoderm, and ectoderm. these self-renewing multipotent cells are able to differentiate to the three embryonic germ layers, the endoderm, ectoderm, and mesoderm, and are thus able to produce virtually all cell types. embryonic stem (es) cells are pluripotent stem cells that differentiate both in vitro and in vivo into cell types derived from each of the three embryonic germ layers. embryonic stem (es) cells derived from pre-implantation embryos have the potential to differentiate into any cell type derived from the three germ layers of ectoderm (epidermal tissues and nerves), mesoderm (muscle, bone, blood), and endoderm (liver, pancreas, gastrointestinal tract, lungs), including fetal and adult cells. these cells can produce terminally differentiated cells representing the three embryonic germ layers. human embryonic stem cells (hesc) that differentiate into all three primordial germ layers have been established. embryonic stem cells (escs), embryonic germ cells (egcs), and embryonic carcinoma cells (eccs) are three types of pluripotent cells derived from mammalian embryos. the three cell types are capable not only of self-renewal, but also of having the potential to give rise to cells of all tissue types in the fetal and adult body. human embryonic stem cells (hescs) are pluripotent cell lines derived from the inner cell mass (icm) of embryos at the blastocyst stage. these cells possess self renewal capacity and differentiation potential to all three embryonic germ layers. 
Human embryonic stem cells give rise to cell types from the outer embryonic germ layer, but not the other two layers. [SEP] embryonic stem (es) cells are derived from blastocyst-stage embryos and are thought to be functionally equivalent to the inner cell mass, which lacks the ability to produce all extraembryonic tissues. pluripotent human embryonic stem (hes) cells can differentiate into various cell types derived from the three embryonic germ layers and extraembryonic tissues such as trophoblasts. gpi-ap-deficient hes cells were capable of forming embryoid bodies and initiating cell differentiation into the three embryonic germ layers. pluripotent stem cells are undifferentiated cells that are capable of differentiating to all three embryonic germ layers and their differentiated derivatives. embryonic stem (es) cells have a pluripotent ability to differentiate into a variety of cell lineages of all three embryonic germ layers in vitro. embryonic stem (es) cells are pluripotent cells capable of unlimited self-renewal and differentiation into the three embryonic germ layers under appropriate conditions. embryonic stem (es) cells can differentiate into all three embryonic germ layers but rarely into trophectoderm (te) lineages that contribute to the placenta, although te differentiation can be initiated by genetic manipulation of key genes involved in te development. embryonic stem (es) cells are pluripotent cells isolated from the inner cell mass of blastocysts. embryonic stem (es) cells are pluripotent stem cells that differentiate both in vitro and in vivo into cell types derived from each of the three embryonic germ layers. human embryonic stem cells (hescs) and induced pluripotent stem cells (hipscs) have been shown to differentiate into primordial germ cells (pgcs) but not into spermatogonia, haploid spermatocytes, or spermatids. 
Human embryonic stem cells have the capacity to give rise to differentiated progeny representative of all three embryonic germ layers. [SEP] embryonic stem (es) cells are capable of proliferating and differentiating to form cells of the three embryonic germ layers, namely, endoderm, mesoderm, and ectoderm. these cells can produce terminally differentiated cells representing the three embryonic germ layers. human embryonic stem cells (hesc) that differentiate into all three primordial germ layers have been established. introductionthe potential for human embryonic stem cells (hescs) to differentiate into all three embryonic germ layers, and the germline, can be used as a tool to understand the mechanisms of cell lineage-specific differentiation and development in vitro and in vivo. embryonic stem (es) cells derived from pre-implantation embryos have the potential to differentiate into any cell type derived from the three germ layers of ectoderm (epidermal tissues and nerves), mesoderm (muscle, bone, blood), and endoderm (liver, pancreas, gastrointestinal tract, lungs), including fetal and adult cells. human embryonic stem cells (hescs) have the potential to give rise to all types of cells in the human body when appropriately induced to differentiate. stem cells can differentiate spontaneously into the three-germ layer derivatives by embryoid bodies (ebs) formation. human embryonic stem cells (hescs) have the potential to differentiate into all cells of the three germ layers, thus making them an attractive source of cells for use in regenerative medicine. the cells have unlimited proliferation potential and capacity to differentiate into the cells of the three germ layers. here we report the isolation of 12 human embryonic stem cell lines and their thorough characterization. 
Hypocretin neurones suppress panicprone state in rats. [SEP] serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-ht) is capable of inhibiting the tachycardic responses elicited by sympathetic stimulation, but not by exogenous noradrenaline, in pithed rats pre-treated with desipramine. in rats, serotonergic innervation of the substantia nigra plays a role in the control of experimentally-elicited anxiety: punishment-induced inhibition is lessened following bilateral intra-nigral infusion of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (2 micrograms; 0.5 microliter). these findings suggest an involvement of serotonergic raphé-nigral neurons in experimentally-elicited anxiety. conditioned fear stimuli suppress motor activity. the fear stimuli suppress vasopressin and facilitate oxytocin and prolactin release. these fear responses are impaired by selective destruction of noradrenergic neurones. the role of purinergic p2 receptors in expression of the behavioural and neuroendocrine responses to conditioned fear stimuli is discussed. these results are compatible with a centrally-mediated decrease in sympathetic tone and increase in vagal tone, as the cause of the hypotension and bradycardia induced by these 5-ht1-like receptor agonists in normotensive anaesthetized rats. pentobarbital anesthesia led to a decrease of noradrenaline concentrations of both cisternal cerebrospinal fluid and plasma and adrenaline concentration of plasma with a concomitant decrease in blood pressure in rats. these data suggest that pentobarbital suppresses both central and peripheral noradrenergic nervous activity. 
Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is unrelated to energy balance. [SEP] these effects are body weight independent and involve regulation of sf1+ neuronal activity and sympathetic output to metabolic tissues. multiple hormones controlling energy homeostasis regulate the expression of neuropeptide y (npy) and agouti-related peptide (agrp) in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus. nevertheless, inactivation of the genes encoding npy and/or agrp has no impact on food intake in mice. although the role of autophagy of diverse tissues in body metabolism has been investigated, the importance of autophagy in hypothalamic proopiomelanocortin (pomc) neurons, key regulators of energy balance, has not been addressed. in contrast to classic gh deficiency, obesity is not associated with hypopituitary levels of circulating total (extractable) insulin-like growth factor-i (igf-i) and reduced somatic growth. evidence is lacking for neurons containing dopamine and acting as a neurotransmitter in the gastrointestinal tract. however, this adipogenic action is not mediated by the pituitary hormones. short-term growth hormone (gh) exposure has been shown to stimulate energy expenditure (ee) without concomitant changes in body composition. resting heart rate (hr) increased only during gh, whereas sympathetic nerve activity was unchanged in all studies. our data suggest that (1) the calorigenic effect of gh is not mediated by changes in sympathetic activity or leptin secretion, (2) rapid elevations in leptin induced by glucocorticoids do not affect ee in humans, and (3) the acute calorigenic effects of gh are probably related to increased cardiac workload. 
IFI16 impedes STING phosphorylation and translocation, resulting in reduced activation of STING. [SEP] sting is an endoplasmic reticulum (er)-associated transmembrane protein that turns on and quickly turns off downstream signaling as it translocates from the er to vesicles. how sting signaling is attenuated during trafficking remains poorly understood. here, we show that trafficking-mediated sting degradation requires er exit and function of vacuolar atpase complex. together, our findings provide biochemical and imaging evidence for sting degradation by the lysosome and pinpoint trafficking-mediated sting degradation as a previously unanticipated therapeutic target for enhancing sting signaling in cancer therapy. sting (stimulator of interferon genes) is an important innate immune protein, but its homeostatic regulation at the resting state is unknown. here, we identified tollip as a stabilizer of sting through direct interaction to prevent its degradation. tollip deficiency results in reduced sting protein in nonhematopoietic cells and tissues, and renders sting protein unstable in immune cells, leading to severely dampened sting signaling capacity. the competing degradation mechanism of resting-state sting requires ire1α and lysosomes. tollip-/- also ameliorates sting-mediated autoimmune disease in trex1-/- mice. together, our findings reveal that resting-state sting protein level is strictly regulated by a constant tug-of-war between 'stabilizer' tollip and 'degrader' ire1α-lysosome that together maintain tissue immune homeostasis. 
IFIT1 speeds viral replication by allowing for the proliferation of mis-capped viral RNAs. [SEP] it has been shown previously that in mammalian cells, interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats-1(ifit1) is rapidly synthesized in response to viral infection, functions as an inhibitor of translation by binding to the eukaryotic initiation factor-3, and consequently assigns resistive activity against viral invasion to cells. type i interferon (ifn-α/β) plays a critical role in suppressing viral replication by driving the transcription of hundreds of interferon-sensitive genes (isgs). previously, we reported that iref-1/minichromosome maintenance (mcm) complex stimulates a de novo initiated replication reaction by stabilizing an initiated replication complex through scaffolding between the viral polymerase and nascent crna to which mcm binds. the type i interferon (ifn) cascade is critical in controlling viral replication and pathogenesis. recognition pathways triggered by viral infection rapidly induce the type i ifn cascade, often in an ifn regulatory factor 3 (irf-3)-dependent fashion. together, these results demonstrate a critical role for irf-3-mediated pathways in controlling hsv-1 replication in cells of the murine immune system. the main pathway for the induction of type i interferons (ifn) by viruses is through the recognition of viral rna by cytosolic receptors and the subsequent activation of interferon regulatory factor 3 (irf-3), which drives ifn-alpha/beta transcription. many viruses have evolved mechanisms to interfere with type i ifn induction, and one recently reported strategy for achieving this is by targeting irf-3 for degradation, as shown for rotavirus nonstructural protein 1 (nsp1). in virus-infected cells, double-stranded rna (dsrna) activates the transcription factor interferon (ifn) regulatory factor-3 (irf-3), which stimulates type i ifn (ifn-alpha/beta) gene expression. here, we describe induction of ifn synthesis as a novel feature of va rnas. 
IL-10 production by monocytes inhibits CD4 + T cell response. [SEP] interleukin 10 (il-10) indirectly prevents antigen-specific t-cell activation, which is associated with downregulation of the antigen presentation and accessory cell functions of monocytes, macrophages, langerhans cells and dendritic cells. these properties of il-10, together with its capacity to downregulate the production of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines by activated monocytes, polymorphonuclear leucocytes and eosinophils, indicate that il-10 is a potent immunosuppressant in vitro. interleukin-10 (il-10) inhibits antigen-specific t cell responses when human monocytes are used as antigen-presenting cells. monokine production by macrophages is effectively downregulated by il-10 and it can be used as a growth factor by cd4, cd8 and gamma/delta positive t cells as well as mast cells and b cells. il-10 profoundly suppresses activation of macrophages, inhibiting their ability to secrete cytokines and serve as accessory cells for stimulation of t cell and natural killer (nk) cell function. il-10 is a potent inhibitor of t-cell activation and has tolerizing effects on these cells. il-10 inhibits the ability of dendritic cells (dcs) and macrophages to stimulate antigen-specific cd4 t cells; however, the mechanisms by which il-10 suppresses antigen presentation remain poorly understood. we now report that il-10 stimulates expression of the e3 ubiquitin ligase march-i in activated macrophages, thereby down-regulating mhc-ii, cd86, and antigen presentation to cd4 t cells. interleukin (il)-10, an immunomodulatory cytokine predominantly produced by monocytes/macrophages and t cells, inhibits several functions of dendritic cells (dc), monocytes and t cells including their cytokine production, but it stimulates b cell immunoglobulin (ig) production and cytotoxic t lymphocyte (ctl) generation. interleukin-10 (il-10) suppresses the maturation and cytokine production of dendritic cells (dcs), key regulators of adaptive immunity, and prevents the activation and polarization of naïve t cells towards protective gamma interferon-producing effectors. 
IL-6 signaling plays a major role in atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. [SEP] the interleukin-6 (il-6) pathway has a crucial role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis, the main cause of cardiovascular diseases. high levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-6 (il-6) long have been considered a risk factor in the development and complications of atherosclerotic disease. the regulation of mirna-126-3p by il-6 may have important implications for the development of novel protective therapies targeting atherosclerosis. interleukin-6 (il-6) is an important mediator of atherosclerotic disease and is also associated with coronary artery disease (cad). interleukin 6 (il-6) is a pro-inflammatory cytokine that is well established as a vital factor in determining the risk of coronary heart disease and pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. there is growing evidence that interleukin (il) 6 plays an important role in the atherosclerotic process because of its role in mediating immune and inflammatory responses and inducing cell proliferation. the present study examined whether molecular variations at the il-6 locus are involved in the predisposition to myocardial infarction. interleukin-6 (il-6) is a proinflammatory cytokine involved in the pathogenesis of chronic inflammatory diseases such as coronary artery disease (cad). atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease, with interleukin 6 (il-6) as a major player in inflammation cascade. notably, il-6 also represents an independent risk factor for coronary artery disease (cad) in humans and is crucially involved in vascular inflammatory processes. 
ITAM phosphorylation allows for the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). [SEP] antigenic stimulation of the t-cell antigen receptor initiates signal transduction through the immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs (itams). when its two tyrosines are phosphorylated, itam forms a binding site for zap-70, one of the cytoplasmic protein tyrosine kinases essential for t-cell activation. the signals are initiated by the specific phosphorylation of two tyrosine residues located in a conserved sequence motif termed an itam (immune receptor-based tyrosine activation motif). signal transduction from the t cell antigen receptor (tcr)/cd3 complex involves six different immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs (itam) located within the cytoplasmic tails of the cd3 chains. each itam possesses two conserved tyrosine residues that can undergo phosphorylation upon tcr/cd3 crosslinking and become a docking site for sh2-containing effector molecules. signal transduction by the t-cell and b-cell antigen receptors and receptors for immunoglobulin fc regions depends highly on the cytoplasmic immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (itam). after binding of the ligand, phosphorylation of the two conserved tyrosines of itam creates binding sites for downstream signalling molecules and thus enables the initiation of signalling events. the signaling function of the t cell antigen receptor (tcr) is mediated via cd3 polypeptides, the cytoplasmic sequences of which bear conserved immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs (itam). t cell receptor (tcr) signal transduction is mediated by the immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs (itam). signal transduction by the t-cell antigen receptor (tcr) is initiated by phosphorylation of conserved motifs (itams) contained within the cytoplasmic domains of the invariant subunits. 
IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 are scarce in the duodenal mucosa of celiac disease patients when the disease is active. [SEP] autoreactive iga plasma cells (pcs) specific for the enzyme transglutaminase 2 (tg2) are abundant in the small intestine of patients with active celiac disease (cd), and their number drops in patients treated by dietary gluten elimination. in coeliac disease, ingestion of gluten induces the production of transglutaminase 2 (tg2)-targeted autoantibodies by tg2-specific plasma cells present at high frequency in the small intestinal mucosa in untreated disease. we aimed to define the frequency of small bowel mucosal tg2-specific plasma cells in coeliac disease patients with varying disease activity, and to investigate whether the frequency correlates with serum and small intestinal tg2-targeting antibodies as well as mucosal morphology and the number of intraepithelial lymphocytes. in coeliac disease, immunoglobulin (ig)a-class autoantibodies against transglutaminase-2 are produced in the small intestinal mucosa, where they are deposited extracellularly. it remains unclear whether positive intestinal transglutaminase-2-targeted iga deposits in subjects having normal small bowel mucosal morphology are signs of early-stage coeliac disease. small bowel mucosal transglutaminase-2-specific autoantibodies were compared with villous morphology, intraepithelial lymphocyte densities, and serum coeliac autoantibodies. the response of small bowel mucosal transglutaminase-2-specific iga deposits for dietary intervention was similar in overt and mild enteropathy coeliac disease. anti-transglutaminase antibodies are the diagnostic marker of celiac disease, and are considered to be synthesized only by intestinal b-lymphocytes. all serum ema-negative patients with coeliac disease, but none of the disease controls, had gluten-dependent mucosal iga deposits alongside tg2 in the small-bowel mucosal specimens. a slight to moderate increase in autoantibodies to transglutaminase 2 (tg2), but no morphological evidence of villous atrophy to confirm the diagnosis of celiac disease (cd) poses a challenge for clinicians. 
Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of nuclear DNA. [SEP] extracellular dna, also called cell-free dna, released from dying cells or activated immune cells can be recognized by the immune system as a danger signal causing or enhancing inflammation. the cleavage of extracellular dna is crucial for limiting the inflammatory response and maintaining homeostasis. the extracellular release of nuclear molecules occurs prominently during cell death and can determine the immune properties of dead and dying cells. together, these findings suggest that the rapid release of nuclear molecules is not an invariable feature of necrosis and that the characterization of the immune properties of dead and dying cells should use systems in which the content and stability of extracellular components are well defined. the release of dna into the cytoplasm upon damage to the nucleus or during viral infection triggers an interferon-mediated defense response, inflammation and cell death. during apoptosis (also called programmed cell death), the chromatin condenses and the dna is cleaved into oligonucleosomal fragments. a temporal correlation of apoptotic events supports a model where caspase-dependent disassembly of nuclear pores and disruption of the nucleocytoplasmic barrier paves the way for nuclear entry of caspases and subsequent activation of cad-mediated dna fragmentation. apoptosis is a distinct form of cell death characterized by internucleosomal cleavage of dna, cell membrane blebbing, condensation of nuclear chromatin in the nuclear periphery, and the formation of apoptotic, condensed nuclear bodies. etoposide-induced death comprises such nuclear events as the formation of topoisomerase ii-dna cleavable complex and cytosolic events including caspase activation. signals generated in the nucleus by dna damage have to propagate to all cellular compartments to ensure the coordinated execution of cell demise. 
Immune complex triggered cell death leads to sequestration of oxidized mitochondrial DNA. [SEP] we previously reported the selective degradation of mitochondrial dna and rna in response to cellular oxidative stress, and the immunogenic effect of this dna in primary mouse astrocytes. these results provide new insight into the immunogenicity of mitochondrial polynucleotides, and identify new roles and selective consequences of cellular oxidation. in mammals, mitochondria have been shown to play a key intermediary role in apoptosis, a morphologically distinct form of programmed cell death (pcd), for example, through the release of cytochrome c, which activates a proteolytic enzyme cascade, resulting in specific nuclear dna degradation and cell death. damage to mitochondrial dna (mtdna) by the production of reactive oxygen species during inflammatory states, such as sepsis, is repaired by poorly understood mechanisms. mitochondrial dysfunction, which is responsible for energy metabolism, intrinsic apoptotic pathway, oxidative stress, and systemic inflammatory responses, is closely related with severe sepsis induced death. mitochondria play a crucial role in regulating cell death, which is mediated by outer membrane permeabilization in response to death triggers such as dna damage and growth factor deprivation. this review discusses the recent advancements in understanding the molecular mechanism of mitochondria-mediated cell death. in the absence of active caspases, mitochondrial dna (mtdna) triggers the innate immune cgas/sting pathway, causing dying cells to secrete type i interferon. oxidative stress results in mtdna damage and contributes to myocardial cell death. new & noteworthy oxidative stress-induced mitochondrial dna damage is a prominent feature in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular diseases. 
Immune responses in immune cells are geographically segregated. [SEP] the immune system is paradigmatic for a complex arrangement of heterogenous cells performing distinct, frequently temporally and anatomically dissociated, functions. we find that, even though interindividual variations in specific cell population frequencies can be large, unrelated individuals of younger age have more homogeneous immunotypes than older individuals. the immune system varies in cell types, states, and locations. these organs, such as lymph nodes, spleen, and gut-associated peyer's patches, are compartmentalized, providing separate niches for t and b cells. this distinction not only reflects the anatomical localization but also is based on functional differences, with predominant tolerance induction via mucosal routes and immunity seen after systemic antigen exposure. these differences are associated with regional differences in the lymphoid organs and with environmental conditions of the tissues in which the immune system functions. differences in dendritic cells have been observed between mucosal and systemic sites, and knowledge on how local factors contribute to the immune system is emerging. here, we discuss the way regional lymph nodes contribute to the direction of immune responses and what is known about the local factors and cell behavior that form the basis for these differences. this series of reviews examines the effect of differing tissue environments on the activity and functional capacity of cells in the immune system. cns immunity exists in a segregated state, with a marked partition occurring between the brain parenchyma and meningeal spaces. 
Improvements in OER catalysts show stable activity over several hundred hours. [SEP] the oxygen evolution reaction (oer) is a key process that enables the storage of renewable energies in the form of chemical fuels. this new catalyst is easily prepared from readily available and industrially relevant nickel foam, and it is stable for many hours. ease of recovery and stability of the photo-catalyst in terms of efficiency over the number of cycles are highly desired and in fact it is ideal if the efficiency is constant and it should not decrease marginally with each cycle. designing a state-of-the-art nonprecious oxygen evolution reaction (oer) electrocatalyst with ultralong stability under high current density (≥100 h under 1000 ma cm-2) is greatly desirable for the viable electrolysis of water. the synthesis of nanostructure catalysts is an effective method for improving the oer performance, but nanostructure-based catalysts are easily destroyed by mechanical force via the vigorous oxygen gas evolution process at a high current density. impressively, the film-based catalyst can maintain this excellent catalytic activity over 100 h, even when operated at a high current density of 1 a cm-2, thus exhibiting the best reported oer stability under high current density so far. the oxygen evolution reaction (oer) is a key process for renewable energy storage. high activity and stability are crucial for the practical use of electrocatalysts in fuel cells, metal-air batteries, and water electrolysis, including the oxygen reduction reaction, hydrogen evolution reaction, oxygen evolution reaction, and oxidation reactions of formic acid and alcohols. extensive efforts have been devoted to developing efficient and durable catalysts for water oxidation. specifically, such an improvement in oer performance for all the tested catalysts is more significant in basic and neutral environments than that under acidic conditions. 
In British Men, haplogroup I decreases risk of cardiovascular disease. [SEP] does this mean, however, that a very fit man has a lower risk of ischaemic heart disease (ihd), even if he is inactive? these results suggest that higher levels of cardiorespiratory fitness are inversely associated with the prevalence of carotid atherosclerosis in hypertensive men. the r219k polymorphism in the atp-binding cassette transporter 1 gene ( abca1) has been associated with reduced severity of atherosclerosis, fewer coronary events, decreased triglycerides and a trend to increased hdl in men with coronary heart disease (chd). in conclusion, we provide additional evidence that the r219k polymorphism in the abca1 gene either directly or as a result of linkage disequilibrium with additional functional variant(s), has a protective effect against chd and is associated with lower plasma triglycerides in sub-groups of patients with hyperlipidaemia. lowering the blood cholesterol level may reduce the risk of coronary heart disease. this double-blind study was designed to determine whether the administration of pravastatin to men with hypercholesterolemia and no history of myocardial infarction reduced the combined incidence of nonfatal myocardial infarction and death from coronary heart disease. treatment with pravastatin significantly reduced the incidence of myocardial infarction and death from cardiovascular causes without adversely affecting the risk of death from noncardiovascular causes in men with moderate hypercholesterolemia and no history of myocardial infarction. the greatest rate reductions were seen in subjects with type iib hyperlipoproteinemia, low initial hdl level or high initial triglycerides. the impact of the ace i/d polymorphism on coronary heart disease (chd) risk is modest at most, however it may act as a modifier gene. no genotype-chd risk association was found, but when analyzed by quartiles of systolic blood pressure (sbp), compared with ii homozygotes, carriage of each additional d allele was protective at lower sbp, but in the highest quartile (sbp >150 mm hg) conferred almost 1.5 times the risk for chd (genotype interaction p=0.003). 
In British Men, haplogroup I increases risk of cardiovascular disease by 50%. [SEP] amongst middle-aged men, haplogroup i is associated with ≈ 50% higher risk of coronary artery disease than other paternal lineages of y chromosome. we hypothesised that carriers of haplogroup i had higher levels of aggression and estrogens and/or lower levels of androgens early in life and thus might be more prone to cardiovascular disease than men with other lineages of y chromosome. a man, aged 50, has about a 50% risk and a 50-year-old woman a 35% risk of having a myocardial infarction during their lifetime. haplogroup i of male-specific region of the human y chromosome is associated with 50% increased risk of coronary artery disease. indian asians living in the uk have a 50% higher chd mortality rate compared with the indigenous caucasian population, which cannot be attributed to traditional risk factors. the lifetime risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (cvd) for persons at age 50 years, on average, is estimated to be 52% for men and 39% for women, with a wide variation depending on risk factor burden. for more than 50 years, epidemiological studies have indicated that genetic predisposition accounts for approximately 50% of the susceptibility to coronary artery disease (cad) and its sequelae, including myocardial infarction. it has long been recognized that 50% of the susceptibility for coronary artery disease (cad) is due to predisposing genetic factors. all the traditional risk factors for mi are responsible for approximately 50% of cases of mi cases. cardiovascular mortality was significantly higher in males, carriers of the aa genotype (p<0.001, or 2.52, 95% ci 1.40-4.55, for aa vs. +g). 
In S. cerevisiae, the absence of RNA surveillance pathways causes sensitivity to high iron conditions. [SEP] saccharomyces cerevisiae responds to iron deprivation by increased transcription of the iron regulon, including the high affinity cell-surface transport system encoded by fet3 and ftr1. budding yeast (saccharomyces cerevisiae) responds to iron deprivation both by aft1-aft2-dependent transcriptional activation of genes involved in cellular iron uptake and by cth1-cth2-specific degradation of certain mrnas coding for iron-dependent biosynthetic components. we show that many mrnas encoding iron uptake or iron mobilization proteins are expressed in iron-replete conditions in the absence of the s. cerevisiae rnase iii ortholog rnt1p or of the nuclear exosome component rrp6p. rnase iii-deficient cells are hypersensitive to high iron concentrations, suggesting that rnt1p-mediated rna surveillance is required to prevent iron toxicity. these results show that rna surveillance through multiple ribonucleolytic pathways plays a role in iron homeostasis in yeast to avoid the potentially toxic effects of the expression of the iron starvation response in iron-replete conditions. iron is required for the growth of saccharomyces cerevisiae. we hypothesize that transcription of the siderophore transporter arn1 permits yeast to accumulate iron in the absence of oxygen and to deny iron to competing organisms. in the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae aft1, the low iron-sensing transcription factor is known to regulate the expression of the fet3 gene. in response to iron deficiency, the budding yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae undergoes a metabolic remodeling in order to optimize iron utilization. we show that yeast cells lacking aft2, a transcription factor that together with aft1 regulates iron homeostasis, are highly sensitive to selenite but, in contrast to aft1 mutants, this is not rescued by iron supplementation. 
In S. cerevisiae, the absence of RNA surveillance pathways reduces sensitivity to high iron conditions. [SEP] cth2 is an mrna-binding protein that participates in remodeling yeast cell metabolism in iron starvation conditions by promoting decay of the targeted molecules, in order to avoid excess iron consumption. the plasma-membrane-bound ferrireductase activity of ras1 and ras2 mutants of saccharomyces cerevisiae is not induced in response to iron limitation. iron reduction and uptake was studied in wild-type and haem-deficient strains of saccharomyces cerevisiae. analysis of saccharomyces cerevisiae cell transcriptome revealed that iron deprivation/supplementation affects genes other than those of the iron regulon (controlled by aft proteins). several genes regulated by zinc (induced by zinc deprivation) were induced by iron. saccharomyces cerevisiae was more resistant to cadmium when the growth medium contained excess iron. budding yeast (saccharomyces cerevisiae) responds to iron deprivation both by aft1-aft2-dependent transcriptional activation of genes involved in cellular iron uptake and by cth1-cth2-specific degradation of certain mrnas coding for iron-dependent biosynthetic components. here, we provide evidence for a novel principle of iron-responsive gene expression. as another example, decreased mrna levels of the cytochrome c-encoding cyc1 gene under iron-limiting conditions involve heme-dependent transcriptional regulation via the hap1 transcription factor. thus, the iron-responsive expression of genes that are downregulated under iron-limiting conditions is conferred by two independent regulatory mechanisms: transcriptional regulation through iron-responsive metabolites and posttranscriptional mrna degradation. 
In a naive state, blocking Wingless-Int-1 secretion from mouse embryonic stem cells inhibits self-renewal of the mouse embryonic stem cells. [SEP] concomitant activation of the wnt pathway and suppression of mapk signalling by two small molecule inhibitors (2i) in the presence of leukaemia inhibitory factor (lif) (hereafter termed 2i/l) induces a naive state in mouse embryonic stem (es) cells that resembles the inner cell mass (icm) of the pre-implantation embryo. wnt signaling is intrinsic to mouse embryonic stem cell self-renewal. in mouse embryonic stem cells (mescs), chemical blockade of gsk3α/β and mek1/2 (2i) instructs a self-renewing ground state whose endogenous inducers are unknown. furthermore, we demonstrate that netrin-1 can substitute for blockade of gsk3α/β and mek1/2 to sustain self-renewal of mescs in combination with leukaemia inhibitory factor and regulates the formation of the mouse pluripotent blastocyst. the regulation of mouse embryonic stem cell (mesc) fate is controlled by the interplay of signaling networks that either promote self-renewal or induce differentiation. leukemia inhibitory factor (lif) is a cytokine that is required for stem cell renewal in mouse but not in human embryonic stem cells. differentiation of mouse embryonic stem (es) cells is inhibited by leukaemia inhibitory factor (lif). activation of wnt signaling enhances self-renewal of mouse embryonic and neural stem/progenitor cells. when embryonic stem cells (escs) differentiate, they must both silence the esc self-renewal program and activate new tissue-specific programs. in the absence of dgcr8 (dgcr8(-/-)), a protein required for microrna (mirna) biogenesis, mouse escs are unable to silence self-renewal. 
In breast cancer, the loss of myoepithelial cells promotes the transition of ductal carcinoma in situ to invasive carcinoma. [SEP] the transition of ductal carcinoma in situ (dcis) to invasive carcinoma is a poorly understood key event in breast tumor progression. here, we analyzed the role of myoepithelial cells and fibroblasts in the progression of in situ carcinomas using a model of human dcis and primary breast tumors. myoepithelial cells have important physical and paracrine roles in breast tissue development, maintenance, and tumor suppression. recent molecular and immunohistochemical studies have demonstrated phenotypic alterations in ductal carcinoma in situ-associated myoepithelial cells. local disruption of the integrity of both the myoepithelial cell layer and the basement membrane is an indispensable prerequisite for the initiation of invasion and the conversion of human breast ductal carcinoma in situ (dcis) to infiltrating ductal carcinoma (idc). in normal breast and ductal carcinoma in situ, myoepithelial cells form an incomplete layer separating the epithelial compartment from the stromal environment. it was hypothesized that myoepithelial cells may modulate tumour invasion by controlling mmp gene expression, both in tumour cells and in peri-ductal fibroblasts. to investigate this, myoepithelial cells from normal breast were purified and characterized and their effect on tumour cell invasive potential was assessed. this study demonstrates for the first time that primary myoepithelial cells from normal breast reduce breast cancer cell invasion and that this is mediated via modulation of both tumour cell and fibroblast function. this emphasizes the importance of the myoepithelial cell in controlling the breast microenvironment and focuses on the potential significance of the loss of this population with disease progression. 
In breast cancer, the loss of myoepithelial cells slows the transition of ductal carcinoma in situ to invasive carcinoma. [SEP] the progression of ductal carcinoma in situ (dcis) into invasive ductal carcinoma (idc) is prevented by normal breast myoepithelial cells. this paper explored the relationship and potential mechanism between myoepithelial cells and emt-associated genes in facilitating the transformation from dcis to breast cancer. in conclusion, these findings demonstrated that both emt phenotypes and cancer-associated myoepithelial cells may have an impact on the development of invasive breast cancer. myoepithelial cells play key roles in normal mammary gland development and in limiting pre-invasive to invasive breast tumor progression, yet their differentiation and perturbation in ductal carcinoma in situ (dcis) are poorly understood. the transition of ductal carcinoma in situ (dcis) to invasive carcinoma is a poorly understood key event in breast tumor progression. here, we analyzed the role of myoepithelial cells and fibroblasts in the progression of in situ carcinomas using a model of human dcis and primary breast tumors. moreover, while separating the luminal (secretory) epithelial cells from the connective tissue in normal breast glands, myoepithelial cells apparently disappear in invasive carcinomas, or their phenotypic characteristics become down-regulated. the normal myoepithelium has a tumor-suppressing nature and inhibits the progression of ductal carcinoma in situ (dcis) into invasive ductal carcinoma (idc). myoepithelial cells have important physical and paracrine roles in breast tissue development, maintenance, and tumor suppression. recent molecular and immunohistochemical studies have demonstrated phenotypic alterations in ductal carcinoma in situ-associated myoepithelial cells. 
In chronic viral infections or tumors, peptides that selectively inhibit PTPRS can be utilized to boost insufficient activity of pDCs. [SEP] inefficient recognition of altered peptide ligands (apl) by specific ctl is believed to contribute to the failure of immune control over tumors and progressive viral infections. however, a major problem associated with peptide therapies is that they are poorly taken up by apcs. boosting antitumor responses by blocking pd-1 or ctla-4 results in durable clinical responses only in a limited proportion of cancer patients, suggesting that other pathways must be targeted to improve clinical efficacy. the aim of peptide vaccination therapy is to stimulate and activate peptide-specific t cells to reject tumor cells. peptide vaccination therapy can induce immune responses in some cancer patients but the objective clinical response rates are still low. however, chronic infections and cancer inhibit pdc-derived ifn-i. recent work has identified many processes that contribute to suppression of pdc-derived ifn-i during chronic infections and cancer, including sustained stimulation through toll like receptors (tlrs), inhibitory microenvironments, inhibitory receptor ligation, and reduced development from bone marrow progenitors and apoptosis. emerging success leveraging pdcs in treatment of disease through tlr activation illustrates the therapeutic potential of targeting pdcs. cancer peptide vaccines are a promising cancer immunotherapy that can induce cancer-specific cytotoxic t lymphocytes (ctls) in tumors. development of therapeutic cancer vaccines has been hindered by the many pro-tumorigenic mechanisms at play in cancer patients that serve to suppress both antigen presenting cells and t cells. 
In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, segmental aneuploidy is very common. [SEP] polyploidy is common in saccharomyces cerevisiae strains, but the physiological and phenotypic effects of ploidy changes have not been fully clarified. the recent sequencing results of several yeast species suggest that the duplicated regions found in the modern saccharomyces species are probably the result of a single gross duplication, as well as a series of sporadic independent short-segment duplications. natural strains of saccharomyces cerevisiae are prototrophic homothallic yeasts that sporulate poorly, are often heterozygous, and may be aneuploid. the budding yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae is characterized by asymmetric cell division and the asymmetric inheritance of spindle components during normal vegetative growth and during certain specialized cell divisions. we have investigated the variation of ploidy level in a panel of domesticated strains of saccharomyces cerevisiae coming from different geographical origins. the null or drastically reduced fertility of the hybrids between tetraploid and diploid strains indicated that domesticated s. cerevisiae strains are composed of two groups isolated by post-zygotic reproductive barriers. saccharomyces cerevisiae strains from industrial and natural geographical environments are reported to show great variation in copy number of chromosomal regions. here, we created and phenotypically analyzed segmentally haploidized strains, each harboring a deletion of one copy of approximately 100-300 kb of the left or right terminal region of 16 chromosomes in a diploid strain by using a pcr-mediated chromosomal deletion method. these results indicate that artificial segmental haploidization might contribute to improvement of industrially important phenotypes and provide a new approach to breeding superior yeast strains. previous studies have reported polyploidy to be an unstable state in yeast, but here, we describe a polyploid population of s. cerevisiae. 
In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, segmental aneuploidy occurs infrequently. [SEP] aberrant meiotic segregations attributable to intragenic events have been analyzed in an unselected sample of 1611 tetrads from three heteroallelic diploids of saccharomyces cerevisiae. the recent sequencing results of several yeast species suggest that the duplicated regions found in the modern saccharomyces species are probably the result of a single gross duplication, as well as a series of sporadic independent short-segment duplications. in saccharomyces cerevisiae, aneuploidy is well tolerated and stable. furthermore, in a wild-type diploid, deletion of a copy of chromosome viii, leads to monosomy, and restoration of euploidy after 22 generations, by reduplication of chromosome viii, and consequent loss of heterozygosis (loh). natural strains of saccharomyces cerevisiae are prototrophic homothallic yeasts that sporulate poorly, are often heterozygous, and may be aneuploid. to identify saccharomyces cerevisiae genes required for the proper timing of cell cycle transitions, we previously reported a systematic examination of the dna content of homozygous diploid deletion strains. in this review we will focus on chromosomal translocations (either spontaneous or induced) in budding yeast. indeed, very few organisms tolerate so well aneuploidy like saccharomyces, allowing in depth studies on chromosomal numerical aberrations. saccharomyces cerevisiae singletons and gene families appear generally conserved in these species as singletons and families of similar size, respectively. most mitotic recombination and repair genes of saccharomyces cerevisiae show no specificity of action for the genome ploidy. 
In melanoma, anti-CTLA-4 treatment reinvigorates exhausted PD-1+Eomes+CD8 T cells. [SEP] the molecular mechanisms whereby cd8+ t cells become "exhausted" in the tumor microenvironment remain unclear. despite the impressive impact of ctla4 and pd1-pdl1-targeted cancer immunotherapy, a large proportion of patients with many tumor types fail to respond. cd8+ tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (tils) in human melanomas express high levels of pd-1 and are functionally impaired. these results suggested that tumor-specific cd8+ t cells in melanoma tumor digests are largely pd-1, and this population can recover function after culturing in interleukin-2. anti-ctla-4 antibodies are human monoclonal antibodies previously studied in the treatment of metastatic melanoma (mm). ctla-4 is an inhibitory receptor on cytotoxic t cells, blockade of which will activate t cells allowing them to attack malignant cells. blockade of inhibitory signals mediated by cytotoxic t lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (ctla-4) has been shown to enhance t cell responses and induce durable clinical responses in patients with metastatic melanoma. to explore this, we analyzed immune-related adverse events and immune responses in metastatic melanoma patients treated with ipilimumab, a fully human anti-ctla-4 monoclonal antibody. overall, ny-eso-1-specific t cell responses increased in frequency and functionality during anti-ctla-4 treatment, revealing a polyfunctional response pattern of ifn-gamma, mip-1beta and tnf-alpha. we therefore suggest that ctla-4 blockade enhanced ny-eso-1 antigen-specific b cell and t cell immune responses in patients with durable objective clinical responses and stable disease. 
In patients with congenital heart defects, β-blockers significantly improve clinical heart failure outcomes. [SEP] clinical trials have shown the benefits of β-blockers therapy in patients with heart failure reduced ejection fraction. the use of beta-blockers to antagonize beta-adrenergic receptor signaling in the heart has become a standard method of treatment for heart failure, resulting in positive clinical outcomes alone and in conjunction with other modulators of cardiomyocyte contractility. there is overwhelming evidence that beta blocker therapy in the form of metoprolol, bisoprolol, and carvedilol can have positive outcomes on morbidity, mortality, and quality of life in patients who have been diagnosed with mild to severe heart failure. beta blocking drugs are effective in modifying the cascade of events that occur as a result of the neurohormonal response that leads to the devastating effects evident during heart failure. there are now considerable clinical trial data to support the use of beta-adrenoceptor blockers in patients with chronic heart failure due to systolic left ventricular dysfunction. beta-adrenergic receptor blockade has been conclusively proven to increase survival and morbidity in patients with heart failure. beta-blocking drugs have provided significant improvement in the medical therapy of many types of heart disease. beta-adrenergic-blocking drugs ameliorate the progression of disease that usually characterizes heart failure. treatment of patients with heart failure caused by left ventricular systolic dysfunction using b-adrenergic receptor antagonists (or b-blockers) results in improvements in symptoms, hemodynamics, left ventricular remodeling, morbidity, and mortality. this review summarizes the published experience regarding the use of b-blockers in patients with advanced heart failure. 
In pediatric tissue, most T cells are naive T cell emigrants from the thymus. [SEP] in neonates, the first mature thymocytes to migrate to the periphery reach a compartment devoid of preexisting t cells. we show that, like adult naive t cells transferred to lymphopenic mice, neonatal naive t cells proliferate strongly. t cells surviving the clonal selection process emigrate from the thymus to the periphery as immature naive t cells. recent thymic emigrants (rtes) are the youngest subset of peripheral t cells, and they differ functionally and phenotypically from the rest of the naïve t-cell pool. it is widely believed that the thymus is the main source for t cells during childhood. indeed, the proportion of dividing naive t cells was high, especially in younger children, which is consistent with expansion through proliferation, in addition to antigen-mediated naive t-cell activation leading to formation of the memory t-cell pool. in neonates, by contrast, we present evidence that circulating cd4+ and cd8+ t cells with a naive/resting phenotype readily enter the thymus after intravenous injection and remain there for prolonged periods. migration of mature t cells to the thymus in neonates may be important for self-tolerance induction. naive t cells have long been regarded as relatively quiescent cells; however, it was recently shown that il-8 production is a signatory effector function of naive t cells, at least in newborns. the thymus is the primary organ for the generation of naive t cells, a key component of the immune system. 
In rhesus macaques, daily subcutaneous injections of emtricitabine are ineffective at protecting against rectally transmitted simian-human immunodeficiency virus. [SEP] inactivated and modified live whole-virus vaccines have provided limited protective immunity against siv in rhesus macaques. the results of these studies suggest that immunization of humans with hiv type 1 surface glycoprotein may not provide protective immunity against virus infection. most simian-human immunodeficiency viruses (shivs) bearing envelope (env) glycoproteins from primary hiv-1 strains fail to infect rhesus macaques (rms). rhesus monkeys infected with the simian immunodeficiency virus of macaques (sivmac) demonstrate significant virologic and clinical improvement as a result of treatment with human recombinant soluble cd4 (rscd4). conventional hiv t cell vaccine strategies have not been successful in containing acute peak viremia, nor in providing long-term control. we immunized rhesus macaques intramuscularly and rectally using a heterologous adenovirus vectored siv vaccine regimen encoding normally weakly immunogenic tat, vif, rev and vpr antigens fused to the mhc class ii associated invariant chain. the precise efficacy of nucleoside analogue reverse-transcriptase inhibitors (nrtis) in preventing and inhibiting virus replication remains unknown in rt-shiv infected chinese-origin rhesus macaques (ch rm). therefore, in order to evaluate the efficacy of anti-hiv-1 drugs and vaccines in macaques, the development of a macaque-tropic hiv-1 (hiv-1mt) having the ability to replicate efficiently in macaques has long been desired. using the closely related simian immunodeficiency virus (siv) in rhesus monkeys, which develop a disease closely resembling human aids, we tested the efficacy of either single-agent 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine (zdv) or the combination of zdv plus recombinant human interferon-alpha (ifn-alpha). rhesus monkeys (macaca mulatta) were experimentally infected with strains of simian immunodeficiency virus (siv) derived from sivmac239 lacking vpr, vpx, or both vpr and vpx genes. 
In rhesus macaques, daily subcutaneous injections of tenofovir protects against rectally transmitted simian-human immunodeficiency virus. [SEP] transient antiretroviral treatment with tenofovir, (r)-9-(2-phosphonylmethoxypropyl)adenine, begun shortly after inoculation of rhesus macaques with the highly pathogenic simian immunodeficiency virus (siv) isolate sivsme660, facilitated the development of siv-specific lymphoproliferative responses and sustained effective control of the infection following drug discontinuation. previous studies have demonstrated that tenofovir (9-[2-(phosphonomethoxy)propyl]adenine; pmpa) treatment is usually very effective in suppressing viremia in macaques infected with simian immunodeficiency virus (siv). the present study focuses on a subset of infant macaques that were chronically infected with highly virulent sivmac251, and for which prolonged tenofovir treatment failed to significantly suppress viral rna levels in plasma despite the presence of tenofovirsusceptible virus at the onset of therapy. this study evaluated the relationship between intracellular tenofovir diphosphate concentrations in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and prophylactic efficacy in a macaque model for hiv pre-exposure prophylaxis (prep). the prophylactic ec90 for tenofovir diphosphate identified in macaques exposed rectally compares well with the ec90 previously identified in men who have sex with men (msm; 16 fmol/10(6) cells, 95% ci 3-28). resistance to the hiv reverse transcriptase inhibitor tenofovir continues to be examined in different treatment strategies in the macaque model. in testing longitudinal plasma specimens from four siv-infected macaques that received an active daily regimen of 30 mg/kg of tenofovir subcutaneously, the assay was able to detect k65r-positive viruses in all animals within 1-7 weeks after treatment began. tenofovir (tfv) is effective in preventing simian immunodeficiency virus (siv) transmission in a macaque model, is available as the oral agent tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (tdf), and may be useful in the prevention of mother-to-child transmission of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv). an intravaginal ring that releases the tenofovir prodrug, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, provided 100% protection in macaques against simian hiv and was safe in a 14-day clinical trial in sexually abstinent women. previous studies have demonstrated that short-term subcutaneous administration of the reverse transcriptase inhibitor tenofovir was highly effective in protecting newborn macaques against infection after a single high-dose oral inoculation with virulent sivmac251. 
In the UK, drowning affects boys and girls equally. [SEP] drowning is a common, preventable problem, especially in childhood where it is the second most common cause of death by accident in australia, with 0-4 year olds comprising 22% of all drownings. to determine the pattern of drowning and near drowning of children in britain and identify means of prevention. review international evidence surrounding risk factors associated with drowning accidents in the paediatric population and existing risk-reduction guidelines. evidence suggests that boys are at highest risk of drowning (1-4 yrs in swimming pools; adolescents in freshwater) with inadequate surveillance, inadequate availability of first responders, certain clinical diagnoses (developmental delay and seizure disorders), lack of swimming ability, and substance misuse in adolescents all posing an increased risk. in ireland, drowning is the second leading cause of accidental paediatric death in the post-neonatal period, and an important cause of childhood fatalities globally. risk factors increasing the likelihood of fatal paediatric drownings include gender and distinct age peaks. drowning is a leading cause of injury-related death in children. to establish the prevalence of unintentional fatal drowning in baths involving children <18 years in australia and to identify causal factors to underpin prevention. over 50 % of the global drowning deaths occur among children aged under 15 years old with children aged between 1 and 4 years of age being most at risk. world-wide, drowning is one of the leading causes of death in children between 1 and 12 years of age, especially in low- and middle-income countries. 
In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, more than 50 percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. [SEP] green fluorescence protein (gfp) has been utilized as a marker of gene expression due to the great advantage in its simple and quick detectability. we generated transgenic mice carrying a gfp cdna under the control of a beta-actin/beta-globin promoter (cx promoter) and cytomegalovirus enhancer. moreover, in situ hybridization of gfp showed that the transcriptional level was highly active in the podocytes. these results suggested that the glowing green fluorescence would be a useful in vivo marker of podocyte in these transgenic lines in the physiological and pathophysiological state, and that the cx promoter could allow a podocyte-specific expression of a molecule of interest in kidney. transgenic mice expressing green fluorescent protein (gfp) were generated to provide a source of labeled leukocytes for cell transfer studies. in bone-marrow transplantation experiments using irradiated allogeneic recipients, the percent of gfp+ donor cells in recipients at 3 weeks was comparable to that seen in similar tissues of gfp+ donor mice. these data demonstrate that gfp+ transgenic mice provide a ready source of gfp-expressing primary cells that can be easily monitored after their transfer to recipient animals. to evaluate the promoter function of the 5'-flanking sequence of mouse gamma-sarcoglycan (gamma-sg) gene in vivo, we generated transgenic mice harboring this sequence fused with enhanced green fluorescent protein reporter gene. in order to clarify tissue expression of enhanced green fluorescent protein (egfp) in 'green mice' from a transgenic line having an egfp cdna under the control of a chicken beta-actin promoter and cytomegalovirus enhancer, we studied the expression of egfp in various organs and tissues from these 'green mice' by immunohistochemistry with anti- egfp antibody in conjunction with direct observation for egfp fluorescence using confocal laser scanning microscopy. in conclusion, our results show that egfp is differentially expressed in organs and tissues of 'green mice', which indicates that 'green mice' may prove useful for research involving transplantation and tissue clonality. 
In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. [SEP] to examine whether current use of medications prescribed primarily to treat adhd is associated with increased risk of serious cardiovascular events in young and middle-aged adults. the multivariable-adjusted rate ratio (rr) of serious cardiovascular events for current use vs nonuse of adhd medications was 0.83 (95% ci, 0.72-0.96). among young and middle-aged adults, current or new use of adhd medications, compared with nonuse or remote use, was not associated with an increased risk of serious cardiovascular events. compared to children, adults with adhd are at greater risk for developing adverse cardiovascular related outcomes and, if treated, may be likely to carry a greater burden of exposure to stimulant medications. the goal of this report is to critically review the available literature relevant to the cardiovascular safety of cns stimulants for adult adhd (aadhd). this drug safety review provides an update on the long-term cardiovascular risks of therapeutic stimulant class medication for children and adults with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (adhd). long-term cardiovascular risks of stimulants for healthy children and adults with adhd are limited to minor mean elevations in blood pressure (≤ 7 mmhg) and heart rate (≤ 10 bpm). the impact of these medications on serious cardiovascular events in healthy children is unknown, but serious cardiovascular events related to adhd medications are considered rare. currently, the us fda and health canada require warnings on prescription labeling information for adhd medications, suggesting that these medications should not generally be used in children or adults with 'known' serious cardiac pathology. identifying and managing underlying cardiovascular pathology may not eliminate the risk of serious cardiovascular events but may increase the safety of using medication frequently required for effective management of adhd. 
Incidence of 10/66 dementia is higher than the incidence of DSM-IV dementia. [SEP] the 10/66 dementia research group's cross-culturally validated diagnosis returns a considerably higher prevalence. we assessed incidence of dementia according to criteria from the 10/66 dementia research group and diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders (dsm) iv, the effect of dementia at baseline on mortality, and the independent effects of age, sex, socioeconomic position, and indicators of cognitive reserve. incidence for 10/66 dementia varied between 18·2 and 30·4 per 1000 person-years, and were 1·4-2·7 times higher than were those for dsm-iv dementia (9·9-15·7 per 1000 person-years). mortality hazards were 1·56-5·69 times higher in individuals with dementia at baseline than in those who were dementia-free. informant reports suggested a high incidence of dementia before death; overall incidence might be 4-19% higher if these data were included. icd-10 criteria identified 70.3% cases, and dsm-iv-tr criteria identified 56.3% cases at the time of clinically diagnosed dementia. over time, the proportion of cases meeting icd-10 or dsm-iv-tr diagnoses increased, suggesting that experienced clinicians used their clinical knowledge of dementia presentation in down syndrome to diagnose the disorder at an earlier stage than would have been possible had they relied on the classic description contained in the diagnostic systems. the icd-10 sets a higher threshold for dementia diagnosis. epidemiological studies show that up to 10% of individuals aged 65 years and older suffer from dementia, most commonly from dementia of the alzheimer type (dat) (1). older patients had more etiologies of their dementia than younger patients. 
Incidence of 10/66 dementia is lower than the incidence of DSM-IV dementia. [SEP] results of the few cohort studies from countries with low incomes or middle incomes suggest a lower incidence of dementia than in high-income countries. we assessed incidence of dementia according to criteria from the 10/66 dementia research group and diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders (dsm) iv, the effect of dementia at baseline on mortality, and the independent effects of age, sex, socioeconomic position, and indicators of cognitive reserve. incidence for 10/66 dementia varied between 18·2 and 30·4 per 1000 person-years, and were 1·4-2·7 times higher than were those for dsm-iv dementia (9·9-15·7 per 1000 person-years). 10/66 dementia incidence was independently associated with increased age (hr 1·67; 95% ci 1·56-1·79), female sex (0·72; 0·61-0·84), and low education (0·89; 0·81-0·97), but not with occupational attainment (1·04; 0·95-1·13). the prevalence of dementia according to dsm-iv criteria tends to be very low in less developed settings. the strong predictive validity of the 10/66 dementia diagnosis is consistent with a lack of sensitivity of the dsm-iv criteria to mild-to-moderate cases, which may underestimate prevalence in less developed regions. patients with dementia are less likely to receive thrombolysis (0.56-10% vs. 1-16% thrombolysis rates in the general population), be admitted to a stroke unit or receive some types of care. in a recent study in which diagnosis was based on the cape, a 12-item questionnaire, the prevalence rate for severe cognitive impairment for the age group 75 years or over was lower than previously reported. additional cases had less severe memory, language impairment, and instrumental activities of daily living (iadl) impairments compared to cases meeting dsm-iv criteria for dementia. we compare clinicopathologic data from 10 subjects identified in the very mild stage of senile dementia of the alzheimer type with findings from similar studies in four cognitively normal subjects. 
Incidence of heart failure increased by 10% in women since 1979. [SEP] since 10% of all cancers in the world are breast cancer (only affecting half of the population as breast cancer almost exclusively concerns only women), it is being considered an epidemic. cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of mortality and morbidity in women after the age of 50 years in most developed countries. epidemiology, symptoms and progression of cardiovascular disease are different in women than in men. indeed, women develop cardiovascular disease when they are about 10 years older than men and typically after the menopause. risk factors have a different impact in determining cardiovascular risk in the two sexes. menopause is an important cardiovascular risk factor both for the negative effect of ovarian hormone deprivation on cardiovascular function and for the consequent worsening of cardiovascular risk factors. the number of patients with end-stage renal disease has increased during the last decades. long-term mortality is associated with age and heart failure. the overall incidence of heart failure increases with age, affecting up to 10% of people >65 years of age. diastolic heart failure is also age-dependent, increasing from <15% in middle-aged patients to >40% in patients > or =70 years of age. 
Incidence of sepsis has fallen substantially from 2009 to 2014. [SEP] adjusting for patient risk factors using the standardized mortality ratio, there was a marked decrease over time in both smr (1.3 to 0.27) and crude infection rates (32 to 10 per thousand operations per year). there has been a marked decline in mortality due to rheumatic fever in the united states. since that year, mortality due to rheumatic carditis has rapidly decreased to zero at the hospital we studied (house of the good samaritan, boston), the rate of loss of all murmurs in patients at the study hospital accelerated simultaneously and exceeded 40 percent by 1970, and the rates of decline in national mortality due to rheumatic carditis accelerated fourfold with the advent of antibiotics. mortality associated with febrile neutropenia has dramatically decreased over the last three decades; a pivotal role has been played by the concept of hospital-based empirical therapy with broad-spectrum combinations of antibiotics. clabsi rates in united states icus reported to the national healthcare safety network (nhsn) have decreased dramatically in recent years. this review of the medical literature reveals that the incidence of rheumatic fever has been declining for at least 150 years, preceding by many decades the use of penicillin as a preventive measure. simultaneously, the prevalence of rheumatic heart disease has diminished. scarlet fever has become relatively benign, with low mortality. the belgian data (2003-2010) for the european antimicrobial resistance surveillance network (ears-net) showed a significant decreasing trend in the proportion of penicillin non-susceptible streptococcus pneumoniae (9·4% to <1%) from blood and csf isolates. non-covid-19 admissions were substantially lower for patients residing in majority-hispanic neighborhoods (32 percent below baseline) and remained well below baseline for patients with pneumonia (-44 percent), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease/asthma (-40 percent), sepsis (-25 percent), urinary tract infection (-24 percent), and acute st-elevation myocardial infarction (-22 percent). 
Including pharmacists in rounding teams does not alter the incidence of adverse drug events (ADEs). [SEP] pharmacist involvement in medication reconciliation has been shown to have a positive impact on patient care in a number of settings [1-6], but there have been no evaluations of the effect of this pharmacist role on patient care during the conduct of clinical trials. however, whether pharmacist participation in the icu at the time of drug prescribing reduces adverse events has not been studied. to measure the effect of pharmacist participation on medical rounds in the icu on the rate of preventable adverse drug events (ades) caused by ordering errors. the presence of a pharmacist on rounds as a full member of the patient care team in a medical icu was associated with a substantially lower rate of ades caused by prescribing errors. there were no differences between before (ward-aligned) and after (team-aligned) groups regarding age, number of medications or comorbidities. studies that reported any estimate of the cost or cost-effectiveness were included if pharmacist participation on inpatient hospital ward rounds was the predominant focus of the intervention. pharmacists attending consultant-led ward rounds in addition to undertaking a ward pharmacist visit make significantly more interventions per patient than those made by pharmacists undertaking a ward pharmacist visit alone, rectifying prescribing errors and optimising treatment. the presence of clinical pharmacists in medical rounds could assist physicians in optimizing patients' pharmacotherapy. moreover, clinical pharmacists may reduce adverse effects and medication errors insofar as they contribute significantly to the detection and management of drug-related problems, not least in patients with cardiovascular diseases, who have the highest rank in the frequency of medication errors. pharmacist inclusion in patient-centered medical home (pcmh) teams has been shown to benefit both patients and practices. 
Including pharmacists in rounding teams reduces the incidence of adverse drug events (ADEs). [SEP] to measure the effect of pharmacist participation on medical rounds in the icu on the rate of preventable adverse drug events (ades) caused by ordering errors. the presence of a pharmacist on rounds as a full member of the patient care team in a medical icu was associated with a substantially lower rate of ades caused by prescribing errors. therefore, it is proposed that having a pharmacist available when patients are evaluated during the rounding process may reduce the likelihood of preventable adverse drug events (ades). the objectives of this study were to evaluate the impact of having a pharmacist participate with a physician rounding team on preventable ades in general medicine units and to document pharmacist interventions made during the rounding process. a single-blind, standard care-controlled study design was used to compare patients receiving care from a rounding team including a pharmacist with patients receiving standard care (no pharmacist on rounding team). pharmacist participation with the medical rounding team on a general medicine unit contributes to a significant reduction in preventable ades. the presence of clinical pharmacists in medical rounds could assist physicians in optimizing patients' pharmacotherapy. clinical pharmacist's activity can enhance drug therapy's effectiveness and safety through pharmacotherapy interventions (pis), thus minimizing drug-related problems (drps) and optimizing the allocation of financial resources associated with health care. previous data suggest that direct pharmacist interaction with patients through medication reconciliation, discharge counseling, and postdischarge phone calls decreases the number of adverse drug events (ades) and plays an overall positive role in transitional care. the institute of medicine's report to err is human: building a safer health system recommends pharmacist participation in patient rounds as an immediate approach to reducing medical errors. 
Increase of p62 in prostate tumor stroma results in defective autophagy. [SEP] the selective autophagy substrate p62 serves as a molecular link between autophagy and cancer. suppression of autophagy causes p62 accumulation and thereby contributes to tumorigenesis. sequestosome 1 (p62) is a multifunctional adapter protein accumulating in autophagy-defective cells. our study identifies cytoplasmic accumulation of p62 as a strong predictor of an adverse prognostic behavior of prostate cancer independently from established clinicopathologic findings. these results demonstrate that the intracellular level of p62 is tightly regulated by autophagy through the direct interaction of lc3 with p62 and reveal that selective turnover of p62 via autophagy controls inclusion body formation. p62 is a ubiquitin-binding autophagy receptor and signaling protein that accumulates in premalignant liver diseases and most hepatocellular carcinomas (hccs). although p62 was proposed to participate in the formation of benign adenomas in autophagy-deficient livers, its role in hcc initiation was not explored. the expression of p62 was enhanced by not only autophagic dysfunction but also oxidative stress and inflammation. in summary, we first demonstrated that upregulation of p63 in the cartilage tissues of oa patients inhibited chondrocyte autophagy thereby contributing to the malignant progression of oa. in conclusion, upregulation of autophagy enhanced prr expression through reduction of p62 and stimulation of erk1/2 activity signaling pathway. 
Increased LDL receptors plays a role in the reduction of plasma Lp(a). [SEP] increased expression of the low-density lipoprotein receptor (ldlr) is generally considered beneficial for reducing plasma cholesterol and atherosclerosis, and its downregulation has been thought to explain the association between apolipoprotein (apo) e4 and increased risk of coronary heart disease in humans. abnormal interaction between low density lipoprotein receptors (ldlr) and their ligands, apolipoprotein e and b, causes decreased catabolism of lipoproteins which carry these apolipoproteins (vldl, idl and/or ldl) and thereby increased plasma concentrations of these. high plasma levels of lipoprotein(a) [lp(a)] are considered to be an independent risk factor for premature cardiovascular disease and are inversely associated with apolipoprotein(a) [apo(a)] isoform sizes. induction of low-density lipoprotein receptor (ldlr) plays a significant role in reduction of plasma ldl-cholesterol (ldl-c) levels. increased levels of ldlr would lead to reduced cholesterol levels and contribute to strategies designed to treat hypercholesterolemia. low-density lipoprotein receptor (ldlr) is a key regulator of the metabolism of plasma low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c), the elevated levels of which are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. a unique cholesterol-rich lipoprotein, lipoprotein lp(a), has been identified which not only can be confused with low density lipoproteins, but has also been associated with premature cardiovascular disease. these changes in lipoprotein lp(a) levels were associated with a striking decline in the intensity of the slow pre-beta-lipoprotein fraction determined lp(a) by lipoprotein electrophoresis. these observations indicate that lipoprotein lp(a) concentrations can be altered pharmacologically and that the progression of cardiovascular disease may be altered through changes in lipoprotein (a) levels. lipoprotein (a) [lp (a)] is a risk factor for coronary heart disease (chd), especially in the presence of a raised low-density lipoprotein (ldl)-cholesterol (ldl-c). 
Increased conversion of PGE 2 to PPARy ligand 15-ket-PGE 2 causes accumulation of PGE. [SEP] interestingly, we found that 15-keto-pge2 can act as a ligand of ppargamma to increase co-activator recruitment, thus activating ppargamma-mediated transcription and enhancing adipogenesis of 3t3-l1 cells. overexpression of 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase, which catalyzes the oxidation reaction of pge2 to form 15-keto-pge2, significantly increased ppargamma-mediated transcription in a pge2-dependent manner. reciprocally, overexpression of wild-type pgr-2, but not the catalytically defective mutant, abolished the effect of 15-keto-pge2 on ppargamma activation. these results demonstrate a novel link between catabolism of pge2 and regulation of ligand-induced ppargamma activation. 15-keto prostaglandin e2 (15-keto pge2), a product formed from 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase-catalyzed oxidation of pge2, has recently been shown to have anti-inflammatory and anticarcinogenic activities. 15-keto pge2 inhibited the migration and clonogenicity of mcf10a-ras cells. the 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase (15-pgdh) catalyzes oxidation of the 15(s)-hydroxyl group of pge2, leading to its inactivation. this increase has been attributed to enhanced synthesis rather than reduced catabolism of pge(2). 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase (15-pgdh) plays a major role in the catabolism of pge(2). 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase (15-pgdh) catabolizes pge2 by oxidizing its 15(s)-hydroxy group. 
Increased diastolic blood pressure (DBP) is associated with abdominal aortic aneurysm. [SEP] we aimed to assess the association of systolic blood pressure (sbp) and diastolic blood pressure (dbp) at admission with aortic-related adverse events (arae) after thoracic endovascular aortic repair (tevar). arterial hypertension represents a major risk factor for the development of aortic dissection and is thought to be directly involved in the pathogenesis of aortic aneurysms. abdominal aortic aneurysm (aaa) is a prevalent cardiovascular disease characterized by the focal dilation of the aorta, which supplies blood to all the organs and tissues in the systemic circulation. with the aaa increasing in diameter over time, the risk of aneurysm rupture is generally associated with the size of the aneurysm. elevated systolic blood pressure and increased pulse pressure unquestionably increase the risk of both fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, including stroke, myocardial infarction, and heart failure. cardiovascular events pose significant morbidity and mortality burden to abdominal aortic aneurysm (aaa) patients. abdominal aortic aneurysm (aaa) is a vascular disease characterized by the enlargement of the infrarenal segment of the aorta. aortic aneurysm is one several well-known cardiovascular complications in patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (adpckd). commonly affected site of aortic aneurysm and its related dissection in adpckd is abdominal aorta. long standing hypertension, haemodialysis, old age are closely related with discovering of aortic aneurysm and dissection in adpckd. 
Increased flux of microbial products provokes immune responses. [SEP] inflammation is typically induced in response to a microbial infection. the release of proinflammatory cytokines enhances the stimulatory capacity of antigen-presenting cells, as well as recruits adaptive and innate immune effectors to the site of infection. bacterial-derived metabolites or structural components initiate immune signaling pathways and transcriptional factors, inducing a broad range of specificities and functional repertoires of the immune cells. conversely, the immune system regulates the composition and function of bacterial communities. this review suggests that infections are potent immunomodulators by causing significant alterations in one or more mediators of homeostasis and that an effective antibiosis may be a potent immunomodulator, albeit indirectly. when large numbers of microorganisms are killed, their enzymes and toxins are rapidly released and activate the immune system. although infections with virulent pathogens often induce a strong inflammatory reaction, what drives the increased immune response to pathogens compared to nonpathogenic microbes is poorly understood. one possibility is that the immune system senses the level of threat from a microorganism and augments the response accordingly. this response was protective and increased the ability of the host to restrict pathogen growth, thus defining a mechanism of effector-triggered immunity that contributes to how metazoans defend against microbes with pathogenic potential. during infection, microbes can activate immune cells through  pattern-recognition receptors, such as toll-like receptors, an evolutionarily  conserved family of receptors that mediate innate immunity in a wide range of  organisms. 
Increased flux of microbial products suppresses immune responses. [SEP] one explanation for these trends is that decreased exposure to microbes, due to modern public health practices, has resulted in the loss of a main source of immune provocation, and a consequent increase in pathogenic immune responses and their associated diseases. disease-associated changes in microbiota may be due to downregulation of epidermal antimicrobial proteins/peptides, such as antimicrobial protein chemerin. immunosuppression refers to the suppression of the immune response. meanwhile, it can reduce the side effects of commonly used immunosuppressants, such as cytotoxicity, decreased ability of the body to fight infection, and inhibition of the reproduction of bone marrow hematopoietic cells. in healthy individuals, the gut microbiota prevents infection by harmful microorganisms through direct inhibition (releasing antimicrobial compounds), competition, or stimulation of the host's immune defenses. the perturbations of homeostatic coexistence involve host genetic factors, barrier function, innate and adaptive immunity, as well as qualitative and quantitative changes in the composition of the microbiota. ligands released from dying microbes induce toll-like receptor (tlr) mimicry, skew hypoxia, and cause sterile inflammation, which further contributes to the severity of inflammatory, autoimmune, and tumorous diseases. an imbalance between pathogenic and protective microbiota characterizes dysbiosis. presence of dysbiosis may affect immunity, tolerance, or disease depending on a variety of conditions. studies in mice have demonstrated significant bidirectional interactions between microbiota-derived products and host immune cells. 
Increased lipolysis leads to higher P38 phosphorylation in adipose tissue. [SEP] p38 has long been known as a central mediator of protein kinase a (pka) signaling in brown adipocytes, which positively regulate the transcription of uncoupling protein 1 (ucp-1). however, the physiological role of p38 in adipose tissues, especially the white adipose tissue (wat), is largely unknown. here, we show that mice lacking p38α in adipose tissues display a lean phenotype, improved metabolism, and resistance to diet-induced obesity. surprisingly, ablation of p38α causes minimal effects on brown adipose tissue (bat) in adult mice, as evident from undetectable changes in ucp-1 expression, mitochondrial function, body temperature (bt), and energy expenditure. in contrast, genetic ablation of p38α in adipose tissues not only markedly facilitates the browning in wat upon cold stress but also prevents diet-induced obesity. furthermore, our data suggest that p38α deficiency promotes white-to-beige adipocyte reprogramming in a cell-autonomous manner. we recently reported that p38mapk and jun n-terminal kinase (jnk), but not erk and inhibitory-kappab kinase beta, are more highly expressed and activated in human omental (om) adipose tissue in obesity. phosphorylation and expression of kinases were studied in paired samples of om and sc adipose tissue from lean and obese subjects of two different cohorts (n = 36 and n = 196) by western and real-time pcr analyses. hormonally stimulated lipolysis occurs by activation of cyclic amp-dependent protein kinase (pka) which phosphorylates hormone-sensitive lipase (hsl) and increases adipocyte lipolysis. reduction of the insulin-induced akt phosphorylation by oleate correlated with activation of p38. 
Increased microtubule acetylation exacerbates LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. [SEP] lrrk2 is a multifunctional protein affecting many cellular processes and has been described to bind microtubules. defective microtubule-based axonal transport is hypothesized to contribute to parkinson's disease, but whether lrrk2 mutations affect this process to mediate pathogenesis is not known. here we find that lrrk2 containing pathogenic roc-cor domain mutations (r1441c, y1699c) preferentially associates with deacetylated microtubules, and inhibits axonal transport in primary neurons and in drosophila, causing locomotor deficits in vivo. in vitro, increasing microtubule acetylation using deacetylase inhibitors or the tubulin acetylase αtat1 prevents association of mutant lrrk2 with microtubules, and the deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin a (tsa) restores axonal transport. previous studies indicate that lrrk2 interacts with microtubules (mts) and alters mt-mediated vesicular transport processes. destabilization of microtubules causes a rapid decrease in cellular lrrk2(s935) phosphorylation indicating a decreased lrrk2 kinase activity. these findings suggest that lrrk2 and microtubules mutually interact both in non-neuronal cells and in neurons, which might contribute to our understanding of its pathogenic effects in parkinson's disease. this interaction is functionally relevant to microtubule dynamics, as mouse embryonic fibroblasts derived from lrrk2 knock-out mice display increased microtubule acetylation. taken together, our data shed light on the nature of the lrrk2-tubulin interaction, and indicate that alterations in microtubule stability caused by changes in lrrk2 might contribute to the pathogenesis of parkinson disease. mutations in the microtubule cytoskeleton are linked to cognitive and locomotor defects during development, and neurodegeneration in adults. 
Increased microtubule acetylation repairs interference of axonal transport caused by LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutations. [SEP] by interactome analysis we demonstrate that the binding of lrrk2 to tubulins is significantly enhanced by pharmacological lrrk2 inhibition in cells. co-incubation of lrrk2 with microtubules increased the lrrk2 gtpase activity in a cell-free assay. destabilization of microtubules causes a rapid decrease in cellular lrrk2(s935) phosphorylation indicating a decreased lrrk2 kinase activity. these findings suggest that lrrk2 and microtubules mutually interact both in non-neuronal cells and in neurons, which might contribute to our understanding of its pathogenic effects in parkinson's disease. lrrk2 is a multifunctional protein affecting many cellular processes and has been described to bind microtubules. defective microtubule-based axonal transport is hypothesized to contribute to parkinson's disease, but whether lrrk2 mutations affect this process to mediate pathogenesis is not known. here we find that lrrk2 containing pathogenic roc-cor domain mutations (r1441c, y1699c) preferentially associates with deacetylated microtubules, and inhibits axonal transport in primary neurons and in drosophila, causing locomotor deficits in vivo. in vitro, increasing microtubule acetylation using deacetylase inhibitors or the tubulin acetylase αtat1 prevents association of mutant lrrk2 with microtubules, and the deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin a (tsa) restores axonal transport. microtubule dynamics are important for axon growth during development as well as axon regeneration after injury. previous studies indicate that lrrk2 interacts with microtubules (mts) and alters mt-mediated vesicular transport processes. 
Increased microtubule acetylation worsens interference of axonal transport caused by LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutations. [SEP] lrrk2 is a multifunctional protein affecting many cellular processes and has been described to bind microtubules. defective microtubule-based axonal transport is hypothesized to contribute to parkinson's disease, but whether lrrk2 mutations affect this process to mediate pathogenesis is not known. here we find that lrrk2 containing pathogenic roc-cor domain mutations (r1441c, y1699c) preferentially associates with deacetylated microtubules, and inhibits axonal transport in primary neurons and in drosophila, causing locomotor deficits in vivo. in vitro, increasing microtubule acetylation using deacetylase inhibitors or the tubulin acetylase αtat1 prevents association of mutant lrrk2 with microtubules, and the deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin a (tsa) restores axonal transport. obstacles on the surface of microtubules can lead to defective cargo transport, proposed to play a role in neurological diseases such as alzheimer's. previous studies indicate that lrrk2 interacts with microtubules (mts) and alters mt-mediated vesicular transport processes. a reduced ability of the mutated microtubule-associated tau protein to interact with microtubules causes microtubule destabilization leading to deleterious effects on axonal transport and the formation of tau filaments. disruptions in microtubule motor transport are associated with a variety of neurodegenerative diseases. mutations in the microtubule cytoskeleton are linked to cognitive and locomotor defects during development, and neurodegeneration in adults. how these mutations impact microtubules, and how this alters function at the level of neurons is an important area of investigation. 
Increased mobility of retrotransposons does not lead to mutation and higher tumorigenesis rates. [SEP] although a mutator phenotype is not required for tumorigenesis, it can foster mutations that promote tumor progression. these studies demonstrated that gross structural alteration of the tested protoocongenes is not responsible for cancer susceptibility in this syndrome. retrotransposons are mobile genetic elements, and their mobility can lead to genomic instability. retrotransposon insertions are associated with a diverse range of sporadic diseases, including cancer. thus, it is not a surprise that multiple host defense mechanisms suppress retrotransposition. expression of wild type (wt) and a constitutively active form of rnase l (nδ385), but not a catalytically inactive rnase l mutant (r667a), impaired the mobility of engineered human line-1 (l1) and mouse intracisternal a-type particle retrotransposons in cultured human cells. together, these data suggest that rnase l might function as a suppressor of structurally distinct retrotransposons. testicular teratocarcinomas never contain p53 gene mutations even though these tumors express high levels of nuclear p53 protein. we have characterized two murine teratocarcinoma cell lines and find no evidence that endogenous p53-regulated genes are correspondingly upregulated. in reviewing recent literature on activated proto-oncogenes including retroviral infection (without oncogene), translocation and inherited childhood cancer, i have come to the conclusion that activated proto-oncogenes are not involved in development of tumors. 
Increased mobility of retrotransposons is assosciated with mutation and higher tumorigenesis rates. [SEP] mobilization of retrotransposons to new genomic locations is a significant driver of mammalian genome evolution, but these mutagenic events can also cause genetic disorders. these data show that post-translational regulation of l1 retrotransposons plays a key role in maintaining trans-generational genome stability in mammals. the biological consequences of elevated retroelement expression, such as the rate of their amplification, in human cancers remain obscure, particularly, how this increase translates into disease-relevant mutations. long interspersed nuclear element-1 (line-1 or l1) retrotransposons are insertional mutagens capable of altering the genomic landscape in many ways. activation of the normally silent line-1 retrotransposon is associated with a high level of cancer-associated dna damage and genomic instability. retroviral insertional mutagenesis has been instrumental for the identification of genes important in cancer development. retrotransposition has been well documented as a significant source of mutagenesis in diverse eukaryotic organisms, including humans. insertions of retrotransposons within or in close proximity to transcription units cause many spontaneous mutations, and have been implicated as a source of heritable genetic defects and as a cause of carcinogenesis. the mechanisms by which retrotransposon insertions produce mutant phenotypes are diverse and, in many cases, not fully understood. there is increasing evidence that the transpositional activity of retroelements (res) is not limited to germ line cells, but often occurs in tumor and normal somatic cells. 
Increased purity of cytoplasmic membranes isolated from overexpressors is indicated by stronger spots for OmpF in 2D BN-PAGE gels. [SEP] the inhibition was complete with ompf-lpp, whereas significant amounts of uncleavable ompf-lpp and ompa were translocated at a slower rate even with the stripped membrane vesicles in the presence of a high concentration of carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone. a significant increase in the yield of protein extraction by the addition of sulfobetaine-type mild solubilization agents is shown for microsomal membrane proteins and proteins from lyophilized platelets, with a maximum increase in yield of up to 100%. the purified ompr protein was specifically bound to the promoter regions of the ompc and ompf genes. although it has been proposed that depending on the medium osmolarity the ompr protein may exist in two alternative structures, which respectively regulate functioning of the ompc and the ompf promoters, the purified ompr protein appeared to be homogeneous and interacted with both promoters to the same extent. escherichia coli bl21 strains were found to excrete a large amount of outer membrane protein f (ompf) into culture medium during high-cell-density cultivation. overexpression of mammalian membrane proteins in mammalian cells is an effective strategy to produce sufficient protein for biophysical analyses and structural studies, because the cells generally express proteins in a correctly folded state. as membrane protein overexpression often has a negative impact on cell viability, it is usual to make stable cell lines where the protein of interest is expressed from an inducible promoter. here we describe a methodology for optimizing the inducible production of any membrane protein fused to gfp through the isolation of clonal cell lines. high-gradient magnetic affinity chromatography (himac) has been used to obtain highly enriched plasma membranes, free of intracellular membrane contaminants, from cultured chinese hamster ovary (cho) cells in yields of > or = 80%. the major outer membrane proteins (oprf) from pseudomonas fluorescens mfo and oe 28.3 were purified by a new method involving native electrophoresis in octyl-polyoxyethylene media. 
Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis improves the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. [SEP] it has been confirmed that vascular normalization can decrease relapse and benefit other cancer therapy, including chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and immune cell therapy. one rationale behind the use of agents that inhibit vascular endothelial growth factor in the therapy of primary cns malignancies is based upon the concept that normalization of tumor vasculature with a decrease in tumor interstitial pressure will improve access of cytoreductive drugs and improve radiotherapy efficacy due to increased oxygen delivery. dysfunctional tumor vessels can be a significant barrier to effective cancer therapy. however, increasing evidence suggests that vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) inhibition can effect transient "normalization" of the tumor vasculature, thereby improving tumor perfusion and, consequently, delivery of systemic chemotherapy. bevacizumab-mediated vegf blockade effects alterations in tumor vessel physiology that allow improved delivery and efficacy of chemotherapy, although careful consideration of drug scheduling is required to optimize antitumor activity. the authors show in turn how this affects vascular permeability and can ultimately improve the efficacy of chemotherapeutic agents. inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) may effect transient "normalization" of tumor vasculature by pruning immature vessels, resulting in improved tumor perfusion and oxygenation. after bevacizumab treatment, a significant decrease in tumor microvessel density and a significant increase in tumor vessel maturity, defined as the ratio of pericytes to endothelial cells, were observed, suggesting pruning of immature vessels lacking pericytes. tumor vessel permeability was also significantly decreased and intratumoral oxygen tension increased 2 and 5 days after bevacizumab owing to a transient improvement in tumor perfusion. blood vessels reconstituted by hmvecs or esecs exhibited normal vasculature, and tumor growth was significantly inhibited upon treatment. 
Individuals with Alzheimers who participate in six months of physical activity improve cognitive function for up to 18 months. [SEP] this study aimed to investigate the effect of 6-month physical exercise with a multicomponent cognitive program (mcp) on the cognitive function of older adults with moderate to severe alzheimer's disease (ad). this study indicates that it is possible to improve cognitive function in older adults with moderate to severe ad through 6-month physical exercise with a multicomponent cognitive intervention. physical and cognitive training seem to counteract age-related decline in physical and mental function. the aim of this study is to assess in older adults with memory complaints, the effects of a 6-month home-based physical activity (pa) intervention on short-term adherence, short and long-term self-efficacy and the predictors of adherence. while aerobic exercise has been linked to improved performance on cognitive tasks of executive functioning among older adults, not all older adults can avail themselves of such exercise due to physical limitations. additionally, epidemiological and clinical data suggest that repeated exercise, and cognitive and social enrichment, can improve and/or delay the cognitive deficiencies associated with aging and neurodegenerative diseases. research evidence strongly suggests that increased physical exercise may not only improve physical function in older adults but may also improve mood and slow the progression of cognitive decline. this paper describes a series of evidence-based interventions grounded in social-learning and gerontological theory that were designed to increase physical activity in persons with dementia and mild cognitive impairment. at a time when they are losing skills in virtually all arenas of life, persons with alzheimer's disease can experience significant, esteem-building achievements in physical fitness and mood through supervised participation in an exercise program. the effects of physical exercise plus cognitive and social stimulation on persons with early stage alzheimer's disease were assessed in a longitudinal study. 
Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have decreased risk of multiple sclerosis. [SEP] risk of multiple sclerosis (ms) decreases with increasing plasma levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin d [25(oh)d]. if this association reflected a protective effect of vitamin d, ms risk should be lower among individuals carrying genetic variants that predict high 25(oh)d levels. this preliminary finding suggests the possibility that the putative beneficial effect of vitamin d on ms risk maybe attenuated in individuals carrying the hla-dr15 ms risk allele. vitamin d has been associated with a decreased risk of multiple sclerosis (ms) in adulthood; however, some, but not all, previous studies have suggested that in utero vitamin d exposure may be a risk factor for ms later in life. high 25-hydroxyvitamin d concentrations have been associated with a reduced risk of multiple sclerosis, with indications of a stronger effect among young individuals. high levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin d (top quintile) were associated with a reduced multiple sclerosis risk (odds ratio 0.68, 95% confidence interval 0.50-0.93). these findings further support a role for vitamin d in ms aetiology. vitamin d (vd), an important factor for bone health immobilization and immune regulation, has been shown to have low serum concentration in multiple sclerosis (ms) patients. vitamin d sufficiency has been associated with lower risk of multiple sclerosis and may also have a favorable effect on the course of the disease. a protective association between higher vitamin d levels and the onset of multiple sclerosis (ms) has been demonstrated; however, its role in modulating ms clinical course has been little studied. 
Induced hepatic stem cells possess the potential to differentiate into cholangiocytic cells. [SEP] hepatoblasts, hepatic stem/progenitor cells in liver development, have a high proliferative potential and the ability to differentiate into both hepatocytes and cholangiocytes. when these cells were cultured in a suitable extracellular matrix gel, they eventually formed a cholangiocytic cyst-like structure with epithelial polarity, suggesting that human ips cell-derived hepatic progenitor-like cells have a bipotent differentiation ability. hepatic stem/progenitor cells in liver development have a high proliferative potential and the ability to differentiate into both hepatocytes and cholangiocytes. stem cell-derived hepatocyte-like cells hold great potential for the treatment of liver disease and for drug toxicity screening. cholangiocytes are biliary epithelial cells, which, like hepatocytes, originate from hepatoblasts during embryonic development. in this study we investigated the potential of human embryonic stem cells (hescs) to differentiate into cholangiocytes and we report a new approach, which drives differentiation of hescs toward the cholangiocytic lineage using feeder-free and defined culture conditions. these conditions also allowed us to generate cholangiocytes from heparg-derived hepatoblasts. in addition, we showed that cholangiocyte-like cells could also be generated from human induced pluripotent stem cells, demonstrating the efficacy of our approach with stem/progenitor cells of diverse origins. we have developed a robust and efficient method for differentiating pluripotent stem cells into cholangiocyte-like cells, which display structural and functional similarities to bile duct cells in normal liver. differentiation of human embryonic stem (es) and induced pluripotent stem (ips) cells into hepatocyte-like cells provides a platform to study the molecular basis of human hepatocyte differentiation, to develop cell culture models of liver disease, and to potentially provide hepatocytes for treatment of end-stage liver disease. 
Induced hepatic stem cells possess the potential to differentiate into hepatocytic cells. [SEP] hepatoblasts, hepatic stem/progenitor cells in liver development, have a high proliferative potential and the ability to differentiate into both hepatocytes and cholangiocytes. in regenerative medicine and drug screening for the treatment of severe liver diseases, human induced pluripotent stem (ips) cell-derived mature functional hepatocytes are considered to be a potentially good cell source. hepatic stem/progenitor cells in liver development have a high proliferative potential and the ability to differentiate into both hepatocytes and cholangiocytes. in general, human induced pluripotent stem (ips) cells are differentiated into hepatocyte-like cells through definitive endoderm cells and hepatoblast-like cells using various growth factors that are essential for liver development. differentiation of human embryonic stem (es) and induced pluripotent stem (ips) cells into hepatocyte-like cells provides a platform to study the molecular basis of human hepatocyte differentiation, to develop cell culture models of liver disease, and to potentially provide hepatocytes for treatment of end-stage liver disease. differentiation of human induced pluripotent stem cells (hipscs) into hepatocytes has important clinical significance in providing a new stem cell source for cell therapy of terminal liver disease. human embryonic stem cells (hescs) offer a potential unlimited source for functional human hepatocytes, since hescs can differentiate into hepatocyte-like cells displaying a characteristic hepatic morphology and expressing several hepatic markers. stem cell-derived hepatocyte-like cells hold great potential for the treatment of liver disease and for drug toxicity screening. we have attempted to generate embryonic stem (es) cell-derived hepatocytes expressing liver-specific functional properties by use of es cell technology. human embryonic stem cells (hesc) offer a potential unlimited source for functional human hepatocytes, since they can differentiate into hepatocyte-like cells displaying a characteristic hepatic morphology and expressing several hepatic markers. 
Induction of urokinase receptor signaling in podocytes causes foot process effacement and proteinuria. [SEP] podocyte dysfunction, represented by foot process effacement and proteinuria, is often the starting point for progressive kidney disease. here we show that induction of urokinase receptor (upar) signaling in podocytes leads to foot process effacement and urinary protein loss via a mechanism that includes lipid-dependent activation of alphavbeta3 integrin. induction of urokinase receptor (upar) signaling in podocytes leads to foot process effacement and urinary protein loss via promoting podocytes' motility and kidney permeability in the glomerulus. although foot process effacement is a characteristic alteration of podocytes in the proteinuric state, whether this is the cause or the result of proteinuria is not understood. podocyte foot process effacement, mediated largely by the actin-based cytoskeleton of foot processes, is commonly detected in dn and is believed to be a key pathogenic event in the development of proteinuria. the effacement of podocyte foot processes is a well-known phenomenon occurring in many glomerulonephritides with proteinuria. the degree of foot process effacement was positively correlated with proteinuria. this study demonstrates that proteinuria in iga nephropathy is closely related to foot process effacement. we evaluated a potential mechanism of podocyte detachment via the expression of the urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor (upar) in urinary podocytes of fabry patients. morphological change that includes diffuse effacement of podocyte foot processes is correlated with proteinuria in patients with lupus nephritis (ln). 
Inhibiting HDAC6 increases survival of mice with ARID1A mutated tumors. [SEP] a study now shows that hdac6 activity is required for survival of ovarian cancer cells bearing arid1a mutations. hdac6 inhibition selectively promotes apoptosis of arid1a-inactivated cells, supporting the use of hdac6 inhibition in the treatment of clear cell ovarian cancer. the hdac6 inhibitor alone is as effective as paclitaxel in anticancer activity in tumor-bearing mice. overexpression of hdac6 correlates with tumorigenesis and improved survival; therefore, hdac6 may be used as a marker for prognosis. previous work demonstrated that in multiple myeloma cells, inhibition of hdac6 results in apoptosis. this review will discuss the role of hdac6 in the pathogenesis and treatment of cancer. ndaci054 is a novel hdac inhibitor, which has been evaluated here for its effects on cell survival and radiosensitization of human tumor cell lines from different origins cultured under more physiological three-dimensional (3d), extracellular matrix (ecm)-based conditions. histone deacetylase (hdac) inhibitors target key steps of tumor development: they inhibit proliferation, induce differentiation and/or apoptosis, and exhibit potent antimetastatic and antiangiogenic properties in transformed cells in vitro and in vivo. preliminary studies in animal models have revealed a relatively high tumor selectivity of hdac inhibitors, strenghtening their promising potential in cancer chemotherapy. here, we examined the effect of dietary administration of osu-hdac42, a novel hdac inhibitor, on prostate tumor progression in the transgenic adenocarcinoma of the mouse prostate (tramp) model. 
Inhibiting focal adhesion formation enables cells to convert mechanical strain into eventual scarring. [SEP] scars formed after tendonitis result in altered tissue mechanical properties after injury. the interaction of collagen molecules with decorin affects collagen fibrogenesis, and scar tissue is fragile as a consequence of a large amount of decorin in the scar. we hypothesized that scar formation could be prevented by controlling decorin expression in tendinocytes. tissue contraction and the extracellular matrix deposition are part of the pathogenesis of hypertrophic scars. in the rabbit ear model, ato prevented the progression of hypertrophic scar formation. the transformation of fibroblasts to myofibroblasts is critical to corneal wound healing, stromal haze formation, and scarring. however, the development of scar contractures in tissues and organs disrupts normal organ integrity and produces functional deformities. the inhibition of transforming growth factor β (tgf-β)-induced myofibroblast differentiation is a key objective for the treatment of hypertrophic scarring. here we show that low rigidity of collagen gel downregulates beta(1)-integrin activation, clustering, and focal adhesion kinase (fak) y397 phosphorylation, which is mediated by delayed raft formation. scar tissue that forms locally at the lesion site is thought to block axonal regeneration, resulting in permanent functional deficits. 
Inhibiting focal adhesion formation increases the rate at which cells convert mechanical strain into inflammation and fibrosis. [SEP] scar formation occurs during the late stages of the inflammatory response but, when excessive, produces fibrosis that can lead to functional and structural damage of tissues. tryptase and thrombin are upregulated in wound healing and fibrotic lesions, and inhibition of these proteases attenuates fibrosis. together, these results suggest that tryptase and thrombin may be an initial trigger to override sap inhibition of fibrocyte differentiation to initiate scar tissue formation. to examine if increased ac6 expression would impact the development of fibrosis in an animal model, we generated transgenic mice that overexpress ac6 under a fibroblast-specific promoter, fts1. wild-type mice treated with bleomycin showed extensive peribronchial and interstitial fibrosis and collagen deposition. thus, ac6 overexpression inhibits fibrogenesis in the lung by reducing pulmonary fibroblast-mediated collagen synthesis and myofibroblast differentiation. fibroblasts are the major source of extracellular connective tissue matrix, and the recruitment, accumulation, and stimulation of these cells are thought to play important roles in both normal healing and the development of fibrosis. uncontrolled fibroblast activation is one of the hallmarks of fibrotic lung disease. understanding the mechanisms for these effects may provide insight into the pathogenesis of fibrotic lung disease. key to this impairment is a diminution of the inflammatory response to wounding, fibroplasia, capillary formation, reparative tissue collagen accumulation, and wound breaking strength. 
Inhibiting glucose-6-phospate dehydrogenase improves lipogenesis by deactivating LKB1-AMPK signaling. [SEP] ampk activation promotes glucose and lipid metabolism. hepatic ampk plays significant roles in the pathophysiology of lipodystrophy and metabolic action of leptin. we investigated the effect of leptin on hepatic ampk and its pathophysiological relevance in a-zip/f-1 mice, a model of generalized lipodystrophy. ampk activities were decreased in the fatty liver of a-zip/f-1 mice, and leptin administration increased ampk activities in the liver as well as in skeletal muscle with significant reduction in triglyceride content. activation of hepatic ampk with a769662 also led to a decrease in hepatic triglyceride content and blood glucose levels in a-zip/f-1 mice. these results indicate that the down-regulation of hepatic ampk activities plays a pathophysiological role in the metabolic disturbances of lipodystrophy, and the hepatic ampk activation is involved in the therapeutic effects of leptin. it has been accepted that ampk (adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase) activation exhibits many beneficial effects on glucolipid metabolism. ampk activation reduces glucose levels in animal models of type 2 diabetes by increasing glucose uptake in skeletal muscles and reducing hepatic glucose production. activation of ampk in skeletal muscles, the liver, and adipose tissues results in a favorable metabolic milieu for preventing and treating type 2 diabetes, i.e., decreased levels of circulating glucose, plasma lipids, and ectopic fat accumulation and enhanced insulin sensitivity. these results suggest that the increase in the amp:atp ratio by osthole triggered activation of the ampk signaling pathway and led to increases in plasma membrane glut4 content and glucose uptake level. 
Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is not effective at decreasing homelessness. [SEP] the mental health system is inefficient and ineffective in providing behavioral health care services to the 1 in 4 americans who have a mental illness or a substance abuse problem. clinical interventions can only partially mitigate homelessness and housing insecurity, which are threats to health and well-being. clinicians have several opportunities to address these problems: they can refer patients who are homeless or housing insecure to support services, advocate for their employer or care group to commit resources to end homelessness and housing insecurity, and/or work with government and private sector community organizations to address and eliminate these problems. citing examples from around the us, we will illustrate how clinics, hospitals, health plans, and public health organizations work to engage in initiatives to end homelessness and housing insecurity. the access of the homeless mentally ill to the benefits of psychiatric hospitalization has been excessively limited by deinstitutionalization, the devaluation of the benefits of inpatient evaluation and treatment, a shortage of public-sector psychiatric beds, and a tendency to regard the homeless mentally ill as untreatable. a pilot program was devised to increase the access of the homeless mentally ill to short-term hospital-based treatment within a public mental health system in which beds are in short supply. little is known about predictors of adherence to outpatient behavioural therapy and psychiatry visits in those who experience homelessness. understanding factors related to adherence to behavioural health services can help homeless care providers tailor strategies for improving visit adherence. psychiatry has been largely unsuccessful in developing effective treatment strategies for patients with chronic somatization. hud-vash programs do not consistently employ evidence-based practices that address co-occurring mental health and substance use disorders. 
Inside the body, falciparum parasites reproduce asexually. [SEP] p. falciparum replicates as an intracellular parasite in man and as an extracellular parasite in the mosquito, and it undergoes multiple developmental changes in both hosts. most of our knowledge of the metabolic capabilities of p. falciparum is derived from studies of the asexual erythrocytic cycle of the parasite, the portion of the parasite life cycle found in infected humans that is responsible for malarial symptoms. the disease is caused by those parasite stages which multiply asexually in red blood cells. plasmodium falciparum, the parasite responsible for the most severe form of malaria, undergoes an asexual multiplication in man and a sexual one in mosquito. the asexual cycle can be reproduced in vitro. plasmodium falciparum, the most virulent human malaria parasite, undergoes asexual reproduction within the human host, but reproduces sexually within its vector host, the anopheles mosquito. the plasmodium falciparum parasite is transmitted in its sexual gametocyte stage from man to mosquito and as asexual sporozoites from mosquito to man. the plasmodium parasite, during its life cycle, undergoes three phases of asexual reproduction, these being repeated rounds of erythrocytic schizogony, sporogony within oocysts on the mosquito midgut wall and exo-erythrocytic schizogony within the hepatocyte. while the majority of parasites proliferate asexually in red blood cells, a small fraction of parasites undergo sexual conversion and mature over 2 weeks to become competent for transmission to a mosquito vector. plasmodium, the malaria parasite, undergoes a complex life cycle alternating between a vertebrate host and a mosquito vector of the genus anopheles in red blood cells of the vertebrate host, plasmodium multiplies asexually or differentiates into gamete precursors, the male and female gametocytes, responsible for parasite transmission. 
Insulin decreases risk of severe kidney failure. [SEP] renal function declines progressively in patients with diabetic nephropathy and the decline may be slowed by some preventive interventions. optimized and intensive insulin therapy delays the onset and slows the progression of diabetic nephropathy. some controversial aspects of the prevention of diabetic kidney disease are presented and discussed. the level of proteinuria is one of the most important predictors for progressive renal function loss in kidney disease. post hoc analyses of many acei-based clinical trials demonstrate the greatest slowing of renal disease progression in patients with the greatest degree of renal insufficiency at study initiation. a lower concentration of intracellular myo-inositol has been implicated in the development of diabetic nephropathy. microalbuminuria and proteinuria have been determined to be modifiable risk factors for the progression of chronic kidney disease as well as risk factors for cardiovascular events. reduction of nephrotic range albuminuria is associated with markedly improved renal and cardiovascular outcome in patients with diabetic nephropathy. aldosterone has been suggested to play a role in the progression of diabetic nephropathy. twenty caucasian patients with diabetic nephropathy and nephrotic range albuminuria (>2500 mg/24 h) despite recommended antihypertensive treatment completed this double-masked, randomized crossover trial. 
Insulin effects appetite via ventral tegmental neurons. [SEP] we have recently demonstrated that postprandial insulin directly acts on the vagal afferent neurons. insulin may act in the ventral tegmental area (vta), a critical site for reward-seeking behavior, to suppress feeding. we demonstrate that insulin, a circulating catabolic peptide that inhibits feeding, can induce long-term depression (ltd) of mouse excitatory synapses onto vta dopamine neurons. finally, insulin in the vta reduces food anticipatory behavior in mice and conditioned place preference for food in rats. taken together, these results suggest that insulin in the vta suppresses excitatory synaptic transmission and reduces anticipatory activity and preference for food-related cues. glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (glp-1r) activation in the ventral tegmental area (vta) is physiologically relevant for the control of palatable food intake. insulin receptors are expressed on dopaminergic neurons of the ventral tegmental area (vta), and insulin may act in the vta to suppress feeding. insulin-mediated decrease of da in the vta may suppress salience of food once satiety is reached. insulin is now well established as an adiposity signal that acts in the brain to influence energy homeostasis. experimental manipulation of brain insulin causes predictable changes of food intake and body weight. 
Intake of folic acid (FA) and vitamin B6 (VB6) increases levels of homocysteine. [SEP] the metabolism of homocysteine is influenced by several dietary factors, including folate, cobalamin and possibly also the intake of polyhydroxylated phenolic compounds (polyphenols), which were shown to increase plasma homocysteine (thcy) concentration. folate, riboflavin, vitamin b-6, and vitamin b-12 are essential in homocysteine metabolism. we investigated the hypothesis that concomitant treatment with fenofibrate and folic acid leads to a smaller increase in plasma total homocysteine levels than treatment with fenofibrate alone. folic acid supplementation in patients treated with fenofibrate significantly reduced the increase in plasma homocysteine levels. homocysteine is metabolized in the liver, a process requiring folate and vitamin b12. blood homocysteine, folic acid, and vitamin b12 levels were measured before and after treatment. we concluded that folic acid and vitamin b12 supplementation during isotretinoin therapy could be useful for preventing folate deficiency and improving blood homocysteine levels; this might as a result reduce the risks for cardiovascular and neuropsychiatric disorders in patients taking isotretinoin. several prospective studies reported that fibrates might increase blood total homocysteine (thcy) concentrations. homocysteine levels are influenced by folic acid, vitamin b 6 and vitamin b 12, as well as by hereditary factors. deficiencies in folates either genetic (methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase, mthfr) or dietary intake of folic acid result in elevated levels of homocysteine. 
Intake of folic acid (FA) and vitamin B6 (VB6) reduces levels of homocysteine. [SEP] higher intake of folate and vitamins b6 (pyridoxine hydrochloride) and b12 (cyanocobalamin) may decrease the risk of alzheimer disease (ad) through the lowering of homocysteine levels. low doses of folic acid (fa) with or without vitamin b6 and b12 has been shown to effectively reduce plasma homocysteine (hcy). dietary supplementation with b-vitamins that lower plasma total homocysteine concentrations are expected to lower the risk of cardiovascular disease. folic acid and vitamin b (12) lower blood homocysteine concentrations by about 25-30% in populations without folic acid fortification, but by only 10-15% in populations with fortification. dietary supplementation with folic acid and vitamin b12 lowers blood homocysteine concentrations, but it is not known if this reduces the risk of coronary heart disease and stroke. recent evidence suggests that the maximum reduction in plasma homocysteine concentrations is obtained with 0.8 mg of folic acid and doses of 0.2 mg and 0.4 mg of folic acid are associated with about 60 and 90%, respectively, of this maximal effect. vitamin b-6 is necessary for the metabolism of homocysteine and is often used in combination with folic acid and vitamin b-12 in clinical trials that investigate whether the lowering of plasma total homocysteine (thcy) can prevent vascular disease. the association between vascular disease and elevated plasma total homocysteine (thcy) concentrations is caused, in part, by inadequate intakes of dietary folate. folic acid combined with vitamins b(6) and b(12) is effective in lowering homocysteine levels. folic acid (fa) supplementation reduces the elevated serum homocysteine (hcy) concentrations. 
Integrated care is ineffective at tackling multiple comorbidities. [SEP] the effect of multiple chronic conditions with regard to health-related quality of life (hrqol) is poorly researched. primary care models that offer comprehensive, accessible care to all patients may provide insufficient resources to meet the needs of patients with complex conditions who have the greatest risk for hospitalization. over the last 20 years, the effectiveness of complex care programs aiming to prevent adverse outcomes in frail elderly people has been disappointing. recently, we found no effectiveness of the carewell primary care program. patients with multimorbidity have complex health needs but, due to the current traditional disease-oriented approach, they face a highly fragmented form of care that leads to inefficient, ineffective, and possibly harmful clinical interventions. there is limited evidence on available integrated and multidimensional care pathways for multimorbid patients. disease-specific guidelines are not aligned with multimorbidity care complexity. patients with multimorbidity do not receive ~20% of guideline recommendations, mostly due to clinicians not referring care. patients with multiple chronic conditions (multimorbidity) have complex and extensive health and social care needs that are not well served by current silo-based models of care. a lack of integration between care providers often leads to fragmented, incomplete, and ineffective care, leaving many patients overwhelmed and unable to navigate their way towards better health outcomes. 
Integrated care is successful at tackling multiple comorbidities. [SEP] the importance of using integrated treatment for multimorbidity has been increasingly recognized. integrated care commonly involves provision of comprehensive community-based care for people with chronic conditions. the aim of this rapid review was to summarize the best available evidence on the impact of integrated care for patients with chronic conditions on hospital and ed utilization and investigate trends in outcomes over time. any model of integrated care that involved management of patients across the continuum of care, with the aim to provide more care in community settings, was considered for inclusion. overall, evidence suggests that integrated care may reduce the risk of hospitalization, with reviews including patients with diverse chronic conditions showing a 19% reduction. integrated care appears effective in reducing readmissions for patients with heart failure, with an absolute risk reduction of 8% for first and 19% for subsequent rehospitalization. a recently proposed integrated multimorbidity care model aims to overcome many issues related to fragmented care. analysis of the common key outcome indicators at the post-implementation phase will help to demonstrate the clinical effectiveness, as well as highlight any difficulties in adapting a common integrated multimorbidity care model in different countries and clinical settings. our model strives to integrate fully its medical, behavioral health, and substance use disorder services into one primary care clinic. recent health policy promoting integrated care emphasizes to increase patients' health, experience of quality of care and reduce care utilization. 
Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning offers the best class performance. [SEP] students then come to class ready to actively engage in collaborative learning through case scenarios, small group discussion, or other meaningful, interactive activities. converting large undergraduate classes from the classroom to online has been an effective way to increase enrollments in high-demand courses in undergraduate education. however, challenges exist to maintaining students' high-quality learning interaction and engagement in large online courses. this article presents a collaborative model between faculty in health sciences and instructional designers to redesign and redevelop three high-enrollment courses to online at boise state university. to establish an innovative stimulating approach to formative assessments for large classes furthering collaborative skills that promotes learning and student engagement linked to improvement of academic performance. in this study, we show an innovative approach to accommodate a large class divided into competing teams furthering collaborative skills reflected by academic performance. evidence suggests that cooperative learning and peer-assessment fosters students' ability to work with others and may lead to better cognitive outcomes and higher achievement. this work aimed to assess the use of an online collaborative tool for the teaching/learning and assessment of microbiology. the promotion of virtual learning groups by instructional means is gaining importance with the spread of telematic learning. in virtual learning groups, students discuss certain learning materials or cooperate in problem solving by means of computer-mediated communication. 
Interferon stimulated genes (ISGs) Irf1, Irg1, Ifi27, and Rsad2 encourage West Nile virus replication in cortical neurons. [SEP] it has been hypothesized that certain viral infections directly activate a transcription factor(s) which is responsible for the activation of genes encoding type i interferons (ifns) and interferon-stimulated genes (isgs) via interferon regulatory factor (irf) motifs present in their respective promoters. we also show that a dominant-negative mutant of irf-3 could inhibit virus-induced activation of chromosomal type i ifn genes and isgs. these findings suggest that irf-3 plays an important role in the virus-inducible primary activation of type i ifn and ifn-responsive genes. one of the most important innate host defense mechanisms against viral infection is the induction of interferon (ifn)-stimulated genes (isgs). viral infection triggers a series of signaling cascades, which converge to activate the transcription factors nuclear factor-κb (nf-κb) and interferon regulatory factor 3 (irf3), thereby inducing the transcription of type i interferons (ifns). as a result of ifn signaling, a wide array of ifn-stimulated gene (isg) products is upregulated to target different stages of the viral life cycle. their infection by viruses leads to the upregulation of both type i and type iii interferons (ifns). virus infection rapidly triggers the transcriptional induction of ifn-β and ifn stimulated genes (isgs), whose protein products act as viral restriction factors by interfering with specific stages of virus life cycle, such as entry, transcription, translation, genome replication, assembly and egress. ifn-i upregulates various genes, referred to as ifn-stimulated genes (isgs), and some isgs inhibit viral replication. certain isgs are subsequently upregulated by ifn-i stimulus and potently suppress hiv-1 replication. 
Interferon stimulated genes (ISGs) Irf1, Irg1, Ifi27, and Rsad2 inhibit West Nile virus replication in cortical neurons. [SEP] previous studies have demonstrated that type i interferon (ifn-i) restricts west nile virus (wnv) replication and pathogenesis in peripheral and central nervous system (cns) tissues. here, using ifit2(-/-) mice, we defined the antiviral function of the interferon-stimulated gene (isg) ifit2 in limiting infection and disease in vivo by a virulent north american strain of wnv. west nile virus is an emerging virus whose virulence is dependent upon viral evasion of ifn and innate immune defenses. the actions of ifn-stimulated genes (isgs) impart control of virus infection, but the specific isgs and regulatory pathways that restrict west nile virus (wnv) are not defined. control of virus infection relies on the stimulation of interferon-stimulated genes (isgs) that inhibit viral replication. isg20 is an interferon-inducible 3'-5' exonuclease that inhibits replication of several human and animal rna viruses. the interferon-inducible 2',5'-oligoadenylate synthetase 1b (oas1b) protein inhibits west nile virus (wnv) infection by preventing viral rna (vrna) accumulation in infected cells. type i interferon (ifn)-stimulated genes (isgs) have critical roles in inhibiting virus replication and dissemination. our findings establish an indirect role for isg20 in the early restriction of rna virus replication by regulating expression of other isgs that inhibit translation and possibly other activities in the replication cycle.importance the host immune responses to infection lead to the production of type i interferon (ifn), and the upregulation of interferon-stimulated genes (isgs) reduces virus replication and virus dissemination within a host. ectopic expression of the interferon-induced 20-kda exonuclease isg20 suppressed replication of chikungunya virus and venezuelan equine encephalitis virus, two mosquito-vectored rna alphaviruses. 
Interleukin-18 plays an important role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. [SEP] interleukin-18 (il-18), a proinflammatory cytokine, has been associated with atherogenesis and plaque rupture in acute coronary syndrome (acs). studies in humans and animal models suggest that interleukin-18 (il-18) plays a crucial role in vascular pathologies. il-18 is a predictor of cardiovascular death in angina and is involved in atherotic plaque destabilization. interleukin (il)-18 is a proinflammatory cytokine that has been implicated in several diseases, including atherosclerosis, and increased circulating il-18 concentrations increase risk of future coronary heart disease (chd). interleukin 18(il-18) is a pro-atherosclerotic cytokine. elevated il-18 levels and the genetic variation of the il-18 have been previously linked with acute coronary events and cardiovascular mortality among patients with coronary artery disease (cad). interleukin- (il-) 18 is a proinflammatory cytokine related to cardiovascular diseases, including hypertension and atherosclerosis. proinflammatory interleukin-18 (il-18), high-sensitivity c-reactive protein (hs-crp), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-alpha), and anti-inflammatory il-10 are involved in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. interleukin-18 (il-18) is a pro-atherosclerotic cytokine. we and others have demonstrated that an increased level of circulating il-18 is one of the risk factors for cardiovascular diseases. 
Intra-cerebroventricular infusion of amyloid-β oligomers increases expression of fibronectin type-III domain-containing protein 5 mRNA in mice hippocampi. [SEP] cerebral β-amyloidosis and associated pathologies can be exogenously induced by the intracerebral injection of small amounts of pathogenic aβ-containing brain extract into young β-amyloid precursor protein (app) transgenic mice. here we report that aβ in the brain extract is more proteinase k (pk) resistant than is synthetic fibrillar aβ, and that this pk-resistant fraction of the brain extract retains the capacity to induce β-amyloid deposition upon intracerebral injection in young, pre-depositing app23 transgenic mice. the effect of intracerebroventricular (icv) injections of beta-amyloid peptide fragments abeta[15-25], abeta[25-35], and abeta[35-25] were examined on synaptic transmission and long-term potentiation (ltp) in the hippocampal ca1 region in vivo. the deposition of the β-amyloid (aβ) peptide in senile plaques and cerebral aβ-amyloid angiopathy can be seeded in β-amyloid precursor protein (app)-transgenic mice by the intracerebral infusion of brain extracts containing aggregated aβ. we investigated the effects of cerebral arterial microemboli on amyloid β protein (aβ) deposition in the hippocampal region of amyloid precursor protein/presenilin 1 (app/ps1) double transgenic mice and evaluated the role of cerebral arterial microemboli in alzheimer's disease (ad) pathogenesis. after the mouse model was established for 1, 2 or 4 weeks, the aβ1-42 deposition in the left hippocampal region and the matrix metalloproteinase-9 (mmp-9) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (gfap) expression levels were determined through immunohistochemical staining. cerebral microemboli increased aβ deposition in the hippocampal region of app/ps1 double transgenic mice. cerebral β-amyloidosis can be exogenously induced by the intracerebral injection of brain extracts containing aggregated β-amyloid (aβ) into young, pre-depositing aβ precursor protein- (app) transgenic mice. ample experimental evidence indicates that intracerebral injection or infusion of amyloid-beta peptides (abeta) to rodents induces learning and memory impairments as well as neurodegeneration in brain areas related to cognitive function. to investigate the possible involvement of beta-amyloid (a beta) in disrupting neuronal function during ischemia, we examined whether overexpression of c-terminal fragments of beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta-app) in transgenic (tg) mice is capable of altering the capacity of hippocampus slices to recover synaptic transmission after transient hypoxic episodes. 
Intra-cerebroventricular infusion of amyloid-β oligomers reduces expression of fibronectin type-III domain-containing protein 5 mRNA in mice hippocampi. [SEP] intrahippocampal injections of aggregated amyloid-beta (abeta)1-42 in rats result in memory impairment and in reduction of hippocampal 5-ht2a receptor levels. several studies in mice and rats have shown that overexpression of amyloid precursor protein (app) or pretreatment with abeta peptide fragments results in the inhibition of hippocampal long-term potentiation (ltp) as well as impairments in learning and memory of hippocampal-dependent tasks. using a human amyloid beta (abeta) intracerebroventricular infusion mouse model of alzheimer's disease-related injury, we previously demonstrated that systemic administration of a glial activation inhibitor could suppress neuroinflammation, prevent synaptic damage, and attenuate hippocampal-dependent behavioral deficits. amyloid beta (abeta) 1-42 oligomers accumulate in brains of patients with mild cognitive impairment (mci) and disrupt synaptic plasticity processes that underlie memory formation. accumulation of amyloid-β (aβ) in brain tissue contributes to the pathophysiology of alzheimer's disease (ad). amyloid beta (abeta) peptides have been shown to impair synaptic function, especially long-term synaptic plasticity, in transgenic mouse models of alzheimer's disease (ad) and in acute hippocampal preparations. we have previously shown that the continuous intracerebroventricular infusion of beta-amyloid(1-40) protein results in memory impairments in rats, associated with a reduction of choline acetyltransferase activity in the frontal cortex and hippocampus. in the present study, we examined whether the infusion of beta-amyloid(1-40) protein affected the content of ciliary neurotrophic factor (cntf) in the rat brain. the beta-amyloid(1-40) infusion increased cntf content in the frontal cortex, hippocampus, and the cerebellum, but decreased its content in the brain stem. these results suggest that accumulation of beta-amyloid(1-40) in the brain may affect cntf production in vivo. 
Intramembrane cleavage by signal peptide peptidase aids in the degradation of proteins with a complex membrane orientation. [SEP] intramembrane proteolysis describes the cleavage of substrate proteins within their hydrophobic transmembrane segments. signal-peptide-peptidase-like 2a (sppl2a), a presenilin-homologue residing in lysosomes/late endosomes, cleaves type ii-oriented transmembrane proteins. although potential cleavage sites occur frequently in polytopic proteins after membrane-spanning segments, processing is restricted to the first hydrophobic domain, suggesting that signal peptidase might not have access to subsequently translocated, internal domains. upon in vitro translation and insertion into microsomes, efficient cleavage at this sequence was observed, thus demonstrating the ability of signal peptidase to cleave within polytopic membrane proteins. intramembrane cleavage of transmembrane proteins is a fundamental cellular process. transmembrane protein proteolytic cleavage is regulated and involved not only in degrading membrane spanning segments but also in generating messengers that elicit biological responses. signal peptides are selectively recognized and degraded by membrane associated proteases called as signal peptide peptidases. the presenilin homologue signal-peptide-peptidase-like 2a (sppl2a) has been implicated in the cleavage of type 2 transmembrane proteins. after processing by signal peptidase, they are degraded in the membrane and cytoplasm. the recognition site for signal peptide cleavage by signal peptidase i has been defined primarily by an ala-x-ala motif at the c-terminal end of the signal peptide, one amino acid away from the cleavage site. 
It is not proven that moderate consumption of candy and chocolate reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) specifically. [SEP] the high saturated fat content of chocolate has also contributed to the belief that its consumption increases the risk of heart disease. however, recent human studies have proven that chocolate has beneficial effects on some pathogenic mechanisms of heart disease such as endothelial function and blood pressure. chocolate has thus been shown to have potential beneficial effects with respect to heart disease. accumulating evidence suggests potential preventive effects of chocolate/cocoa on the risk of cardio vascular disease (cvd). chocolate consumption is not related to risk for several chronic diseases, but could have a small inverse association with chd and stroke. observational studies have associated reduced cardiovascular mortality with chocolate consumption. however, limited data are available on the association of chocolate consumption and the risk of coronary heart disease (chd). consumption of non-chocolate candy was associated with a 49% higher prevalence of chd comparing 5+/week vs. 0/week [or = 1.49 (0.96-2.32)]. these data suggest that consumption of chocolate is inversely related with prevalent chd in a general united states population. the consumption of cocoa and dark chocolate is associated with a lower risk of cvd, and improvements in endothelial function may mediate this relationship. 
JMJD6 catalyzes the hydroxylation of C-terminal lysine and supresses transcriptional activity. [SEP] jmjc domain-containing proteins play a crucial role in the control of gene expression by acting as protein hydroxylases or demethylases, thereby controlling histone methylation or splicing. jmjd6, a jumonji c (jmj c) domain-containing protein demethylase and hydroxylase, has been implicated in an array of biological processes. in this study, we found that jmjd6 hydroxylates histone lysyl residues. in vitro experiments showed that jmjd6 has a binding affinity to histone proteins and hydroxylates multiple lysyl residues of histone h3 and h4 tails. using jmjd6 knock-out mouse embryos, we revealed that jmjd6 hydroxylates lysyl residues of histones h2a/h2b and h3/h4 in vivo by amino acid composition analysis. these results indicate that histones are additional substrates of jmjd6 in vivo. jmjd5 (jumonji c domain-containing 5) is a histone demethylase that specifically removes methyl moieties from dimethylated lysine 36 on histone h3 and exerts a pro-proliferative effect on breast cancer cells. lack of jmjd5 resulted in transcriptional upregulation of the tumor suppressor p53. it has been suggested that jmjd6 plays an important role in gene regulation through its demethylation or hydroxylation activity on histone and transcription factors. jmjd2a is a transcriptional cofactor and enzyme that catalyzes demethylation of histone h3 lysines 9 and 36 and is overexpressed in human tumors, but its role in oncogenesis remains unclear. 
JMJD6 slows the hydroxylation of C-terminal lysine [SEP] jmjd6, a jumonji c (jmj c) domain-containing protein demethylase and hydroxylase, has been implicated in an array of biological processes. in this study, we found that jmjd6 hydroxylates histone lysyl residues. in vitro experiments showed that jmjd6 has a binding affinity to histone proteins and hydroxylates multiple lysyl residues of histone h3 and h4 tails. using jmjd6 knock-out mouse embryos, we revealed that jmjd6 hydroxylates lysyl residues of histones h2a/h2b and h3/h4 in vivo by amino acid composition analysis. jmjd6 is a jumonji c domain-containing hydroxylase. jmjd6 binds alpha-ketoglutarate and iron and has been characterized as either a histone arginine demethylase or u2af65 lysyl hydroxylase. the jumonji domain containing protein 6 (jmjd6) has been reported to catalyze both lysyl hydroxylation and arginyl demethylation on diverse protein substrates. this review summarizes knowledge of jmjd6 functions that have emerged in the last 15 years and considers how a single jumonji c (jmjc) domain-containing enzyme can target so many different substrates. jumonji domain-containing demethylases (jmjc-kdms) catalyse demethylation of nε-methylated lysines on histones and play important roles in gene regulation. we report selectivity studies on kdm6b (jmjd3), a disease-relevant jmjc-kdm, using synthetic lysine analogues. 
KLF4 is necessary for VSMCs to gain genetic characteristics of other cell types within atherosclerotic lesions. [SEP] krüppel-like factor 4 (klf4) has been shown to play a key role in vsmc proliferation and differentiation. the focus of this review is to provide an overview for understanding the physiological and pathobiological roles of klf4 in phenotypic switching and proliferation of vsmcs. vascular smooth muscle cell (vsmc) phenotypic switching is a hallmark of vascular remodeling that contributes to atherosclerotic diseases. using smc-specific lineage-tracing mice positive and negative for simultaneous smc-specific conditional knockout of klf4, we demonstrate that smcs in the remodeling heart after ischemia-reperfusion injury (iri) express klf4 and transition to a klf4-dependent macrophage-like state and a klf4-independent myofibroblast-like state. klf4 chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing analysis on mesenteric vascular beds identified potential baseline smc klf4 target genes in numerous pathways, including pdgf and fgf. together, these results provide novel evidence that klf4 has a critical maintenance role within microvascular smcs: it is required for normal smc function and coverage of resistance arteries. new & noteworthy we report novel evidence that the kruppel-like factor 4 gene ( klf4) has a critical maintenance role within microvascular smooth muscle cells (smcs). the results of recent studies have revealed that klf4 is expressed in multiple vascular cell types, including phenotypically modulated smooth muscle cells(smcs), endothelial cells and monocytes/macrophages and contributes to the progression of vascular diseases by activating or repressing the transcription of multiple genes via its associations with a variety of partner proteins. furthermore, endothelial klf4 represses arterial inflammation by binding to nuclear factor-κb. this article summarizes the role of klf4 in vascular disease with a particular focus on in vivo studies and reviews recent progress in our understanding of the regulatory mechanisms involved in klf4- mediated gene transcription. 
KRT17 modulates the expression of the transcriptional regulator AIRE in diseased epithelia. [SEP] aire is a transcriptional activator that directs the ectopic expression of many tissue-specific genes in medullary thymic epithelial cells, which plays an important role in the negative selection of autoreactive t cells. expression of the intermediate filament protein keratin 17 (k17) is robustly upregulated in inflammatory skin diseases and in many tumors originating in stratified and pseudostratified epithelia. we report that autoimmune regulator (aire), a transcriptional regulator, is inducibly expressed in human and mouse tumor keratinocytes in a k17-dependent manner and is required for timely onset of gli2-induced skin tumorigenesis in mice. the induction of aire mrna in keratinocytes depends on a functional interaction between k17 and the heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein hnrnp k. further, k17 colocalizes with aire protein in the nucleus of tumor-prone keratinocytes, and each factor is bound to a specific promoter region featuring an nf-κb consensus sequence in a relevant subset of k17- and aire-dependent proinflammatory genes. these findings provide radically new insight into keratin intermediate filament and aire function, along with a molecular basis for the k17-dependent amplification of inflammatory and immune responses in diseased epithelia. autoimmune regulator (aire) is a transcriptional regulator that is primarily expressed in medullary epithelial cells, where it induces tissue-specific antigen expression. under pathological conditions, aire expression is induced in epidermal cells and promotes skin tumor development. this study aimed to clarify the role of aire in the pathogenesis of oral squamous cell carcinoma (oscc). these results indicate that aire is induced in oscc and supports cancer-related gene expression in cooperation with ets1. the autoimmune regulator (aire) is a transcription factor which is expressed in medullary thymic epithelial cells. 
Kir7.1 modulates channel activity by the G protein-coupled melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. [SEP] the physiological effects of melanocortin-4 receptor (mc4-r) on metabolism have been hypothesized to be mediated individually or collectively by neuronal groups innervating the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (pvh). the melanocortin-4 receptor (mc4r) is a seven, transmembrane g-protein-coupled receptor whose ligand, alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-msh), is a post-translational derivative of pro-opiomelanocortin (pomc). melanocortin receptor 4 (mc4r) is expressed predominantly in the central nervous system and regulates food intake and sexual function and is also thought to be responsible for effects on mood and cognition. the melanocortin 4 receptor (mc4r) is a g protein-coupled receptor involved in food intake and energy expenditure regulation. thus, mc4r specifically inhibited the presynaptic n-type channel subtype, and this inhibition may be important for the effects of melanocortin in the central subdivision of the amygdala. the melanocortin-4 receptor (mc4r) is a g protein-coupled receptor expressed in the brain, where it controls energy balance through pathways including α-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (α-msh)-dependent signaling. melanocortin 4 receptor (mc4r), which is a member of the g protein-coupled receptor (gpcr) family, mediates regulation of energy homeostasis upon the binding of α-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (α-msh) in the central nervous system (cns). the melanocortin-4 receptor (mc4r) is a g-protein-coupled receptor (gpcr) that is expressed in the central nervous system and has a role in regulating feeding behavior, obesity, energy homeostasis, male erectile response, and blood pressure. pharmacological and genetic studies have suggested that melanocortin-4 receptor (mc4r) signaling in the paraventricular nucleus of hypothalamus (pvn) regulates appetite and energy balance. the melanocortin 4 receptor (mc4r) is a g protein-coupled receptor (gpcr) that is expressed in several brain nuclei playing a crucial role in the regulation of energy balance controlling the homeostasis of the organism. 
Klf2 is important for proper myeloid cell function. [SEP] klf2 (kruppel-like factor 2) is a member of the zinc finger transcription factor family, which critically regulates embryonic lung development, function of endothelial cells and maintenance of quiescence in t-cells and monocytes. klf2 also plays critical regulatory role in various inflammatory diseases and their pathogenesis. it was shown that klf2 regulates most of the nf-κb-mediated activities. in this review, we focused on emphasizing the involvement of klf2 in health and disease states and how they interact with transcriptional master regulator nf-κb. loss of klf2 in myeloid lineage cells (myeklf2-/- mice) dramatically enhanced the initial inflammatory response to acute muscle injury (cardiotoxin). these findings identify myeloid klf2 as a key regulator of myeloid cell functions in adult skeletal muscle regeneration. krüppel-like factor 2 (klf2) has been demonstrated to be essential for normal lung development, erythroid differentiation, t-cell differentiation, migration and homing. klf2 participates in the differentiation and regulation of the functional activity of monocytes, t lymphocytes, adipocytes, and vascular endothelial cells. klf2 can have a dual effect on the gene transcription. klf (kruppel-like factor) 2 is critical to establish and maintain endothelial integrity. 
Klf4 is important for proper myeloid cell differentiation. [SEP] we sought to determine the function of klf4 in t-cell development and differentiation by using t-cell-specific klf4-knockout (ko) mice. in summary, these findings identify klf4 as a critical regulator in t-cell development and th17 differentiation. although the biological importance of krüppel-like factor 4 (klf4) transcription factor in the terminal differentiation of hematopoietic cells to the monocytes has been well established, the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. to clarify the molecular basis of klf4-mediated monocytic differentiation, we performed detailed genetic studies in acute myeloid leukemia (aml) cells. together with the unique expression patterns of klf4 and dpysl2 limited to the differentiated monocytes in the hematopoietic system both in human and mouse, the identified klf4-dpysl2 axis in leukemia cells may serve as a potential therapeutic target for the development of novel differentiation therapies for patients with aml. krüppel-like factor 4 (klf4) is a pleiotropic zinc finger transcription factor that regulates genes being involved in differentiation and cell-cycle control. knockout studies revealed a critical function for klf4 in the terminal differentiation of many epithelial cells. in vitro studies have suggested that klf4 plays an important role in cell proliferation and/or differentiation. in summary, klf4 plays a crucial role in colonic epithelial cell differentiation in vivo. krüppel-like factor 4 (klf4) is a transcription factor and functions in regulating cell differentiation, cell growth, and cell cycle. 
Klf4 is not required for proper myeloid cell differentiation. [SEP] krüppel-like factor 4 (klf4) is a transcription factor and functions in regulating cell differentiation, cell growth, and cell cycle. although klf4 is expressed in lymphocytes, its function in lymphocytes is unknown. in this study, we report that the levels of klf4 expression were low in pro-b cells and continuously increased in pre-b and in mature b cells. upon activation, klf4 was rapidly decreased in mature b cells after 2 h of activation. in the absence of klf4, fewer b cells entered the s phase of the cell cycle and completed cell division in response to the engagement of bcr and/or cd40 in vitro. a role of the transcription factor krüppel-like factor 4 (klf4) in the generation of mature plasma cells (pc) is unknown. indeed, klf4 is critical in controlling the differentiation of various cell linages, particularly monocytes and epithelial cells. we show here that klf4 is expressed in human bone marrow plasma cells and its function was studied using an in vitro model of differentiation of memory b cells into long lived plasma cells. a forced expression of klf4 in plasmablasts enhances the yield of their differentiation into early plasma cell and long lived plasma cells, by inhibiting apoptosis and upregulating previously unknown plasma cell pathways. c-kit is expressed on hematopoietic stem cells and progenitor cells, but not on lymphohematopoietic differentiated cells. 
Knockout proximal tubule-specific deletion of the BMP receptor Alk3 causes epithelial damage. [SEP] bmp signaling plays important roles in many embryonic developmental processes. alk3 is one of two bmp type i receptors that transduces bmp signal from the cell surface into cell. conventional knockout of alk3 resulted in early embryonic lethality around e7.5-e9.5. in this study, we have generated embryonic mesoderm-specific alk3 conditional knockout by crossing dermo1-cre and floxed alk3 mice. abrogation of alk3-mediated bmp signaling in this mouse resulted in severe defect of secondary ventral body wall formation, replicating the omphalocele phenotype in human. our finding suggests that alk3 plays an essential role in the formation of embryonic ventral abdominal wall, and abrogation of bmp signaling activity due to gene mutations in its signaling components could be one of the underlying causes of omphalocele at birth. this study identifies a role for the gene for the pou transcription factor brn1 in distal tubule formation and function in the mammalian kidney. aprt knockout male mice develop severe renal damage by three months of age, but this is strain specific. the role and function of a novel human alkb homologue, alkbh3, in human urothelial carcinoma development were examined. alkbh3 contributes to development of urothelial carcinomas by accelerating their survival, angiogenesis, and invasion through nox-2-ros and tweak/fn14-vegf signals. 
Knockout proximal tubule-specific deletion of the BMP receptor Alk3 causes fibrosis. [SEP] transforming growth factor β (tgf-β)/smad3 signaling plays a role in tissue fibrosis. mechanistically, smad2 deletion promoted fibrosis through enhanced tgf-beta/smad3 signaling, evidenced by greater smad3 phosphorylation, nuclear translocation, promoter activity, and binding of smad3 to a collagen promoter (col1a2). in conclusion, in contrast to smad3, smad2 protects against tgf-beta-mediated fibrosis by counteracting tgf-beta/smad3 signaling. transforming growth factor-β1 (tgf-β1) has a distinct role in renal fibrosis associated with epithelial-mesenchymal transition (emt) of the renal tubules and synthesis of extracellular matrix. elucidation of mechanism regulating the smad3 linker phosphorylation can provide a new strategy to control renal fibrosis. sustained activation of developmental pathways, such as notch, in tubule epithelial cells has been shown to have a key role in fibrosis development. chronic kidney diseases are characterized by progressive tubulointerstitial fibrosis, and tgfbeta1 plays a crucial role in its development. we investigated the effect of bmp 7 on tgfbeta1-mediated e-cadherin loss in two different transformed human adult proximal tubule epithelia. the inhibition of de novo expression of alpha-sma could explain the antifibrotic effect of bmp 7. these observations suggest that ald can activate rho kinase pathway and rho kinase pathway is likely responsible for the profibrotic actions of ald in renal proximal tubular epithelial cells via inducing emt and ecm excretion. 
L3MBTL2 binds to H2AK119Ub marked chromatin to form a PRC1 complex. [SEP] binding of heterochromatin protein 1 (hp1) to the histone h3 lysine 9 trimethylation (h3k9me3) mark is a hallmark of establishment and maintenance of heterochromatin. brwd2/phip binds directly to h3k4 methylation through a previously unidentified chromatin-binding module related to royal family tudor domains, which we named the cryptotudor domain. h3k27me3 provides a binding surface for prc1. how mll complexes recognize specific chromatin domains in a temporal and tissue-specific manner remains unclear. we show that the dna-binding protein pax2 promotes assembly of an h3k4 methyltransferase complex through the ubiquitously expressed nuclear factor ptip (pax transcription activation domain interacting protein). ptip copurifies with alr, mll3, and other components of a histone methyltransferase complex. ptip promotes assembly of the alr complex and h3k4 methylation at a pax2-binding dna element. thus, ptip bridges dna-binding developmental regulators to histone methyltransferase-dependent epigenetic regulation. polycomb repressive complex 2 (prc2) is a multiprotein complex that catalyzes the methylation of lysine 27 on histone h3 (h3k27me). polycomb repressive complex 2 (prc2) consists of three core subunits, ezh2, eed and suz12, and plays pivotal roles in transcriptional regulation. 
LDL cholesterol has a causal role in the development of cardiovascular disease. [SEP] indeed, high levels of the low-density lipoprotein (ldl) have been causally linked to the development of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ascvd). data support the relevance of blood cholesterol levels, particularly high levels of low-density lipoprotein (ldl), in the pathogenesis and progression of atherosclerosis. ldl-c is believed to be key in the pathogenesis of coronary atherosclerosis, although increasing evidence suggests that low levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and elevated triglyceride levels are contributory factors. although low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c) is widely accepted as the principal lipid fraction associated with atherosclerosis, emerging evidence suggests a causal relation between lifelong elevations in triglyceride-rich lipoprotein cholesterol (trl-c) and cardiovascular disease (cvd) in genetic studies. it is well recognized that the elevated plasma level of low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (ldl-c) is a major risk factor for atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease (cvd). the low density lipoprotein (ldl) is a critical subfraction of total cholesterol present in serum because it is directly linked to coronary heart disease (chd). numerous risk factors are responsible for the development of atherosclerosis, for which an increased serum level of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c) is a driving force. extensive evidence from epidemiologic, genetic, and clinical intervention studies has indisputably shown that elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c) concentrations play a central role in the pathophysiology of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. in addition to elevated low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol, which has been conclusively proven to play a critical role in atherogenesis and coronary artery disease (cad), other lipoprotein abnormalities are associated with cad, such as reduced high-density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol; increased triglyceride-rich lipoproteins (very low density and intermediate-density lipoproteins); increased lipoprotein(a); small, dense ldl; and ldl with increased susceptibility to oxidation. mutations in the ldlr cause familiar hypercholesterolemia and increase the risk of premature coronary heart disease. 
LRBA prevents CTLA - 4 recycling. [SEP] ctla4ig has been used to control deleterious t cell activation in many experimental systems. ctla-4 engagement inhibits tcr-dependent functions and ctla-4(-/-) mice develop a lymphoproliferative disorder leading to early lethality. ctla-4 is essential for immune tolerance. biallelic mutations in lrba also result in immune dysregulation with low levels of ctla-4 and clinical presentation indistinguishable from ctla-4 haploinsufficiency. despite efforts made to understand and establish disease genotype/phenotype correlations in ctla-4-haploinsufficiency and lrba-deficiency, such relationships remain elusive. ligation of cytotoxic t lymphocyte antigen 4 (ctla4) appears to inhibit t cell responses. thus, ctla4 can potently inhibit t cell activation in the absence of cd28, indicating that antagonism of a tcr-mediated signal is sufficient to explain the inhibitory effect of ctla4. we hypothesized that therapeutic cross-linking of ctla-4 in vivo may further inhibit t cell function and prevent allograft rejection. blocking of ctla-4 inhibits the growth of malignant tumor cells. cytotoxic t-lymphocyte antigen-4 (ctla-4) decreases the immune response of t cells by inactivating the signal that occurs with interaction between cd28 on t cells and b7 on antigen-presenting cells. 
LRBA promotes CTLA - 4 recycling. [SEP] here, we demonstrate cycling of ctla-4 between intracellular stores and the cell surface. this study was designed to examine the role of ctla-4 in regulating autoimmune disease. finally, anti-ctla-4 treatment of mice during disease remission resulted in the exacerbation of relapses. collectively, these results suggest that ctla-4 mediates the downregulation of ongoing immune responses and plays a major role in regulating autoimmunity. ctla-4 is a costimulation receptor that binds to the same ligands, cd80 and cd86, as cd28 with high affinity and is transiently expressed on the cell surface of activated t cells. ctla-4 is a lymphocyte cell surface receptor expressed by activated t cells that functions to down-regulate t cell responses induced by tcr and cd28 stimulation. the data demonstrate that cell surface ctla-4 is endocytosed into clathrin-coated vesicles even in the absence of ligand. the ligands binding to ctla-4 are the b7 family members, b7-1 (cd80) and b7-2 (cd86). ctla-4ig is now a food and drug administration-approved drug for use treating patients with rheumatoid arthritis (ra) but its use is explored also in other autoimmune diseases, transplantation as well as allergic diseases. patents related to ctla-4 function as well as possible clinical applications are discussed in this paper. 
LSD1-positive promoters are associated with RNA polymerase II [SEP] elongation of rna polymerase ii (pol ii) is thought to be an important mechanism for regulating gene expression [1]. regulation of transcription elongation by rna polymerase ii (pol ii) is a key regulatory step in gene transcription. here we describe a highly purified system that allows for efficient activator-dependent transcription by rna polymerase ii from the promoter through several contiguous nucleosomes on defined chromatin templates. rna polymerase ii (pol ii) plays an essential role in gene expression. transcription by rna polymerase ii (pol ii) is thought to be predominantly regulated by recruitment of pol ii to promoters. transcription by rna polymerase ii is regulated at many steps including initiation, promoter release, elongation and termination. accumulation of rna polymerase ii at particular locations across genes can be indicative of sites of regulation. rna polymerase ii is thought to accumulate at the promoter and at sites of co-transcriptional alternative splicing where the rate of rna synthesis slows. hypophosphorylated rna polymerase ii localizes almost exclusively to 5' ends of genes. localizing rna polymerase ii across many millions of base pairs in the human genome identifies novel sites of transcription and provides insights into the regulation of transcription elongation. 
Lack of FGF21 in mice increases life expectancy. [SEP] transgenic mice with low levels of global insulin-like growth factor-i (igf-i) throughout their life span, including pre- and postnatal development, have increased longevity. this study investigated whether specific deficiency of liver-derived, endocrine igf-i is of importance for life span. the mean life span of li-igf-i(-/-) mice (n = 84) increased 10% vs. control mice (n = 137) (cox's test, p<0.01), mainly due to increased life span (16%) of female mice [li-igf-i(-/-) mice (n = 31): 26.7±1.1 vs. control (n = 67): 23.0±0.7 months, p<0.001]. male li-igf-i(-/-) mice showed only a tendency for increased longevity (p = 0.10). adult inactivation of liver-derived, endocrine igf-i resulted in moderately increased mean life span. life-long lack of growth hormone (gh) action can produce remarkable extension of longevity in mice. two mutant mouse models of longevity in which the loss of only one copy of the gene leads to a significantly increased lifespan have recently been described: igf1r (+/-) and mclk1 (+/-). here, we show that brd2 haploinsufficiency (brd2+/-) extends lifespan and increases healthspan in c57b6/j mice. growth hormone deficiency or resistance resulting from spontaneous or experimentally produced mutations in laboratory mice delay aging and increase lifespan. alterations in insulin-like growth factor-1 (igf-1) and insulin signaling emerged as likely mechanisms linking growth hormone and aging, and increased longevity was reported in mice with selective deletion of igf-1 receptor in all tissues or insulin receptor in fat. 
Lack of FGF21 in mice leads to atherosclerotic plaque formation. [SEP] our results show that an abnormal plaque collagen fibril structure can influence atherosclerotic plaque development. to determine the significance of fibroblast growth factor receptor (fgfr) expression for the development of atherosclerotic lesions in apoe-deficient (apoe-/-) mice. atherosclerotic lesions in apoe-/- mice express multiple fgfrs and an active fgf:fgfr-1 signaling system that promotes atherosclerosis development via increased smc proliferation, and by augmenting macrophage accumulation via increased expression of mcp-1 and factors promoting macrophage retention in lesions. atherosclerosis-prone apolipoprotein e-deficient (apoe(-/-)) mice display poor lipoprotein clearance with subsequent accumulation of cholesterol ester-enriched particles in the blood, which promote the development of atherosclerotic plaques. cyclin kinase inhibitor p21 is one of the most potent inhibitors of aortic smooth muscle cell proliferation, a key mediator of atherosclerosis. severity of atherosclerotic lesions was significantly higher in p21-/- compared to wild type mice. the results demonstrate that the deficiency of p21 leads to altered expression of pro-atherogenic genes, and severe atherosclerosis in mice fed with high fat diet. this opens the possibility of p21 protein as a therapeutic tool to control progression of atherosclerosis. apoe-null (apoe-ko) mice fed a high-fat diet (hfd) develop atherosclerosis, due in part to activation of vascular inflammation by oxidized low-density lipoprotein. recently, we showed that cathepsin k deficiency reduces atherosclerotic plaque progression, induces plaque fibrosis, but aggravates macrophage foam cell formation in the apoe -/- mouse. 
Lack of FGF21 in mice leads to reduced lifespan. [SEP] genetic ablation of fibroblast growth factor 23 from mice (fgf-23(-/-)) results in a short lifespan with numerous abnormal biochemical and morphological features. this novel mouse model is completely void of all endogenous fgf-23 activity, but produces human fgf-23 in bone cells that is subsequently released into the circulation. our results suggest that lack of fgf-23 activities results in extensive premature ageing-like features and early mortality of fgf-23(-/-) mice, while restoring the systemic effects of fgf-23 significantly ameliorates these phenotypes, with the resultant effect being improved growth, restored fertility, and significantly prolonged survival of double mutants. fibroblast growth factor 23 null mice (fgf-23-/-) have a short lifespan and show numerous biochemical and morphological features consistent with premature aging-like phenotypes, including kyphosis, severe muscle wasting, hypogonadism, osteopenia, emphysema, uncoordinated movement, t cell dysregulation, and atrophy of the intestinal villi, skin, thymus, and spleen. our results indicate a novel role of fgf-23 in developing premature aging-like features through regulating vitamin d homeostasis. we previously reported that deletion of the fgf2 gene (fgf2-/-) resulted in decreased bone mass in adult mice. fgf receptor2 mrna and protein were markedly reduced in fgf2+/- and fgf2-/- mice. decreased bone formation in fgf2 mutant mice may correlate with impaired fgfr signaling, decreased runx2 gene expression. mice lacking the egf receptor (egfr) die between midgestation and postnatal day 20 with various defects in neural and epithelial organs. nf1 loss leads to deregulation of p21(ras)-effector pathways, which control myeloid cell survival. 
Lack of FGF21 in mice slows the rate of atherosclerotic plaque formation. [SEP] cyclin kinase inhibitor p21 is one of the most potent inhibitors of aortic smooth muscle cell proliferation, a key mediator of atherosclerosis. high fat diet resulted in significantly decreased tgf-beta (p < 0.02), ho-l (p < 0.02) and increased cd36 (p < 0.03) mrna expression in aortic tissues of p21-/- mice compared to animal fed with regular diet. severity of atherosclerotic lesions was significantly higher in p21-/- compared to wild type mice. the results demonstrate that the deficiency of p21 leads to altered expression of pro-atherogenic genes, and severe atherosclerosis in mice fed with high fat diet. this opens the possibility of p21 protein as a therapeutic tool to control progression of atherosclerosis. the cx3c chemokine fractalkine (cx3cl1) has a critical role in the development of atherogenesis because apolipoprotein-e-deficient mice lacking cx3cl1 or its receptor cx3cr1 develop smaller plaques and polymorphisms in cx3cr1 are associated with altered risk of cardiovascular disease. we recently reported that apolipoprotein e (apoe)-deficient mice with a mutation in the fibrillin-1 gene (apoe(-/-)fbn1(c1039g+/-)) develop accelerated atherosclerosis with enhanced inflammation, atherosclerotic plaque rupture, myocardial infarction and sudden death. although macrophage-derived apoe has been shown to prevent the development of atherosclerosis in apoe(-/-) mice, whether it would induce regression of established atherosclerosis is unknown. in contrast, apoe(-/-) mice reconstituted with apoe(-/-) bone marrow developed severe atherosclerotic lesions (453 036+/-29 767 micrometer(2), n=7) 20 weeks after transplantation. these data suggest that macrophage-derived apoe was insufficient to induce significant regression of established atherosclerotic lesions in apoe(-/-) mice, although it was sufficient to eliminate hypercholesterolemia and prevent progression of aortic lesions. 
Lamins are associated with nuclear membrane structure maintenance. [SEP] lamins are the main components of the nuclear lamina, where they form protein complexes with integral proteins of the inner nuclear membrane, transcriptional regulators, histones and chromatin modifiers. lamins are required for mechanical stability, chromatin organization, pol ii transcription, dna replication, nuclear assembly, and nuclear positioning. lamins are the main component of the nuclear lamina, a protein meshwork at the inner nuclear membrane which primarily provide mechanical stability to the nucleus. lamins lie beneath the inner nuclear membrane and serve as a nexus to maintain the architectural integrity of the nucleus, chromatin organization, dna repair and replication and to regulate nucleocytoplasmic transport. lamins are required to maintain the nuclear structure and, together with their associated proteins, are involved in most nuclear activities. lamins and their associated proteins are required for most nuclear activities, mitosis, and for linking the nucleoskeleton to the network of cytoskeletal filaments. lamins line the inside of the nuclear membrane, where they provide a platform for the binding of proteins and chromatin and confer mechanical stability. lamins bind to a growing number of nuclear protein complexes and are implicated in both nuclear and cytoskeletal organization, mechanical stability, chromatin organization, gene regulation, genome stability, differentiation, and tissue-specific functions. lamins are components of the peripheral nuclear lamina that has important mechanical roles in nuclear architecture. lamins have increasingly been implicated in nuclear processes, including dna replication, chromatin organization and transcription. 
Lamins are found within the inner layer of the mitochondrial membrane of all cells. [SEP] all ims proteins are synthesized in the cytosol and then transported across the mitochondrial outer membrane. the inner membrane of mitochondria is especially protein rich and displays a unique morphology characterized by large invaginations, the mitochondrial cristae, and the inner boundary membrane, which is in proximity to the outer membrane. mitochondrial inner membrane proteins appear to be not evenly distributed in the inner membrane, but instead organize into functionally distinct subcompartments. we identified minos1/mio10 (c1orf151/ycl057c-a), a conserved mitochondrial inner membrane protein. thus our analyses reveal new insight into the composition of the mitochondrial inner membrane organizing machinery. all of the products of mitochondrial protein biosynthesis in animals are hydrophobic proteins that are localized in the inner membrane. mitochondria are delimited from the cytosol by the mitochondrial envelope that consists of the outer membrane and the inner membrane. a further important architectural element of mitochondria are the contact sites between outer membrane and inner membrane. most mitochondrial proteins must be imported from the cytosol and sorted into one of the four mitochondrial subcompartments, the outer membrane, the intermembrane space, the inner membrane and the matrix. cardiolipin, a unique phospholipid composed of four fatty acid chains, is located mainly in the mitochondrial inner membrane (im). 
Lamins are found within the inner layer of the nuclear membrane of all cells. [SEP] lamins are the major components of the nuclear lamina, a two-dimensional filamentous network at the periphery of the nucleus in higher eukaryotes, directly underlying the inner nuclear membrane. several integral proteins of the inner nuclear membrane bind to lamins and may link the nuclear membrane to the core lamina network. lamins lie beneath the inner nuclear membrane and serve as a nexus to maintain the architectural integrity of the nucleus, chromatin organization, dna repair and replication and to regulate nucleocytoplasmic transport. lamin proteins are type v intermediate filament proteins (ifs) located inside the cell nucleus. lamins provide a skeletal network for chromatin, the nuclear envelope, nuclear pore complexes and the entire nucleus. lamins are the main component of the nuclear lamina, a protein meshwork at the inner nuclear membrane which primarily provide mechanical stability to the nucleus. lamins are the major proteic constituents of the nuclear lamina, the innermost layer of the nuclear membrane. lamins form a proteinaceous meshwork that outlines the nucleoplasmic side of the inner nuclear membrane, while a small fraction of lamin molecules is also present in the nucleoplasm. a major structural component of the inner face of the nuclear envelope in vertebrates and invertebrates is the nuclear lamina, an array of 1-3 extrinsic membrane proteins, lamins a, b and c. these proteins are highly homologous to intermediate filaments and are classified as type v. we report the first purification, antigenic characterization and immunocytochemical localization of putative plant lamin proteins from pea nuclei. lamins are the major components of the nuclear lamina, a filamentous layer found at the interphase between chromatin and the inner nuclear membrane. 
Lamins have no effect on nuclear membrane structure maintenance. [SEP] lrp5 signaling may not influence circulating levels of these inhibitors. lamins are intermediate filament proteins that form a network lining the inner nuclear membrane. they provide mechanical strength to the nuclear envelope, but also appear to have many other functions as reflected in the array of diseases caused by lamin mutations. nuclear lamins are components of the nuclear lamina, a structural scaffolding for the cell nucleus. defects in lamins a and c cause an array of human diseases, including muscular dystrophy, lipodystrophy, and progeria, but no diseases have been linked to the loss of lamins b1 or b2. lamins are nuclear intermediate filament proteins. somatic cells of vertebrates express lamins a, b1 and b2 while lamin liii, a major component of the amphibian oocyte lamina is absent in mammals. in summary, our data indicates that afb1 has no effect on lyact during xthar. there were no effects of elastatinal on dna repair and uv-induced sister chromatid exchanges, and all 3 cell lines demonstrated essentially the same sensitivity to the cytotoxic effect of elastatinal. lamins are the main components of the nucleoskeleton. 
Less than 10% of patients exposed to radiation have activated markers of mesenchymal stem cells. [SEP] for the general population, medical diagnosis is a major cause of exposure to low genotoxic stress, as various imaging techniques deliver low doses of ionizing radiation. however, extremely low occurrence of ctcs in the peripheral blood (approximately one ctc per billion blood cells) and potential changes in molecular biomarkers during the process of epithelial to mesenchymal transition create technical hurdles to the enrichment and enumeration of ctcs. more than 0.01% of such cells indicate minimal residual disease (mrd). of fifteen patients, five (33.33%) were mrd negative with less than 0.01% of mononuclear cells and remaining ten cases (66.66%) were mrd positive, with the level of 0.01% to less than 0.1% cells. even if 10 ml of peripheral blood was sampled from a patient, only tens of cancer cells could be isolated. low doses of radiation may have profound effects on cellular function. individuals may be exposed to low doses of radiation either intentionally for medical purposes or accidentally, such as those exposed to radiological terrorism or those who live near illegal radioactive waste dumpsites.we studied the effects of low dose radiation on human bone marrow mesenchymal stromal cells (msc), which contain a subpopulation of stem cells able to differentiate in bone, cartilage, and fat; support hematopoiesis; and contribute to body's homeostasis.the main outcome of low radiation exposure, besides reduction of cell cycling, is the triggering of senescence, while the contribution to apoptosis is minimal. the reason for the low carcinogenicity in the treatment volume probably lies in the fact that the irradiation dose is high and many cells are killed rather than transformed. developing myeloid cells are particularly sensitive to chemotherapy and ionizing radiation. in contrast, neither wr-1065 nor zvad-fmk reduced the level of radiation-induced apoptosis in normal human pbmcs. 
Lice attenuated SIV vaccines induce a stronger antigen-specific T cell response in lymph node cells. [SEP] synthetic vaccines that specifically induce active immunity mediated by cytotoxic t lymphocytes (ctl) are of great interest considering the central role of these cells in immune responses against intracellular antigens. the immunogenicity of inactivated herpes simplex virus type 1 (hsv-1) antigens incorporated into liposomes was measured by their ability to induce secondary anti-hsv-1 specific cytotoxic t lymphocyte (ctl) responses in splenocyte cultures from virus-primed mice. in preclinical studies, we have reported the ability to induce immune t cells in lymph nodes (ln) primed by in vivo vaccination with tumor cells admixed with a bacterial adjuvant. the role of vaccinia virus-reactive helper t cells (th) in augmenting in vivo generation of antitumor protective immunity and the ly phenotype mediating the enhanced in vivo tumor immunity were investigated. in this study, we show that intragastric vaccination with a salmonella hiv-1 env dna vaccine vector generates env-specific cd8(+) t-cells, both in mucosal and systemic lymphoid tissue. by contrast, intramuscular vaccination with the env dna vaccine alone only induced systemic cd8(+) t-cells. live attenuated influenza vaccines (laivs) stimulate a multifaceted immune response including cellular immunity, which may provide protection against newly emerging strains. this study shows proof of concept that laivs boost preexisting, cross-reactive t cells in children to genetically diverse influenza a virus (iav) strains to which the children had not been exposed. after vaccination with laiv, the youngest children showed the highest increase in t-cell responses. laiv boosts durable, cross-reactive t-cell responses in children and may have a clinically protective effect at the population level. 
Lipopolysaccharides have an inflammation independent effect on kidney barrier function. [SEP] in this study, we describe an additional role of the kidney-renal ln (rln) system in tolerogenic presentation of circulating soluble ags. here we studied the effect of experimental dyslipidemia on renal i/r injury. renal i/r injury was less severe in hyperlipidemic mice treated with poloxamer 407 than in the control mice. cytokine analyses revealed decreased levels of renal and serum il-6 in the hyperlipidemic mice after renal i/r. protection from renal i/r injury in the hyperlipidemic mice was diminished by administration of recombinant il-6. in hypercholesterolemic apolipoprotein e-knockout mice, in which renal i/r injury is less severe than in control mice, renal i/r-induced il-6 production was also less than that in controls. our data indicate that the presence of experimental hyperlipidemia may be associated with a decreased risk of renal i/r injury, possibly mediated by reduced renal il-6 production after the insult and extend the notion that an anti-il6 agent would be useful for the treatment of acute kidney injury. low-density lipoprotein apheresis (ldl-a) has been shown to reduce proteinuria in a subgroup of nephrotic syndrome patients refractory to immunosuppressive therapy. factors influencing the efficacy of ldl-a in nephrotic syndrome are completely unknown. using a proteomics approach, we aimed to identify biological markers that predict the response to ldl-a in patients with steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome (srns). 
Lmna knock-in models are appropriate for testing therapeutic approaches against Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS). [SEP] the transgenic lmnag609g progeric mouse represents an outstanding animal model for studying the human hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) caused by a mutation in the lmna gene, coding for the nuclear envelope protein lamin a/c, and, as an important, more general scope, for studying the complex process governing physiological aging in humans. hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) is caused by a mutant prelamin a, progerin, that terminates with a farnesylcysteine. hgps knock-in mice (lmna(hg/+)) develop severe progeria-like disease phenotypes. a de novo g608g mutation in lmna gene leads to hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome. hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) is a progeroid syndrome characterized by multiple aging-like disease phenotypes. hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) is a rare progeroid syndrome caused by mutations in the lmna gene. here, we created a mouse model in which progerin, the lamin a mutant protein that causes hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps), can be inducibly overexpressed. here, we generated a knock-in mouse model with the causative hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) lmnag609g mutation, called progerin. hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) is a devastating premature aging disease. importantly, progeria mice on hfd provide a more clinically relevant animal model to study mechanisms of hgps pathology and to test therapies. 
Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis requires VPS9a [SEP] in the shoot apical meristem (sam) of arabidopsis, pin1-dependent polar auxin transport (pat) regulates two crucial developmental processes: organogenesis and vascular system formation. our findings indicate that the presence of auxin in the meristem of pin1 mutants is an outcome of at least two pin1-independent mechanisms: acropetal auxin transport from differentiated tissues with the use of vascular strands and auxin biosynthesis within the sam. in arabidopsis, development during flowering is coordinated by transport of the hormone auxin mediated by polar-localized pin-formed1 (atpin1). heterologous expression of brachypodium sopin1 and pin1b in arabidopsis provides further evidence of functional specificity. sopin1 but not pin1b can mediate flower formation in null atpin1 mutants, although both can complement a missense allele. the behavior of sopin1 and pin1b in arabidopsis illustrates how membrane and tissue-level accumulation, transport activity, and interaction contribute to pin functional specificity. polar flow of the phytohormone auxin requires plasma membrane-associated pin proteins and underlies multiple developmental processes in plants. here we address the importance of the polarity of subcellular pin localization for the directionality of auxin transport in arabidopsis thaliana. pin-formed (pin) family proteins direct polar auxin transport based on their asymmetric (polar) localization at the plasma membrane. in the case of pin1, it mainly localizes to the basal (rootward) plasma membrane domain of stele cells in root meristems. 
Long - range chromatin interactions regulate transcription. [SEP] long-range interactions between regulatory dna elements such as enhancers, insulators and promoters play an important role in regulating transcription. as chromatin contacts have been found throughout the human genome and in different cell types, spatial transcriptional control is now viewed as a general mechanism of gene expression regulation. long-range interactions between transcription regulatory elements play an important role in gene activation, epigenetic silencing, and chromatin organization. although distal binding sites have been shown to regulate transcription by long-range chromatin interactions at a few loci, chromatin interactions and their impact on transcription regulation have not been investigated in a genome-wide manner. we found that most high-confidence remote er-alpha-binding sites are anchored at gene promoters through long-range chromatin interactions, suggesting that er-alpha functions by extensive chromatin looping to bring genes together for coordinated transcriptional regulation. we propose that chromatin interactions constitute a primary mechanism for regulating transcription in mammalian genomes. besides nucleosomal organization and interaction between transcription factors and gene promoters and other regulatory elements, long-range organization of chromatin in loops or domains seems to play a role in transcriptional regulation. regulation of transcription in eukaryotic cells is a dynamic interplay between chromatin structure and recruitment of a plethora of transcription factors to enhancers, upstream activator sequences, and proximal promoter elements. chromatin structure is a key factor that mediates this functional coupling. gene regulatory elements can influence expression over long distances and the genome needs mechanisms whereby transcription can be contained. 
Long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids supplementation has no significant effects on wheezing or asthma at 3 and 6 years. [SEP] supplementation with n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (pufa) for 6 weeks did not alter plasma leptin concentrations in male smokers. consumption of polyunsaturated fatty acids (pufa), especially the n3-series, may protect against cardiovascular disease (cvd), but recent randomized studies have failed to demonstrate these benefits. long chain polyunsaturated fatty acid (lcpufa) status is associated with risk of cardiovascular diseases in adulthood. the potential benefit of long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (lcpufas) has generated interest over the last 3 decades. we investigated the effects of dietary and non-dietary (supplemental) intake of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids on coronary heart disease. the childhood asthma prevention study was a randomized controlled trial conducted in children with a family history of asthma in whom omega-3 fatty acid supplementation and restriction of dietary omega-6 fatty acids did not prevent asthma, eczema, or atopy at age 5 years. plasma levels of omega-3 or omega-6 fatty acids were not associated with wheeze, eczema, or atopy at age 5 years (p = .11-.96). overall, fatty acid exposure, measured as plasma levels, dietary intake, and compliance with supplements, was not associated with any respiratory or allergic outcomes (p = .35-.59). modification of dietary polyunsaturated fatty acids in early childhood is not helpful in preventing atopy and asthma. although long-chain ω-3 (n-3) pufas (lcω3pufas) have been linked to the prevention of some inflammatory disorders, little is known about the association between these fatty acids and incidence of asthma. 
Long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids supplementation is associated with lower rates of atopic eczema at 1 year. [SEP] intake of long-chain n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 pufa), including docosahexaenoic acid (dha) and eicosapentaenoic acid (epa), is associated with a lower risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular events, particularly acute myocardial infarction (ami). evidence suggests that prenatal exposure to n-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (lcpufa) reduces the incidence of allergic disease in children. evidence from randomized controlled trials in early infancy suggest that prenatal supplementation with ω-3 (n-3) long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (lcpufa) reduces the incidence of allergic disease characterized by an immunoglobulin e (ige) response. although long-chain ω-3 (n-3) pufas (lcω3pufas) have been linked to the prevention of some inflammatory disorders, little is known about the association between these fatty acids and incidence of asthma. i suggest that perinatal supplementation of long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (lcpufas) protects against the development of childhood and adult life eczema, atopy, bronchial asthma and other inflammatory conditions. these beneficial actions of lcpufas explain the protective effect of exclusive breast-feeding against eczema and other childhood allergies, and decreased incidence of several other inflammatory conditions in adult life since human breast milk contains substantial amounts of these long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids. there has been growing interest in the role of n-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (lc-pufa) in the modulation of the immune response during early childhood and whether this may translate to a reduction in childhood allergic disease. these studies relatively consistently indicate that supplementation during pregnancy results in fewer children with atopic eczema in early childhood. long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (lc-pufas) in the diet reduce risk of cardiac mortality. diets rich in omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 pufas) such as alpha-linolenic acid, eicosapentaenoic acid, and docosahexaenoic acid are associated with decreased incidence and severity of cardiovascular disease (cvd). 
Long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids supplementation reduces wheezing and asthma. [SEP] evidence suggests that prenatal exposure to n-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (lcpufa) reduces the incidence of allergic disease in children. lipid mediators derived from omega (n)-3 and n-6 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (lcpufa) play key roles in bronchoconstriction, airway inflammation, and resolution processes in asthma. this study compared the effects of dietary supplementation with either a combination of lcpufas or eicosapentaenoic acid (epa) alone to investigate whether the combination has superior beneficial effects on the outcome of asthmatic mice. this study determined the effectiveness of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid (pufa) ingestion in ameliorating methacholine-induced respiratory distress in an asthmatic population. omega-3 fatty acids and their derivatives are known to reduce inflammation in several tissues including lung. i suggest that perinatal supplementation of long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (lcpufas) protects against the development of childhood and adult life eczema, atopy, bronchial asthma and other inflammatory conditions. evidence from randomized controlled trials in early infancy suggest that prenatal supplementation with ω-3 (n-3) long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (lcpufa) reduces the incidence of allergic disease characterized by an immunoglobulin e (ige) response. omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids have anti-inflammatory effects in vitro, and high dietary levels are associated with a lower incidence of inflammatory diseases. the effects of dietary supplementation with fish oil for 10 months in 29 children with bronchial asthma was investigated in a randomized controlled fashion. the present results suggest that dietary supplementation with fish oil rich in the omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid is beneficial for children with bronchial asthma in a strictly controlled environment in terms of inhalant allergens and diet. 
Low expression of miR7a does not repress target genes or exert a biological function in ovaries. [SEP] mirnas have not been comprehensively studied in human epithelial ovarian carcinoma (eoc). the mir-630 expression level was higher in ovarian cancerous tissues than in benign and normal ovarian tissues. patients and cells: mirna expression was analyzed in excised ovarian cortexes from 16 women with pcos and 8 non-pcos. expressions of mirnas in ovarian cortexes were measured using qrt-pcr and kgn granulosa cells were cultured for proliferation assays after overexpression or inhibition of mir-93 or after insulin treatment. mir-93 expression was higher in pcos ovarian cortex and its identified target, cdkn1a, was downregulated. although mirnas have been implicated as oncogenes and tumor suppressors in a variety of human cancers, functional roles for individual mirnas have not been described in clear cell ovarian carcinoma, an aggressive and chemoresistant subtype of ovarian cancer. mirna-103/107 expression levels have never been related to patients' clinicopathological data in epithelial ovarian cancer. we aimed to assess mirna-103/107 expression levels in high grade serous ovarian cancer tissues. we also evaluated expression levels of mirna-103/107 and dicer in selected ovarian cancer cell lines (a2780, a2780cis, sk-ov-3, ovcar3). we identified mirna-107 up-regulation in ovarian cancer in comparison to healthy tissues (p = 0.0005). 
Low expression of miR7a does not repress target genes or exert a biological function in testis. [SEP] mir-101 has been suggested as a tumor suppressor, but the promoter methylation and loss of heterozygosity didn't contribute to its low expression in astrocytoma. micrornas (mirnas) are sequence-specific inhibitors of post-transcriptional gene expression. here, we examined the effects of mirna suppression in collecting ducts (cds). to conclusively evaluate the role of mirnas, we generated three mouse models with cd-specific inactivation of key mirna pathway genes dicer, dgcr8, and the entire argonaute gene family (ago1, 2, 3, and 4). the absence of mirnas is not life-threatening in early embryonic development of dicer-knockout zebrafish and mice, which may account for genetic expression of various traits as a result of mirna complexity in higher animals during natural evolution. here, we report that systematic silencing of mir-143 in mice by using a locked-nucleic-acid-modified oligonucleotide (lna-antimir) did not lead to any obvious abnormalities in the adipose tissue differentiation. in addition, the proposed mir-143 target, erk5, which was previously identified in human preadipocytes, was not effectively inhibited by mir-143 either in the murine preadipocyte cell line, 3t3-l1, or in primary mouse adipose tissue. micrornas (mirnas) repress target genes through a poorly defined antisense mechanism. cell-free and cell-based assays have supported the idea that mirnas repress their target mrnas by blocking initiation of translation, whereas studies in animal models argued against this possibility. we examined endogenous targets of the let-7 mirna, an important regulator of stem cell fates. 
Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with high methylation levels across species. [SEP] methylation of cpg dinucleotides is generally associated with epigenetic silencing of transcription and is maintained through cellular division. in mammals, cytosine methylation (5mc) is widely distributed throughout the genome but is notably depleted from active promoters and enhancers. methylation of cytosines is the key epigenetic modification of dna in eukaryotes and is associated with a repressed chromatin state and inhibition of gene expression. several genomic studies have made significant progress in unraveling the intricate relationships between dna methylation, chromatin structure, and gene expression. here we highlight several recent genomic studies with an emphasis on what new information is gained from these studies and what conclusions can be reached about the role of dna methylation in controlling gene expression. the heavily methylated vertebrate genomes are punctuated by stretches of poorly methylated dna sequences that usually mark gene regulatory regions. our statistical modeling confirmed the strong statistical association between nucleotide sequence pattern and methylation state in the medaka genome. our results apparently argue against the notion of the governance on the dna methylation by nucleotide sequence, but instead suggest the involvement of other epigenetic factors in defining and maintaining the dna methylation landscape. the genomes of vertebrates are globally methylated, but a small portion of genomic regions are known to be hypomethylated. cytosine methylation is common, but not ubiquitous, in eukaryotes. 
Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil polarization by regulating membrane raft functions. [SEP] here, we show that an inhibitory mhc i receptor, ly49q, was crucial for the swift polarization of and tissue infiltration by neutrophils. during the steady state, ly49q inhibited neutrophil adhesion by preventing focal-complex formation, likely by inhibiting src and pi3 kinases. however, in the presence of inflammatory stimuli, ly49q mediated rapid neutrophil polarization and tissue infiltration in an itim-domain-dependent manner. ly49q-dependent polarization and migration were affected by ly49q regulation of membrane raft functions. we propose that ly49q is pivotal in switching neutrophils to their polarized morphology and rapid migration upon inflammation, through its spatiotemporal regulation of membrane rafts and raft-associated signaling molecules. ly49q, an itim domain-bearing receptor expressed on different leukocytes, has been recently reported to impact neutrophil migration and polarization. utilizing a murine model of klebsiella pneumoniae-induced pulmonary infection in combination with additional in vivo and in vitro assays, we show that ly49q is critically involved in different steps of the leukocyte adhesion cascade. structure function analysis in vitro and in vivo demonstrated that different domains of ly49q are important for its function. in summary, ly49q regulates integrin activation and neutrophil recruitment and is required for an adequate immune response in pulmonary infection. our work provides a starting point to identify informative features for the study of neutrophil polarization. 
Ly6C hi monocytes have a higher inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. [SEP] in mice, different subsets of monocytes can be distinguished by the expression of ly6c that is highly expressed on inflammatory monocytes (ly6chigh) and to a lesser extent on patrolling monocytes (ly6clow). ly-6c(hi) monocytes adhered to activated endothelium, infiltrated lesions, and became lesional macrophages. thus, we believe that ly-6c(hi) monocytes represent a newly recognized component of the inflammatory response in experimental atherosclerosis. monocytes consist of two well-defined subsets, the ly6c+ and ly6c- monocytes. while infiltration of ly6c+ monocytes is an established pathogenic factor during hepatic inflammation, the role of ly6c- monocytes remains elusive. thus, ly6c- monocytes can dampen liver damage caused by an extensive ly6c+ monocyte-associated inflammatory immune response in t. congolense trypanotolerant animals. ly6c(hi) monocytes are generally thought to exert a proinflammatory role in acute tissue injury, although their impact after injuries to the central nervous system is poorly defined. monocytes exist in two major populations, termed ly6chi and ly6clow monocytes. compared to ly6chi monocytes, less is known about ly6clow monocyte recruitment and mechanisms involved in the recruitment of this subset. in mice, two functionally distinct monocyte subsets are described: pro-inflammatory ly6chigh and patrolling ly6clow monocytes. 
Lysine histone demethylase inhibitor JIB 04 is inactive against KDM5A. [SEP] dna (cytosine-5)-methyltransferase 3-like protein, is devoid of cytosine methyltransferase activity, despite clear homology to dnmt3a and dnmt3b, due to the mutation of key catalytic residues. here we report that the h3k9 demethylase kdm3b represses transcription of the angiogenesis regulatory gene, angpt1. negative regulation of angpt1 by kdm3b is independent of its jumonji (jmjc) domain-mediated h3k9 demethylase activity. mixed lineage leukemia (mll) fusion protein alone exhibits poor histone lysine methyltransferase (hkmt) activity in catalyzing histone h3 lys4 trimethylation (h3k4me3) in mll-rearranged acute leukemia. inhibitor of dna binding protein 4 (id4) is a member of the dominant-negative basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor family that lacks dna binding activity and has tumor suppressor function. pd 0332991 is a highly specific inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinase 4 (cdk4) (ic50, 0.011 micromol/l) and cdk6 (ic50, 0.016 micromol/l), having no activity against a panel of 36 additional protein kinases. the results indicate that inhibition of cdk4/6 alone is sufficient to cause tumor regression and a net reduction in tumor burden in some tumors. the kdm4/jmjd2 family of histone demethylases is amplified in human cancers. we have identified a conserved and unappreciated role for the jmjd2a/kdm4a h3k9/36 tridemethylase in cell cycle progression. we have previously described the synthesis and evaluation of 3,5-diamino-1,2,4-triazole analogues as inhibitors of the flavin-dependent histone demethylase lsd1. 
M. stadtmanae does not induce ASC speck formation in BlaER1 monocytes. [SEP] listeria monocytogenes invasion of human brain microvascular endothelial cells (bmec) and its role as a stimulus for endothelial cell activation were studied. binding and invasion of intact bmec monolayers were independent of the l. monocytogenes inlab invasion locus. cytochalasin d abrogated invasion of bmec, whereas genistein effected only a 53% decrease in invasion, indicating a requirement for rearrangement of actin microfilaments but less dependence on tyrosine kinase activity. l. monocytogenes stimulated surface expression of e-selectin, icam-1, and to a lesser extent, vcam-1, whereas l. monocytogenes prfa- and deltahly mutants were severely compromised in this respect. other experiments showed that bmec infection stimulated monocyte and neutrophil adhesion and that cd18-mediated binding was the predominant mechanism for neutrophil adhesion to infected bmec under static conditions. these data suggest that invasion of bmec is a mechanism for triggering inflammation and leukocyte recruitment into the central nervous system during bacterial meningitis. the human granulocytic ehrlichiosis (hge) agent, which replicates in neutrophils, was found not to induce superoxide anion (o(2)(-)) generation or extracellular release by human peripheral blood neutrophils, as measured by a luminol-dependent chemiluminescence assay or a cytochrome c reduction assay, respectively. the hge agent did not prevent o(2-) generation in human peripheral blood monocytes derived from the same individual. a weak membrane fluorescence with anti-alpha 1-microglobulin on peripheral lymphocytes could not be blocked by the purified protein. no release of alpha 1-microglobulin into the growth medium was seen by normal cultured leukocytes. 
M. stadtmanae induces ASC speck formation in BlaER1 monocytes. [SEP] we therefore examined the early mphi cytokine response to b. anthracis spores, before germination. sporothrix schenckii is the fungus that causes sporotrichosis, a worldwide-distributed subcutaneous mycosis considered as an important emerging health problem. here, we investigated the in vitro response of mast cells to conidia of s. schenckii and their in vivo involvement in sporotrichosis. these data demonstrate that mast cells are important contributors in the host response to s. schenckii infection, suggesting a role of these cells in the progress of clinical manifestations in sporotrichosis. a hallmark of inflammasome activation is the asc speck, a micrometre-sized structure formed by the inflammasome adaptor protein asc (apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a card), which consists of a pyrin domain (pyd) and a caspase recruitment domain (card). here we show that assembly of the asc speck involves oligomerization of asc(pyd) into filaments and cross-linking of these filaments by asc(card). asc mutants with a non-functional card only assemble filaments but not specks, and moreover disrupt endogenous specks in primary macrophages. systematic site-directed mutagenesis of asc(pyd) is used to identify oligomerization-deficient asc mutants and demonstrate that asc speck formation is required for efficient processing of il-1β, but dispensable for gasdermin-d cleavage and pyroptosis induction. our results suggest that the oligomerization of asc creates a multitude of potential caspase-1 activation sites, thus serving as a signal amplification mechanism for inflammasome-mediated cytokine production. to simulate the environment of the rbc, we established the cdna library of swine peripheral blood mononuclear cells (pbmc). 
MEK inhibitors are effective treatments in RAS-driven mouse models of cancer. [SEP] although several groups have demonstrated that concomitant use of mek and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (pi3k) inhibitors (meki/pi3ki) can induce dramatic tumor regressions in mouse models of kras-mutant non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc), ongoing clinical trials investigating this strategy have been underwhelming to date. mitogen-activated protein kinase (mapk) kinase (mek) is an integral component of the ras pathway and a therapeutic target in ras-driven cancers. although tumor responses to mek inhibition are rarely durable, mek inhibitors have shown substantial activity and durable tumor regressions when combined with systemic immunotherapies in preclinical models of ras-driven tumors. mek inhibitors have been shown to potentiate anti-tumor t cell immunity, but little is known about the effects of mek inhibition on other immune subsets, including b cells. fedele and colleagues demonstrate that shp2 inhibitors prevent adaptive mek inhibitor resistance; therefore, combining mek and shp2 inhibitors represents an exciting new therapeutic approach for the treatment of ras-driven cancers. selective braf and map-erk kinase (mek) inhibitors have shown clinical efficacy in patients with melanoma. mutations in ras oncogenes are frequently observed in human cancers, and the mutations result in activation of the ras-raf-mek-erk pathway, leading to cell proliferation and survival. mek inhibitors can specifically block the pathway and are one of the key types of drugs for the treatment of the ras-mutant cancers. as ras proteins activate other downstream signaling proteins in addition to the ras-raf-mek-erk pathway, combination therapeutic approaches with mek inhibitors are also being evaluated. this mechanism may explain the efficacy of the combination of mek inhibitors with cytotoxic agents or other targeted inhibitors. 
MFGE8 regulates fat absorption by binding to av-Beta3 and av-Beta5 integrins. [SEP] angiopoietin-like protein (angptl)8 has been implicated in metabolic syndrome and reported to regulate adipose fa uptake through unknown mechanisms. milk fat globule-egf factor (mfg-e8) is a protein that binds to alphavbeta3/5 integrin and phosphatidylserine. in the present study, we examined the expression of mfg-e8 mrna in the small intestine, liver and lungs during postnatal development. the mfg-e8 mrna expression was quantified by real-time pcr. in summary, our study indicated that mfg-e8 is extensively expressed in the small intestine, liver, and lungs. milk fat globule--egf--factor viii (mfge8), also called lactadherin, is a secreted protein, which binds extracellularly to phosphatidylserine and to αvβ3 and αvβ5 integrins. on human and mouse cells expressing these integrins, such as endothelial cells, phagocytes and some tumors, mfge8/lactadherin has been shown to promote survival, epithelial to mesenchymal transition and phagocytosis. mfge8 (milk fat globule-egf-factor 8) encodes a soluble integrin-binding protein containing two notch-like egf domains and two discoidin domains. it mediates cell-to-cell interaction by binding to integrin alphavbeta3 via the rgd motif of its second egf domain. integrin alpha(v)beta(3) is a heterodimeric plasma membrane protein whose several extracellular matrix protein ligands contain an rgd recognition sequence. 
MICAL redox enzymes regulate actin dynamics in many cell types. [SEP] mical redox enzymes have recently emerged as direct regulators of cell shape and motility - working through specific reversible post-translational oxidation of actin to disassemble and remodel the cytoskeleton. micals are being implicated in the regulation of an increasing number of molecular and cellular processes including cytoskeletal dynamics and intracellular trafficking. recent breakthroughs in our understanding of mical signaling identify the ability of micals to bind and directly modify the actin cytoskeleton, link micals to the docking and fusion of exocytotic vesicles, and uncover micals as anti-apoptotic proteins. we have recently identified a new family of multidomain oxidoreductase (redox) enzymes, the micals, that directly regulate the actin cytoskeletal elements necessary for the morphology, motility, and trajectory of cells. our genetic assays reveal that mical is both necessary and sufficient for actin organization and cellular effects in vivo and our biochemical assays with purified mical protein reveal that mical utilizes its redox activity to directly disassemble actin filaments. these results identify mical proteins as novel actin disassembly factors and uncover a redox signaling mechanism that directly regulates the actin cytoskeleton. this new strategy for generating large amounts of highly-pure and active mical protein will aid research objectives designed to characterize the biochemical, enzymology, and structural biology of mical and its effects on actin filament dynamics. cells tightly regulate actin dynamics through numerous specific proteins in order to rapidly and locally respond to various stimuli. actin cytoskeleton remodeling facilitates and fine-tunes diverse cellular processes. mical redox enzymes are important post-translational effectors of actin that stereo-specifically oxidize actin's m44 and m47 residues to induce cellular f-actin disassembly. 
MICAL redox enzymes regulate actin dynamics. [SEP] mical redox enzymes have recently emerged as direct regulators of cell shape and motility - working through specific reversible post-translational oxidation of actin to disassemble and remodel the cytoskeleton. mical redox enzymes are important post-translational effectors of actin that stereo-specifically oxidize actin's m44 and m47 residues to induce cellular f-actin disassembly. here we show that mical-oxidized (mox) actin can undergo extremely fast (84 subunits/s) disassembly, which depends on f-actin's nucleotide-bound state. modeling actin's d-loop region based on our 3.9 å cryoem reconstruction suggests that oxidation by mical reorients the side chain of m44 and induces a new intermolecular interaction of actin residue m47 (m47-o-t351). moreover, we find that mical oxidation of actin allows for cofilin-mediated severing even in the presence of inorganic phosphate. thus, in conjunction with cofilin, mical oxidation of actin promotes f-actin disassembly independent of the nucleotide-bound state. we have recently identified a new family of multidomain oxidoreductase (redox) enzymes, the micals, that directly regulate the actin cytoskeletal elements necessary for the morphology, motility, and trajectory of cells. our genetic assays reveal that mical is both necessary and sufficient for actin organization and cellular effects in vivo and our biochemical assays with purified mical protein reveal that mical utilizes its redox activity to directly disassemble actin filaments. these results identify mical proteins as novel actin disassembly factors and uncover a redox signaling mechanism that directly regulates the actin cytoskeleton. this new strategy for generating large amounts of highly-pure and active mical protein will aid research objectives designed to characterize the biochemical, enzymology, and structural biology of mical and its effects on actin filament dynamics. 
MT binding domain drives amyloid structure formation. [SEP] understanding the conversion of amyloidogenic proteins from their soluble forms to amyloid fibrils is critical for developing effective therapeutics. we report the discovery of an unprecedented functional mammalian amyloid structure generated by the protein pmel17. the functional amyloid state of proteins has in recent years garnered much attention for its role in serving crucial and diverse biological roles. amyloid is a protein fold characterised by fibrillar morphology, binding of the amyloid-specific dyes thioflavin t and congo red, insolubility and underlying cross-β structure. understanding the structure and role of these amyloids elucidates novel and potentially ancient mechanisms of protein function throughout nature. this review examines the structure and mechanism of known microbial functional amyloids, with a particular focus on the pathogenicity conferred by the production of these structures and the strategies utilised by microbes to interfere with host amyloid structures. the biological importance of microbial amyloid assemblies is highlighted by their ubiquity and diverse functionality. the development of amyloidotic diseases is believed to be determined in large part by the structure and metabolism of the amyloid subunit protein. amyloidogenic proteins are key components in various amyloid diseases. the aggregation process and the local structural changes of the toxic species from toxic oligomers to protofibrils and subsequently to mature fibrils are crucial for understanding the molecular mechanism of the amyloidgenic process and also for developing a treatment strategy. 
MUC1-C activates the NF-κB p65 signaling pathway by interacting with IκB kinase ß. [SEP] the mucin 1 (muc1) oncoprotein has been linked to the inflammatory response by promoting cytokine-mediated activation of the nf-κb pathway. the tgf-β-activated kinase 1 (tak1) is an essential effector of proinflammatory nf-κb signaling that also regulates cancer cell survival. the present studies demonstrate that the muc1-c transmembrane subunit induces tak1 expression in colon cancer cells. muc1 also induces tak1 in a muc1(+/-)/il-10(-/-) mouse model of colitis and colon tumorigenesis. we show that muc1-c promotes nf-κb-mediated activation of tak1 transcription and, in a positive regulatory loop, muc1-c contributes to tak1-induced nf-κb signaling. in this way, muc1-c binds directly to tak1 and confers the association of tak1 with traf6, which is necessary for tak1-mediated activation of nf-κb. targeting muc1-c thus suppresses the tak1nf-κb pathway, downregulates bcl-xl and in turn sensitizes colon cancer cells to mek inhibition. these results support a model in which muc1-c-induced tak1nf-κb signaling contributes to intestinal inflammation and colon cancer progression. the iκb kinase (ikk) complex plays a crucial role in the activation of the transcription factor nf-κb by phosphorylating an inhibitory molecule iκbα. these findings contribute a novel concept in nf-κb/ikk signalling research. 
MafA phosphorylation decreases its ubiquitination. [SEP] here, we show that maf1 is a key downstream target of pten that drives both its tumor suppressor and metabolic functions. maf1 expression is diminished with loss of pten in both mouse models and human cancers. this regulatory event is biologically relevant as diet-induced pi3k activation reduces maf1 expression in mouse liver. the deubiquitinase usp5 stabilizes c-maf, a key transcription factor in multiple myeloma (mm), but the mechanisms and significance are unclear. in the present study, usp5 was found to interact with c-maf and prevented it from degradation by decreasing its polyubiquitination level. specifically, the 308th and 347th lysine residues in c-maf were critical for usp5-mediated deubiquitination and stability. notably, mafa and mafb are also members of the c-maf family, however, usp5 failed to deubiquitinate mafa, suggesting its substrate specificity. in the functional studies, usp5 was found to promoted the transcriptional activity of c-maf. consistent with this finding, wp1130, an inhibitor of several dubs including usp5, suppressed the transcriptional activity of c-maf and induced mm cell apoptosis. when c-maf was overexpressed, wp1130-induced mm cell apoptosis was abolished. 
MafA phosphorylation enhances its ubiquitination. [SEP] mafa undergoes extensive posttranslational modification by phosphorylation, ubiquitination and sumoylation, and these modifications regulate the turnover, dna binding and transactivation function of the protein. regulation of mafa expression is equally complex. because mafa is a highly phosphorylated protein, we examined whether regulating activity of protein kinases can increase mafa expression by enhancing its stability. inhibiting p38 mapk enhanced mafa stability in cells grown under both low and high concentrations of glucose. these results suggest that the p38 mapk pathway may represent a common mechanism for regulating mafa levels under oxidative stress and basal and stimulatory glucose concentrations. we previously reported that the phosphorylation status of mafa is a critical determinant of its biological functions. using western blot and mass spectrometry analysis, we now show that mafa is phosphorylated by p38 map kinase and identify three phosphoacceptor sites: threonine 113 and threonine 57, evolutionarily conserved residues located in the transcription activating domain, and serine 272. furthermore, we show that p38 also phosphorylates mafb and c-maf. here, we show that mafa is post-translationally modified by the small ubiquitin-related modifiers sumo-1 and -2. in this study, we investigated the role of maf's transactivation function in cell transformation. 
MafA ubiquitination decreases the recruitment of coavtivator P/CAF by MafA. [SEP] the deubiquitinase usp5 stabilizes c-maf, a key transcription factor in multiple myeloma (mm), but the mechanisms and significance are unclear. in the present study, usp5 was found to interact with c-maf and prevented it from degradation by decreasing its polyubiquitination level. specifically, the 308th and 347th lysine residues in c-maf were critical for usp5-mediated deubiquitination and stability. notably, mafa and mafb are also members of the c-maf family, however, usp5 failed to deubiquitinate mafa, suggesting its substrate specificity. in the functional studies, usp5 was found to promoted the transcriptional activity of c-maf. consistent with the high level of c-maf protein in mm cells, usp5 was also highly expressed. interestingly, usp5 silence led to apoptosis of mm cells expressing c-maf but not mm cells lacking c-maf, indicating c-maf is a key factor in usp5-mediated mm cell proliferation and survival. maf1 represses pol iii-mediated transcription by interfering with tfiiib and pol iii. simultaneous knockdown of maf1 with pol iii or brf1 (subunit of tfiiib) diminished the activation and looping effect, which indicates that recruiting pol iii was required for activation of pol ii-mediated transcription and chromatin looping. our results reveal a novel mechanism by which maf1 and pol iii regulate the activity of a protein-coding gene transcribed by pol ii. 
MafA ubiquitination increases the recruitment of coavtivator P/CAF by MafA. [SEP] mafa undergoes extensive posttranslational modification by phosphorylation, ubiquitination and sumoylation, and these modifications regulate the turnover, dna binding and transactivation function of the protein. regulation of mafa expression is equally complex. because mafa is a highly phosphorylated protein, we examined whether regulating activity of protein kinases can increase mafa expression by enhancing its stability. these results suggest a crucial role of mafa as a novel therapeutic target for diabetes. we previously reported that the phosphorylation status of mafa is a critical determinant of its biological functions. using western blot and mass spectrometry analysis, we now show that mafa is phosphorylated by p38 map kinase and identify three phosphoacceptor sites: threonine 113 and threonine 57, evolutionarily conserved residues located in the transcription activating domain, and serine 272. furthermore, we show that p38 also phosphorylates mafb and c-maf. ufm1 is known to covalently attach with cellular protein(s) via a specific e1-activating enzyme (uba5) and an e2-conjugating enzyme (ufc1), but its e3-ligating enzyme(s) as well as the target protein(s) remain unknown. herein, we report both a novel e3 ligase for ufm1, designated ufl1, and an ufm1-specific substrate ligated by ufl1, c20orf116. ufm1 was covalently conjugated with c20orf116. 
Major antigen-induced signals from the T cell receptor and secondary signals from costimulatory receptors are required for T cell activation. [SEP] it is well established that full activation of t cells requires the interaction of the tcr complex with the peptide-mhc complex (signal 1) and additional signals (signal 2). these second signals are generated by the interaction of costimulatory ligands expressed on antigen presenting cells with activating receptors on t cells. both the engagement of the tcr with mhc/ag and a second signal are needed for the complete activation of the t cell. for example, t cells require signals emanating from both the tcr for antigen (upon recognition of mhc/antigenic peptide) and receptors for costimulatory molecules (e.g., cd80 and cd60) for full activation. full activation and differentiation of resting t cells into effector t cells requires at least two signals, the first through engagement of the t cell antigen receptor (tcr) by the antigen-major histocompatibility complex (mhc) on antigen-presenting cells (apcs), and the second by engagement of co-stimulatory molecules such as cd28, on t cells by ligands such as cd80/86 on apcs. engagement of antigen-specific t cell receptors (tcrs) is a prerequisite for t cell activation. acquisition of appropriate effector t cell function requires the participation of multiple signals from the t cell microenvironment. activation of t cells involves multiple receptor-ligand interactions between t cells and antigen presenting cells (apc). at least two signals are required for t-cell activation: signal 1 results from recognition of mhc/peptide complexes on the apc by cell surface t-cell receptors (tcr), whereas signal 2 is induced by the interactions of co-stimulatory molecules on apc with their complementary receptors on t cells. optimal t cell responses occur when t cells not only receive antigen-specific signals through the tr but also non-antigen-specific costimulatory activatory or inhibitory signals through costimulatory receptors. 
Major vault protein (MVP) leads to more aggressive tumors by regulating the sorting of tumor suppressive miR-193a into extracellular vesicles (EVs). [SEP] major vault protein (mvp) is the major component of the vault particle whose functions are not well understood. one proposed function of the vault is to serve as a mechanism of drug transport, which confers drug resistance in cancer cells. major vault protein (mvp) is the major constituent of vaults and is involved in multidrug resistance, nucleocytoplasmic transport, and cell signaling. major vault protein (mvp), the main component of vault complex, is overexpressed in many multidrug-resistant cancer cell lines, suggesting a possible role for mvp in cell signaling and survival. the human major vault protein (mvp) has been linked to the development of multidrug resistance in cancer cells, and overexpression of mvp has been observed in ovarian cancer tissues. major vault protein (mvp), also called lung resistance-related protein is a ribonucleoprotein comprising a major part (>70%) of the vault particle. major vault protein (mvp), the main constituent of the vault ribonucleoprotein particle, is highly conserved in eukaryotic cells and upregulated in a variety of tumors. major vault protein (mvp) represents the main component of vaults and has been linked to multi-drug resistance (mdr) in cancer cells. the major vault protein (mvp) is the main component of vaults, large ribonucleoprotein particles implicated in the regulation of cellular signaling cascades and multidrug resistance. these data further substantiate that the vault particle functions as a general interaction platform for cellular signaling cascades. 
Major vault protein regulates sorting of tumor suppressive miR-193a into EVs. [SEP] three human vault rna genes (hvg1-3) have been described, and a fourth was found in a homology search (hvg4). in this study we investigated the expression and vault association of different vault rnas in a variety of cell lines, including pairs of drug-sensitive and drug-resistant cells. the ratio in which the vault rnas are associated with vaults might be of functional importance. major vault protein knockdown enhanced cell death and inhibited stat3 and akt signaling. major vault protein (mvp) is the major constituent of vaults and is involved in multidrug resistance, nucleocytoplasmic transport, and cell signaling. our findings expand the repertoire of small regulatory rnas and assign, for the first time, a function to vrnas that may help explain the association between vault particles and drug resistance. the major vault protein is the main component on multimeric vault particles, that are likely to play an essential role in normal cell physiology and to be associated with multidrug resistance of tumour cells. we have identified the 193-kd vault protein by its interaction with the mvp in a yeast two-hybrid screen and confirmed its identity by peptide sequence analysis. vtrna2-1 is a vault rna initially classified as microrna precursor hsa-mir-886 and recently proposed as "nc886", a new type of non-coding rna involved in cancer progression acting as an oncogene and tumor suppressor gene in different tissues. overall, our findings suggest that vtrna2-1/nc886 and its processed product snc886-3p are synthesized in prostate cells, exerting a tumor suppressor action. 
Malaria has a high vectorial capacity. [SEP] human malaria is truly a disease of global proportions and is one of the most broadly distributed vector-borne infections. malaria, though endemic, is also important because of its associated high morbidity and mortality rates. malaria remains one of the most prevalent tropical and infectious diseases in the world, with an estimated more than 200 million clinical cases every year. malaria is one of the main infectious diseases in tropical developing countries and represents high morbidity and mortality rates nowadays. to humans and 41 are considered as dominant vector capable of transmitting malaria. malaria is a severe disease of global importance transmitted by mosquitoes of the genus anopheles. malaria continues to be one of the most devastating diseases in the world, killing more humans than any other infectious disease. in human malaria, transmission intensity is highly dependent on the vectorial capacity and competence of local mosquitoes. here, we review key factors of vectorial capacity and competence in anopheles, with a particular focus on the most important malaria vector anopheles gambiae. malaria is an important mosquito-borne disease considered as one of the public health concerns across many countries. 
Many cytokines that are produced by cancer cells also contribute to carcinogenesis. [SEP] of the various factors influencing the physiology of cancers, cytokines are known to play significant roles as mediators of functions. intricate cytokine networks have been identified in cancers and interest in cytokines associated with cancers has been gaining ground. the relationships between cytokines and cancer are multiple and bidirectional. on the one hand, cytokines may directly influence carcinogenesis and metastasis by modifying the tumor phenotype. in cancer, numerous signaling pathways upregulate the expression levels of several cytokines and evolve cells to the neoplastic state. emerging evidence suggests that cytokines, chemokines and growth factors are major players in carcinogenesis. cytokines play an important role in creating an inflammatory microenvironment, which is now considered a hallmark of cancer. the purpose of the present article is to review the links between cancer and cytokine expression. many recent reports indicate that uncontrolled, constitutive cytokine expression in tumors contributes to tumor growth, tumor progression and immuno-suppression, activities that dexceed their usual functions in host anti-tumor response. although the function and diagnostic importance of cytokines needs to be studied in more detail, examining the relationship between aberrant cytokine expression and cancer promises to be extremely useful for the identification of a new generation of biomarkers, and to advance cancer diagnosis, prevention, and treatment. 
Many transmembrane receptors transmit signals by long-range conformational changes in the association of alpha-helices across the plasma membrane. [SEP] heptahelical g protein-coupled receptors (gpcrs) mediate transmembrane signal transduction to facilitate intercellular communication. despite significant recent advances in structural studies of gpcrs and their associated cytoplasmic components, understanding transmembrane signaling in four dimensions with chemical precision requires new approaches. single-pass membrane receptors contain extracellular domains that respond to external stimuli and transmit information to intracellular domains through a single transmembrane (tm) α-helix. this transmission is highly complex and achieved through induction of distinct gpcr conformations, which preferentially drive specific receptor-mediated signaling events. the detailed interaction of a molecule with a g protein-coupled receptor is a complicated process that is influenced by the receptor conformation, thermodynamics, and ligand conformation and stereoisomeric configuration. heptahelical receptors communicate extracellular information to the cytosolic compartment by binding an extensive variety of ligands. they do so through conformational changes that propagate to intracellular signaling partners as the receptor switches from a resting to an active conformation. in addition, conformational diversity encoded by the receptor was conveyed to the interaction among heterotrimeric subunits. heterotrimeric g-proteins localized in the plasma membrane convey the signals from g-protein-coupled receptors (gpcrs) to different effectors. g protein-coupled receptors (gpcrs) span cell membranes with seven transmembrane helices and respond to a diverse array of extracellular signals. 
Marmosets have a brain region homologous to Broca's area. [SEP] marmosets have attracted significant interest in the life sciences. our results emphasize the marmoset as a suitable model to study complex motor behavior and the evolution of cognitive control underlying speech. marmoset has emerged as a useful nonhuman primate species for studying brain structure and function. broca's region in the dominant cerebral hemisphere is known to mediate the production of language but also contributes to comprehension. there is, however, evidence that broca's region overlaps, at least in part, with the ventral premotor cortex. we summarize the evidence that the motor related part of broca's area is localized in the opercular portion of the inferior frontal cortex, mainly in area 44 of brodmann. marmosets are increasingly used as model species by both neuroscientists and evolutionary anthropologists, but with a different rationale for doing so. whereas neuroscientists stress that marmosets share many cognitive traits with humans due to common descent, anthropologists stress those traits shared with marmosets - and callitrichid monkeys in general - due to convergent evolution, as a consequence of the cooperative breeding system that characterizes both humans and callitrichids. marmosets are playing an increasingly large and important role in biomedical research. broca's area was identified in the inferior frontal gyrus of chimpanzee, bonobo, gorilla, and orangutan brains through direct cytoarchitectonic comparison with human brains. 
Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have only a modest impact in reducing malaria transmission. [SEP] artemisinin-based combination therapies (acts) are recommended for the treatment of acute uncomplicated falciparum malaria in many malaria-endemic countries. artemisinin-based combination therapy (act) for treating malaria has activity against immature gametocytes. artemisinin-based combination therapy (act) is currently recommended as first-line treatment for uncomplicated malaria, but of concern, it has been observed that the effectiveness of the main artemisinin derivative, artesunate, has been diminished due to parasite resistance. combination regimens that include artemisinin derivatives are recommended as first line antimalarials in most countries where malaria is endemic. however, the mechanism of action of artemisinin is not fully understood and the usefulness of this drug class is threatened by reports of decreased parasite sensitivity. artemisinin derivatives and their partner drugs in artemisinin combination therapies (acts) have played a pivotal role in global malaria mortality reduction during the last two decades. artemisinin derivatives used in recently introduced combination therapies (acts) for plasmodium falciparum malaria significantly lower patient infectiousness and have the potential to reduce population-level transmission of the parasite. this study estimates the reduction in transmission that may be achieved by introducing different types of treatment for symptomatic p. falciparum malaria in endemic areas. we developed a mathematical model to predict the potential impact on transmission outcomes of introducing act as first-line treatment for uncomplicated malaria in six areas of varying transmission intensity in tanzania. artemisinin-based combination therapies (acts) against malaria are subsidized in many african countries, but the impact of subsidy programs in reducing the sales of concomitantly available antimalarial monotherapies is poorly defined. 
MeCP2 influences the synaptic maturation of neurons. [SEP] we have previously shown that mecp2 plays critical roles in the maturation step of new neurons during neurogenesis. mecp2 is known to regulate the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf), a potent neurotrophic factor for neuronal maturation. studies in mouse models of mecp2 deficiency have demonstrated that this protein is important for neuronal maturation, neurite complexity, synaptogenesis, and synaptic plasticity. we hypothesize that mecp2 plays a role during the formation and activity-driven maturation of neural circuits at early postnatal stages. a progressive increase in mecp2 protein levels is a crucial and precisely regulated event during neurodevelopment, but the underlying mechanism is unclear. we report that mecp2 is regulated post-transcriptionally during in vitro differentiation of human embryonic stem cells (hescs) into cortical neurons. mecp2 is required both during postnatal neurodevelopment and throughout the adult life for brain function. the precise control of the phosphorylation status of mecp2 in neurons is critical for the normal development and function of the mammalian brain. methyl cpg binding protein-2 (mecp2) is a multifunctional nuclear protein, and regulates dendritic morphology, synaptic transmission, spontaneous neurotransmission, and short-term synaptic plasticity in the central nervous system. methyl-cpg-binding protein 2 (mecp2), a protein with affinity for methylated cytosines, is crucial for neuronal development and function. 
Measuring routine outcomes is more beneficial to clinical practice than assessing treatment adherence. [SEP] outcomes focus on measuring the result of actions taken, not on the processes used to obtain the result. primary care providers who monitor outcomes in their practice have many advantages: they have the opportunity to evaluate themselves before others evaluate them; they may alter or improve their system of care; and they can provide data on their effectiveness. this article discusses how primary care providers can measure outcomes at the practice level and the inherent values in this practice. exploring and monitoring outcomes within routine clinical practice is central to high quality patient care. the expanded use of clinical process-of-care measures to assess the quality of health care in the context of public reporting and pay-for-performance applications has led to a desire to demonstrate the value of such efforts in terms of improved patient outcomes. the inability to observe associations between improved delivery of clinical processes and improved clinical outcomes in practice has raised concerns about the value of holding providers accountable for delivery of clinical processes of care. to improve routine clinical practice, we must measure patients treated in routine practice (effectiveness research), not in specially controlled circumstances (efficacy research). patient reports of functioning and well-being have been most commonly used in clinical-practice settings at the group-level for research rather than at the individual-patient level for clinical decision-making. routine use of patient reported outcome measures (proms) has the potential to help transform healthcare, says nick black: . this issue of the journal concerns promotion of the routine use of outcome measures in clinical practice; the purpose of this particular article, however, is to warn care providers to think very very carefully before routinely using such measures. 
Medications to treat obesity are highly effective. [SEP] in the light of several failed attempts, there is a clear need to develop drugs that are effective and safe in the long term in order to successfully combat the phenomenon of obesity . in response to the increase in obesity, pharmacologic treatments for weight loss have become more numerous and more commonly used. the worldwide epidemic of obesity has made the development of effective treatment ever more urgent. appropriate use of medication for the treatment of obesity may benefit patients at risk for developing diabetes, hypertension, coronary artery disease, osteoarthritis or gall bladder disease. the currently available medications for obesity work either by reducing fat digestion or by acting on receptor systems in the brain. there is increasing interest, therefore, in the use of pharmacotherapy and surgery to treat obesity. in addition to lifestyle modification, there are numerous obesity treatments for clinicians to consider, including medications. this review evaluates the benefits and potential health risks of the currently used drugs that are approved for the pharmacological treatment of obesity. since obesity is recognised as a chronic health-threatening condition, and since classical behavioural therapeutic approaches lack long term efficacy, there is clearly a need for an efficient pharmacological treatment offering an acceptable safety profile. the us food and drug administration has approved certain medications for helping achieve weight loss in patients with obesity or overweight who have comorbidities. 
Medications to treat obesity do not have side effects. [SEP] the use of an anorectic drug (mazindol) did not significantly interfere with the therapy needed to maintain control in obese diabetics. both diet and medications are useful in the treatment of the obese patient. presently only 1 drug is approved for long-term treatment of overweight patients, and its effectiveness is limited to palliation of the chronic disease of obesity. combinations of medications and antidiabetic drugs that produce weight loss are being evaluated. combination oral contraceptives (ocs) have little effect on carbohydrate and lipid metabolism in normal-weight women. among the obese participants, change in glucose was marginally greater with the higher dose pill (p=.06); otherwise, changes between the body mass index groups were not modified by pill dose. obesity had little effect on any oc-induced changes in carbohydrate or lipid metabolism except for a borderline adverse interaction between obesity and oc dose with respect to fasting glucose and a positive interaction between obesity and oc use with respect to ldl cholesterol. in obese patients who do not have diabetes, weight loss is achieved and maintained as shown in the 2-year studies. orlistat offers an attractive treatment option for obese patients who do and do not have diabetes and as a combination drug for treatment of obese patients who have type 2 diabetes. it is also known to have no apparent interaction with commonly used drugs. 
Medications to treat obesity have unwanted side effects. [SEP] it is a well known fact that one of the side-effects of the psychotropic drugs is a disturbance of body weight in the form of obesity. we believe this to be a serious side-effect because obesity is often the main reason why the patient discontinues his psychopharmaaceutical therapy, thereby causing a recrudescence of his mental illness. despite the presence of anti-obesity agents on the market, the application of these drugs is limited because of their typical side effects. psychotropic drugs often induce weight gain, leading to discomfort and discontinuation of treatment and, more importantly, increasing the risk of obesity-related illnesses such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and coronary heart disease. however, for some patients weight gain and the disturbances in blood-lipid levels and glucose balance associated with their use are significant disadvantages, and pose health risks that may affect prognosis. numerous different types of drugs which had been used in the past for the treatment of obesity have currently been withdrawn due to undesirable long-term side effects. obesity and metabolic syndrome, with increased risk of eventual cardiovascular disease and type ii diabetes, are significant problems for patients receiving antipsychotic drugs and are likely contribute to their decreased life expectancy. however, sometimes these drug-induced alterations of the body's appetite-regulating mechanisms result in excessive weight gain, thus jeopardizing compliance with prescribed medication. a number of drugs are capable of changing body weight as an adverse consequence of their therapeutic effect. antipsychotics are well-known culprits of weight gain. 
Men are more susceptible to death due to pneumonia when compared to women. [SEP] men were twice as likely as women to die, and deaths caused by pneumonia/influenza and septicemia showed the greatest increase. men are more likely to die after hip fracture than women. the magnitude of increase in deaths caused by infection was greater for men than for women in both years. deaths related to infections (pneumonia, influenza, and septicemia) seem to be largely responsible for the observed gender difference. men may be more likely than women to die outside the hospital from coronary artery disease, whereas women may be as likely as men to die inside the hospital. these findings support the contention that, despite significant decreases in mortality, men continue to have higher rates of death outside and inside the hospital than do women, although there has been a slight decrease in male:female mortality for deaths outside the hospital. cvd and pneumonia were predominant causes of death in men and women with an associated higher risk in all age groups. men in the united states suffer more severe chronic conditions, have higher death rates for all 15 leading causes of death, and die nearly 7 yr younger than women. men in the united states are more likely than women to adopt beliefs and behaviours that increase their risks, and are less likely to engage in behaviours that are linked with health and longevity. male gender is significantly associated with an increased incidence of postinjury pneumonia. 
Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in similar efficacy and better quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. [SEP] elderly patients derive similar benefits from 5-fluorouracil-based adjuvant chemotherapy in stage iii colon cancer; however, conflicting data exist regarding additional benefit from oxaliplatin, fluorouracil and leucovorin (folfox) chemotherapy. single-center, retrospective analysis was performed to compare the safety and efficacy of adjuvant oxaliplatin, fluorouracil and leucovorin-4 chemotherapy in older patients (age ≥65 years) with younger patients with stage iii colon cancer after surgical resection. elderly patients received a lower relative dose intensity of oxaliplatin (0.76 versus 0.79) and 5-fluorouracil (0.75 versus 0.80, p = 0.009). adjuvant oxaliplatin, fluorouracil and leucovorin chemotherapy resulted in similar efficacy without significant increase in toxicity in older patients aged ≥65 when compared with younger patients with curatively resected stage iii colon cancer. previous studies have reported improved outcomes for elderly patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mcrc) treated with oxaliplatin or irinotecan as first-line chemotherapy. the purpose of this meta-analysis is to assess the survival and disease-free survival benefits of treating patients after surgical resection of a primary colorectal tumor with oral fluoropyrimidines for 1 year. oral fluoropyrimidines improve disease-free survival and survival of patients after resection of early-stage colorectal cancer. a cost-effectiveness analysis of oxaliplatin-based or irinotecan-based combination therapy versus 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin alone in elderly stage iv colon cancer patients was performed from a us medicare perspective. oxaliplatin-based or irinotecan-based combination therapy improves overall survival but also substantially increases direct medical costs compared with 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin alone when used in elderly us patients with stage iv colon cancer. oxaliplatin-based regimens are more cost-effective than irinotecan-based regimens for treatment of elderly stage iv colon cancer patients in terms of cost per life-year gained, but not in terms of cost per qaly. 
Mice are incapable of producing neutralizing antibodies in reponse to the Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) produced in mosquitos. [SEP] the fatal outcome of k virus infection in infant mice and cytoxan-treated adult mice is related to their inability to mount a prompt antibody response to the virus. athymic nude mice infected with k virus exhibited no clinical illness and no detectable virus-specific immunoglobulin g (igg) response, but they did exhibit a low level of virus-specific immunoglobulin m response. the bg/bg mutant mice with this very low nk cell activity and control strains of mice (by/+, c57bl6) with high nk cell activity synthesized comparable amounts of virus and interferon in the spleen, suggesting that nk cells may not play a significant role, but not appreciably against a less sensitive cell line (l-929). the bg/bg mutant mice with this very low nk cell activity and control strains of mice (by/+, c57bl6) with high nk cell activity synthesized comparable amounts of virus and interferon in the spleen, suggesting that nk cells may not play a significant role, but not appreciably against a less sensitive cell line (l-929). the bg/bg mutant mice with this very low nk cell activity and control strains of mice (by/+, c57bl6) with high nk cell activity synthesized comparable amounts of virus and interferon in the spleen, suggesting that nk cells may not play a significant role in curtailing viral synthesis before the advent of the specific immune response mechanisms. they are unable to produce antibody to hsv, and their leukocytes cannot mediate antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (adcc) to hsv-infected cells. whereas immunocompetent mice do not become ill when infected with ebola, lassa, dengue and other hf viruses, ifn-deficient mice typically develop severe or fatal disease when inoculated with these pathogens. the ease of employment of these "mouse models" has led to their extensive use in biocontainment laboratories to assess the efficacy of novel vaccines, often without consideration of whether adaptive immune responses in ifn-deficient mice accurately mirror those in humans. mice immunized with den-1 pre-matrix protein produced antibody which reacted with dengue virus infected cells and intact virions but failed to neutralize virus in vitro or in vivo. newborn mice passively immunized with anti-den-1 pre-matrix antibody also failed to survive intracerebral infection with 100 ld50 of any dengue virus serotype. 
Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) fail to reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). [SEP] although a defect in the dna polymerase polq leads to ionizing radiation sensitivity in mammalian cells, the relevant enzymatic pathway has not been identified. our experiments show that polq-null murine cells are selectively hypersensitive to dna strand breaking agents, and that damage resistance requires the dna polymerase activity of polq. both mouse and human pol eta lack intrinsic proofreading exonuclease activity and both copy undamaged dna inaccurately. mouse embryonic stem cells (mescs) lack of g1 checkpoint despite that irradiation (ir) activates atm/atr-mediated ddr signaling pathway. attempts to transduce the ultraviolet-sensitive mutator lesion mutu4 into strains deficient in deoxyribonucleic acid polymerase i (pola) were unsuccessful. dna synthesis after ultraviolet irradiation is low in wild type toluene-treated cells. the level of repair incorporation is greater in strains deficient in dna polymerase i. severe combined immune deficiency (scid) mice exhibit limited repair of dna double-strand breaks and are sensitive to ionizing radiation due to a mutation of the dna-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit gene. to elucidate the effects of deficient dna double-strand break repair on radiation-induced carcinogenesis, the dose-response relationship for the induction of all tumor types was examined in wild-type and scid mice. scid mice were extremely susceptible to the induction of spontaneous and radiation-induced thymic lymphomas. 
Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase m (polm) fail to reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). [SEP] mice derived from the 129 strain have a nonsense codon mutation in exon 2 of the polymerase iota (polι) gene and are therefore considered polι deficient. although the variant protein was expressed at only 5 to 10% of the level of wild-type polι, it retained de novo dna synthesis activity, the capacity to form replication foci following uv irradiation, and the ability to rescue uv light sensitivity in polι(-/-) embryonic fibroblasts derived from a new, fully deficient polι knockout (ko) mouse line. although a defect in the dna polymerase polq leads to ionizing radiation sensitivity in mammalian cells, the relevant enzymatic pathway has not been identified. our experiments show that polq-null murine cells are selectively hypersensitive to dna strand breaking agents, and that damage resistance requires the dna polymerase activity of polq. both mouse and human pol eta lack intrinsic proofreading exonuclease activity and both copy undamaged dna inaccurately. mice wherein the wild-type mitochondrial dna polymerase (pol gamma) is replaced by a proofreading-deficient version are born with mutation frequencies in mitochondrial dna (mtdna) much higher than are ever normally seen in old rodents or humans. dna polymerase mu (pol mu) is a template-dependent polymerase closely related to the lymphoid-specific enzyme terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (tdt). we report here the phenotype of pol mu-deficient mice. here we investigated the putative roles of parp in cell proliferation, cell death, radiosensitivity, and dna recombination, as well as chromosomal stability. attempts to transduce the ultraviolet-sensitive mutator lesion mutu4 into strains deficient in deoxyribonucleic acid polymerase i (pola) were unsuccessful. 
Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase m (polm) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). [SEP] although a defect in the dna polymerase polq leads to ionizing radiation sensitivity in mammalian cells, the relevant enzymatic pathway has not been identified. our experiments show that polq-null murine cells are selectively hypersensitive to dna strand breaking agents, and that damage resistance requires the dna polymerase activity of polq. mammalian dna polymerase mu (pol mu) is related to terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase, but its biological role is not yet clear. we show here that after exposure of cells to ionizing radiation (ir), levels of pol mu protein increase. pol mu also forms discrete nuclear foci after ir, and these foci are largely coincident with ir-induced foci of gammah2ax, a previously characterized marker of sites of dna double-strand breaks. pol mu is thus part of the cellular response to dna double-strand breaks. parp-1-deficient mice are hypersensitive to genotoxic agents and display genomic instability due to a dna repair defect in the base excision repair pathway. dna polymerase mu (pol mu) is a template-dependent polymerase closely related to the lymphoid-specific enzyme terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (tdt). we report here the phenotype of pol mu-deficient mice. to test the hypothesis that inaccurate dna synthesis by mammalian dna polymerase eta (pol eta) contributes to somatic hypermutation (shm) of ig genes, we measured the error specificity of mouse pol eta during synthesis of each strand of a mouse ig kappa light chain transgene. 
Mice lacking Sirt1 in Sf1-expressing neurons are immune to diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance. [SEP] we aimed to identify novel links between obesity, insulin resistance and the inflammatory response by comparing c57bl/6 with type i interleukin-1 receptor knockout (il-1ri(-/-)) mice, which are protected against diet-induced insulin resistance. in the periphery, the nutrient-sensing enzyme sirtuin 1 (silent mating type information regulation 2 homolog 1 [sirt1]) reduces body weight in diet-induced obese (dio) rodents. brain sirt1 inhibition in dio increased acetylated foxo1, which, in turn, increased phosphorylated foxo1 via improved insulin/pakt signaling. because we show that blocking central sirt1 causes physiological changes that promote a negative energy balance in an obese individual, our results support brain sirt1 as a significant target for weight loss therapeutics. here we demonstrate that sirt7 knockout mice were resistant to high-fat diet-induced fatty liver, obesity, and glucose intolerance, and that hepatic triglyceride accumulation was also attenuated in liver-specific sirt7 knockout mice. the sam68(-/-) mice were protected from obesity, insulin resistance, and glucose intolerance induced with a high-fat diet. sirt1 plays crucial roles in glucose and lipid metabolism, and has various functions in different tissues including brain. the brain-specific sirt1 knockout mice display defects in somatotropic signaling, memory and synaptic plasticity. and the female mice without sirt1 in pomc neuron are more sensitive to diet-induced obesity. taken together, our findings demonstrate that sirt1 in forebrain regulates lipid/glucose metabolism and motor function. 
Mice lacking Sirt1 in Sf1-expressing neurons have increased susceptibility to diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance. [SEP] mice deficient in the enzyme stearoyl-coa desaturase-1 (scd1) are lean and protected from diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance. in order to determine the effect of scd1 deficiency on various mouse models of obesity, we introduced a global deletion of the scd1 gene into leptin-deficient ob/ob mice, leptin-resistant agouti (a(y)/a) mice, and high-fat diet-fed obese (dio) mice. sirt1 plays crucial roles in glucose and lipid metabolism, and has various functions in different tissues including brain. the brain-specific sirt1 knockout mice display defects in somatotropic signaling, memory and synaptic plasticity. and the female mice without sirt1 in pomc neuron are more sensitive to diet-induced obesity. moreover, the sirt1 overexpressing mice showed decreased energy expenditure, and concomitantly mitochondria-related genes were decreased in muscle. taken together, our findings demonstrate that sirt1 in forebrain regulates lipid/glucose metabolism and motor function. mice deficient in the homologous gene, sim1, also exhibit early onset obesity and increased sensitivity to a high fat diet. when pvn-sim1 neuron ablated mice are placed on a high fat diet, surprisingly, their intake decreases and they actually lose weight. disturbances in insulin signaling have been shown to induce obesity and/or hyperphagia in brain insulin receptor or insulin receptor substrate-2 (irs-2) knockout (ko) mice. 
Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor are highly susceptible to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. [SEP] autoimmunity plays an important role in the pathogenesis of viral myocarditis and giant cell myocarditis. we here show that interleukin (il)-1 receptor type 1-deficient (il-1r1(-/-)) mice are protected from development of autoimmune myocarditis after immunization with alpha-myosin-peptide(614-629). autoimmune myocarditis induced by immunization with cardiac myosin can be seen as a virus-free system to analyze the immunopathological mechanisms of certain forms of postinfectious heart disease. immunization with purified cardiac myosin induces autoimmune myocarditis in a strain mice. we recently demonstrated that cardiac myosin is capable of inducing autoimmune myocarditis in genetically predisposed mice. the following lines of evidence suggest that these autoantibodies are not involved in the induction of autoimmune myocarditis: 1) immunoperoxidase staining of heart sections from cardiac myosin-immunized a/j and a.sw mice revealed igg depositions only along damaged muscle fibres in infiltrated areas, but not in intact tissue; 2) myosin autoantibodies did not bind to the surface of viable cardiac myocytes isolated from mice, but only reacted with myocytes permeabilized with detergent; 3) mice treated with a single high dose of cyclophosphamide, which reduces the humoral immune response, still developed severe myocarditis, despite the fact that their autoantibody titers were reduced to the level of adjuvant-injected controls; and 4) passive transfer of high-titer myosin autoantibodies failed to induce myocarditis, although the titers in the recipients were comparable to those found in mice with cardiac myosin-induced disease. experimental autoimmune myocarditis obtained in mice by immunization with heart antigens is characterized by the presence of lymphomononuclear infiltrates in atria and ventricles. we conclude that ifn released both systemically and locally by autoreactive t cells may contribute to the impaired cardiac function in this experimental model of autoimmune myocarditis. balb/c mice develop autoimmune myocarditis after immunization with mouse cardiac myosin, whereas c57b/6 mice do not. understanding the cellular immune mechanisms causing spontaneous myocarditis/idcm in this relevant animal model will facilitate the development and testing of new therapies for this devastating disease. 
Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are highly susceptible to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. [SEP] mice deficient in interferon (ifn)-gamma or ifn-gamma receptor develop progressive and fatal experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (eae). we demonstrate that cd4 t cells lacking ifn-gamma production were required to passively transfer eae, indicating that they were disease-mediating cells in ifn-gamma knockout (ko) mice. we thus present novel in vivo and in vitro evidence that ifn-gamma may limit the extent of eae by suppressing expansion of activated cd4 t cells. c57bl/6 (b6) mice deficient for the class ii transactivator, which have defects in mhc class ii, invariant chain (ii), and h-2m (dm) expression, are resistant to initiation of myelin oligodendrocyte protein (mog) peptide, mog(35-55)-specific eae by both priming and adoptive transfer of encephalitogenic t cells. however, class ii transactivator-deficient mice can prime a suboptimal myelin-specific cd4(+) th1 response. further, b6 mice individually deficient for ii and dm are also resistant to initiation of both active and adoptive eae. remarkably, dm-deficient mice can prime a potent peripheral th1 response to mog(35-55), comparable to the response seen in wild-type mice, yet maintain resistance to eae initiation. sjl/j mice challenged with myelin basic protein (mbp) in complete freund's adjuvant (cfa) developed only mild chronic-relapsing experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (eae) with very low incidence. however, treatment of challenged mice with anti-interferon-gamma (ifn-gamma) monoclonal antibody (mab) determined severe disease in all cases. h2-c-fos transgenic (c-fos+) mice are characterized by the inability to raise specific igg antibodies against immunizing ag. 
Microcin J25 encourages nucleoside triphosphate (NTP) binding. [SEP] microcin j25 targets the rna polymerase as well as bacterial membranes. microcin j25 (mccj25) is a ribosomally synthesized antimicrobial peptide that has an unusual threaded lasso structure in which the c-terminal "tail" of the peptide is fed through a macrocyclic "ring" formed by the n-terminal residues. microcin j25 is a ribosomal synthesized and post-translationally modified peptide (ripp) characterized by a mechanically interlocked topology called the lasso fold. this structure provides microcin j25 a potent antimicrobial activity resulting from internalization via the siderophore receptor fhua and further inhibition of the rna polymerase. microcin j25 appears to have two intracellular targets: (1) rna polymerase, which was described in escherichia coli and salmonella enterica serovars, and (2) cell respiration in salmonella enterica serovars. microcin j25 is a potent antibacterial peptide produced by escherichia coli ay25. the antibacterial peptide microcin j25 (mccj25) inhibits transcription by bacterial rna polymerase (rnap). biochemical results indicate that inhibition of transcription occurs at the level of ntp uptake or ntp binding by rnap. microcin j25 is a 21 amino acid bacterial peptide that has potent antibacterial activity against gram-negative bacteria, resulting from its interaction with rna polymerase. microcin j25 (mccj25) is a 21-amino acid peptide inhibitor active against the dna-dependent rna polymerase of gram negative bacteria. 
Microcin J25 inhibits nucleoside triphosphate (NTP) binding. [SEP] the antibacterial peptide microcin j25 (mccj25) inhibits transcription by bacterial rna polymerase (rnap). biochemical results indicate that inhibition of transcription occurs at the level of ntp uptake or ntp binding by rnap. 21 amino acid peptide microcin j25 (mccj25) inhibits transcription by bacterial rna polymerase (rnap). microcin j25 is a ribosomal synthesized and post-translationally modified peptide (ripp) characterized by a mechanically interlocked topology called the lasso fold. this structure provides microcin j25 a potent antimicrobial activity resulting from internalization via the siderophore receptor fhua and further inhibition of the rna polymerase. microcin j25 targets the rna polymerase as well as bacterial membranes. the protonophore 2,4-dinitrophenol decreased 80% of the mccj25 uptake and prevented inhibition of transcriptional activity, the antibiotic intracellular target. the antibacterial peptide microcin j25 (mccj25) inhibits bacterial transcription by binding within, and obstructing, the nucleotide-uptake channel of bacterial rna polymerase. microcin j25 (mccj25) is a 21-amino acid peptide inhibitor active against the dna-dependent rna polymerase of gram negative bacteria. microcin j25 appears to have two intracellular targets: (1) rna polymerase, which was described in escherichia coli and salmonella enterica serovars, and (2) cell respiration in salmonella enterica serovars. 
Microglia are an innate immune cell type of the central nervous system. [SEP] microglia, the resident macrophages in the central nervous system (cns), play a pivotal role in innate and adaptive immune responses in the brain. microglia are one of the resident mononuclear phagocyte populations within the central nervous system (cns). microglia are key players of the immune response in the central nervous system (cns) and, being the resident innate immune cells, they are responsible for the early control of infections and for the recruitment of cells of the adaptive immune system required for pathogen clearance. microglia are the primary resident immune cells of the central nervous system (cns). microglia are the innate sentinels of the central nervous system (cns) and are responsible for the homeostasis and immune defense of the cns. in the central nervous system (cns), innate immune surveillance is mainly coordinated by microglia. innate immunity within the central nervous system (cns) is primarily provided by resident microglia. microglia, the resident immune cells in the brain, play a pivotal role in immune surveillance, host defense, and tissue repair in the cns. microglia, the innate immune effector cells of the mammalian central nervous system (cns), are involved in the development, homeostasis, and pathology of cns. microglia are the macrophage population residing in the parenchyma of the central nervous system (cns), and are thought to play critical roles in cns development, homeostasis and defense against pathogens. 
Microglia are an innate immune cell type of the peripheral nervous system. [SEP] microglia are one of the resident mononuclear phagocyte populations within the central nervous system (cns). microglia are the major myeloid-immune cells of the brain parenchyma. microglia are the primary immune cells in the central nervous system, which plays a vital role in neuron development and neurodegenerative diseases. microglia are the innate sentinels of the central nervous system (cns) and are responsible for the homeostasis and immune defense of the cns. microglia are the macrophage population residing in the parenchyma of the central nervous system (cns), and are thought to play critical roles in cns development, homeostasis and defense against pathogens. innate immunity within the central nervous system (cns) is primarily provided by resident microglia. microglia, the resident macrophages in the central nervous system (cns), play a pivotal role in innate and adaptive immune responses in the brain. microglia are the principal resident immune cells in the central nervous system and are believed to be versatile players in both inflammatory and physiological contexts. microglia are the primary resident immune cells of the central nervous system (cns). microglia are immunocompetent cells of the central nervous system and express various ionotropic p2x and metabotropic p2y purinoceptors. 
Migraine with aura is associated with ischemic stroke. [SEP] first, ischemic stroke can develop as a complication of an attack of migraine with aura (so called migraineous infarction). second, epidemiological studies suggest that migraine with aura is a risk factor for ischemic stroke. for many years, migraine and cerebral ischemic stroke have been linked together. migrainous headache can be found at the onset of acute ischemic stroke in some patients, and in rare instances, an infarction can be directly attributed to a prolonged migraine aura, ie, migrainous infarction. patients diagnosed with migraine with aura have an increased lifetime risk of ischemic stroke. data show no firm association between stroke and migraine without aura--by far the most common type of migraine--but a doubling of the risk of ischaemic stroke in people who have migraine with aura. ischemic stroke can occur as a complication of an attack of migraine with aura. migraine, particularly with aura, is associated with increased stroke risk both during and between attacks; as such, migraine may be viewed as a potentially modifiable risk factor for stroke. migraine with aura is associated with ischemic stroke, but few studies have investigated the clinical and anatomic features of this association. we assessed the association of probable migraine with and without visual aura with ischemic stroke within subgroups defined by stroke subtype, vascular territory, probable migraine characteristics, and other clinical features. 
Misunderstandings between doctors and patients can lead to non-adherence. [SEP] when not addressed, cultural and linguistic issues can result in unreliable clinical histories, noncompliance with medical treatment, misinterpretation of data, poor continuity of care, less preventive screening, miscommunication, and inadequate analgesia. poor medication communication of physicians to patients is detrimental, e.g. reasons for physicians' deficits in medication communication may be unfavourable conditions in daily practice or already insufficient training during their (undergraduate) medical studies. poor compliance with prescribed medication is a significant problem in chronic disease states and is often responsible for the apparent failure of therapy. the determinants and extent of non-compliance are commonly incorrectly perceived by doctors. physicians are inaccurate in predicting non-adherence in patients, a problem that interferes with physicians': (1) appropriate prescribing decisions and (2) effective prevention/intervention of non-adherence. noncompliance with medical instructions is a major problem in health care. this study provides evidence that the absence of shared concepts between practitioners and patients may impede even willing compliance. background: medication communication from physicians to patients often is poor, by this among others enhancing the risk of non-adherence. reasons include miscommunication or inadequate communication between patients and clinicians, a mismatch between physician and patient treatment priorities, the complexity of treatment regimens, and a lack of information conveyed to the patient about realistic expectations from therapy. 
Mitochondria play a major role in apoptosis. [SEP] mitochondria play a critical role in cell death by releasing apoptogenic factors, such as cytochrome c and apoptosis-inducing factor (aif), from the intermembrane space into the cytoplasm. in recent years, the role of the mitochondria in apoptotic and necrotic cell death has attracted much attention. mitochondria play an essential role in both cell health and death. apoptosis is a tightly controlled multistep mechanism of cell death, and mitochondria are considered to play a central role in this process. mitochondria play a pivotal role in apoptosis in multicellular organisms by releasing apoptogenic factors such as cytochrome c that activate the caspases effector pathway, and apoptosis-inducing factor (aif) that is involved in a caspase-independent cell death pathway. in recent years, the role of the mitochondria in both apoptotic and necrotic cell death has received much attention. mitochondria play a pivotal role in life and death of the cell because they produce the majority of energy required for survival and also regulate the intrinsic pathway to apoptosis. in mammals, mitochondria have been shown to play a key intermediary role in apoptosis, a morphologically distinct form of programmed cell death (pcd), for example, through the release of cytochrome c, which activates a proteolytic enzyme cascade, resulting in specific nuclear dna degradation and cell death. mitochondria play a key role in the apoptotic process; their damage activates a series of events which provoke the release of cytochrome c and other pro-apoptotic factors from the mitochondrial intermembrane space, and culminate in cell death. this review provides an overview of the key role played by mitochondria in the activation of the apoptotic process. 
Mitochondria play a major role in energy production. [SEP] mitochondria, the powerhouse of the cell, have been known for many years for their central role in the energy metabolism; however, extensive progress has been made and to date substantial evidence demonstrates that mitochondria play a critical role not only in the cell bioenergetics but also in the entire cell metabolome. besides being the main suppliers of cell's energy, mitochondria also provide an additional compartment for a wide range of cellular processes and metabolic pathways. mitochondria, through oxidative phosphorylation, are the primary source of energy production in all tissues under aerobic conditions. although critical to life, energy production is not the only function of mitochondria, and the composition of this organelle is tailored to meet the specific needs of each cell type. the main role of mitochondria is supplying cells with energy in a form of atp, which is synthesized in a chain of oxidative phosphorylation reactions on the organelle inner membrane. mitochondria is essential to generate metabolic energy in eukaryotic cells as well as to regulate calcium buffering, cell signaling, the production of reactive oxygen species (ros), and apoptosis. mitochondria have a pivotal role in cell metabolism, being the major site of atp production via oxidative phosphorylation (oxphos); they have a critical role in apoptotic cell death; and they also contribute to human genetics since mitochondria have a functional genome separate from that of nuclear dna. mitochondria are sub-cellular organelles responsible for producing the majority of cellular energy through the process of oxidative phosphorylation (oxphos), and are found in nearly all eukaryotic cells. it is shown that mitochondria play a critical role in many aspects of life. mitochondria provide the main source of energy to eukaryotic cells, oxidizing fats and sugars to generate atp. 
Mitochondria play a trivial role in calcium homeostasis. [SEP] mitochondria in the heart play two roles essential for cell survival: atp synthesis and maintenance of ca2+ homeostasis. under aerobic physiologic conditions, mitochondria do not contribute to the beat-to-beat regulation of cytosolic ca2+, although a ca2+ transient in mitochondrial matrix has been described. during ischemia, an alteration in intracellular ca2+ homeostasis occurs and mitochondria are able to buffer cytosolic ca2+, suggesting that they retain the ca(2+)-transporting capacity. mitochondria play central roles in buffering intracellular ca²⁺ transients. how ca²⁺ mito homeostasis is regulated is not well understood. our results elucidate a regulatory mechanism underlying ca²⁺ mito homeostasis and how its dysregulation may affect nsc metabolism/development and contribute to disease. mitochondrial calcium has been postulated to regulate a wide range of processes from bioenergetics to cell death. mitochondria derived from mcu(-/-) mice have no apparent capacity to rapidly uptake calcium. we further show that mitochondria from mcu(-/-) mice lacked evidence for calcium-induced permeability transition pore (ptp) opening. taken together, these results clarify how acute alterations in mitochondrial matrix calcium can regulate mammalian physiology. 
Moderate consumption of candy and chocolate reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD). [SEP] accumulating evidence suggests potential preventive effects of chocolate/cocoa on the risk of cardio vascular disease (cvd). observational studies have associated reduced cardiovascular mortality with chocolate consumption. the most relevant effects of cocoa and chocolate have been related to cardiovascular disease. recently, several studies have demonstrated the beneficial effects of chocolate, primarily on hypertension and other conditions such as coronary artery disease and hyperlipidemia. consumption of chocolate has been often hypothesized to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease (cvd) due to chocolate's high levels of stearic acid and antioxidant flavonoids. the body of short-term randomized feeding trials suggests cocoa and chocolate may exert beneficial effects on cardiovascular risk via effects on lowering blood pressure, anti-inflammation, anti-platelet function, higher hdl, decreased ldl oxidation. meanwhile, the large body of prospective studies of flavonoids suggests the flavonoid content of chocolate may reduce risk of cardiovascular mortality. consumption of non-chocolate candy was associated with a 49% higher prevalence of chd comparing 5+/week vs. 0/week [or = 1.49 (0.96-2.32)]. these data suggest that consumption of chocolate is inversely related with prevalent chd in a general united states population. accumulating evidence from the past 10 years demonstrates that moderate consumption of chocolate, especially dark chocolate, may exert protective effects against the development of cardiovascular disease. 
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin encourages castration resistance. [SEP] castration resistance is a major obstacle to hormonal therapy for prostate cancer patients. cell lines corresponding to the mechanisms of castration resistance were used: lncap-bc2 having ar overexpression and lncap-cs10 having androgen-independent ar activation. castration resistance in prostate cancer (pca) constitutes an advanced, aggressive disease with poor prognosis, associated with uncontrolled cell proliferation, resistance to apoptosis, and enhanced invasive potential. emergence of castration-resistance in prostate cancer (pca) is invariably associated with aggressive and metastatic disease. castration resistance creates a significant problem in the treatment of prostate cancer. in prostate cancer, the development of castration resistance is pivotal in progression to aggressive disease. silencing nek6 in castration-resistant cancer cells was sufficient to restore sensitivity to castration in a mouse xenograft model system. castration resistance is a major issue during castration therapy for prostate cancer and thus more effective treatment are needed for castration-resistant prostate cancer (crpc). because androgen receptor (ar) axis plays an important role in castration resistance, we evaluate the role of ndrg2 in ar signaling and crpc. finally, by mimicking castration therapy in a xenograft mouse model, we showed that lentivirus-mediated ndrg2 overexpression efficiently overcomes castration resistance. 
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin encourages metastasis. [SEP] here, we define a metastatic signaling cascade activated by n-cadherin and fgf-2. these results suggest that protection of the fgfr-1 from ligand-induced downregulation by n-cadherin enhances receptor signaling and provides a mechanism by which tumor cells can acquire metastatic properties. n-cadherin is a cell-cell adhesion molecule that plays a role in breast cancer metastasis. here, we show that in vivo expression of n-cadherin in the pymt mouse model, which enhances mammary tumor metastasis, results in selective inhibition of akt3 expression and phosphorylation. n-cadherin is up-regulated in aggressive breast carcinomas, but its mechanism of action in vivo remains unknown. thus, de novo expression of n-cadherin in mammary ducts enhances metastasis of breast tumors via enhanced erk signaling. expression of n-cadherin an adhesion molecule of the cadherin family, in tumor cells is associated with their increased invasive potential. n-cadherin-mediated cell adhesion-activated antiapoptotic protein akt/pkb and subsequently increased beta-catenin and inactivated the proapoptotic factor bad: furthermore, n-cadherin promoted migration of melanocytic cells over dermal fibroblasts, suggesting that n-cadherin may also play a role in metastasis. to test the contribution of n-cadherin and her2 in mammary tumor metastasis, we targeted n-cadherin expression in the mammary epithelium of the mmtv-neu mouse. in the context of erbb2/neu, n-cadherin stimulated carcinoma cell invasion, proliferation and metastasis. 
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits castration resistance. [SEP] castration resistance is a major issue during castration therapy for prostate cancer and thus more effective treatment are needed for castration-resistant prostate cancer (crpc). because androgen receptor (ar) axis plays an important role in castration resistance, we evaluate the role of ndrg2 in ar signaling and crpc. finally, by mimicking castration therapy in a xenograft mouse model, we showed that lentivirus-mediated ndrg2 overexpression efficiently overcomes castration resistance. castration resistance is a major obstacle to hormonal therapy for prostate cancer patients. one factor that has been implicated in the metastatic process is the cell adhesion molecule n-cadherin. in this study, we investigated if the expression of n-cadherin was influenced by androgen deprivation and was associated with metastasis in prostate cancer. in addition, n-cadherin was evaluated by immunohistochemistry in human prostate tumors. expression of n-cadherin was more frequently found in tumors from patients treated with adt than in tumors from patients with no prior hormonal treatment. moreover, n-cadherin was increased in castration-resistant tumors in patients with established metastases. eradication of persistent androgen receptor (ar) activity in castration-resistant prostate cancer may be a promising strategy to overcome castration resistance. 
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits growth. [SEP] previously, we showed that either a red fluorescent protein (dsred)-tagged n-cadherin or e-cadherin cytoplasmic domain (dnct or dect) could function as a dominant negative inhibitor by blocking the cell surface localization of endogenous e-cadherin and inducing cell dissociation. in this study, we show that the neurite outgrowth response stimulated by n-cadherin is inhibited by a recently developed and highly specific fibroblast growth factor receptor (fgfr) antagonist. these peptides inhibited fgf and n-cadherin responses with similar efficacy. we now show that antibodies directed to this site on n-cadherin inhibit the neurite outgrowth response stimulated by n-cadherin, and peptide mimetics of the site inhibit n-cadherin and fgf responses. in this study the direct involvement of cadherins in adhesion-mediated growth inhibition was investigated. it is shown here that overexpression of n-cadherin in cho cells significantly suppresses their growth rate. interaction of these cells and two additional fibroblastic lines with synthetic beads coated with n-cadherin ligands (recombinant n-cadherin ectodomain or specific antibodies) leads to growth arrest at the g1 phase of the cell cycle. we propose that cadherin-mediated signaling is involved in contact inhibition of growth by inducing cell cycle arrest at the g1 phase and elevation of p27 levels. the e-cadherin-mediated cell adhesion system is frequently inactivated by multiple mechanisms and is involved in tumor progression in many types of cancer. the e-cadherin-mediated cell adhesion system is frequently inactivated by multiple mechanisms and is involved in tumor progression in many types of cancer. 
Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are dictated by initiation patterns. [SEP] with this assay, we first demonstrated the generation of flap structures during okazaki fragment processing in vivo the mean and median lengths of the flaps in wild-type cells were ∼51 and ∼41 nucleotides, respectively. taken together, our observations suggest a dual mechanism for okazaki fragment maturation in lagging strand synthesis and establish a new strategy for interrogation of this fascinating process. during replication, okazaki fragment maturation is a fundamental process that joins discontinuously synthesized dna fragments into a contiguous lagging strand. it is shown here, however, that it stops before the previous okazaki fragments, failing to rapidly process them. the similarities to both bacterial and eukaryotic systems and evolutionary implications of archaeal okazaki fragment maturation are discussed. this results from synthesis of okazaki fragments predominantly on the retrograde arms of forks. recent findings suggest that, in eukaryotes, the processing of okazaki fragments occurs by a two-step mechanism governed by the single-stranded dna binding factor rpa. analysis of the nucleotide sequences at the 5' ends of rna-primed nascent dna chains (okazaki fragments) and of their locations in replicating simian virus 40 (sv40) dna revealed the precise nature of okazaki fragment initiation sites in vivo. finally, only one-fourth of the replication forks contained an okazaki fragment, and the distribution of their initiation sites between the two arms revealed that okazaki fragments were initiated exclusively (99%) on retrograde dna templates. furthermore, even fully unannealed okazaki fragments were cleaved. 
Mouse models can be generated using "artificial spermatids." [SEP] in this study, we examined whether intersubspecific hybrid mice and es cells with these genotypes can be efficiently produced by intracytoplasmic sperm injection (icsi). transgenic mouse model with fluorescently labeled sperm has extensive application value. these results indicate that a transgenic mouse model with fluorescently labeled sperm has been successfully established and it is a useful tool for evaluating the oviduct-migrating ability of sperm. in several mammalian species, including mice, round spermatids have been used to produce normal offspring by means of microinsemination techniques. the study of gene function in testis and sperm has been greatly assisted by transgenic mouse models. the mouse is an established and popular animal model for studying reproductive biology. due to the existence of ample background information on its reproduction, embryology and genetics, the mouse is potentially an excellent animal model for intracytoplasmic sperm injection (icsi). normal fertile mouse offspring have been obtained by icsi using not only mature (epididymal) and immature (testicular) spermatozoa, but also round spermatids and secondary spermatocytes. genetically-manipulated mouse models have become indispensible for broadening our understanding of genes and pathways related to male germ cell development. together, these programs will not only uncover new genes involved in male germ cell development but also provide the research community with the mouse models necessary for further investigations. 
Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have severely reduced ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. [SEP] ascorbic acid (vitamin c) is a cofactor required in catecholamine synthesis for conversion of dopamine to norepinephrine by dopamine beta-hydroxylase. mutant mice lacking the plasma membrane ascorbic acid transporter (svct2) have severely reduced tissue levels of ascorbic acid and die after birth. levels of catecholamines in brain were unaffected by svct2 deficiency. on the ultrastructural level, adrenal chromaffin cells in svct2 null mice showed depletion of catecholamine storage vesicles, increased amounts of rough endoplasmic reticulum, signs of apoptosis, and increased glycogen storage. these data show that deranged catecholamine system function in svct2 null mice is largely restricted to the adrenal medulla and cannot account for the lethality in these animals. the data, however, establish a crucial role for ascorbic acid in adrenal chromaffin cell function. asc-1 (slc7a10) is an amino acid transporter whose deletion causes neurological abnormalities and early postnatal death in mice. using metabolomics and behavioral and electrophysiological methods, we demonstrate that asc-1 knockout mice display a marked decrease in glycine levels in the brain and spinal cord along with impairment of glycinergic inhibitory transmission, and a hyperekplexia-like phenotype that is rescued by replenishing brain glycine. asc-1 works as a glycine and l-serine transporter, and its transport activity is required for the subsequent conversion of l-serine into glycine in vivo. asc-1 is a novel regulator of glycine metabolism and a candidate for hyperekplexia disorders. 
Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB1 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. [SEP] heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (g proteins) mediate signals between g-protein coupled receptors and their downstream pathways, and have been shown to be mutated in cancer. the pi3k-akt pathway is activated in a variety of human cancers, resulting in disturbance of cell growth, proliferation and survival. activating mutations in genes encoding g protein α (gα) subunits occur in 4-5% of all human cancers, but oncogenic alterations in gβ subunits have not been defined. here we demonstrate that recurrent mutations in the gβ proteins gnb1 and gnb2 confer cytokine-independent growth and activate canonical g protein signaling. multiple mutations in gnb1 affect the protein interface that binds gα subunits as well as downstream effectors and disrupt gα interactions with the gβγ dimer. different mutations in gβ proteins clustered partly on the basis of lineage; for example, all 11 gnb1 k57 mutations were in myeloid neoplasms, and seven of eight gnb1 i80 mutations were in b cell neoplasms. in vivo treatment with the dual pi3k-mtor inhibitor bez235 suppressed gnb1-induced signaling and markedly increased survival. in several human tumors, mutations in the gene encoding gnb1 co-occurred with oncogenic kinase alterations, including the bcr-abl fusion protein, the v617f substitution in jak2 and the v600k substitution in braf. coexpression of patient-derived gnb1 variants with these mutant kinases resulted in inhibitor resistance in each context. thus, gnb1 and gnb2 alterations confer transformed and resistance phenotypes across a range of human tumors and may be targetable with inhibitors of g protein signaling. 
Mutations in RIM1 decrease levels of IME1 RNA. [SEP] smarcb1 is a tumor suppressor gene that encodes for the protein ini1. loss of ini1 expression has recently been reported in occasional gastrointestinal adenocarcinomas. we sought to investigate the incidence and clinicopathological significance of ini1 loss in colorectal adenocarcinoma (crc). immunoblot analysis indicated a marked reduction in amounts of the rna polymerase i transcription factors ubf1 and ubf2 (upstream binding factors 1 and 2, respectively). riz1 is a histone methyltransferase whose expression and activity are reduced in many cancers. dicer1 is an endoribonuclease responsible for the production of mature micrornas which are small, single-stranded rna molecules that regulate gene expression post-transcriptionally by binding to mrna and repressing the expression of target genes. regnase-1 (also known as zc3h12a and mcpip1) is an rnase that destabilizes a set of mrnas, including il6 and il12b, through cleavage of their 3' utrs. furthermore, malt1 protease activity is critical for controlling the mrna stability of t cell effector genes. smarcb1/ini1 gene alteration was analyzed with simple methods as a quantitative real-time pcr and direct sequencing method. we could analyze the smarcb1/ini1 gene alteration with simple methods, and smarcb1/ini1 gene alteration was found in 12 of 14 cases. 
Mutations in RIM1 raise levels of IME1 RNA. [SEP] the oncofetal mrna-binding protein, imp1 or insulin-like growth factor-2 mrna-binding protein 1 (igf2bp1), promotes the overexpression of several oncogenic proteins by binding to and stabilizing their mrnas. imp1 is frequently overexpressed in melanoma and is associated with a poor prognosis, but the full spectrum of imp1 target transcripts remains unknown. overexpression of imp1 resulted in increased levels of pkcα, while rnai knockdown of imp1 resulted in decreased pkcα mrna stability, pkcα protein levels, and mapk/erk activation. in addition to imp1 acting as a positive regulator of pkcα mrna, we also report the identification of mir-340 as a negative regulator of pkcα mrna. the activated type 1 insulin-like growth factor (igf-ir) increases the expression of id1 proteins in mouse embryo fibroblasts (mef). in mef, id1 protein expression is also up-regulated by serum and certain oncogenes. signaling through stat3 plays an important, but not exclusive, role in the up-regulation of id1 protein levels. activation of rig-i requires not only rna but also polyubiquitin chains linked through lysine 63 (k63) of ubiquitin. mutations in the card domains that abrogate ubiquitin binding also impair rig-i activation. in addition, circulating levels of class i molecules were also enhanced. 
Myelin sheaths are lipid-rich cellular structures. [SEP] here, we summarize how lipids function in myelin biogenesis, axon-glia communication and in supporting long-term maintenance of myelin. myelin proteins interact intimately with the lipid bilayer and play crucial roles in the assembly, function, and stability of the myelin sheath. most of the lipids of the nervous system are localized in myelin sheaths. the myelin sheath synthesized by oligodendrocytes insulates central nervous system axons and is a specialized subdomain of the plasma membrane, containing a restricted pattern of proteins and lipids. myelin, which ensheaths and insulates axons, is a specialized membrane highly enriched with cholesterol. one possibility is that cholesterol promotes myelination by facilitating signal transduction within the cell, because lipid-rich microdomains function as assembly points for signaling molecules. myelin has an extremely high lipid content (∼80 % of its dry weight) and a peculiar lipid composition, with a 2:2:1 cholesterol:phospholipid:glycolipid ratio. the myelin sheath is an extension of the oligoddendrocyte (ol) plasma membrane enriched in lipids that ensheaths the axons of the central and peripheral nervous system. physico-chemical properties, organization and accessibility of the lipids and their distribution within the myelin multilayer; (ii.) characterization of myelin lipid structures, and structure-function relationships relevant to ms mechanisms, and; (iii.) 
Myelin sheaths play a role in action potential propagation. [SEP] myelin sheaths, specialized segments of oligodendrocyte (ol) plasma membranes in the central nervous system (cns), facilitate fast, saltatory conduction of action potentials down axons. changes to the fine structure of myelin in a neural circuit, including sheath thickness and internode length (length of myelin segments between nodes of ranvier), are expected to affect conduction velocity of action potentials. the myelin sheath is essential for the rapid and efficient propagation of action potentials. myelin sheaths are crucial for the survival and maintenance of the axons and the rapid propagation of the action potential. by imposing saltatory conduction on the nervous impulse, the principal role of the myelin sheath is to allow the faster propagation of action potentials along the axons which it surrounds. the formation of myelin is essential for the rapid saltatory propagation of action potentials and to maintain the integrity of axons. myelin controls the time required for an action potential to travel from the neuronal soma to the axon terminal, defining the temporal manner in which information is processed within the cns. the presence of myelin, the internodal length, and the thickness of the myelin sheath are powerful structural factors that control the velocity and fidelity of action potential transmission. activity-dependent modulation of myelination can dynamically alter action potential conduction properties but direct functional in vivo evidence and characterization of the underlying myelin changes is lacking. the myelin sheath consists of a unique multiple layer structure that acts as an insulator between neuronal axons to enhance the propagation of the action potential. 
N348I mutations cause resistance to nevirapine. [SEP] we identified clinical isolates with phenotypic resistance to nevirapine (nvp) in the absence of known nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (nnrti) mutations. the enhancing effects of nevirapine and efavirenz were reduced in rts carrying mutation n348i, and specially n348i/t369i. n348i in hiv-1 reverse transcriptase (rt) confers resistance to zidovudine (azt) and nevirapine. all n348 mutant rts exhibited decreased nevirapine susceptibility, although the n348i and n348l mutations conferred higher fold resistance values compared to n348a and n348q. nevirapine resistance was also largely due to the mutation present in the p51 subunit of rt. this study demonstrates that n348i-mediated azt and nevirapine resistance is due to the mutation in the p51 subunit of rt. we previously demonstrated that n348i in hiv-1 reverse transcriptase confers zidovudine and nevirapine resistance. the n348i mutation at the connection subdomain of hiv-1 reverse transcriptase (rt) confers clinically significant resistance to both nucleoside and non-nucleoside rt inhibitors (nnrtis) by mechanisms that are not well understood. we used transient kinetics to characterize the enzymatic properties of n348i rt and determine the biochemical mechanism of resistance to the nnrti nevirapine (nvp). in conclusion, connection subdomain mutation n348i decreases catalytic efficiency and causes in vitro resistance to nvp by decreasing inhibitor binding. 
N348I mutations reduce resistance to nevirapine. [SEP] n348i in hiv-1 reverse transcriptase confers decreased susceptibility to zidovudine and nevirapine. here, we demonstrate that n348i reverses the synergistic inhibition of hiv-1 by zidovudine and nevirapine. we previously demonstrated that n348i in hiv-1 reverse transcriptase confers zidovudine and nevirapine resistance. the enhancing effects of nevirapine and efavirenz were reduced in rts carrying mutation n348i, and specially n348i/t369i. we identified clinical isolates with phenotypic resistance to nevirapine (nvp) in the absence of known nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (nnrti) mutations. virologic analysis showed that n348i conferred multiclass resistance to nnrtis (nvp and delavirdine) and to nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (zidovudine [azt] and didanosine [ddi]). n348i in hiv-1 reverse transcriptase (rt) confers resistance to zidovudine (azt) and nevirapine. all n348 mutant rts exhibited decreased nevirapine susceptibility, although the n348i and n348l mutations conferred higher fold resistance values compared to n348a and n348q. nevirapine resistance was also largely due to the mutation present in the p51 subunit of rt. this study demonstrates that n348i-mediated azt and nevirapine resistance is due to the mutation in the p51 subunit of rt. 
NAC destabilizes NO to increase the effect of contrast agents on renal functions. [SEP] contrast agents used in angiography procedures for patients with cardiovascular disease are known to cause contrast-induced nephropathy (cin), which may be partially due to the production of nephrotoxic oxygen-free radicals. vasoconstriction and reactive oxygen species (ros) accumulation following contrast media (cm) injection are the key factors triggering cm-induced nephropathy. nac, theophylline but not bicarbonate, gradually increased intrarenal no. gadolinium as a contrast agent in mri technique combined with dtpa causes contrast induced nephropathy (cin) and nephrogenic systemic fibrosis (nsf) which can reduce by usage of antioxidants such as n-acetyl cysteine by increasing the membrane's permeability leads to lower cytotoxicity. contrast induced nephropathy (cin) is a common complication of procedures that require the use of contrast media, and seems to be mediated by oxidative stress and reactive oxygen species generation. contrast media (cm) are nephrotoxic and might further worsen renal function in patients with chronic renal failure. contrast-induced nephropathy (cin), caused by a combination of the direct tubular toxicity of contrast media, a reduction in medullary blood flow, and the generation of reactive oxygen species, is a serious clinical problem. the factors that increase the probability of a nephrotoxic effect of contrast media include oldage, diabetes, arterial hypertension, circulatory system insufficiency, neoplastic diseases, and prior kidney damage. widely accepted mechanisms of contrast-media-induced nephrotoxicity are disturbances of renal microcirculation due to prolonged intrarenal vasoconstriction, and direct damaging effects on glomerular and tubular cells. in the present prospectively randomised, double-blind clinical trial, we investigated a total of 35 patients after intravascular administration of contrast media to determine the effects on renal function of a 3-day treatment with the calcium channel blocker nitrendipine (20 mg/day orally, starting 1 day before x-ray examination, n = 16), compared to findings in a placebo-treated control group (n = 19). 
NAC inhibits the generation of angiotensin-converting enzyme. [SEP] ace catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin i to vasoconstrictor angiotensin ii, and also inactivates the antihypertensive vasodilator bradykinin. as their name suggests, they act by blocking angiotensin converting enzyme, thereby limiting the production of angiotensin ii, the most active component of the renin-angiotensin- aldosterone system. this inhibition leads to a reduction in angiotensin-mediated vasoconstriction and aldosterone production. angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors inhibit the enzyme that cleaves angiotensin i to form angiotensin ii. inhibitors of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) act by blocking the conversion of angiotensin i to angiotensin ii, which is catalysed by this enzyme. angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) plays a central role in blood pressure regulation by producing the vasoconstrictor angiotensin ii. inhibition of ace blocks metabolism of angiotensin-(1-7) to angiotensin-(1-5) and can lead to elevation of angiotensin-(1-7) levels in plasma and tissue. we investigated whether angiotensin-(1-7) and angiotensin-(1-5) inhibit ace or antagonize angiotensin-induced vasoconstrictions in humans. angiotensin-(1-5) inhibited plasma ace activity with a potency equal to that of angiotensin i but had no effect on arterial contractions. in conclusion, angiotensin-(1-7) blocks angiotensin ii-induced vasoconstriction and inhibits ace in human cardiovascular tissues. 
NR5A2 does not play a role in development of endometrial tissues. [SEP] there were no significant differences for hormone receptor expression (er and pr) between endometrial polyps exposed and not exposed to hrt. steroidogenic factor-1 (sf-1) protein expression was not observed in any form of endometriosis (peritoneal, ovarian, or deep infiltrating endometriosis), which suggests that sf-1 locally produced by endometrial or stromal cells may not play a major role in the development of endometriosis. no hormonal regulation could be observed using 5' flanking regions of the gene up to -2762 in front of a heterologous gene. this ere also mediated down-regulation by progestins in the presence of the progesterone receptor, even though it has no progesterone receptor binding ability. dnase footprinting showed that this effect was not due to a decrease of estrogen receptor affinity for the ere in the presence of progesterone receptor. we failed to observe statistically significant differences in both p receptor-a/p receptor-b messenger rna and protein ratio between endometrial stromal cells derived from women with and without endometriosis. vegfr-1 is devoid of ligand-dependent tyrosine autophosphorylation and its activation is not associated with proliferation of endothelial cells. the effect of endometrioma on ovulatory function and ovarian reserve was unclear. endometriomas do not seem to affect ovulatory function. women with endometrioma have lower antral follicle count and serum anti-müllerian hormone levels than age-matched healthy controls. 
NR5A2 is important in reverse cholesterol transport in humans. [SEP] nuclear receptor liver receptor homolog-1 (lrh-1; nr5a2) plays a crucial role in the homeostasis of bile acids and cholesterol by controlling the expression of genes central to bile acid synthesis and efflux, reverse cholesterol transport, and high density lipoprotein-remodeling. reverse cholesterol transport (rct) is an antiatherogenic process in which excessive cholesterol from peripheral tissues is transported to the liver and finally excreted from the body via the bile. nr5a2 is a nuclear receptor which regulates the expression of genes involved in cholesterol metabolism, pluripotency maintenance and cell differentiation. because skeletal muscle is a major tissue in clearing glucose from blood, we studied the effect of the activation of nr5a2 on muscle metabolism by using cultures of c2c12, a mouse-derived cell line widely used as a model of skeletal muscle. our results suggest that nr5a2, mostly by enhancing glucose uptake, switches muscle cells into a state of glucose preference. the increased use of glucose by muscle might constitute another mechanism by which nr5a2 improves blood glucose levels and restores insulin sensitivity. cholesterol efflux from cells is essential for activation of the reverse cholesterol transport pathway and cardiovascular health. reverse cholesterol transport (rct) is defined as high-density lipoprotein (hdl)-mediated flux of excess cholesterol from peripheral cells to liver, followed by secretion into bile and disposal via the feces. reverse cholesterol transport identifies a series of metabolic events resulting in the transport of excess cholesterol from peripheral tissues to the liver. reverse cholesterol transport (rct) constitutes a key part of the atheroprotective properties of high-density lipoproteins (hdl). 
Natriuretic peptides increase susceptibility to diabetes. [SEP] abnormalities in sodium homeostasis and in atrial natriuretic peptide (anp) behavior could play a role in determining and accelerating the development of glomerular hypertension, hypertension, and microalbuminuria in insulin-dependent diabetes. the aim of the present study was to investigate in 32 hypertensive insulin-dependent diabetic patients (hd) with an altered albumin excretion rate the natriuretic response and anp release to saline load (2 mmol/kg 90 min, and the effects angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor therapy 2.5 to 5.0 mg cilazapril, once daily), and calcium antagonists (sustained release verapamil: 120 to 240 mg isoptin press, once daily, and long acting nifedipine: 20 to 40 mg adalat ar, twice daily) on sodium homeostasis and albumin excretion rate. the results of the present study demonstrate that sodium homeostasis and anp release are altered in hypertensive nephropathic patients, and both cilazapril and verapamil are more effective than nifedipine in ameliorating natriuresis, anp release, and albumin excretion rate. patients with hypertension and type 2 diabetes are at increased risk of cardiovascular and chronic renal disease. the etiology of diabetic nephropathy depends partly on genetic factors. elevated systemic and intraglomerular blood pressure and glomerular filtration rate, partly regulated by the renin-angiotensin system, increase the risk of diabetic nephropathy. type 1 diabetes patients are more prone to have hypertension than healthy individuals, possibly mediated by increased blood pressure (bp) sensitivity to high salt intake. in this review we aim to explore the pathophysiological links between diabetes and hypertension. although hypertension itself is a risk factor for developing diabetes, prolonged use of first-line antihypertensive therapy has also been reported to induce diabetes. genetic polymorphism of genes affecting salt sensitivity and insulin resistance can have a role in antihypertensive therapy-induced diabetes. 
Natriuretic peptides protect against diabetes. [SEP] natriuretic peptides have a well-recognized role in cardiovascular homeostasis. recently, higher levels of b-type natriuretic peptide (bnp) have also been associated with decreased risk of diabetes in middle-aged adults. in older adults without prevalent cardiovascular or kidney disease, higher nt-probnp is associated with decreased risk of incident diabetes even after adjustment for traditional risk factors. these findings suggest that the metabolic effects of natriuretic peptides persist late in life and offer a potential therapeutic target for prevention of diabetes in older people. hypertension control reduces cardiovascular and renal risks in type 2 diabetes. management of hypertension is the mainstay of prevention and treatment of diabetic renal disease; evidence suggests that tight blood pressure control slows renal disease progression in established diabetic nephropathy. cardiovascular and renal outcome trials demonstrate nephroprotection with sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors in people with type 2 diabetes. strict blood pressure (bp) control in patients with diabetes is associated with reductions in cardiovascular and renal risk. renal protective effects in diabetic patients. blocking the renin-angiotensin system slows the progression of nephropathy and end-stage renal disease in diabetes mellitus. 
Neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) antigens may contain the targeted autoantigens PR3 and MPO. [SEP] neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) are auto-antigenic strands of extracellular dna covered with myeloperoxidase (mpo) and proteinase3 (pr3) that can be a source for the formation of anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibodies (ancas). neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) are peculiar structures composed of the externalized chromatin with intracellular proteins and formed by activated neutrophils in a reactive oxygen species (ros)-dependent manner. the release of neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) by hyperactive neutrophils has recently been recognized to play an important role in antiphospholipid syndrome (aps). neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) have recently been implicated in a number of autoimmune conditions, including rheumatoid arthritis (ra). neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus (sle), since netting neutrophils release potentially immunogenic autoantigens including histones, ll37, human neutrophil peptide (hnp), and self-dna. neutrophils form neutrophil extracellular traps (nets), which have been implicated in microcirculatory plugging. neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) are extracellular chromatin fibers adorned with antimicrobial proteins, such as myeloperoxidase (mpo), which are extruded from activated neutrophils. neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) comprise a unique form of non-apoptotic cell death exhibited by neutrophils, which occurs in a stepwise process termed netosis. neutrophils release extracellular traps (nets) in response to a variety of inflammatory stimuli. neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) are immune defence systems that release extracellular chromatin and myeloid granules including myeloperoxidase (mpo) to kill pathogens. 
Neutrophils produce IL-1β in response to large particles. [SEP] neutrophils are an important source of il-1β secretion in bacterial infections, where they infiltrate affected tissues in log-fold higher numbers than macrophages. collectively, these findings reveal unexpected regulation of il-1β production by neutrophils in response to pathogenic fungi. neutrophils are essential players in acute inflammatory responses. we report here that il-1β processing in human neutrophils is dependent on caspase-1 and on the serine proteases elastase and/or proteinase 3. neutrophils, an abundant cell type at sites of inflammation, have the ability to produce a number of cytokines, including interleukin 1 (il-1), il-8, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (gm-csf), and tumor necrosis factor alpha (tnf-alpha). since il-1ra has been shown to inhibit both the in vitro and in vivo effects of il-1, its production by large numbers of tissue-invading neutrophils might provide a mechanism by which the effects of il-1 are regulated in inflammation. interleukin 1 beta (il-1 beta) is a potent inducer of neutrophil accumulation, a process that may require local protein biosynthesis. il-1 beta induced a significant influx of neutrophils into bal fluid with a transient increase in macrophages. the alveolar macrophage generation of interleukin-1 beta (il-1 beta) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-alpha) cytokines has been implicated in the recruitment of neutrophils into acutely injured lungs. il-1 is a family of polypeptides which play a critical role in the inflammatory response. 
Nigerian physicians constitue the largest component of sub-Saharan Africa-trained physicians in the United States. [SEP] over the last 40 years, several thousand nigerian-trained doctors have migrated to the u.s. to practice in what they regard as the state-of-the-art of global biomedicine. based on interviews with nigerian physicians, this article shows how their professional mobility, and their transition to the new professional environment of u.s. biomedicine, makes them aware of local differences in practicing medicine. yet they also juxtapose highly technologised u.s. biomedicine with what they were trained to excel in within the medical profession in nigeria - namely the 'art of medicine' - that is, possessing profound clinical skills to diagnose with few investigative technologies. by stressing their competence in the art of medicine, which they see as lacking among their u.s.-trained colleagues, they negotiate their position in a global biomedical landscape and reconnect to a distinctly nigerian way of practicing medicine. it is the only form of medical are available to the majority of the nigerian population and is also the first line of defence against disease in a great proportion of people even amongst the enlightened city dwellers and the elites. west african-trained physicians have been migrating from the sub-continent to rich countries, primarily the us and the uk, since medical education began in nigeria and ghana in the 1960s. background: the objective of this paper is to describe the numbers, characteristics, and trends in the migration to the united states of physicians trained in sub-saharan africa. methods: we used the american medical association 2002 masterfile to identify and describe physicians who received their medical training in sub-saharan africa and are currently practicing in the usa. a total of 5334 physicians from sub-saharan africa are in that group, a number that represents more than 6% of the physicians practicing in sub-saharan africa now. the migration of over 5000 doctors from sub-saharan africa to the usa has had a significantly negative effect on the doctor-to-population ratio of africa. 
Nonhuman primates are incapable of producing neutralizing antibodies in reponse to the Eilat virus (EILV) produced in mosquitos. [SEP] most simian-human immunodeficiency viruses (shivs) bearing envelope (env) glycoproteins from primary hiv-1 strains fail to infect rhesus macaques (rms). experimentally, hiv-1 does not infect old world monkeys, such as rhesus (rh) and cynomolgus (cm) monkeys, and fails to replicate in activated cd4 positive t lymphocytes obtained from these monkeys. peripheral blood mononuclear cells (pbmc) from two of four challenged monkeys were unable to support siv replication in vitro unless cultures were depleted of cd8+ lymphocytes. because of the virus's inability to grow in culture, several nonhuman primates have been used for the propagation of hev. many nonhuman primate cells are unable to support the replication of hiv-1, whereas others are nonpermissive for infection by simian immunodeficiency virus from macaques (sivmac). mice and other animals have been found to not be susceptible to vzv infection. however, while primates offer potential as models of human varicella disease, their use is limited as experimental models in antiviral research. however, preclinical trials of vaccines that induce virus-specific cellular immune responses have failed to contain simian immunodeficiency virus (siv) replication in macaques. the vaccinated macaques showed reduced viral loads, but failed to contain sivmac239 replication. human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1) productively infects only humans and chimpanzees but not cynomolgus or rhesus monkeys while simian immunodeficiency virus isolated from macaque (sivmac) readily establishes infection in those monkeys. 
Nonhypertensive people who are 55 years old have a 90% chance of developing hypertension during their lifetime. [SEP] after the age of 55 years the remaining lifetime risk of hypertension amounts to 90%. in this review, we present - based on the available literature - the current concepts concerning the pathophysiology, epi-demiology and antihypertensive therapy in patients aged 65 years or older. we investigated the association between age of onset of hypertension and dementia risk in an oldest-old cohort. compared with those without hypertension, participants whose hypertension onset age was 80 to 89 years had a lower dementia risk (hazard ratio = 0.58, p = .04) and participants with an onset age of 90+ years had the lowest risk (hazard ratio = 0.37, p = .004). developing hypertension at older ages may protect against dementia. hypertension need not be a natural consequence of aging; nevertheless, as many as 70% of individuals aged 70 years or more have diastolic blood pressures greater than or equal to 90 mm hg and/or systolic blood pressures greater than 160 mm hg. hypertension is an established risk factor for dementia. hypertension affects about 80% of people older than 80 years; however, diagnosis and treatment are difficult because about 55% of them do not adhere to treatment recommendations due to low socioeconomic status, comorbidities, age, physical limitations, and frailty syndrome. just under half of the 85.7 million us adults with hypertension have uncontrolled blood pressure using a hypertension threshold of systolic pressure ≥ 140 or diastolic pressure ≥ 90. the role of hypertension as a risk factor for mortality and cardiovascular morbidity and the benefits of antihypertensive treatment are well established in older patients up to 80 years. 
Noninvasive positive pressure ventilation is not predictive of acute respiratory failure after solid organ transplantation. [SEP] evidence for benefit of high positive end-expiratory pressure (peep) is largely lacking for invasively ventilated, critically ill patients with uninjured lungs. the results of studies on noninvasive positive pressure ventilation (nppv) for acute hypoxemic respiratory failure unrelated to cardiogenic pulmonary edema have been inconsistent. to assess the effect of nppv on the rate of endotracheal intubation, intensive care unit and hospital length of stay, and mortality for patients with acute hypoxemic respiratory failure not due to cardiogenic pulmonary edema. randomized trials suggest that patients with acute hypoxemic respiratory failure are less likely to require endotracheal intubation when nppv is added to standard therapy. as a result, the literature does not support the routine use of nppv in all patients with acute hypoxemic respiratory failure. it is uncertain whether invasive ventilation can use lower positive end-expiratory pressure (peep) in critically ill patients without acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards). few studies have been performed on noninvasive ventilation (niv) to treat hypoxic acute respiratory failure in patients with acute lung injury (ali) or acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards). there is inadequate evidence regarding which noninvasive ventilation (niv) is superior for initial respiratory support of preterm infants with respiratory distress syndrome. to compare the failure of noninvasive ventilation (niv) and neonatal outcomes between nasal continuous positive airway pressure (ncpap), bi-level positive airway pressure (bipap), and nasal intermittent positive pressure ventilation (nippv) as the initial respiratory support with less invasive surfactant administration (lisa) in very low birth weight (vlbw) infants. acute respiratory failure necessitating intubation and mechanical ventilation in patients with acute severe asthma is relatively uncommon, and there are few data available regarding positive pressure ventilation in critically ill patients with asthma. 
Nonsteroidal antinflammatory drugs are ineffective as cancer treatments. [SEP] despite advances in the treatment of other genitourinary malignancies, no novel therapies have been approved by the us food and drug administration for urothelial carcinoma (uc) in the last 20 years. to date, no clinical trials of targeted agents in uc have led to improvements in survival compared with cytotoxic therapy. neither systemic chemotherapy nor radiation regimens have significantly improved survival. conventional systemic cytokine therapy has had limited efficacy in the treatment of advanced prostate cancer patients and its toxicity is severe. while an acyclic retinoid improved tumor-free survival after hepatoma resection, tamoxifen finally proved ineffective. there is little information comparing the potential risk of cancer across conventional and biologic disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (dmards) in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (ra). patients with disseminated gastric cancer are generally in very bad clinical conditions, which make them not eligible for potentially active polychemotherapies. traditional chemotherapy is ineffective and immunotherapy with interleukin-2 is only occasionally beneficial. salvage surgery and liver-directed therapy both have relatively limited impact, and systemic cytotoxic chemotherapy has minimal efficacy. standard chemotherapy used in the treatment of other types of cancers has proven ineffective in the treatment of this disease. 
Nonsteroidal antinflammatory drugs show potential anticancer indications. [SEP] nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs are among the most promising chemopreventive agents for colorectal cancer. non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been shown to inhibit carcinogenesis in colon cancer, and to induce apoptosis in a variety of tumor cell lines. some anti-tumor effects are thought to be related to their cyclooxygenase-2-inhibitory activity, but recent studies have shown that non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs exert their anti-tumor effect via cyclooxygenase-2-independent mechanism. nitric oxide-donating nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are emerging as a promising class of compounds for the chemoprevention of colon cancer. compared to their parent compounds, nitric oxide-donating nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are up to several hundred times more potent in inhibiting the growth of colon cancer cell lines and also quite effective in preventing colon cancer in various tumor animal models. nitric oxide-donating nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs hold the promise of being safe and effective chemopreventive agents against colon cancer. nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs inhibit cell proliferation and induce apoptosis in various cancer cell lines, which is considered to be an important mechanism for their anti-tumor activity and cancer prevention. nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have anti-inflammatory, analgesic, and antipyretic properties. many reports have demonstrated that non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) suppress malignant transformation and tumor growth, and some nsaids are expected to be new anti-cancer agents. nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have a role, therefore, in the treatment of nonrheumatic conditions as well as in the treatment of rheumatic diseases, an area in which these agents have been used and studied more extensively. 
Normal expression of RUNX1 causes tumorsupressing effects. [SEP] runx gene over-expression inhibits growth of primary cells but transforms cells with tumor suppressor defects, consistent with reported associations with tumor progression. the three-membered runx gene family includes runx1, a major mutational target in human leukemias, and displays hallmarks of both tumor suppressors and oncogenes. runx3 (runt-related transcription factor-3) is a known tumor suppressor gene which exhibits potent antitumor activity in several carcinomas. the runx3 expression was significantly correlated with tumor size (p<0.001), depth of invasion (p<0.001), and of tnm stage (p<0.001). in contrast, runx3 does play important functions in immunity and inflammation and may thereby indirectly influence epithelial tumor development. a role for the runx genes in cancer fail-safe processes has been suggested by their induction of senescence-like growth arrest in primary murine fibroblasts and the failure of ras-induced senescence in runx2-deficient cells. cumulative evidences show that runt-related transcription factor 3 (runx3) has a tumor suppressive role in various cancers. in particular, runx3 appears to be an important component of the transforming growth factor-β (tgf-β)-induced tumor suppression pathway. contrary to reports on this tumor suppressive role of runx3, runx3 can also function as an oncogene when overexpressed. this review introduces the oncogenic role of runx3 in certain types of cancer including head and neck cancer. 
Normal granulomas form in the absence of TNF in Zebrafish. [SEP] surprisingly, engineered homozygous mutants in zebrafish have no apparent phenotype. zebrafish have emerged as a powerful model system to study leukocyte recruitment and inflammation. here we characterize the morphology and function of inflammatory macrophages in zebrafish larvae. these findings identify distinct functional and morphological characteristics of inflammatory macrophages in zebrafish larvae. cell transplantation into adult zebrafish has lagged behind mouse models owing to the lack of immunocompromised strains. thus, our results demonstrate that in zebrafish, in contrast to mammals, inflammation is a positive regulator of neuronal regeneration in the central nervous system. zebrafish do not possess the typical astrocytes that are found in mammalian systems. zebrafish have been extensively used in biomedical research as a model to study vertebrate development but it is only recently that it has also been adopted into varied fields such as immunology and host-pathogen interactions. zebrafish have a rapid life cycle, small size and the adults exhibit no territorial behavior in relatively dense cages. zebrafish (danio rerio) are a powerful model to study lymphocyte development. 
Normal granulomas form in the presence of TNF in Zebrafish. [SEP] the immune system of teleost zebrafish (danio rerio) shows high similarity to mammalian counterparts sharing many innate immune components including toll-like receptors (tlrs), cytokines, chemokines and complement molecules. as in mammals, zebrafish also contains the transcription factor nf-kappab that plays dualist roles in innate immunity and early development. zebrafish is an excellent model organism for studying innate immune cell behavior due to its transparent nature and reliance solely on its innate immune system during early development. the zebrafish mycobacterium marinum (m. marinum) infection model has been well-established in studying host immune response against mycobacterial infection. here we describe a protocol using intravital microscopy to observe macrophage cell death in zebrafish embryos following m. marinum infection. zebrafish transgenic lines that specifically label macrophages and neutrophils are infected via intramuscular microinjection of fluorescently labeled m. marinum in either the midbrain or the trunk. zebrafish have emerged as a powerful model system to study leukocyte recruitment and inflammation. here we characterize the morphology and function of inflammatory macrophages in zebrafish larvae. these findings identify distinct functional and morphological characteristics of inflammatory macrophages in zebrafish larvae. here, we study the cellular response of zebrafish larvae when e. coli bacteria are injected into the notochord and describe the effects. 
Notch signaling occurs between tumor cells and stromal cells. [SEP] notch signaling regulates a broad spectrum of cell fate decisions and differentiation. both oncogenic and tumor suppressor functions have been shown for notch signaling. the notch pathway is constitutively activated in human cancers by chromosomal rearrangements, activating point mutations, or altered expression patterns. therefore, the notch pathway is the subject of chemotherapeutic intervention in a variety of human cancers. the notch signaling pathway has a critical role in cell fate determination and tissue homeostasis in a variety of different lineages. the notch signaling system regulates proliferation and differentiation in many tissues. therefore, we examined primary stromal cell cultures for expression of notch ligands. notch signaling regulates squamous cell proliferation and differentiation and is frequently disrupted in squamous cell carcinomas, in which notch is tumor suppressive. the notch pathway is a cell-cell communication system where membrane-bound ligands interact with the extracellular region of notch receptors to induce intracellular, downstream effects on gene expression. aberrant notch signaling promotes tumorigenesis, and the notch pathway has tremendous potential for novel targeting strategies in cancer treatment. 
Nuclear transfer from adult human fibroblasts to human oocytes can give rise to blastocysts containing expandable pluripotent cells. [SEP] therapeutic cloning, whereby nuclear transfer is used to derive patient-specific embryonic stem cells, embraces an entire new opportunity for regenerative medicine. the transfer of somatic cell nuclei into oocytes can give rise to pluripotent stem cells that are consistently equivalent to embryonic stem cells, holding promise for autologous cell replacement therapy. using this modified nuclear transfer protocol, we derived diploid pluripotent stem-cell lines from somatic cells of a newborn and, for the first time, an adult, a female with type 1 diabetes. nuclear transfer techniques for mammalian embryos have been developed in the last decade. we have used nuclear transplantation to test whether the reprogramming activity of oocytes can reestablish developmental pluripotency of malignant cancer cells. the cloning of mammals from adult donor cells has demonstrated that the oocyte can reprogram a differentiated nucleus into a pluripotent embryonic state. reprogramming of committed cells into pluripotent cells can also be achieved by the explantation of germ line cells and by the fusion of differentiated cells with embryonic cells. recent findings suggest that the exposure of adult cells to a few defined factors can indeed induce a pluripotent-like state resembling that of es cells. nuclear transfer to eggs or oocytes provides a potential route for cell-replacement therapies because oocytes directly reprogram transplanted mammalian somatic-cell nuclei such that they have an embryo-like pattern of gene expression. the transfer of nuclei of fully differentiated cells into enucleated oocytes is a well-recognized method for the generation of embryonic stem (es) cells. 
Oat tolerant coeliac patients may have oat specific inflammatory cells in their small bowel mucosa. [SEP] previous contradictory studies suggest that oats may trigger the abnormal immunological response in patients with cd. these differences may explain the different clinical responses observed in patients suffering from cd and open up a means to identify immunologically safe oat cultivars, which could be used to enrich a gluten-free diet. there is a recognised association between the "microscopic" forms of colitis and coeliac disease. celiac disease is caused by inflammatory, gluten specific t cell responses in the small intestine. in coeliac disease, the gut involvement is gluten-dependent. the aim was to elucidate the role of small intestinal epithelial cells in the immunopathology of celiac disease in particular the influence of celiac disease-associated bacteria. coeliac disease (cd) is a t-cell mediated immunological disease of the small intestine which is triggered in susceptible individuals by ingestion of gluten. we investigated whether individuals with positive coeliac disease antibodies but without small-bowel villous atrophy have mucosal inflammation implicating gluten-sensitivity. small-bowel mucosal morphology; cd3+, alphabeta+, and gammadelta+ t-cell receptor-bearing intraepithelial lymphocytes; and mucosal hla-dr expression were studied in 96 iga-class antireticulin or antigliadin antibody-positive adults suspected of having coeliac disease and in 27 control subjects. coeliac disease is apparently a t cell-mediated disease, precipitated in the proximal small intestine of susceptible individuals by gluten. 
Obesity decreases life quality. [SEP] it can be expected that the quality of life in obesity is impaired since obesity is severely stigmatized in affluent societies and also increases the risk of disability, mortality and morbidity. in addition, the fact that obesity in inversely related to socioeconomic status in women and is associated with both downward social mobility and lower levels of socioeconomic attainment may further impair the quality of life in obesity. obesity is a chronic, progressive, relapsing disease that impairs health and quality of life and shortens lifespan. owing to the cardiovascular and metabolic disorders associated with obesity, and the epidemic of obesity facing most countries today, life expectancy in the developed world may start to decrease for the first time in recent history. obese individuals have decreased quality of life and life expectancy. humans are on average getting fatter with age, and obesity and aging interact each other to shorten lifetime and decrease life quality. obesity also causes several aging related-disorders such as cancer, strokes, cardiovascular disease, high blood pressure and type 2 diabetes. obesity and its major comorbidities, including type 2 diabetes mellitus, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (nafld), obesity cardiomyopathy, and certain cancers, have caused life expectancy in the united states to decline in recent years. sustained obesity has profound consequences on one's life, which can span from superficial psychological symptoms to serious co-morbidities that may dramatically diminish both the quality and length of life. obesity is the result of a complex interplay among several factors leading to medical, functional and psychosocial consequences that markedly reduce life expectancy and impair quality of life. 
Obesity raises life quality. [SEP] obesity affects people of all ages and socioeconomic backgrounds. obesity in aged persons is increasing and is more clearly associated with an increased risk of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, lipid abnormalities, mobility-limited problems, and other co-morbidities in this category of age. obesity is a major health challenge facing the modern world. the prevalence of obesity is rapidly increasing worldwide. obesity has become a major public health problem. given the current increase in life expectancy, the prevalence of obesity also raises steadily among older age groups. the increase in life expectancy is often accompanied with additional years of susceptibility to chronic ill health associated with obesity in the elderly. both obesity and ageing are conditions leading to serious health problems and increased risk for disease and death. obesity in old age is associated with increased morbidity and a reduction in quality of life. overweight and obesity increase the risk of morbidity and mortality. 
Occipital activation levels are associated with auditory spatial performance in parietal regions of the brain. [SEP] with the aim of determining whether and when the parietal contribution is critical for auditory spatial discrimination, we applied single pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation on the right parietal cortex 20, 80, 90 and 150 ms post-stimulus onset while participants completed a two-alternative forced choice auditory spatial discrimination task in the left or right hemispace. we interpret our finding in terms of a critical role for controlateral temporo-parietal cortices over initial stages of the building-up of auditory spatial representation and for a right hemispheric specialization in integrating the whole auditory space over subsequent, higher-order processing stages. human brain imaging studies have suggested that posterior temporo-parietal regions are involved in auditory spatial processing. both visual and auditory spatial selective attention result in lateralized alpha (8-14 hz) oscillatory power in parietal cortex: alpha increases in the hemisphere ipsilateral to attentional focus. these results demonstrate a causal, frequency-, hemispheric-, and task-specific effect of parietal alpha brain stimulation on top-down control of auditory spatial attention. although the importance of the posterior parietal and prefrontal regions in spatial localization of visual stimuli is well established, their role in auditory space perception is less clear. using positron emission tomography (pet) during auditory and visual spatial localization in the same subjects, modality-specific areas were identified in the superior parietal lobule, middle temporal and lateral prefrontal cortices. these findings suggest that, similar to the visual system, the hierarchical organization of the auditory system extends beyond the temporal lobe to include areas in the posterior parietal and prefrontal regions specialized in auditory spatial processing. visual spatial attention is associated with activation in parietal regions as well as with modulation of visual activity in ventral occipital cortex. these findings suggest that spatial enhancement of relevant stimuli in ventral occipital cortex is complemented by an intraparietal response associated with suppression of, or preparation of a reflexive shift of attention toward, irrelevant stimuli. 
Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegans. [SEP] vegetarians ingest less carnitine and carnitine precursors and have lower plasma carnitine concentrations than omnivores. principle aims of the current study were to assess the plasma and skeletal muscle carnitine content and physical performance of male vegetarians and matched omnivores under basal conditions and after l-carnitine supplementation. before carnitine supplementation, vegetarians had a 10% lower plasma carnitine concentration, but maintained skeletal muscle carnitine stores compared to omnivores. maximal oxygen uptake (vo2max) and workload (p max) per bodyweight (bicycle spiroergometry) were not significantly different between vegetarians and omnivores. supplementation with l-carnitine significantly increased the total plasma carnitine concentration (24% in omnivores, 31% in vegetarians) and the muscle carnitine content in vegetarians (13%). vegetarians have lower plasma carnitine concentrations, but maintained muscle carnitine stores compared to omnivores. plasma concentrations of long-chain n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids are lower in vegetarians and in vegans than in omnivores. mainly due to their utilisation of relatively low-fiber diets compared to herbivorous mammals, omnivores are expected to have correspondingly low maintenance nitrogen requirements (mnrs). accordingly, carnivores, who encounter these toxic substances less often, should have fewer genes associated with bitter taste reception compared with herbivores and omnivores. vegetarians have a lower intake of vitamin b12 than omnivores do. 
Omnivores produce more trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegans. [SEP] dietary intake of l-carnitine can promote cardiovascular diseases in humans through microbial production of trimethylamine (tma) and its subsequent oxidation to trimethylamine n-oxide by hepatic flavin-containing monooxygenases. l-carnitine, an abundant nutrient in red meat, accelerates atherosclerosis in mice via gut microbiota-dependent formation of trimethylamine (tma) and trimethylamine n-oxide (tmao) via a multistep pathway involving an atherogenic intermediate, γ-butyrobetaine (γbb). omnivores and vegans/vegetarians ingested deuterium-labeled l-carnitine (d3-l-carnitine) or γbb (d9-γbb), and both plasma metabolites and fecal polymicrobial transformations were examined at baseline, following oral antibiotics, or following chronic (≥2 months) l-carnitine supplementation. moreover, a striking increase in d3-tmao generation was observed in omnivores over vegans/vegetarians (>20-fold; p = 0.001) following oral d3-l-carnitine ingestion, whereas fasting endogenous plasma l-carnitine and γbb levels were similar in vegans/vegetarians (n = 32) versus omnivores (n = 40). fecal metabolic transformation studies, and oral isotope tracer studies before versus after chronic l-carnitine supplementation, revealed that omnivores and vegans/vegetarians alike rapidly converted carnitine to γbb, whereas the second gut microbial transformation, γbb→tma, was diet inducible (l-carnitine, omnivorous). in humans, dietary l-carnitine is converted into the atherosclerosis- and thrombosis-promoting metabolite tmao via 2 sequential gut microbiota-dependent transformations: (a) initial rapid generation of the atherogenic intermediate γbb, followed by (b) transformation into tma via low-abundance microbiota in omnivores, and to a markedly lower extent, in vegans/vegetarians. gut microbiota γbb→tma/tmao transformation is induced by omnivorous dietary patterns and chronic l-carnitine exposure. dietary l-carnitine can be metabolized by intestinal microbiota to trimethylamine, which is absorbed by the gut and further oxidized to trimethylamine n-oxide (tmao) in the liver. carnitine, a dietary quaternary amine mainly from red meat, is metabolized to trimethylamine (tma) by gut microbiota and subsequently oxidized to trimethylamine-n-oxide (tmao) by host hepatic enzymes, flavin monooxygenases (fmos). carnitine, a molecule found in red meat, is metabolized to trimethylamine (tma) by the gut microbiota. 
Omnivores produce more trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. [SEP] dietary intake of l-carnitine can promote cardiovascular diseases in humans through microbial production of trimethylamine (tma) and its subsequent oxidation to trimethylamine n-oxide by hepatic flavin-containing monooxygenases. l-carnitine, an abundant nutrient in red meat, accelerates atherosclerosis in mice via gut microbiota-dependent formation of trimethylamine (tma) and trimethylamine n-oxide (tmao) via a multistep pathway involving an atherogenic intermediate, γ-butyrobetaine (γbb). omnivores and vegans/vegetarians ingested deuterium-labeled l-carnitine (d3-l-carnitine) or γbb (d9-γbb), and both plasma metabolites and fecal polymicrobial transformations were examined at baseline, following oral antibiotics, or following chronic (≥2 months) l-carnitine supplementation. moreover, a striking increase in d3-tmao generation was observed in omnivores over vegans/vegetarians (>20-fold; p = 0.001) following oral d3-l-carnitine ingestion, whereas fasting endogenous plasma l-carnitine and γbb levels were similar in vegans/vegetarians (n = 32) versus omnivores (n = 40). fecal metabolic transformation studies, and oral isotope tracer studies before versus after chronic l-carnitine supplementation, revealed that omnivores and vegans/vegetarians alike rapidly converted carnitine to γbb, whereas the second gut microbial transformation, γbb→tma, was diet inducible (l-carnitine, omnivorous). in humans, dietary l-carnitine is converted into the atherosclerosis- and thrombosis-promoting metabolite tmao via 2 sequential gut microbiota-dependent transformations: (a) initial rapid generation of the atherogenic intermediate γbb, followed by (b) transformation into tma via low-abundance microbiota in omnivores, and to a markedly lower extent, in vegans/vegetarians. gut microbiota γbb→tma/tmao transformation is induced by omnivorous dietary patterns and chronic l-carnitine exposure. production of trimethylamine-n-oxide (tmao) via the gut microbiota has recently been proposed as an important pathophysiological mechanism linking ingestion of 'unhealthy foods', such as beef (containing carnitine) and eggs (containing choline), and the development of atherosclerosis. dietary l-carnitine can be metabolized by intestinal microbiota to trimethylamine, which is absorbed by the gut and further oxidized to trimethylamine n-oxide (tmao) in the liver. carnitine, a dietary quaternary amine mainly from red meat, is metabolized to trimethylamine (tma) by gut microbiota and subsequently oxidized to trimethylamine-n-oxide (tmao) by host hepatic enzymes, flavin monooxygenases (fmos). 
One in five surgical randomized controlled trials are discontinued early. [SEP] in the top nine surgical journals in 1996, half of the 175 publications refer to pilot studies lacking a control group, 18% to animal experiments, and only 5% to randomized controlled trials (rct). it has been previously reported that over 20% of surgical trials will be discontinued prematurely raising ethical and financial concerns. industry funding predicted discontinuation for all trials (odds ratio 1.63 p < 0.001) and surgical trials independently (or 1.25 p = 0.041). surgical trials are more likely to prematurely discontinue than nonsurgical trials. poor recruitment is a major cause of early trial discontinuation for all trials and is more pronounced in surgical trials. a few recent, large, well-publicized trials in critical care medicine have been stopped for futility. in the critical care setting, stopping for futility means that independent review committees have elected to stop the trial early--based on predetermined rules--since the likelihood of finding a treatment effect is low. the rate of patients lost to follow-up may contribute to bias in randomized controlled trials (rcts). in a five-arm randomized clinical trial (rct) with stratified randomization across 54 sites, we encountered low primary outcome event proportions, resulting in multiple sites with zero events either overall or in one or more study arms. the consort statement says that data-driven early stopping of a clinical trial is likely to weaken the inferences that can be drawn from the trial. 
One in two surgical randomized controlled trials are discontinued early. [SEP] it has been previously reported that over 20% of surgical trials will be discontinued prematurely raising ethical and financial concerns. industry funding predicted discontinuation for all trials (odds ratio 1.63 p < 0.001) and surgical trials independently (or 1.25 p = 0.041). surgical trials are more likely to prematurely discontinue than nonsurgical trials. poor recruitment is a major cause of early trial discontinuation for all trials and is more pronounced in surgical trials. to determine the rate of early discontinuation and non-publication of randomised controlled trials involving patients undergoing surgery. one in five surgical randomised controlled trials are discontinued early, one in three completed trials remain unpublished, and investigators of unpublished studies are frequently not contactable. clinical trials are often stopped prematurely by data and safety monitoring boards, sponsors, or the investigators for reasons such as unexpected harmful effects of the intervention, clear lack of benefit, or futility due to sluggish recruitment or an unexpectedly low outcome rate in the placebo group. to investigate the prevalence of discontinuation and nonpublication of surgical versus medical randomized controlled trials (rcts) and to explore risk factors for discontinuation and nonpublication of surgical rcts. surgical trials were discontinued for any reason more often than medical trials [43% vs 27%, risk difference 16% (95% confidence interval [ci]: 5%-26%); p = 0.001] and more often discontinued for slow recruitment [18% vs 11%, risk difference 8% (95% ci: 0.1%-16%); p = 0.020]. in the critical care setting, stopping for futility means that independent review committees have elected to stop the trial early--based on predetermined rules--since the likelihood of finding a treatment effect is low. 
Origin gross domestic product(GDP) is negatively related to dengue virus (DENV-1) diffusion in air traffic shipments. [SEP] dengue virus is a pathogen of global concern and has a huge impact on public health system in low- and middle-income countries. dengue is the most important vector-borne disease in the americas and threatens the lifes of millions of people in developing countries. dengue virus (denv) is listed as one of the niaid category a priority pathogens. dengue disease is endemic in most tropical countries, with an estimated 2.5 billion people living in areas at risk of denv infection. dengue virus (denv) is the etiological agent of dengue fever. abstractdengue virus (denv) is a serious threat to public health. having reliable estimates of the burden of dengue is important to inform policy and research, but surveillance systems are not designed to capture all symptomatic denv infections. we derived the rate of reporting of dengue by comparing active surveillance of symptomatic denv infections in a prospective community-based seroepidemiological cohort study (n = 1008) of acute febrile illness in punta princesa, cebu city, philippines, with passive surveillance data from the cebu city health department. dengue continues to be a major international public health concern. dengue, the most prevalent arthropod-borne viral disease, is caused by the dengue virus (denv), a member of the flaviviridae family, and is a considerable public health threat in over 100 countries, with 2.5 billion people living in high-risk areas. 
Origin gross domestic product(GDP) is positively related to dengue virus (DENV-1) diffusion in air traffic shipments. [SEP] this is largely mediated by the importation of dengue from endemic to non-endemic areas via the increasing connectivity of the global air transport network. the predictor variables identified as most important were the source country's dengue incidence rate, population size, and volume of air passengers. an increased volume of international passenger air traffic originating from regions with endemic dengue has contributed to a rise in the number of dengue cases in both areas of endemicity and elsewhere. this paper reports results from a network-based risk assessment model which uses international passenger travel volumes, travel routes, travel distances, regional populations, and predictive species distribution models (for the two vector species, aedes aegypti and aedes albopictus) to quantify the relative risk posed by each airport in importing passengers with travel-acquired dengue infections. an increased volume of international passenger air traffic originating from regions with endemic dengue contributes to the increasing number of dengue cases. this paper reports results from a network-based regression model which uses international passenger travel volumes, travel distances, predictive species distribution models (for the vector species), and infection data to quantify the relative risk of importing travel-acquired dengue infections into the us and europe from dengue-endemic regions. using global flight data to model importation may improve our understanding and prediction of dengue virus importation and onward transmission. a retrospective analysis was performed of surveillance cases of dengue infections imported to china and volume of air traffic to china for the years 2005 through 2014, inclusive. patterns of air travel have a measurable impact on the importation of dengue to china. our analyses suggest the network centrality of air traffic hubs such as thailand and india contribute to seeding dengue epidemics, whilst china, cambodia, indonesia, and singapore may establish viral diffusion links with multiple countries in asia. 
Osteocytes have an essential role in G-CSF induced HSPC mobilization. [SEP] here, we demonstrate that osteocytes, the major cellular component of mature bone, are regulators of hspc egress. granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (g-csf), used clinically to mobilize hspcs, induces changes in the morphology and gene expression of the osteocytic network that precedes changes in osteoblasts. mice with targeted ablation of osteocytes or a disrupted osteocyte network have comparable numbers of hspcs in the bm but fail to mobilize hspcs in response to g-csf. colony-stimulating factor (csf)-1 is a hematopoietic growth factor that is released by osteoblasts and is recognized to play a critical role in bone remodeling in vivo and in vitro. we have reported that osteoblasts express csf-1 constitutively and that tumor necrosis factor (tnf)-alpha, a potent bone-resorbing agent, increases csf-1 gene expression by a transcriptional mechanism. it has been clearly established that osteoclasts, which play a crucial role in bone resorption, differentiate from hematopoietic cells belonging to the monocyte/macrophage lineage in the presence of macrophage-colony stimulating factor (m-csf) and receptor activator of nf-kappab ligand (rankl). in this respect, osteoblasts synthesise proteins with opposing effects on hsc proliferation and differentiation highlighting their pivotal role in adult hematopoiesis. although osteoblasts play a central role in hsc regulation other stromal and microenvironmental cell types and their extracellular matrix proteins also contribute to this biology. osteopontin and these "niche" molecules are not only involved in regulation of hsc quiescence but also effect hsc homing, trans-marrow migration and lodgement. this ligand and m-csf are now known to be essential for osteoclast differentiation from marrow and circulating precursors. 
Osteoparthritis (OA) is characterized by degeneration of articular cartilage, joint edge, and subchondral bone hyperplasia. [SEP] osteoarthritis (oa) is the most common chronic degenerative joint disease and is mainly characterized by cartilage degeneration, subcartilage bone hyperplasia, osteophyte formation and joint space stenosis. histopathologically, oa is characterized by a progressive loss of articular cartilage, osteophyte formation, thickening of subchondral bone, and subchondral cyst formation. osteoarthritis (oa) is clinically characterized by degeneration of the joints and has been traditionally considered a primary disorder of articular cartilage, with secondary changes in the subchondral bone. osteoarthritis (oa) is an age-related joint degenerative disease associated with pain, joint deformity, and disability. oa is characterized by the degeneration of articular cartilage, subchondral bone sclerosis and synovitis. osteoarthritis (oa), the most common form of arthritis, is a disabling degenerative joint disease affecting synovial joints and is associated with cartilage destruction, inflammation of the synovial membrane, and subchondral bone remodeling. osteoarthritis (oa) is a degenerative process involving the progressive loss of articular cartilage, synovial inflammation and structural changes in subchondral bone that lead to loss of synovial joint structural features and functionality of articular cartilage. osteoarthritis (oa) is a degenerative process involving the progressive loss of articular cartilage, synovial inflammation and structural changes in subchondral bone that lead to loss of synovial joint structural features and functionality of articular cartilage. osteoarthritis (oa) is a degenerative process involving the progressive loss of articular cartilage, synovial inflammation and structural changes to the subchondral bone that lead to loss of synovial joint structural features and impaired functionality of the articular cartilage. as a progressive degenerative joint disorder, oa is characterized by cartilage damage, changes in the subchondral bone, osteophyte formation, muscle weakness, and inflammation of the synovium tissue and tendon. 
Over half of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. [SEP] using a double stable isotope infusion method, we quantified plasma glucose and lactate inter-relationships in five recently obese children. compared with five age-matched controls, obese children had an approximately 50% increase of total body lactate turnover [167 +/- 20 vs. 111 +/- 20 (se) mg/min, p < 0.05]. the rate of lactate conversion to glucose was double the normal rate (96 +/- 21 vs. 46 +/- 10 mg/min, p < 0.05). increased gluconeogenesis from plasma lactate correlated with total glucose production (r = 0.74), with plasma lactate contributing to 58% of glucose production in obese children vs. 38% in normal children (p < 0.05). in turn, the obese children converted a larger fraction (35 +/- 2 vs. 27 +/- 2%, p < 0.02) and amount (58 +/- 10 vs. 34 +/- 5 mg/min, p < 0.05) of glucose into plasma lactate. the amount of lactate originating from plasma glucose correlated (r = 0.70) with lipid oxidation, which was increased in the obese children (58 +/- 4 vs. 23 +/- 5 mg/min, p < 0.02). four of the five children diagnosed as west syndrome, lennox syndrome, or petit mal epilepsy also had cerebral palsy and microcephaly. we diagnosed the carbohydrate-deficient glycoprotein syndrome in five children who were seen during their first year of life with failure to thrive, feeding difficulties, psychomotor retardation, hypotonia, esotropia, inverted nipples, lipodystrophy, pericardial effusion, and hepatic dysfunction. five children with hereditary fructose intolerance developed symptoms of neurological impairment. three of the five children had mental retardation associated with silver russell syndrome, 5p syndrome, or minimal change myopathy. 
Overexpressing Cnp1 N-tail variants exacerbates the temperature-sensitive growth defect of scm3-139. [SEP] at elevated temperatures, the neurospora crassa mutant colonial, temperature-sensitive 3 (cot-3) forms compact, highly branched colonies. cot-1 mutants belong to a class of neurospora crassa colonial temperature-sensitive (cot) mutants that exhibit abnormal polar extension and branching patterns when grown at restrictive temperatures. the reduced amount of swi5 in msn5 mutant cells was not due to an increased protein degradation rate, but to a defect in swi5 synthesis. the saccharomyces cerevisiae temperature-sensitive (ts) allele nip7-1 exhibits phenotypes associated with defects in the translation apparatus, including hypersensitivity to paromomycin and accumulation of halfmer polysomes. the cloned nip7+ gene complemented the nip7-1 ts growth defect, the paromomycin hypersensitivity, and the halfmer defect. gene disruption analysis demonstrated that nip7 is essential for growth. temperature-sensitive nucleoporin nup49-316 mutant cells accumulate poly(a)+ rna inside the nucleus when shifted to restrictive temperature. it encodes a novel protein nup133p which is located at the nuclear pore complex. nup133 is not an essential gene, but cells in which nup133 is disrupted grow slowly at permissive temperatures and stop growing at 37 degrees c. concomitant with the growth inhibition, nup133- cells accumulate poly(a)+ rna inside the nucleus whereas nuclear import of a karyophilic reporter protein is not altered. a single amino acid change in the carboxyl terminus of npl3p (e409 --> k) renders the mutant protein largely cytoplasmic because of a delay in its import into the nucleus. 
Overexpressing Cnp1 N-tail variants rescues the temperature-sensitive growth defect of scm3-139. [SEP] in saccharomyces cerevisiae, the prp21 mutation causes accumulation of unspliced pre-mrna at the nonpermissive temperature. we have cloned the prp21 gene by complementation of its temperature-sensitive phenotype and found it to be the same as spp91, an extragenic suppressor of the prp9 mutation previously studied in vivo by chapon and legrain [chapon, c. & legrain, p. (1992) embo j. several fission yeast temperature-sensitive mutants defective in pre-mrna processing (prp- mutants) at the nonpermissive temperature have been identified. here, the prp2+ gene has been cloned by its ability to complement the temperature-sensitive growth defect of a prp2- mutant. it encodes a novel protein nup133p which is located at the nuclear pore complex. nup133 is not an essential gene, but cells in which nup133 is disrupted grow slowly at permissive temperatures and stop growing at 37 degrees c. concomitant with the growth inhibition, nup133- cells accumulate poly(a)+ rna inside the nucleus whereas nuclear import of a karyophilic reporter protein is not altered. the saccharomyces cerevisiae temperature-sensitive (ts) allele nip7-1 exhibits phenotypes associated with defects in the translation apparatus, including hypersensitivity to paromomycin and accumulation of halfmer polysomes. the cloned nip7+ gene complemented the nip7-1 ts growth defect, the paromomycin hypersensitivity, and the halfmer defect. gene disruption analysis demonstrated that nip7 is essential for growth. temperature-sensitive rpc53 mutants were generated and showed a rapid inhibition of trna synthesis after transfer to the restrictive temperature. 
Oxidative DNA damage activates STING signalling. [SEP] the innate immunoregulator sting stimulates cytokine production in response to the presence of cytosolic dna, which can arise following dna damage. here, we show that sting signaling is recurrently suppressed in melanoma cells, where this event may enable immune escape after dna damage. mechanistically, sting signaling was suppressed most frequently by epigenetic silencing of either sting or the cyclic gmp-amp synthase, which generates sting-activating cyclic dinucleotides after binding cytosolic dna species. activation of the dna damage response (ddr) by external agents can result in dna fragments entering the cytoplasm and activating innate immune signaling pathways, including the stimulator of interferon genes (sting) pathway. sting plays central roles in the innate immune response to pathogens that contain dna. sting, a protein mediating signaling activation by cytosolic dna and known to act downstream of dna sensor proteins, is shown also to bind dna directly, raising the need to clarify the relative contributions of these distinct binding modes to dna sensing. here, this work demonstrates that sting controls neural progenitor cells (npcs) by sensing dna damage in npcs. in npcs, sting specifically recruits ikkβ and activates nuclear factor κb (nf-κb) through phosphorylation. together, the findings show that sting signaling is essential for neuronal gene expression program and has profound consequences on brain function. detection of cytosolic dna activates a downstream signaling molecule called stimulator of interferon genes (sting). 
Oxidative DNA damage inhibits STING signalling. [SEP] it has been proposed that this signaling cascade protects against uv-induced mutations by reducing the probability that damaged dna will be replicated before it can be repaired. upon dna damage, replication is inhibited by the s-phase checkpoint. sting is known as a central adaptor for sensing cytosolic dna sensing. recent studies have provided evidence that sting response is divergent among different cell types. here, this work demonstrates that sting controls neural progenitor cells (npcs) by sensing dna damage in npcs. the deletion of sting reduces neuronal differentiation and increases proliferation of mouse and human npcs. in npcs, sting specifically recruits ikkβ and activates nuclear factor κb (nf-κb) through phosphorylation. in addition, tumor necrosis factor α, an activator of nf-κb, can rescue some phenotypes caused by sting deletion in mice. together, the findings show that sting signaling is essential for neuronal gene expression program and has profound consequences on brain function. css strongly inhibited the repair of uvb-induced dna damage, pyrimidine(6-4)pyrimidone photoproducts (6-4pps), where the recruitments of repair molecules, tfiih and xpg, were slowed down. 
Oxidative phosphorylation is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. [SEP] we present evidence that the glycolytic intermediate 3-phosphoglycerate can cause a marked stimulation of phosphorylation of specific proteins in mammalian tissues. recently, accumulating evidence indicates oxidative phosphorylation (oxphos) and glycolysis can be regulated with each other. thus, we suggest that the glycolysis of cancer cells is inhibited by restoring or improving oxphos in cancer cells. the results indicate that oa can inhibit glycolysis through enhancement of oxphos. glycometabolism, particularly mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (oxphos) and glycolysis, plays a central role in cell life activities. it has been established that the key metabolic pathways of glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation are intimately related to redox biology through control of cell signaling. protein phosphorylation events are key initiators of signaling responses which determine cellular outcomes after environmental and metabolic stimuli, and are thus highly regulated. protein phosphorylation is one of the most important mechanisms regulating metabolism as it can directly modify metabolic enzymes by the addition of phosphate groups. oxidative phosphorylation is a source of energy production by which many cells satisfy their energy requirements. endogenous reactive oxygen species (ros) are by-products of oxidative phosphorylation. 
PCSK9 inhibitors decrease plasma Lp(a) levels. [SEP] pcsk9 degrades low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl) receptors and subsequently increases serum ldl cholesterol. clinical trials show that inhibition of pcsk9 efficiently lowers ldl cholesterol levels and reduces cardiovascular events. the pharmacologic inhibition of proprotein convertase subtilisin-kexin type 9 (pcsk9) lowers lipoprotein (a) [lp(a)] concentrations. after adjusting for age, sex, estimated glomerular filtration rate, ldl cholesterol, and statin use, participants with versus without a pcsk9 lofv had a lower median lp(a) concentration [δ = -18.8 nmol/l (95% ci: -34.2, -3.3)]. among black adults, pcsk9 lofvs were associated with lower lp(a) concentration and oxpl-apob levels. pcsk9 (proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin 9) inhibitors have been shown to significantly reduce plasma lp(a) concentration. lp(a) was measured in 25 096 patients in the fourier trial (further cardiovascular outcomes research with pcsk9 inhibition in subjects with elevated risk), a randomized trial of evolocumab versus placebo in patients with established atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (median follow-up, 2.2 years). evolocumab significantly reduced lp(a) levels, and patients with higher baseline lp(a) levels experienced greater absolute reductions in lp(a) and tended to derive greater coronary benefit from pcsk9 inhibition. pcsk9 inhibitors decrease ldl-cholesterol by preventing intracellular degradation of ldl receptors; subsequently, a greater number of ldl-receptors are available on the cell surface to extract circulating ldl. inhibition of proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (pcsk9) reduces lipoprotein(a) [lp(a)] levels, but the association of pcsk9 with lp(a) level and its major determinant, apolipoprotein(a) [apo(a)] size, is not fully understood. 
PD-1 triggering on monocytes enhances IL-10 production by monocytes. [SEP] because human recombinant il-10 is a potent up-regulator of phagocytosis in human monocytes, we investigated whether spontaneously produced il-10 could be a signal for the modulation of phagocytosis by cultured monocytes. we show here that culture of monocytes in the presence of anti-il-10 mab completely abolished up-regulation of phagocytosis of both eigg and eigmc3bi, suggesting a role for spontaneously produced il-10 in the modulation of phagocytosis by cultured human monocytes. in addition, we showed that monocytes expressed immunoreactive il-10 on their surface and this expression increased during differentiation into macrophages. our data indicate that human mononuclear phagocytes express il-10 on their membrane and suggest that this cytokine may represent an autocrine signal for the increased phagocytic function observed during differentiation of monocytes into macrophages. il-10 mrna was detected in monocytes after 6 h co-culture with endothelial cells, and was sustained for up to 30 h. finally, il-10 significantly reduced the adhesion of monocytes to endothelium (45% reduction), which may account in part for the inhibitory actions of il-10. we conclude that il-10 has an anti-inflammatory effect on monocyte/endothelium interactions, and may itself be produced as a result of such interactions. il-10 affects monocytes and t cells by driving the progression of immune responsiveness such that th2 lymphocyte-mediated effects predominate. taken together these data indicated that human macrophages produced il-10 after triggering of the cd23 molecule and that this production could regulate the inflammatory state of these cells. monocytes and macrophages produce interleukin (il)-10, an immunoregulatory cytokine and a potent therapeutic tool for immune disorders. in this study we compare il-10 and il-6 signaling in primary human macrophages derived from blood monocytes. 
PGE 2 suppresss intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. [SEP] we concluded that nsaids inhibit the proliferation rate of the two colon cancer cell lines independent of their ability to inhibit pg synthesis. tumor suppressor genes and the immune system are critical players in inhibiting cancer initiation and/or progression. these data may lead to a better understanding of growth-suppressive effects on colonic epithelium, and may provide clues for identifying novel therapeutic and/or preventive molecular targets of colon cancer. trefoil factors (tffs) regulate mucosal repair and suppress tumor formation in the stomach. tff2 expression is frequently lost in gastric neoplasms, but the nature of the silencing mechanism and associated impact on tumorigenesis have not been determined. although aberrant dna methylation is considered to be one of the key ways by which tumor-suppressor and dna-repair genes are silenced during tumor initiation and progression, the mechanisms underlying dna methylation alterations in cancer remain unclear. here we show that prostaglandin e(2) (pge(2)) silences certain tumor-suppressor and dna-repair genes through dna methylation to promote tumor growth. these findings uncover a previously unrecognized role for pge(2) in the promotion of tumor progression. in the present study, we demonstrate that cox-2 expression and pge2 synthesis are up-regulated by an igf-ii/igf-i receptor autocrine pathway in caco-2 colon carcinoma cells. this study suggests that induction of proliferation and tumor progression of colon cancer cells by the igf-ii/igf-i receptor pathway may depend on the activation of cox-2-related events. 
PKG-la does not have a large impact on expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. [SEP] to assess the contribution of pka to injury-induced inflammation and pain, we evaluated nociceptive responses in mice that carry a null mutation in the gene that encodes the neuronal-specific isoform of the type i regulatory subunit (ribeta) of pka. acute pain indices did not differ in the ribeta pka mutant mice compared with wild-type controls. in contrast, indices of pain behavior produced by nerve injury were not altered in the mutant mice. these results demonstrate that substance p and/or substance k have essential functions in specific responses to pain. protein kinase c (pkc) is thought to have a role in sensitization of dorsal horn neurons in certain pain states, and a recent study has reported that mice which lack the gamma isoform (pkcgamma) show reduced neuropathic pain after peripheral nerve injury. here, mice lacking the prodynorphin gene were studied for sensitivity to non-noxious and noxious stimuli, before and after induction of experimental neuropathic pain. mice lacking the gene encoding for substance p and neurokinin a, or the nk-1 receptor, exhibit alterations in behavior to various acute nociceptive stimuli. however, behavioral responses of nk-1 mutant animals have not been well characterized in models of chronic pain. we studied the behavioral responses of nk-1 knockout and wild-type control mice to thermal and mechanical stimuli before and after inducing chronic neuropathic pain by unilateral ligation of the l5 spinal nerve. bpa-induced hypernociception was absent in b(1)r, but not in b(2)r, knock-out mice. 
PKG-la does not have a large impact on expression of spinal long term potentiation in PGK-la knockout mice. [SEP] it has been shown previously that mice lacking the brain-specific gamma subtype of pkc display abnormal long-term potentiation (ltp), whereas ordinary synaptic transmission is unaffected by the mutation. in mutant mice, phorbol ester-mediated potentiation is normal despite the absence of the major pkc isoform. our results demonstrate that the gamma isotype of pkc is not essential for phorbol ester-mediated synaptic facilitation, and place limitations on the possible roles of pkc in ltp. acute pain indices did not differ in the ribeta pka mutant mice compared with wild-type controls. in contrast, indices of pain behavior produced by nerve injury were not altered in the mutant mice. we have created a strain of mice that lacks the gamma subtype of pkc to evaluate the significance of this brain-specific pkc isozyme in synaptic plasticity. although plk2 is not required for postnatal growth, plk2(-/-) embryos show retarded growth and skeletal development late in gestation. long-term potentiation (ltp), a much studied cellular model of synaptic plasticity, has not been demonstrated at synapses between primary afferent c-fibers and spinal dorsal horn (dh) neurons in mice in vivo. but late-ltp and memory are maintained without pkmζ in pkmζ-null mice. conversely, a pkcι/λ-antagonist disrupts late-ltp and spatial memory in pkmζ-null mice but not in wild-type mice. 
PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of spinal long term potentiation in PGK-la knockout mice. [SEP] it has been shown previously that mice lacking the brain-specific gamma subtype of pkc display abnormal long-term potentiation (ltp), whereas ordinary synaptic transmission is unaffected by the mutation. pkcι/λ has been proposed to be crucial in the early expression of long-term potentiation (ltp). here, we further investigate the potential role of pkcι/λ in learning and memory by generating pkcι/λ conditional knockout mice specifically lacking pkcι/λ in the hippocampal ca1 pyramidal cells. further close-up observation reveals compensation for pkcι/λ expression by pkmζ in pkcι/λ cko mice. calcium-phospholipid-dependent protein kinase (pkc) has long been suggested to play an important role in modulating synaptic efficacy. we have created a strain of mice that lacks the gamma subtype of pkc to evaluate the significance of this brain-specific pkc isozyme in synaptic plasticity. genetic and electrophysiological experiments have defined an important role for camp-dependent protein kinase (pka) in certain forms of long-term potentiation (ltp). in the present study, we have used pka mutant mice (r(ab) transgenic mice), which have reduced pka activity in neurons within the hippocampus, to explore the role of temporal spacing of synaptic stimulation in regulating the pka-dependence of ltp. in a previous report, we compared the properties of lamina v neurons of the spinal cord dorsal horn in wild-type mice and in mice with a deletion of the preprotachykinin-a (ppt-a) gene, which encodes substance p (sp) and neurokinin a (nka). we have generated mice deficient in the gamma isoform of protein kinase c (pkc gamma), an enzyme that has previously been implicated in both long-term potentiation (ltp) and learning and memory. 
PRC1-bound plasmids sediment at a slower rate in unbound plasmids than in sucrose gradients. [SEP] para and parb decrease the loss frequencies of some low copy number plasmid vectors with pars inserts, as well as that of p1 itself, more than 100-fold. unexpectedly, we find that par proteins can actively destabilize other pars-plasmid constructs under similar conditions. this review summarises current information on rolling circle replicating plasmids originally isolated from gram-positive bacteria with a low guanine and cytosine content in their dna. the presence of r-plasmid rp1, as well as the conditions of growth, affected the surface hydrophobicity of a clinical isolate of proteus mirabilis. stationary phase plasmid-containing cells appeared to be less hydrophobic than plasmid-free cells when hydrophobicity was measured by the contact angle method, but more hydrophobic when measured by bacterial adherence to hydrocarbons or hydrophobic interaction chromatography. to see whether plasmid molecules in bacteria are equally partitioned or randomly distributed at cell division, the segregation properties of temperature sensitive replication mutants of the e. coli plasmid psc101 were tested at non-permissive temperature. bacterial plasmids of low copy number, p1 prophage among them, are actively partitioned to nascent daughter cells. we have studied the influence of sigma s on the stability and number of copies of the promiscuous plasmid pls1 in escherichia coli. our results indicate that pls1 is less stable and has a lower number of copies in a rpos mutant than in a wild-type strain during stationary phase. this behaviour does not seem to be due to differences in the expression of pls1 replication regulators, but to be related to plasmid topology. 
PTEN is a regulator for the transcriptional activity of SRF [SEP] pten plays crucial roles in various cellular processes, including cell survival, cell growth, cell proliferation, cell differentiation, and cell metabolism. notably, the regulatory role of pten in skeletal muscle stem cells has been recently reported. in this review, we mainly discuss the role of pten in regulating the development, glucose metabolism, stem cell fate decision, and regeneration of skeletal muscle. the regulatory mechanism of pten protein is still not completely understood. overexpression of sirt4 in cells causes down-regulation of pten. thus, the regulation of pten's subcellular localization seems to be critical to its tumor-suppressing functions. taken together, our findings strongly indicate that activation of the pi3k/akt/mtor/s6k cascade, specifically s6k1/2, is pivotal in regulating the subcellular localization of pten. pten is a tumor suppressor gene characterized as a phosphatase that antagonizes the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling pathway in the cytoplasm. the pten tumour suppressor gene is induced by the early growth response 1 (egr1) transcription factor, which also transactivates p53, p73, and p300/cbp as well as other proapoptotic and anti-cancer genes. these results also explain the known negative feedback regulation by pten on its own synthesis through pi3 kinase inhibition. 
Participants who quit smoking reduce lung cancer risk by approximately 50%. [SEP] smoking cessation reduces lung cancer mortality and delays overall deaths versus screening only across all assumptions. for example, if screening was used by 30% of screen-eligible individuals born in 1950, adding an intervention with a 10% quit probability reduces lung cancer deaths by 14% and increases life years gained by 81% compared with screening alone. smoking cessation interventions have the potential to greatly enhance the impact of lung cancer screening programs. smoking cessation is the most effective strategy for slowing down the progression of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) and reducing mortality in the approximately 50% of patients with diagnosed copd who continue to smoke. a 50% reduction in the cancer mortality rate can be achieved by the year 2000. smoking cessation broadens the impact of any lung cancer screening program well beyond the endpoints of cancer diagnosis and cancer mortality to reduce risk from many other diseases, and can positively impact many more patients than the small percentage that have cancer. smoking cessation is crucial for reducing cancer risk and premature mortality. however, in this review, the authors summarize the sufficient evidence on the benefits of smoking cessation and the efficacy of smoking-cessation interventions for smokers ages 55 to 77 years to provide smoking-cessation interventions for smokers who seek lung cancer screening. epidemiological studies showed that stopping smoking substantially decreases the risk of lung cancer. results indicated a clear reduction of risk for endometrial cancer among women aged 50 years and older who smoke cigarettes. 
Patients in stable partnerships have a slower progression from HIV to AIDS. [SEP] even in patients with progressive disease, a slow cd4 count decline characterizes the chronic phase of hiv-2 infection, suggesting that peripheral t-cell homeostasis is controlled better following hiv-2 infection than following hiv-1 infection. clinical question does treating the hiv-infected partner in a serodiscordant couple reduce the risk of hiv transmission to the uninfected partner? bottom line compared with serodiscordant couples without treatment, couples in which the infected partner is treated with antiretroviral therapy have a lower risk of hiv transmission. hiv-2 infection features a much slower course than hiv-1 infection, often asymptomatic for over 20 years, without antiretroviral therapy (art). antiretroviral-treated individuals with drug-resistant hiv experience slower cd4 cell count declines than untreated individuals, independent of degree of viremia. patients on antiretroviral treatment with undetectable hiv rna levels have a significantly lower risk of clinical disease progression and onward hiv transmission. due to this, more and more people with hiv live longer and healthier lives. the study found that those who are on art were at lower risk of using condom inconsistently as compared to the art naïve patients living with hiv. in this pilot study consisting of patients who initiated cart during primary hiv-1 infection and had <50 hiv-1 rna copies/ml for at least 48 weeks, monotherapy with once-daily dolutegravir was noninferior to cart. in the artemis and titan trials of protease inhibitor-based haart, patients with earlier hiv rna suppression (hiv rna <50 copies/ml less than 12 weeks after starting antiretrovirals) had similar rates of long-term hiv rna undetectability to patients with later hiv rna suppression (hiv rna <50 copies/ml after 12-24 weeks). 
Patients in stable partnerships progress from HIV to death at the same rate as patients not in partnerships. [SEP] we estimated long-term progression-free survival after hiv seroconversion and aimed to identify factors associated with loss of long-term non-progression (ltnp) status. long-term survival of hiv-1 infected individuals is usually achieved by continuous administration of combination antiretroviral therapy (art). most new hiv infections in sub-saharan africa now occur in married and cohabiting couples, many of whom do not realize that only one of them may be infected with hiv. hiv-negative individuals living in stable hiv-discordant partnerships (in which one partner is hiv-infected while the other one is not) are twice as likely to get infected with hiv as those living in concordant hiv-negative relationships. most of these patients have detectable levels of viremia and eventually will progress to aids. studies of hiv-serodiscordant couples in stable sexual relationships have provided convincing evidence that antiretroviral therapy can prevent the transmission of hiv. results from several observational studies of hiv-discordant couples and a randomized controlled trial (hiv prevention trials network 052) show that antiretroviral therapy (art) can greatly reduce heterosexual hiv transmission in stable hiv-discordant couples. progression rates from initial hiv-1 infection to advanced aids vary significantly among infected individuals. long-term nonprogressors or slow progressors may remain asymptomatic and have normal cd4 counts despite more than a decade of untreated hiv infection. in contrast, rapid progressors develop aids within 5 years. 
Patients with common epithelial cancers  are more likely to have an emergency event as their first hospital admission if they live in resource-deprived areas. [SEP] patients with cancer frequently present to hospital as an emergency admission acutely unwell. patients with lung cancer and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) are frequently admitted to hospital as emergency cases. people with cancer attend emergency departments (eds) for many reasons. we have identified demographic (men, black race), clinical (lung cancer), and environmental (low socioeconomic status, no palliative care) factors associated with an increased risk of emergency department attendance. reliance on emergency departments (eds) by economically disadvantaged people for initial cancer diagnosis in place of primary care and early diagnosis and treatment is 1 obvious plausible explanation for cancer disparities. the proportion of initial cancer diagnoses associated with hospital admissions through the ed was relatively high (32%) for all safety net hospital patients, but disproportionately higher for african americans and residents of the impoverished urban core. cancers diagnosed following visits to emergency departments (ed) or emergency admissions (emergency presentations) are associated with poor survival and may result from preventable diagnostic delay. patients diagnosed with cancer by the emergency route often have more advanced diseases and poorer outcomes. this cross-sectional observational study determined the incidence of first-ever diagnoses of cancer by emergency (unplanned) admission and identified patient-level risk factors for these diagnoses in england. a much lower incidence of first-ever cancer diagnoses by emergency admission was found compared with previous studies. 
Patients with common epithelial cancers are less likely to have an emergency event as their first hospital admission if they live in resource-deprived areas. [SEP] a significant proportion of lung cancer patients are first diagnosed as part of an emergency presentation (ep) to acute medical services. many patients with cancer are diagnosed through an emergency presentation, which is associated with inferior clinical and patient-reported outcomes compared with those of patients who are diagnosed electively or through screening. consistent inequalities in the risk of emergency presentations by patient characteristics and cancer type have been described, but limited evidence is available on whether, and how, such presentations can be prevented. cancer patients in lower socioeconomic groups are significantly less likely to die at home and experience more barriers to access to palliative care. few studies have examined outcomes for uninsured patients with cancer histories in free clinics, but research examining socioeconomic determinants emphasizes poor cancer outcomes for patients with lower socioeconomic statuses (ses).demographic data and chronic disease measures were extracted from medical charts of patients treated in 8 free clinics in 2016 in tampa bay. patients diagnosed with cancer by the emergency route often have more advanced diseases and poorer outcomes. a much lower incidence of first-ever cancer diagnoses by emergency admission was found compared with previous studies. diagnosis of cancer through emergency presentation is associated with poorer prognosis. there was evidence (p<0.05) of reductions in the risk of emergency presentations for most (28/33) cancer sites, without apparent associations between the size of reduction and baseline risk (p=0.26). the proportion of cancer diagnoses through emergency presentation is decreasing but age and deprivation inequalities prevail, indicating untapped opportunities for further improvements by reducing these inequalities. 
Patients with microcytosis and higher erythrocyte count are more vulnerable to severe malarial anaemia when infected with Plasmodium falciparum. [SEP] p. falciparum exclusively infects human erythrocytes during clinical illness, and several natural erythrocyte polymorphisms are protective against severe malaria. the most severe manifestations of malaria (caused by plasmodium falciparum) occur as a direct result of parasitemia following invasion of erythrocytes by post-liver blood-stage merozoites, and during subsequent cyto-adherence of infected erythrocytes to the vascular endothelium. an infection with plasmodium falciparum may lead to severe malaria as a result of excessive binding of infected erythrocytes in the microvasculature. malaria infection in humans by plasmodium species is associated with a reduction in haemoglobin levels, frequently leading to anaemia. plasmodium falciparum causes the most severe and profound anaemia, with a significant risk of death. in this review, clara menendez, alan fleming and pedro alonso focus on recent advances in our knowledge of the pathophysiology, epidemiology, management and prevention of anaemia from falciparum malaria. cytoadherance of plasmodium falciparum-infected erythrocytes in the brain, organs and peripheral microvasculature is linked to morbidity and mortality associated with severe malaria. anaemia involves red blood cell lysis due to parasite invasion, as well as mechanisms of intravascular haemolysis and decreased erythropoiesis. plasmodium falciparum causes the severe form of malaria that has high levels of mortality in humans. adherence of erythrocytes infected with mature asexual plasmodium falciparum parasites (irbc) to microvascular endothelial cells contributes to the pathology of p. falciparum malaria. 
Patients with microcytosis and higher erythrocyte count were more resistant to severe malarial anaemia when infected with Plasmodium falciparum. [SEP] erythrocytes from humans with melanesian elliptocytosis are resistant to invasion by plasmodium falciparum in vitro and epidemiological evidence suggests they may be resistant to p. vivax and p. malariae. malaria has been a major selective force on the human population, and several erythrocyte polymorphisms have evolved that confer resistance to severe malaria. we hypothesized that blood group o may confer resistance to severe falciparum malaria through the mechanism of reduced rosetting. plasmodium falciparum infecting hemoglobin (hb)h and/or hb constant spring erythrocytes has higher resistance to artemisinin in vitro than when infecting normal erythrocytes. we hypothesized that hemoglobinopathic erythrocytes reduce the intraerythrocytic multiplication of p. falciparum, potentially delaying the development of life-threatening parasite densities until parasite clearing immunity is achieved. here, in the light of recent observations, the importance of anemia for p. falciparum is emphasized, suggesting that among populations at risk for malaria, the subgroup of anemic patients may be preferential amplifiers of the plasmodial cycle. hemoglobinopathies have a protective role in malaria that appears to be related to alterations in red blood cell (rbc) properties. thalassemic rbcs infected with plasmodium falciparum showed greatly reduced cytoadherence and rosetting properties as well as impaired growth and multiplication. the protection afforded by human erythrocyte polymorphisms against the malaria parasite, plasmodium falciparum, has been proposed to be due to reduced ability of the parasite to invade or develop in erythrocytes. this contrasts with data for sickle cell trait and highlights that the above-mentioned polymorphisms may confer protection against malaria via distinct mechanisms. 
Patients with panic anxiety show decreased CSF levels of hypocretin. [SEP] cerebrospinal fluid (csf) hypocretin-1 (hcrt-1) concentrations are low in patients with narcolepsy-cataplexy, a sleep disorder characterized by hypersomnolence and rapid eye movement (rem) sleep abnormalities. undetectable cerebrospinal fluid hypocretin-1 levels are seen in narcolepsy, which is frequently associated with secondary depression. cerebrospinal fluid hypocretin-1 levels have not been reported in mood disorders. we examined hypocretin-1 levels in 14 control and 15 depressed subjects. mean hypocretin levels trended higher in depressive than in control subjects. hypocretin-1 levels decreased modestly but significantly after sertraline (-14%) but not bupropion. the finding that sertraline but not bupropion slightly decreased cerebrospinal fluid hypocretin-1 indicates a serotoninergic influence on hypocretin tone. the majority of patients with narcolepsy-cataplexy were reported to have very low cerebrospinal fluid (csf) hypocretin-1 (orexin-a) levels. in this study, we found that csf hypocretin levels in the patients with obstructive sleep apnea syndrome were within the control range. the low hypocretin levels seem to reflect only the presence of cataplexy and dr2 positive in narcoleptics but not eds itself. 
Pediatric SCD patients with vaso-occlusive crisis show increased morphine use after breathing 80 ppm iNO for 4 hours. [SEP] opioids are frequently used for sedation in the paediatric intensive care unit (picu). the purpose of this review is to explore the effects of the opioid crisis on pediatric patients in the postoperative setting and provide recommendations for well-tolerated opioid prescribing practices. opiate intravenous infusions are the therapy of choice in severe pain. introduction  opioid overdose is increasingly becoming common and so is the need for invasive mechanical ventilation (imv) for opioid overdose admissions in hospitalized patients. conclusion the prevalence of opioid overdose and the need for imv increased over the five-year study period, reflecting an increase in the relatively high in-hospital mortality of opioid overdose patients on imv. a 15-year-old boy died during a vaso-occlusive sickle cell crisis after having received a prolonged infusion of morphine. opioids are commonly administered to critically ill children for analgesia and sedation, but many patients experience opioid withdrawal upon discontinuation. the authors' institution developed a protocol for using methadone to prevent opioid withdrawal in children who have received morphine by continuous iv infusion for 5 days or longer in the pediatric intensive care unit (picu). a retrospective analysis of charts was conducted for pediatric patients who had received morphine by continuous iv infusion for 5 days or longer followed by methadone in the picu between may 2008 and august 2009. there is increasing awareness of the risk of prolonged duration of mechanical ventilation as a consequence of morphine use leading to ventilator-associated pneumonia, extended picu and hospital length of stay and increased morbidity and mortality. 
Perigenital skin is not the primary site of HIV acquisition. [SEP] the patient did not experience an eruption on the palmar or plantar surfaces, which is rare. epithelial cells in human cervical and colonic mucosa do not express hiv receptor. however, hiv transmission occurs across the unbreached epithelia by an unknown mechanism. our results showed there were no significant changes in the distribution and quantities of epithelial tj/adherens junction (aj) proteins after exposure to hiv. furthermore, hiv transmission may not occur through epithelial tj/aj disruption. cutaneous manifestations of hiv infections in childhood are common but are not the dermatologic lesions associated with hiv infection in adults. hiv transcripts were not detected in normal appearing skin from hiv-infected patients or in psoriatic and normal skin biopsies from uninfected individuals (p = 0.006). vesiculobullous disease in association with hiv infection is extremely rare. the clinical characteristics and response to therapy appear not to be modified by coexistent hiv infection. the central umbilications of lesions are therefore not necessarily related to acrotrichia. 
Peroxynitrite is required for induction of T cell tolerance. [SEP] peroxynitrite (onoo(-)), the product of nitric oxide (no(radical)) and superoxide (o(2)(-radical)), is believed to be a major contributor to immunotoxicity when produced by activated cells expressing inducible nitric oxide synthase (inos). peroxynitrite, the reaction product between superoxide (o(*2)) and nitric oxide (*no), is a powerful oxidizing species that contributes to macrophage competence against pathogens. in this context, peroxynitrite appears to play an important role in controlling infection by trypanosoma cruzi, the unicellular parasite responsible for chagas disease. on the other hand, pretreatment of t. cruzi with diamide, which leads to a significant depletion (>70%) of dihydrotrypanothione, largely increases the extent of cellular nitration and inhibition of cell growth caused by peroxynitrite. to further analyze this, we focused on no's major metabolite peroxynitrite (onoo(-)) and its ability to affect plt immunity. peroxynitrite (onoo⁻) formation may trigger oxidative/nitrative stress and represent a major cytotoxic effect in cerebral ischemia. peroxynitrite donor sin-1 not only blocked the neuronal protection of rhtrx-1 but also markedly attenuated rhtrx-1-induced antioxidative/antinitrative effect. peroxynitrite (onoo-) is a physiological product generated by the interaction of superoxide (o2.-) and nitric oxide (.no). we have previously shown that peroxynitrite induces apoptosis in hl-60 cells. in the present study, we demonstrated that peroxynitrite generates reactive oxygen species (ros) in hl-60 cells. 
Persister cells provide relapse resistance in cancer patients. [SEP] emerging evidence implicates a key role for non-mutational drug resistance mechanisms underlying the survival of residual cancer 'persister' cells. the persister cell pool constitutes a reservoir from which drug-resistant tumours may emerge. targeting persister cells therefore presents a therapeutic opportunity to impede tumour relapse. here we show that a similar therapy-resistant cell state underlies the behaviour of persister cells derived from a wide range of cancers and drug treatments. tumors consist of heterogeneous cell populations that contain cancer cell subpopulations with anticancer drug-resistant properties called "persister" cells. tumor recurrence is a leading cause of death and is thought to arise from a population of residual cells that survive treatment. therefore, understanding the pathways that regulate residual cancer cell survival may suggest opportunities for targeting these cells to prevent recurrence. we previously described a chromatin-mediated subpopulation of reversibly drug-tolerant persisters that is dynamically maintained within a wide variety of tumour cell populations. therefore, targeting persister cells presents a therapeutic opportunity to prevent drug resistance and impede tumor relapse. we showed that a similar therapy-resistant cell state underlies the behavior of persister cells derived from sorafenib treatments with reversible, nonmutational mechanisms. 
Persistor cells are one reason for incomplete responses to Tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy in cancer patients. [SEP] tyrosine-kinase inhibitor (tki) therapy for human cancers is not curative, and relapse occurs owing to the continued presence of tumor cells, referred to as minimal residual disease (mrd). treatment failures in cancers, including multiple myeloma (mm), are most likely due to the persistence of a minor population of tumor-initiating cells (tics), which are noncycling or slowly cycling and very drug resistant. a major drawback of tyrosine kinase inhibitor (tki) treatment in chronic myeloid leukemia (cml) is that primitive cml cells are able to survive tki-mediated bcr-abl inhibition, leading to disease persistence in patients. an increasingly recognized component of resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tki) involves persistence of a drug-tolerant subpopulation of cancer cells that survive despite effective eradication of the majority of the cell population. resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tkis) has many facets. resistance to imatinib calls without exceptions for a second-generation tki. resistance to targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tki) remains a challenge for the treatment of myeloid leukemias. despite the success of tyrosine kinase inhibitor (tki) therapy in chronic myelogenous leukemia (cml), leukemic stem/progenitor cells remain detectable even in the state of deep molecular remission. some chronic myeloid leukemia (cml) patients treated with tyrosine kinase inhibitor (tki) do not respond or relapse. long-term treatment using protein tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tkis), such as gefitinib and imatinib, gives rise to resistant cancer cells carrying a drug-resistant gatekeeper mutation in the kinase domain of the respective target genes, egfr and bcr-abl. 
Pharmacist attendance at ward rounds increases adverse events in wards. [SEP] background medication communication and prescribing on the post-take ward round following patient admission to hospital can be suboptimal leading to worse patient outcomes. objective to evaluate the impact of clinical pharmacist participation on the post-take ward round on the appropriateness of medication prescribing, medication communication, and overall patient health care outcomes. method a pre-post intervention study was undertaken that compared the addition of a senior clinical pharmacist attending the post-take ward was compared to usual wardbase pharmacist service, with no pharmacist present of the post-take ward round. conclusion clinical pharmacist participation on the post-take ward round leads to improved medication-related communication and improved medication appropriateness but did not significantly improve health care outcomes. two hospital pharmacists carried out the recognition of medications taken at hospital ward admission, and interacted with the clinicians in a process of drug reconciliation, using also the computerized support system to evaluate drug related problems, prescription inappropriateness or drug-drug interactions. this interventional prospective study based upon the integrated expertise of hospital pharmacists and clinicians confirms that drug-related problems are frequent in multimorbid older patients acutely admitted to hospital medical wards, and demonstrates afresh the feasibility and mutual acceptance of a trajectory of recognition/reconciliation based upon an integrated collaboration between hospital pharmacists and ward clinicians in the process of medication optimization. medication orders were charted by the medical staff in the usual care arm, whereas the pharmacist charted the medications in the intervention arm. time evaluation estimated that the pharmacist can save more than 30 min per patient for the admitting medical officers. polypharmacy increases the risk of potentially inappropriate prescribing. logistic regression was used to analyze the association of patient demographic and clinical characteristics including patients' number of pre-admission prescription medications, pharmacies, prescribing physicians and medication changes; and presentation of medication bottles or lists. 
Pharmacist attendance at ward rounds reduces adverse events in wards. [SEP] an evaluation of a ward pharmacy service showed: 1. to measure the effect of pharmacist participation on medical rounds in the icu on the rate of preventable adverse drug events (ades) caused by ordering errors. the presence of a pharmacist on rounds as a full member of the patient care team in a medical icu was associated with a substantially lower rate of ades caused by prescribing errors. a drug surveillance programme involving pharmacists in a general medical ward has been shown to reduce the number of drugs prescribed to patients and also to reduce the number of dispensing errors. the evidence presented suggests that continuing involvement of pharmacists in patient care at the ward level is required to maintain the improved prescribing habits. clinical pharmacist's activity can enhance drug therapy's effectiveness and safety through pharmacotherapy interventions (pis), thus minimizing drug-related problems (drps) and optimizing the allocation of financial resources associated with health care. it has been reported that medicines reconciliation provided by pharmacists is effective in minimizing the chances of hospital admissions related to adverse drug events. pharmacists-led interventions were effective in reducing medication discrepancies. computerised physician order entry (cpoe) and the integration of a pharmacist in clinical wards have been shown to prevent drug related problems (drps). the institute of medicine's report to err is human: building a safer health system recommends pharmacist participation in patient rounds as an immediate approach to reducing medical errors. 
Phase information is useful for predicting donor-recipient matches in organ transplantation. [SEP] organ donor characteristics can be used to predict outcomes in kidney transplantation. we hypothesized that pancreas donation status could reflect organ quality and be predictive of kidney graft outcomes following standard criteria donor (scd) kidney transplantation. we consider prediction of graft survival when a kidney from a deceased donor is transplanted into a recipient, with a focus on the variation of survival with degree of human leukocyte antigen (hla) mismatch. the ability to accurately predict the response of a specific patient to a specific organ allograft has long been a goal of organ transplantation. the ability to predict which recipients will successfully complete their posttransplant clinical course, which is crucial for liver transplant (lt) programs. predicting the survival of heart-lung transplant patients has the potential to play a critical role in understanding and improving the matching procedure between the recipient and graft. the main objective of this study is to improve the prediction of outcomes following combined heart-lung transplantation by proposing an integrated data-mining methodology. we sought to build prediction models for organ transplantation and recipient survival using both biomarkers and clinical information. the proposed validated model is a valuable tool to optimize present allocation rules with the goal to prevent transplant futility. it might be used to support donor organ acceptance decisions for individual recipients. 
Physical activity does not improve cognitive function in individuals with Alzheimers. [SEP] lack of physical activity contributes to many chronic diseases that occur in older adults, including heart disease, stroke, diabetes mellitus, lung disease, alzheimer disease, hypertension, and cancer. the physical and mental benefits of exercise are universally recognized, but seldom available to persons with early to moderate stage dementia. difficulty in initiating and maintaining purposeful behavior, coupled with the inability to travel independently, preclude most community-dwelling dementia sufferers from accessing organized fitness programs. the physical and mental benefits of exercise are widely known but seldom available to persons suffering from alzheimer's disease. forty alzheimer elderly subjects were enrolled in two groups; the first group received treadmill aerobic exercise, while the second group was considered as a control group and received no training intervention for two months. physical activity shows promise for reduced risk of alzheimer's disease (ad) and protection against cognitive decline among individuals with and without ad. the physical and mental benefits of exercise are widely known but seldom available to persons suffering from alzheimer's disease (ad). physical activity levels among most older adults are insufficient to confer health benefits. this study examines possible associations between cognitive impairment and exercise, cognitive activities, and socialization. exercise was associated with a lower risk of cognitive impairment at 10-year follow-up but was not significant at 5-year follow-up. 
Physical activity level has no association with the difference in maximal oxygen consumption between black and white youth. [SEP] in the children physical activity was not correlated with serum lipid and lipoprotein levels. the results suggest that increased habitual physical activity may have a favorable effect on serum lipid and lipoprotein levels in black adolescents. little information is available regarding the relative effectiveness of various treadmill exercise protocols in eliciting maximal oxygen consumption (vo2 max) values in children. in this study of 10- to 12-year-old boys, running protocols produced significantly higher vo2 max levels compared with walking, but there were no important differences in continuous, intermittent, and handrail-supported running schedules. in this population, multi-level modelling analyses found no correlation between accelerometer recorded physical activity and fasting lipids, adiponectin, or insulin sensitivity. time spent in moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (mvpa), but not in sedentary behavior (sb), is related to cardiometabolic risk among non-hispanic white youth. boys were more active than girls (p<0.001), and physical activity levels and guideline concordance decreased with age (p<0.001). it has been demonstrated that there are no sex differences in the oxygen uptake (v(. sex differences in the kinetic response to heavy-intensity exercise were identified and suggest that during the prepubertal years, sex differences exist in the ability to deliver and/or utilise oxygen in children. no study regarding daily physical activity and fitness in children has been published, where fitness has been assessed by direct measurement of maximum oxygen uptake and related to daily physical activity intensities by accelerometers. 
Physical activity level is associated with the difference in maximal oxygen consumption between black and white youth. [SEP] the purpose of this investigation was to determine whether maximal oxygen consumption (vo2max) differed between two selected groups of black and white children and whether a difference existed to determine whether it was related to hematologic profiles, body composition, and/or physical activity/inactivity level. black prepubertal and pubertal children had lower vo2max values when compared with white children (28.8 +/- 7.8 versus 35.0 +/- 6.5 ml . in conclusion, these findings indicate that black prepubertal and pubertal children had lower vo2max when compared with their white peers matched for age, pubertal stage, and body mass index. this difference in vo2max could be attributed at least in part to comparatively lower [hb] and more sedentary lifestyle in the black children. the purpose of this investigation was to determine whether maximal oxygen consumption (vo2max) differed between clinically obese black and white children and if a difference existed to determine whether it was related to hematological profiles and/or physical activity/inactivity levels. black participants had significantly lower vo2max and vo2maxffm values when compared with white adolescents (26.1 +/- 4.2 versus 29.9 +/- 3.1 ml . black adolescents were more physically inactive than their white peers. obese black adolescents had lower vo2max compared with white children and this difference was explained, in part, by the lower [hb] observed in the black participants. we examined the effects of aerobic fitness and race on the diurnal rhythm of blood pressure of 175 healthy adolescents who performed a cycle ergometer maximal exercise test while oxygen consumption was measured. less-fit black boys also had higher systolic pressures than less-fit white boys while awake (114; p less than 0.002) and asleep (105; p less than 0.001), and they had higher systolic pressures than more-fit white boys while asleep (105; p less than 0.01). 
Physical injury represses transgultaminase activity. [SEP] tristetraprolin (ttp) is an rna-binding protein and an essential factor of posttranscriptional repression of cytokine biosynthesis in macrophages. however, the precise mechanism of this repression is unknown. after heat treatment, human t lymphocytes downregulate the t-cell receptor (tcr)/cd3-mediated [ca(2+)](i) response and production of inositol triphosphate. here we demonstrate that heat treatment of t lymphocytes at sublethal temperature decreases the expression of tcr zeta chain, which plays a critical role in the regulation of tcr/cd3-mediated signal transduction. downregulation of tcr zeta chain in heat-treated t cells was observed at 8 h and reached a maximum at 16 h. under these conditions, the expression of cd3 epsilon or tcr alphabeta chains was minimally affected. consistent with the decrease in tcr zeta chain, a reduction in the level of tcr/cd3 induced tyrosine phosphorylation of several cellular protein substrates, and a delay in the kinetics of peak tyrosine phosphorylation was observed in heat-treated t cells. in addition, the mrna level of tcr zeta chain was reduced in heat-treated t cells. correlative with the downregulation of tcr zeta chain mrna, the level of the tcr zeta chain transcription factor elf-1 was also reduced in heat-treated cells. we conclude that heat stress causes a decrease in the level of tcr zeta chain by increasing its association with the membranes and decreasing the transcription of the tcr zeta gene. we tested the hypothesis that myostatin mrna expression would decrease after resistance loading (rl) with a blunted response in older (o) females (f) who have shown minimal hypertrophy [vs. males (m)] after long-term rl. 
Piezo1 channels are sensors for cell migration in epithelial cells. [SEP] the piezo1 channel mediates mechanoelectrical transduction and regulates crucial physiological processes, including vascular architecture and remodeling, cell migration, and erythrocyte volume. piezo channels transduce mechanical stimuli into electrical and chemical signals to powerfully influence development, tissue homeostasis, and regeneration. although piezo1 channels diffuse readily in the plasma membrane and are widely distributed across the cell, their flicker activity is enriched near force-producing adhesions. piezo1 is a mechanosensitive ion channel that facilitates the translation of extracellular mechanical cues to intracellular molecular signaling cascades through a process termed, mechanotransduction. piezo1 ion channels mediate the conversion of mechanical forces into electrical signals and are critical for responsiveness to touch in metazoans. the apparent mechanical sensitivity of piezo1 varies substantially across cellular environments, stimulating methods and protocols, raising the fundamental questions of what precise physical stimulus activates the channel and how its stimulus sensitivity is regulated. we find that piezo1 responds to lateral membrane tension with exquisite sensitivity as compared to other mechanically activated channels and that resting tension can drive channel inactivation, thereby tuning overall mechanical sensitivity of piezo1. our results explain how piezo1 can function efficiently and with adaptable sensitivity as a sensor of mechanical stimulation in diverse cellular contexts. piezo1 is a mechanosensitive (ms) nonselective cationic channel that occurs in endothelial and vascular smooth muscle cells. piezo proteins have recently been identified as ion channels mediating mechanosensory transduction in mammalian cells. 
Pioglitazone use is not associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer. [SEP] bisphosphonate use was not associated with the risk of female breast, ovarian, or cervical cancer. the results according to bisphosphonate type or concurrent drug uses were not associated with the cancer risk. our study showed no significant associations between bisphosphonate exposure and female breast, cervical, and ovarian cancer. in a prospective study of 10,011 men with 815 prostate cancer cases, despite plausible biological mechanisms, neither increasing intake levels of dairy products nor calcium from dairy products (p trend; 0.23 and 0.64, respectively), or calcium supplements was associated with prostate cancer risk (relative risk, 1.05; 95% confidence interval, 0.84-1.31). a recent meta-analysis showed that aspirin was associated with reduced prostate cancer risk. as anti-inflammatory medications lower psa levels, whether these findings reflect reduced prostate cancer detection or lower prostate cancer risk is unknown. use of nsaids or nsaids and aspirin was not associated with total, low-grade, or high-grade prostate cancer, though all ors were <1 (all p ≥ 0.08). among men with a negative biopsy, aspirin and/or nsaid use was associated with decreased prostate cancer risk. we have previously reported no association between statin use and prostate cancer in our hospital-based case control surveillance study. the present results do not support a protective effect of statin use, or statin and nsaid use, on the risk of advanced prostate cancer. 
Pioglitazone use is significantly associated with an increased risk of pancreatic cancer. [SEP] the question of whether pioglitazone, an antidiabetic drug, increases the risk of cancer has been debated for some time. recent studies have shown that pioglitazone use can increase the risk of prostate cancer as well as pancreatic cancer. however, it is unclear whether pioglitazone is a causal risk factor for these cancers. pioglitazone is likely to be a causal risk factor for prostate cancer and pancreatic cancer, so this drug should be used with caution. patients with chronic pancreatitis have a markedly increased risk of pancreatic cancer compared with general population. we sought to determine the association between ppi therapy and the risk of developing pancreatic cancer as well as survival following pancreatic cancer diagnosis. adjusting for diabetes, smoking, alcohol use and bmi, ppi users including both former users and active users with longer cumulative ppi use had a higher risk of pancreatic cancer compared to non-users. long-term ppi therapy may be associated with pancreatic cancer risk. since then, the risk of bladder cancer associated with pioglitazone use has been a serious concern. today, the increased risk of bladder cancer associated with pioglitazone seems to be real, but the absolute risk is relatively low. 
Pioglitazone use is significantly associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer. [SEP] the question of whether pioglitazone, an antidiabetic drug, increases the risk of cancer has been debated for some time. recent studies have shown that pioglitazone use can increase the risk of prostate cancer as well as pancreatic cancer. however, it is unclear whether pioglitazone is a causal risk factor for these cancers. pioglitazone is likely to be a causal risk factor for prostate cancer and pancreatic cancer, so this drug should be used with caution. since then, the risk of bladder cancer associated with pioglitazone use has been a serious concern. today, the increased risk of bladder cancer associated with pioglitazone seems to be real, but the absolute risk is relatively low. we conducted a meta-analysis to determine if any link between the use of pioglitazone and an increased risk of bladder cancer can be found. clinical trials have suggested potential cardiovascular outcome benefits in association with pioglitazone; however, safety concerns are mounting, with recent data suggesting a link between pioglitazone and an increased risk of bladder cancer. the use of pioglitazone, a thiazolidinedione (tzd), may increase the risk of bladder cancer in patients with type 2 diabetes. risk of bladder cancer also increased with increasing time since initiation of pioglitazone (p (trend) < .001) and rosiglitazone (p (trend) = .006). 
Pioneer factor OCT3/4 interacts with major chromatin remodeling factors. [SEP] here, we profile oct4 occupancy, epigenetic changes, and gene expression in reprogramming. we find that oct4 binds in a hierarchical manner to target sites with primed epigenetic modifications. collectively, our results provide a comprehensive molecular roadmap of oct4 binding in concert with epigenetic rearrangements and rich resources for future reprogramming studies. oct4 is a master transcription factor that regulates the pluripotency of pluripotent stem cells and cancer stem cells along with other factors, including sox2, klf4, and c-myc. pioneer transcription factors are a special group of transcription factors that can interact with nucleosomal dna and initiate regulatory events. differentiation of lineage-committed cells from multipotent progenitors requires the establishment of accessible chromatin at lineage-specific transcriptional enhancers and promoters, which is mediated by pioneer transcription factors that recruit activating chromatin remodeling complexes. understanding the target regulation between pioneer factor and its binding genes is crucial for improving the efficiency of tf-mediated reprogramming. the dynamic profiles of pioneer factor oct4-binding showed that the major wave occurs at the intermediate stage of cell reprogramming (from day 7 to day 15), and the promoter is the preferred targeting regions. our study will provide new insights into the cooperative regulation of spatial binding pattern of pioneer factors in cell reprogramming. notably, we found that oct4 is associated with multiple chromatin-modifying complexes with documented as well as newly proved functional significance in stem cell maintenance and somatic cell reprogramming. 
Polymeal nutrition increases cardiovascular mortality. [SEP] the soaring prevalence of obesity and diabetes is associated with an increase in comorbidities, including elevated risk for cardiovascular diseases (cvds). as modern humans continue to live under extended periods of wakefulness and ingestion events, daily eating pattern offers a new potential target for lifestyle intervention to reduce cvd risk. suboptimal diet quality is responsible for a greater percentage of cvd-related morbidity and mortality than any other modifiable risk factor. cardiovascular disease (cvd) is the leading cause of death in many developed countries and remains one of the major diseases strongly affected by the diet. nutrition can affect cvd directly by contributing to the accumulation of vascular plaques and also indirectly by regulating the rate of aging. this review summarizes research on nutrition and cvd incidence based on a multipillar system that includes basic research focused on aging, epidemiological studies, clinical studies, and studies of centenarians. the most harmful consequences of an incorrect diet leading to overweight or obesity are a series of cardio-vascular diseases often leading to disability and death. it underlines the importance of choosing certain types of foods over others, their beneficial physiological effects on the human body and how they can reduce the risk of heart disease and cancer. protein-energy malnutrition (pem) is common in connection with chronic disease and is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. because the risk of pem is related to the degree of illness, the causal connections between malnutrition and a poorer prognosis are complex. 
Post-transcriptional handling of mitochondrial transcripts occurs in mitochondrial RNA granules. [SEP] within the mitochondrial matrix, newly synthesized rna, rna processing proteins and mitoribosome assembly factors form punctate sub-compartments referred to as mitochondrial rna granules (mrgs)1-3. in mammalian mitochondria, messenger rna is processed and matured from large primary transcripts in structures known as rna granules. most mitochondrial proteins are nuclear-encoded and imported into the mitochondria through post-translational or co-translational processes. in the latter case, mrnas are found to be enriched in the vicinity of mitochondria. most steps on the biogenesis of the mitochondrial ribosome (mitoribosome) occur near the mitochondrial dna nucleoid, in rna granules, which contain dedicated rna metabolism and mitoribosome assembly factors. here, we discuss the recently characterized "mitochondrial rna granules," mitochondrial subdomains with an emerging role in the regulation of gene expression. several steps of mitochondrial rna processing and maturation, including rna post-transcriptional modification, appear to be spatially organized into distinct foci, which we have previously termed mitochondrial rna granules (mrgs). in mammalian mitochondria, post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression is conducted by mitochondrial rbps (mt-rbps) at various stages of mt-rna metabolism, including polycistronic transcript production, its processing into individual transcripts, mt-rna modifications, stability, translation and degradation. recent studies have revealed many of the proteins required for mitochondrial rna processing, however the rapid turnover of precursor rnas has made it impossible to analyze their composition and the hierarchy of processing. genes encoded in vertebrate mitochondrial dnas are transcribed as a polycistronic transcript for both strands, which is later processed into individual mrnas, rrnas and trnas, followed by modifications, such as polyadenylation at the 3' end of mrnas. 
Pre-mRNAs associated with spliceosomal components are less stable than unassociated splicing substrates. [SEP] pre-mrna splicing proceeds through assembly of the spliceosome complex, catalysis, and recycling. recognition and pairing of the correct 5' and 3' splice sites (ss) of a pre-mrna are critical events that occur early during spliceosome assembly. little is known about the spatial organization in early spliceosomal complexes of the u1 and u2 snrnps, which together with several non-snrnp proteins, are involved in juxtapositioning the functional sites of the pre-mrna. pre-mrna splicing occurs in a macromolecular complex called the spliceosome. efforts to isolate spliceosomes from in vitro splicing reactions have been hampered by the presence of endogenous complexes that copurify with de novo spliceosomes formed on added pre-mrna. we have found that removal of these large complexes from nuclear extracts prevents the splicing of exogenously added pre-mrna. alternative splicing is thought to be regulated by nonspliceosomal rna binding proteins that modulate the association of core components of the spliceosome with the pre-mrna. although the majority of metazoan genes encode pre-mrnas that are alternatively spliced, remarkably few splicing regulators are currently known. pre-mrna splicing removes introns and joins exons to form mature mrnas. pre-mrna splicing complex assembly is mediated by two specific pre-mrna-snrnp interactions: u1 snrnp binds to the 5' splice site and u2 snrnp binds to the branch point. 
Pre-mRNAs associated with spliceosomal components are more stable than unassociated splicing substrates. [SEP] many splicing events occur co-transcriptionally when the pre-mrna is still associated with the transcription machinery. spliceosome assembly during pre-mrna splicing requires the correct positioning of the u1, u2, u4/u6, and u5 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particles (snrnps) on the precursor mrna. the smd3 protein is required for pre-mrna splicing in vivo. in eukaryotes splicing of pre-mrnas is mediated by the spliceosome, a dynamic complex of small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particles (snrnps) that associate transiently during spliceosome assembly and the splicing reaction. pre-mrna splicing requires proper splice site selection mediated by many factors including snrnps and serine-arginine rich (sr) splicing factors. biochemical components (splicing factors) interact with specific intron regions during pre-mrna splicing in vitro. the pre-mrna specifically associates with factors at both the branch point and the 5' splice site and these rna-factor interactions are maintained in the intron-containing rna processing products. these results suggest that selection of the 3' splice site accompanied by the association of a factor with the branch point may be the initial step in mammalian pre-mrna splicing. splicing of mrna precursors (pre-mrnas) occurs in a multimolecular complex, termed spliceosome, which is comprised of pre-mrna, small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particles (snrnps), and other protein factors including spliceosome-associated proteins (saps). combining genetic and biochemical experiments, we show that sme1 is an essential gene required for pre-mrna splicing, cap modification and u1, u2, u4 and u5 snrna stability. 
Prescribed exercise training improves quality of life. [SEP] regular physical exercise improves quality of life and benefits the body's organs and systems: it tones and strengthens muscles; improves joint function; contributes to healthier heart and lungs; increases resistance to fatigue, and thus capacity for both physical and mental exertion; helps combat anxiety, depression and stress; improves sleep patterns; and is an important factor in maintaining healthy weight. exercise training has been shown to be a clinically effective therapeutic intervention for copd patients resulting in a myriad of beneficial effects. these include improvements in exercise tolerance, health-related quality of life and activity levels. habitual exercise provides numerous health benefits to the older adult. long-term benefits of continued exercise include a decreased risk of death from heart disease, enhanced balance and mobility, a decreased risk of diabetes, and an improvement in depressive symptoms. exercise training is the cornerstone of rehabilitation for patients with cardiovascular disease (cvd). with lower-intensity workouts, patients may be able to exercise for longer periods of time and increase the acceptance of exercise, particularly in unfit and elderly patients. although studies suggest that exercise training improves physical performance and health-related quality of life (hrqol) among elderly people, most of these studies have investigated relatively healthy persons. a regular exercise program can improve strength and endurance, prevent fatigue from causing improper body mechanics, increase beta-endorphin levels, reduce depression and give patients an overall feeling of well-being. habitual exercise training, including a high-intensity interval walking programme, improves cardiorespiratory fitness and alleviates lifestyle-related diseases, such as obesity, hypertension and dyslipidaemia. 
PrimPol degrades short DNA replication intermediates on the leading strand during DNA replication. [SEP] to elucidate the cellular requirements for primpol in human cells, we generated primpol-deleted cell lines and show that it plays key roles in maintaining active replication in both the nucleus and mitochondrion, even in the absence of exogenous damage. primpol is also required during mitochondrial replication, with primpol-deficient cells having increased mtdna copy number but displaying a significant decrease in replication. deletion of primpol in xpv cells, lacking functional polymerase eta, causes an increase in dna damage sensitivity and pronounced fork stalling after uv-c treatment. together, these findings highlight the importance of primpol for maintaining efficient dna replication in unperturbed cells and its complementary roles, with pol eta, in damage tolerance in human cells. the tls activity of primpol has possible relevant functions in vivo; e.g., the combined primase and dna polymerase activities of primpol might facilitate replication of dna with clustered damage. primpol is the second primase discovered in eukaryotic cells, whose function is to restart the stalled replication forks during both mitochondrial and nuclear dna replication. primpol is a primase-polymerase found in humans, and other eukaryotes, involved in bypassing lesions encountered during dna replication. primpol is a recently identified polymerase involved in eukaryotic dna damage tolerance, employed in both re-priming and translesion synthesis mechanisms to bypass nuclear and mitochondrial dna lesions. primpol gene silencing or ablation in human and mouse cells impaired mitochondrial dna replication. on the basis of the synergy observed with replicative dna polymerases polγ and polε, primpol is proposed to facilitate replication fork progression by acting as a translesion dna polymerase or as a specific dna primase reinitiating downstream of lesions that block synthesis during both mitochondrial and nuclear dna replication. 
PrimPol generates short DNA replication intermediates on the leading strand during DNA replication. [SEP] primpol is a recently described dna polymerase that has the virtue of initiating dna synthesis. in good agreement, primpol is highly prone to generate indels at short nucleotide repeats. primpol is a human primase/polymerase specialized in re-starting stalled forks by repriming beyond lesions such as pyrimidine dimers, and replication-perturbing structures including g-quadruplexes and r-loops. primpol facilitates both mitochondrial and nuclear replication fork progression either acting as a conventional tls polymerase, or repriming downstream of blocking lesions. in vivo assays have shown that primpol is rapidly recruited to sites of dna damage by interaction with the human replication protein a (rpa). in agreement with previous findings, we show here that the higher affinity of rpa for ssdna inhibits primpol activities in short ssdna templates. these new findings supports the existence of a functional primpol/rpa association that allows repriming at the exposed ssdna regions formed in the leading strand upon replicase stalling. primpol gene silencing or ablation in human and mouse cells impaired mitochondrial dna replication. on the basis of the synergy observed with replicative dna polymerases polγ and polε, primpol is proposed to facilitate replication fork progression by acting as a translesion dna polymerase or as a specific dna primase reinitiating downstream of lesions that block synthesis during both mitochondrial and nuclear dna replication. the tls activity of primpol has possible relevant functions in vivo; e.g., the combined primase and dna polymerase activities of primpol might facilitate replication of dna with clustered damage. 
Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has lower longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. [SEP] primary human papillomavirus (hpv)-based screening results in a 2-5% lower specificity for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2 or worse (cin2+) compared to pap cytology. to identify hpv-positive women with cin2+, we retrospectively evaluated the cross-sectional and longitudinal performance of p16/ki-67 dual-stained cytology in hpv-positive women with normal cytology participating in population-based cervical screening. investigation via cytology and colposcopy have lower sensitivity than hpv testing in the diagnosis of high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin2+). testing for high-risk human papillomavirus (hpv) in primary screening for cervical cancer is considered more sensitive, but less specific, in comparison with pap-smear cytology. hpv testing of cervical smears is more sensitive but less specific than cytology for detecting high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin2+). hpv testing was more sensitive than borderline or worse cytology (97.1% vs 76.6%, p=0.002) but less specific (93.3% vs 95.8%, p<0.0001) for detecting cin2+. we investigated whether cytology adds to the value of a negative hpv test for long-term prediction of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2 or worse (cin2+). we compared the performance on primary screening of hpv dna testing, cytology and colposcopy in detecting cervical intra-epithelial neoplasia (cin) grade 2 or 3 or cancer. among women undergoing cervical cancer screening, the use of primary hpv testing compared with cytology testing resulted in a significantly lower likelihood of cin3+ at 48 months. human papillomavirus (hpv) is recommended as the primary test in cervical cancer screening, with co-testing by cytology for hpv-positive women to identify cervical lesions. 
Primary cervical cytology screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity to detect severe cervical intraepithelial neoplasia than conventional cytology. [SEP] hpv testing of cervical smears is more sensitive but less specific than cytology for detecting high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin2+). testing for human papillomavirus (hpv) dna is reportedly more sensitive than cytology for the detection of high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin). testing for high-risk human papillomavirus (hpv) in primary screening for cervical cancer is considered more sensitive, but less specific, in comparison with pap-smear cytology. to evaluate the sensitivity and efficiency of hpv dna testing in comparison with conventional cytology for detection of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) and cancer. after histologic confirmation by either colposcopically directed biopsy or endocervical curettage, the efficiency of the detection methods for high-grade cervical lesion was evaluated for the following 3 data sets: hpv dna testing, conventional cytology, and the 2 tests combined. depending on the patient's age and the grade of the cervical lesion, hpv dna testing proved to be significantly more sensitive than cytology for the primary detection of cervical abnormalities (p <.001). human papillomavirus dna testing for the detection of high-grade cervical lesions was more sensitive than cytology alone. background: high-risk human papillomavirus (hr-hpv) testing has become a preferred cervical cancer screening strategy in some countries due to its superior sensitivity over cytology-based methods for identifying cervical intraepithelial neoplasia of grade 2 or worse (cin2+). although cytology-based screening programs have significantly reduced mortality and morbidity from cervical cancer, the global consensus is that primary human papillomavirus (hpv) testing for cervical screening increases detection of high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) and invasive cancer. several studies have shown that hpv testing can improve the detection rate of high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin), but these have been carried out primarily in younger women. 
Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines suppress secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. [SEP] they limit the effects of proinflammatory mediators by inhibiting their production, stability, or function. the pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines create a network of interactions between cells that lead to both stimulatory and inhibitory responses that maintain an effective homeostatic regulation. the anti-inflammatory cytokines are a family of peptides that modulate the pro-inflammatory cytokine response. the balance between pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines modulates inflammation. intracellular inhibitors of signaling, in turn, contribute to the negative regulation of cytokines. thus mechanisms through which il-10 and il-4 act to dampen inflammatory responses are mechanistically distinct and involve diverse intracellular signaling pathways. the anti-inflammatory cytokines are a series of immunoregulatory molecules that control the proinflammatory cytokine response. major anti-inflammatory cytokines include interleukin (il)-1 receptor antagonist, il-4, il-6, il-10, il-11, and il-13. il-4 and stat6 appear to suppress transcription of select proinflammatory genes through the ability of stat6 to sequester coactivator molecules that may be required for the transcriptional action of stat1 and nfkappab. thus mechanisms through which il-10 and il-4 act to dampen inflammatory responses are mechanistically distinct and involve diverse intracellular signaling pathways. 
Pro-inflammatory cytokines are up regulated during tumor development. [SEP] epidemiologic and experimental evidences support the concept that inflammation promotes the development and progression of cancers. inflammation plays a critical role in tumorigenesis and can contribute to oncogenic mutations, tumor promotion, and angiogenesis. tumor-promoting inflammation is driven by many factors including the presence of the pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin (il)-1β and il-18. over the past decade, it has been well established that tumorigenesis is affected by chronic inflammation. in the last decade a growing body of epidemiological and clinical data has emerged to support the concept that longstanding inflammation potentiates or promotes tumor development, growth and progression. although tumor cells can exploit cytokine signaling to promote growth, invasion, and metastasis, the response of normal and premalignant epithelial cells to cytokines present in a developing tumor microenvironment remains unclear. the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines in the tumor microenvironment by both the innate and the adaptive immune response can activate signaling pathways that are associated with increased cell survival and proliferation of cancer cells. tumor development and growth are driven in many cases by inflammatory cells, which can produce cytokines and other factors that can stimulate the development of the malignant process. the cytokines produced by activated innate immune cells that stimulate tumor growth and progression are considered as important components in this process. while tumor initiation is typically independent of inflammatory events, immune cells infiltrating the tumor microenvironment secrete inflammatory cytokines that enhance the aberrant growth of tumor cells and thus facilitate tumor progression. 
Pro-inflammatory cytokines are up repressed during tumor development. [SEP] the regulation of immune responses by tumors is central to their survival. by diminishing the production of interferon (ifn) and other inflammatory mediators, tumors enhance immune evasion. tumor escapes host immune responses by producing immunosuppressive cytokines, such as il-10 and tgf-β, secreted into the tumor microenvironment. tumor progression produces immunoregulatory phenotype of macrophages in tumor bearing host (tbh), that mediate immunosuppression through increased production of soluble factors. the t-cell-mediated antitumor immune response is frequently repressed in the tumor environment by an immunologic barrier, the predominant mediators of which are thought to be interleukin-10 (il-10) and transforming growth factor-beta (tgf-beta). persistent inflammation and neovascularization are critical to cancer development. cancer cells modulate the recruitment and function of inflammatory cells to create an immunosuppressive microenvironment that favors tumor growth and metastasis. accumulating evidence indicates that inflammation plays a critical role in cancer development; however, mechanisms of immunosuppression hinder productive anti-tumor immunity to limit immunopathology. tumor cells often down-regulate expression of co-stimulatory molecules, tumor antigens, and major histocompatibility complex (mhc) molecules on tumor cells, secrete immunosuppressive substance such as transforming growth factor-beta (tgf-beta) or interleukin-4 (il-4), and induce apoptosis of effector t cells to escape surveillance. tumor suppressor genes and the immune system are critical players in inhibiting cancer initiation and/or progression. 
Progerin induces premature aging in stem cells. [SEP] previous studies have shown that progerin induces early senescence associated with increased dna-damage signaling and that telomerase extends hgps cellular lifespan. we show further that progerin-induced dna-damage signaling is localized to telomeres and is associated with telomere aggregates and chromosomal aberrations. the contribution of progerin toward aging has been shown to be related to increased dna damages. since aging is one major risk factor for carcinogenesis, and genomic instability is a hallmark of malignant cancers, we investigated the expression of progerin in human cancer cells, and whether its expression contributes to carcinogenesis. ectopic progerin expression did not cause cellular senescence in pc-3 or mcf7 cells. progerin is a mutant form of lamin a responsible for hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps), a premature aging disorder characterized by excessive atherosclerosis and vascular calcification that leads to premature death, predominantly of myocardial infarction or stroke. progerin, a permanently farnesylated mutant lamin a protein, likely leads to premature senescence to influent liver diseases. our findings suggest that continuous progerin expression in a small cell fraction of a tissue contributes to aging-associated diseases, the adipose tissue being particularly sensitive. hutchinson-gilford progeria is a premature aging syndrome caused by a truncated form of lamin a called progerin. progerin expression results in a variety of cellular defects including heterochromatin loss, dna damage, impaired proliferation and premature senescence. 
Propriospinal interneurons that play a role in the plastic reorganization of spinal circuits are integral for recovery from spinal cord injury. [SEP] propriospinal neurons (pn) appear to be very plastic within the inhibitory microenvironment of the injured spinal cord by forming compensatory circuits that aid in relaying information across the lesion site and, thus, are being investigated for their potential to promote locomotor recovery after experimental sci. spinal interneurons have emerged as crucial targets of supraspinal input during post-injury axonal remodelling. proprioceptive feedback provides movement-matched sensory information essential for motor control and recovery after spinal cord injury. while it is understood that the fundamental contribution of proprioceptive feedback circuits in locomotor recovery is to activate the local spinal cord interneurons and motor neurons in a context-dependent manner, the precise mechanisms by which proprioception enables motor recovery after a spinal cord injury remain elusive. this review discusses the existence of motor learning mechanisms intrinsic to spinal cord circuits and circuit-level insights on how proprioception might contribute to spinal cord plasticity, adaptability, and learning, in addition to the logic in which proprioception helps to establish an internal motor command to execute motor output using spared circuits after a spinal cord injury. propriospinal neurons, with axonal projections intrinsic to the spinal cord, have shown a greater regenerative response than supraspinal neurons after axotomy due to spinal cord injury (sci). our previous work focused on the response of axotomized short thoracic propriospinal (tps) neurons following a low thoracic sci (t9 spinal transection or moderate spinal contusion injury) in the rat. however, propriospinal (ps) neurons in the spinal cord have demonstrated a propensity for axonal regeneration after spinal cord injury. in particular, we substantiate the hypotheses that: (1) in the majority of spinal lesions, a critical number and type of neurons in the region of the injury survive, but cannot conduct action potentials, and thus are electrically non-responsive; (2) these neuronal networks within the lesioned area can be neuromodulated to a transformed state of electrical competency; (3) these two factors enable the potential for extensive activity-dependent reorganization of neuronal networks in the spinal cord and brain, and (4) propriospinal networks play a critical role in driving this activity-dependent reorganization after injury. many studies highlight the remarkable plasticity demonstrated by spinal circuits following an incomplete spinal cord injury (sci). 
Pseudogene PTENP1 encodes a transcript that regulates PTEN expression. [SEP] pten is a tumor-suppressor gene that has been shown to be under the regulatory control of a pten pseudogene expressed noncoding rna, ptenpg1. here, we characterize a previously unidentified ptenpg1-encoded antisense rna (asrna), which regulates pten transcription and pten mrna stability. the α isoform functions in trans, localizes to the pten promoter and epigenetically modulates pten transcription by the recruitment of dna methyltransferase 3a and enhancer of zeste. ptenp1 is the pseudogene of pten. pten pseudogene (ptenp) acts as an endogenous rna, which regulates its parental gene by competitively binding to the 3' utr of pten gene in the human. transcripts derived from the pten pseudogene (ptenp1) function as decoys to adsorb mirnas targeting the pten tumor suppressor for degradation, and ptenp1 upregulation is known to inhibit growth in preclinical cancer models. ptenp1, non-coding rna (ncrna) pseudogene, is involved in oral squamous cell carcinoma (oscc). there was a positive correlation between the expression levels of ptenp1 and pten. moreover, ptenp1 (pten pseudogene) transcript regulates pten expression and is thought to be associated with tumourigenesis in some cancers. pten is also expressed in neurons, and pathways modulated by pten can influence neuronal function. 
Pseudoknots are not evolutionarily conserved in most eukaryotes. [SEP] mapping 19 haloarcula marismortui pseudouridines on the three-dimensional 50s subunit does not show clustering. no unique specific role for ribosomal pseudouridines has been identified. as nearly all of these proteins are not found in prokaryotes, the prokaryotic origin of eukaryotic cytoskeletal network suggested by most models is questionable. pseudoknots are abundant in rna structures. many computational analyses require pseudoknot-free structures, which means that some of the base pairs in the knotted structure must be disregarded to obtain a nested structure. here we provide a variety of algorithms for pseudoknot removal, some of which can incorporate sequence or alignment information in the removal process. two frequently used universal eukaryote probes, euk1209 and euk516, are not consistent with one branch of the eukaryotic phylogenetic tree, the kinetoplastida, which has undergone rapid evolution of their small subunit rrna gene. the origin of eukaryotes stands as a major conundrum in biology. different hypotheses disagree on whether mitochondria were acquired early or late during eukaryogenesis. here, i propose a different scenario for early eukaryote evolution than is widely assumed. 
Pure neural progenitor cell (NPC) populations can only be obtained from cell cultures that undergo passaging, filtration, or other isolation and cell sorting methods. [SEP] isolating a pure population of neural stem cells (nscs) has been difficult since no exclusive surface markers have been identified for panning or facs purification. moreover, additional refinements for maintaining nscs in culture are required, since nscs generate a variety of neural precursors (nps) as they proliferate. homogeneous culture of neural precursor cells (npcs) derived from human pluripotent stem cells (hpscs) would provide a powerful tool for biomedical applications. psa-ncam-positive npcs (termed hnpc(psa-ncam+)) were isolated from the heterogeneous cell population of mechanically harvested neural rosettes using magnetic-based cell sorting. our results suggest that psa-ncam-mediated cell isolation provides a highly expandable population of pure primitive npcs from hpscs that will lend themselves as a promising strategy for drug screening and cell therapy for neurodegenerative disorders. retrospective isolation of neural progenitor cells (npcs) may cause deterioration of the phenotype during the long-term cultivation. neural stem cells (nscs) are isolated from primary brain tissue and propagated as a heterogeneous mix of cells, including neural progenitors. neural progenitor cells (npcs) derived from human pluripotent stem cells (hpscs) are a multipotent cell population that is capable of nearly indefinite expansion and subsequent differentiation into the various neuronal and supporting cell types that comprise the cns. the reliability of harvesting neuronal progenitor cells (npcs) from the adult human neocortex has not been established, with respect to preparing autologous cell cultures for transplantation in stroke and traumatic brain injured patients. enriched npc cultures have been generated from nonneurogenic regions of the adult rodent brain by buoyancy-dependent fractionation, but the feasibility of using such a method to isolate npcs from the adult human cortex has not been reported previously. 
Pyridostatin decreases telomere fragility in BRCA2-deficient cells. [SEP] telomere dysfunction induced by trf2 inhibition can accelerate cellular senescence in human fibroblasts. telomerase, an enzyme that maintains telomere length, plays major roles in cellular immortalization and cancer progression. we found that an exogenous brca1 gene strongly inhibited telomerase enzymatic activity in human prostate and breast cancer cell lines and caused telomere shortening in cell lines expressing wild-type brca1 (wtbrca1) but not a tumor-associated mutant brca1 (t300g). we postulate that inhibition of telomerase may contribute to the brca1 tumor suppressor activity. recent evidence suggests that brca1/2 (brca1 and brca2) tumor suppressor gene products play an important role in telomere maintenance. although telomere shortening has been reported in brca1/2 carriers, the direct effects of brca1/2 haploinsufficiency on telomere maintenance and predisposition to cancer development are not completely understood. leukocyte telomere length analysis revealed that brca1/2 carriers had relatively shorter telomeres than healthy controls. our results link brca1/2 haploinsufficiency to changes in telomere length, telomere-associated as well as telomere-proximal gene expression. thus, this work supports the effect of brca1/2 haploinsufficiency in the biology underlying telomere dysfunction in cancer development. telomere shortening induces a nonproliferative senescent phenotype, believed to reduce cancer risk, and telomeres are involved in a poorly understood manner in responses to dna damage. 
Pyridostatin deregulates G2/M progression. [SEP] plk1 is a critical mediator of g₂/m cell cycle transition that is inactivated and depleted as part of the dna damage-induced g₂/m checkpoint. downregulation of plk1 expression by p53 is relieved by the histone deacetylase inhibitor, trichostatin a, and involves recruitment of histone deacetylase to the vicinity of p53re2, further supporting a transcriptional repression mechanism. the tumor suppressor p53 down-regulates expression of cdc25c as part of g2/m checkpoint control. we previously reported that p63α can destabilize mm1 protein to derepress c-myc, resulting in cell cycle progress and tumorigenesis. the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21 is required for a sustained g(2) arrest after activation of the dna damage checkpoint. here we have addressed the mechanism by which p21 can contribute to this arrest in g(2). during the g1/s transition, p21 proteolysis is mediated by skp2; however, p21 reaccumulates in g2 and is degraded again in prometaphase. either mdm2 overexpression or cdc25c downregulation delays cell cycle progression through the g2/m phase. thus, the repression of the cdc25c promoter by p53, together with p53-dependent induction of mdm2 and subsequent degradation of cdc25c, could provide a dual mechanism by which p53 can enforce and maintain a g2/m cell cycle arrest. the g2/m transition is controlled by activation of the cyclin-dependent kinase cdc2p. 
Pyridostatin encourages proliferation of homologous recombination - defective cells. [SEP] in mammalian cells homologous recombination is stimulated, when the replication fork stalls at dna breaks or unrepaired lesions. the tumor suppressor p53 downregulates homologous recombination independently of its transcriptional transactivation function and has been linked to enzymes of dna recombination and replication. after a transient treatment with replication inhibitors, we observed inhibition of the drug induced recombination by p53, particularly for the elongation inhibitor aphidicolin. consequently, we propose that p53 is a surveillance factor of homologous recombination at replication forks, when they stall as a consequence of endogenous or of exogenously introduced damage. a defective homologous recombination (hr) repair program increases tumor incidence as well as providing a survival advantage in patients with breast and ovarian cancers. a correlation between mutations in the tumour suppressor gene p53 and high rates of homologous recombination were previously found in immortal rodent fibroblasts. in the current study, direct evidence was sought that loss of p53 function is mainly responsible for upregulated levels of homologous recombination. primary fibroblasts with wild-type p53 displayed a recombination rate of about 1 x 10(-4). finally, early-passage fibroblast cultures from p53-knock-out mice showed elevated recombination rates, which did not increase further following immortalization. loss of wild-type p53 is the major genetic determinant of increased homologous recombination frequencies in immortal rodent fibroblasts. 
Pyridostatin induces checkpoint activation. [SEP] the checkpoint kinases chk1 and chk2 are central to the induction of cell cycle arrest, dna repair, and apoptosis as elements in the dna-damage checkpoint. protein phosphorylation is the hallmark of checkpoint activation. control of mitotic entry is a component of the checkpoint response that contributes to cell survival following dna damage. whether other targets of the checkpoint pathway could play important roles in the response to dna damage is a subject of ongoing investigations. to ensure proper progression through a cell cycle, checkpoints have evolved to play a surveillance role in maintaining genomic integrity. in this study, we demonstrate that loss of cdk2 activity activates an intra-s-phase checkpoint. the checkpoint kinase cds1 (chk2) plays a key role in cell cycle checkpoint responses with functions in cell cycle arrest, dna repair, and induction of apoptosis. proper regulation of cds1 is essential for appropriate cellular responses to checkpoint-inducing insults. thus, the checkpoint-mediated activation of xcds1 requires phosphorylation by multiple phosphoinositide 3-kinase-related kinases, protein-protein dissociation, and autophosphorylation. in higher eukaryotic organisms, the checkpoint kinase 1 (chk1) contributes essential functions to both cell cycle and checkpoint control. 
Pyridostatin induces double-strand breaks accumulation. [SEP] topo ii poisons form cleavable complexes that are processed to dna double-strand breaks (dsbs). dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) induced by abortive topoisomerase ii (top2) activity are a potential source of genome instability and chromosome translocation. top2-induced dna double-strand breaks are rejoined in part by tyrosyl-dna phosphodiesterase 2 (tdp2)-dependent non-homologous end-joining (nhej), but whether this process suppresses or promotes top2-induced translocations is unclear. collectively, these data highlight the threat posed by top2-induced dsbs during transcription and demonstrate the importance of tdp2-dependent non-homologous end-joining in protecting both gene transcription and genome stability.dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) induced by topoisomerase ii (top2) are rejoined by tdp2-dependent non-homologous end-joining (nhej) but whether this promotes or suppresses translocations is not clear. dna double-strand breaks (dsb) are the most cytotoxic lesions induced by topoisomerase ii poisons. dna double-strand breaks (dsb) are the most cytotoxic lesions induced by ionizing radiation and topoisomerase ii poisons, such as etoposide and doxorubicin. dna topoisomerase 2 (top2) poisons, including common anticancer drugs etoposide and doxorubicin kill cancer cells by stabilizing covalent top2-tyrosyl-dna 5'-phosphodiester adducts and dna double-strand breaks (dsbs). camptothecin (cpt) has been shown to induce protein-linked dna breaks (pldb), which are stabilized intermediates of topoisomerase i (top1) activity. to determine whether topoisomerase ii poisons that produce double-strand breaks by trapping of cleavable complexes would, likewise, induce mutations specific to plateau-phase cells, aprt mutations induced by amsacrine in both log-phase and plateau-phase cho cells were analyzed. dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) represent a threat to the genome because they can lead to the loss of genetic information and chromosome rearrangements. 
Pyridostatin prevents double-strand breaks accumulation. [SEP] drawing upon the capacity of pyruvate to detoxify h2o2, we demonstrate that pyruvate (i) protects against h2o2-dependent, hydroxyl radical-mediated degradation of isolated dna; (ii) reduces the amount of 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine detected following oxidative injury to isolated dna and (iii) diminishes the amounts of detectable hydroxyl radical generated by a h2o2-dependent system. compared to mannitol, pyruvate protects weakly against oxidative degradation of dna induced by a h2o2-independent, hydroxyl radical-generating system. the protective effects of pyruvate against h2o2-instigated dna damage were also evinced in cells in culture exposed to h2o2. pyruvate was markedly protective in a model of cytotoxicity induced by the concomitant depletion of cellular glutathione and inhibition of catalase activity; pyruvate can thus function as an intracellular antioxidant and in this latter model, no evidence of dna damage was observed. pyruvate, in contrast to catalase, is a potent protector against cytotoxicity induced by organic peroxides, a finding that cannot be explained by the scavenging of organic peroxides, differences in glutathione content or attenuation in oxidative injury to dna. we also conclude that the antioxidant capabilities of pyruvate extend beyond scavenging of h2o2 to include potent protection against cytotoxicity induced by organic peroxides. here, we show that sde2 cleavage after its ubiquitin-like domain generates lys-sde2ct, the c-terminal sde2 fragment bearing an n-terminal lys residue. the dutpase enzyme family is responsible for guarding against erroneous uracil incorporation into dna. phosphorylation of histone h2ax (γ-h2ax) in response to dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) should be eliminated from the sites of dna damage to fulfill the dna repair and release cells from the growth arrest. the irreversible inhibitor of chymotrypsin-like serine proteases, n-tosyl-l-phenylalanine chloromethylketone (tpck), was shown to prevent internucleosomal dna cleavage caused by inducers of apoptosis. 
Pyridostatin reduces proliferation of homologous recombination - defective cells. [SEP] homologous recombination is a dna repair pathway of clinical interest due to the sensitivity of homologous recombination-deficient cells to poly-adp ribose polymerase (parp) inhibitors. the measurement of homologous recombination deficiency (hrd) in cancer is therefore vital to the appropriate design of clinical trials incorporating parp inhibitors. we and others reported previously that the tumor suppressor p53 down-regulates spontaneous homologous recombination in chromosomally integrating plasmid substrates, but how p53 affects homology-dependent repair of dna double-strand breaks has not been established. furthermore, it has been hypothesized that p53 may suppress homologous recombination by direct interaction with recombination intermediates, but it is not known whether p53 directly acts on extrachromosomal plasmid substrates. in the present study, we asked whether p53 can suppress extrachromosomal spontaneous and double-strand break-induced homologous recombination. extrachromosomal homologous recombination was found to proceed independently of the p53 status of isogenic mouse fibroblast lines, contrasting the p53-mediated suppression of chromosomal recombination. comparison of homologous and non-homologous recombination frequencies revealed similar contributions to the repair of i-scei-induced breaks irrespective of p53 status. toxic recombination events are detected in vegetative saccharomyces cerevisiae cells through negative growth interactions between certain combinations of mutations. functions involved in preventing toxic recombination would either avoid replicative defects or act on recombination intermediates. tumors defective in homologous recombination (hr) are highly sensitive to poly adp-ribose polymerase (parp) inhibition, however the cell biological mechanisms underlying this synthetic lethality remain elusive. 
Pyridostatin stabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. [SEP] g-quadruplex structures formed in the telomeric dna are thought to play a role in the telomere function. telomere assumes intra-molecular g-quadruplex that is a significant drug target for inhibiting telomerase maintenance of telomeres in cancer. this guanine-rich dna can form g-quadruplex secondary structures which may affect telomere maintenance. the formation and stabilization of telomeric quadruplexes has been shown to inhibit the activity of telomerase, thus establishing telomeric dna quadruplex as an attractive target for cancer therapeutic intervention. in this context, telomestatin, a g-quadruplex-specific ligand known to bind and stabilize g-quadruplex, is of great interest. inhibition of telomerase can be achieved by stabilization of g-quadruplex dna structures. thus, we propose that g-quadruplex stabilization at telomeric g-overhang inactivates pot1 telomeric function, generating a telomere dysfunction in which chromosome ends are no longer properly protected. telomerase inhibition can be achieved by stabilization of g-quadruplex structure. it stabilizes both intra- and inter-molecular g-quadruplexes and shows a good differential between potent telomerase inhibition and acute cytotoxicity. the human telomere terminus can adopt the structure of a g-quadruplex. 
R2D2 stops miRNA production by increasing the selectivity of Dcr2 for long dsRNA. [SEP] our findings suggest a model in which rde-4 and rde-1 function together to detect and retain foreign dsrna and to present this dsrna to dcr-1 for processing. dgcr8 is an rna-binding protein that interacts with drosha to produce pre-microrna in the nucleus, while dicer generates not only mature microrna, but also endogenous small interfering rnas in the cytoplasm. the specialized ribonuclease dicer plays a central role in eukaryotic gene expression by producing small regulatory rnas-micrornas (mirnas) and short interfering rnas (sirnas)-from larger double-stranded rna (dsrna) substrates. identify r2d2, a dicer-associated protein that is important for sirna incorporation into risc, thus linking the initiation and execution phases of rnai. double-stranded rna-binding proteins (dsrbps), such as r2d2 and loquacious (loqs), function in tandem with dicer (dcr) enzymes in rna interference (rnai). in drosophila, dcr-1/loqs and dcr-2/r2d2 complexes generate micrornas (mirnas) and small interfering rnas (sirnas), respectively. although r2d2 does not regulate sirna production, r2d2 and dcr-2 coordinately bind sirnas to promote assembly of the sirna-induced silencing (sirisc) complexes. in drosophila, dcr-2/r2d2 processes sirnas from longer double-stranded rnas (dsrnas) and also nucleates risc assembly, suggesting that nascent sirnas could remain bound to dcr-2/r2d2. in vitro, dcr-2/r2d2 senses base-pairing asymmetry of synthetic sirnas and dictates strand selection by asymmetric binding to the duplex ends. during dsrna processing, dicer (dcr) liberates sirnas from dsrna ends in a manner dictated by asymmetric enzyme-substrate interactions. 
RA activation of DIF2 and NB4 cells induces hallmarks of transcriptionally active promoters. [SEP] the expression of the transcription factor ap-2 recently has been shown to be enhanced during retinoic acid (ra)-induced differentiation of nt2 cells, a human teratocarcinoma cell line. ra normally activates gene expression by binding to nuclear receptors that interact with response elements (rares) in regulatory regions of target genes. ra-mediated phosphorylation of creb leads to a direct stimulation of creb-dependent transcriptional activity and to activation of the expression of genes such as c-fos, which do not contain rares but contain camp response elements (cres) in their promoters. direct effects result from modulation of the transcriptional activity of genes, which contain ra response elements (rare) recognized by trans-acting nuclear ra receptors (rars). in addition to promoter sequences, rar binds to genomic, transcribed regions of retinoid-regulated genes, in association with rna polymerase ii and as a function of p-tefb activity. retinoic acid receptor α (rarα), as an important nuclear ra receptor, is activated upon ra binding and facilitates the transcription of target genes related to differentiation, which ultimately initiates cell differentiation. the ligand-activated receptors induce the transcription of target genes by binding to ra-responsive elements in the promoter regions. here, we show that like egr1, egr2 and egr3 induced nab2 expression in these cells. egr1-, egr2-, and egr3-induced nab2 promoter activity is mediated through similar cis-regulatory elements and the activation by each egr is repressed by nab2. in addition, ra enhances the binding of nuclear receptors to the ra responsive elements and increases the trans-activation of the ra-responsive genes in f9 cells. 
RAD52 is involved in break-induced DNA replication (BIR). [SEP] rad52 protein has an important role in homology-directed dna repair by mediating rad51 nucleoprotein filament formation on single-stranded dna (ssdna) protected by replication protein-a (rpa) and annealing of rpa-coated ssdna. the human rad52 protein, which exhibits a heptameric ring structure, has been shown to bind resected double strand breaks (dsbs), consistent with an early role in meiotic recombination and dsb repair. we propose that rad52 binds dna breaks via specific interactions with the terminal base, leading to the formation of a precisely organized ssdna-rad52 complex in which the dna lies on an exposed surface of the protein. the human rad52 protein plays an important role in the earliest stages of chromosomal double-strand break repair via the homologous recombination pathway. the human rad52 protein plays an important role in the earliest stages of chromosomal double-strand break repair via the homologous recombination pathway. rad52 binds to dna breaks, and recent studies suggest that the higher order self-association of the rings promotes dna end joining. rad52 is a key protein in homologous recombination (hr), a dna repair pathway dedicated to double strand breaks and recovery of blocked or collapsed replication forks. rad52 allows rad51 loading on single strand dna, an event required for strand invasion and d-loop formation. rad52 and rpa, along with other members of the rad52 epistasis group of genes, repair double-stranded dna breaks (dsbs). the rad52 epistasis group of proteins, including rad51, rad52, and rad54, plays an important role in the homologous recombination repair of double strand breaks. 
RANK-RANKL pathway signalling has no known association with development of Aire-expressing medullary thymic epithelial cells. [SEP] the role of interleukin (il)2 in intrathymic t cell development is highly controversial, and nothing is known about il-2r expression on thymocytes of the t cell receptor (tcr) alpha/beta lineage undergoing tcr-driven differentiation events. in addition, they show that at least in vitro, cd8 alpha/alpha t cells are generated from tcr-stimulated dp thymocytes (which express the cd8 alpha/beta in the heterodimeric isoform) along an il-2-driven pathway of t cell differentiation. this study aimed to explore the predictors of bronchiolitis developing into asthma. the two pathways to osteoclastogenesis, rankl-mediated and cd98-mediated osteoclastogenesis, have recently been reported. rankl, ocif, and timp-3 mrnas are not found in monocytes freshly isolated or incubated with anti-frp-1/cd98hc antibody. rank, tace, and m-csf mrnas can be detected in these cells. soluble rank shows no effect on cd98-mediated cell aggregation and multinucleated giant cell formation. we show that trail is abundantly expressed in the airway epithelium of allergic mice and that inhibition of signaling impairs production of the chemokine ccl20 and homing of myeloid dendritic cells and t cells expressing ccr6 and cd4 to the airways. recombinant trail induces pathognomic features of asthma and stimulates the production of ccl20 in primary human bronchial epithelium cells. during the early thymus colonization, notch signaling activation on hematopoietic progenitor cells (hpcs) drives proliferation and t cell commitment. 
RANK-RANKL pathway signalling is linked to development of Aire-expressing medullary thymic epithelial cells. [SEP] autoimmune regulator (aire) has a unique expression pattern in thymic medullary epithelial cells (mtecs), in which it plays a critical role in the activation of tissue-specific antigens. the expression of aire in mtecs is activated by receptor activator of nuclear factor κb (rank) signaling; however, the molecular mechanism behind this activation is unknown. we show that cns1-deficient mice lack thymic expression of aire and share several features of aire-knockout mice, including downregulation of aire-dependent genes, impaired terminal differentiation of the mtec population, and reduced production of thymic treg cells. together, our results indicate that cns1 is a critical link between rank signaling, nf-κb activation, and thymic expression of aire. medullary thymic epithelial cells expressing the aire gene play a critical role in the induction of tolerance to tissue-specific ags (tsas). the roles of autoimmune regulator (aire) in the expression of the diverse arrays of tissue-restricted antigen (tra) genes from thymic epithelial cells in the medulla (medullary thymic epithelial cells [mtecs]) and in organization of the thymic microenvironment are enigmatic. medullary thymic epithelial cell (mtec)-restricted expression of autoimmune regulator (aire) is essential for establishment of immune tolerance. we show that rankl signals from this cell promote the maturation of rank-expressing cd80(-)aire(-) mtec progenitors into cd80(+)aire(+) mtecs, and that transplantation of rank-deficient thymic stroma into immunodeficient hosts induces autoimmunity. aire is a transcriptional regulator that induces expression of peripheral tissue antigens (pta) in thymic medullary epithelial cells (mecs), driving immunological self-tolerance in differentiating t cells. the discovery of aire-dependent transcriptional control of many tissue-restricted self-antigen (tra) genes in thymic epithelial cells in the medulla (medullary thymic epithelial cells, mtecs) has raised the intriguing question of how the single aire gene can influence the transcription of such a large number of tra genes within mtecs. 
RTEL1 interacts with TRF2 through a C4C4 motif [SEP] here we discover ring finger protein 14 (rnf14) as a new binding partner for all tcf/lef transcription factors. here, we report the crystal structure of the fbx4-trf1 complex at 2.4 a resolution. importantly, mutations in this interface abrogate fbx4-dependent trf1 binding and ubiquitination. furthermore, the data demonstrate that recognition of trf1 by scf(fbx4) is regulated by another telomere protein, tin2. our results reveal an atypical small gtpase domain within fbx4 as a substrate-binding motif for scf(fbx4) and uncover a mechanism for selective ubiquitination and degradation of trf1 in telomere homeostasis control. tbp-associated factor 4 (taf4), an essential subunit of the tfiid complex acts as a coactivator for multiple transcriptional regulators, including sp1 and creb. here, we report the crystal structure at 2.0-a resolution of the human taf4-tafh domain, a conserved domain among all metazoan taf4, taf4b, and eto family members. the htaf4-tafh structure adopts a completely helical fold with a large hydrophobic groove that forms a binding surface for taf4 interacting factors. tnf (tumour necrosis factor) receptor-associated factor 4 (traf4) is a unique traf protein that participates in morphogenetic and developmental function and cell migration. traf-family proteins contain a traf domain for target interaction. 
RUNX is not expressed in skin tissue. [SEP] runx1 is a transcription factor that is not expressed in uninjured muscles, but can be detected in denervated muscles, suggesting a role of runx1 in muscle's response to injury. however, the role of runx1 in muscle's response to ischemia has not been reported. consistent with these findings, we found that runx1 expression was decreased in differentiated satellite cells. the influence of runx2 mutations on osteoclastogenesis and bone resorption have not been reported. runx3 is a known tumor suppressor gene in several carcinomas. aberration in runx3 expression has not been described for cutaneous melanoma. we reported earlier that runx3 is expressed in human and mouse gastrointestinal tract (git) epithelium and that it functions as a tumor suppressor in gastric and colorectal tissues. however, there have been conflicting reports describing the absence of runx3 in git epithelial cells. we generated multiple anti-runx3 monoclonal antibodies and found that runx3 antibodies recognizing the runx3 n-terminal region (residues 1-234) react with runx3 in gastric epithelial cells, whereas those recognizing the c-terminal region (beyond residue 234) did not. g-poly primarily recognizes the region beyond 234 and hence, is unable to detect runx3 in this tissue. 
RUNX1 is downregulated or mutated in TLX1 T-ALL. [SEP] the gene encoding the runx1 transcription factor is mutated in a subset of t-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (t-all) patients, and runx1 mutations are associated with a poor prognosis. these mutations cluster in the dna-binding runt domain and are thought to represent loss-of-function mutations, indicating that runx1 suppresses t-cell transformation. runx1 has been proposed to have tumor suppressor roles in t-cell leukemia homeobox 1/3-transformed human t-all cell lines and notch1 t-all mouse models. to elucidate runx1 function(s) in leukemogenesis, we generated tal1/lmo2/rosa26-creert2runx1f/f mice and examined leukemia progression in the presence of vehicle or tamoxifen. we demonstrate that a runx1 deficiency alters the expression of a crucial subset of tal1- and notch1-regulated genes, including the myb and myc oncogenes, respectively. these studies provide genetic and pharmacologic evidence that runx1 has oncogenic roles and reveal runx1 as a novel therapeutic target in t-all. runx1 is frequently mutated in t-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (t-all). inactivation of runx3 has been shown to occur by methylation-induced transcriptional silencing and by mislocalization of the protein to the cytoplasm. recently the runx3 gene was identified as a tsg inactivated by hypermethylation. runx1 is frequently mutated in myeloid and lymphoid malignancies. 
Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre increases thyroid volume. [SEP] recombinant human tsh (rhtsh) is used to augment the effect of radioiodine therapy for nontoxic multinodular goitre. many textbooks claim that radioiodine (131i) treatment should be given with care to a goitre with substernal extension, for fear of acute swelling of the gland and thus respiratory problems. 131i treatment of non-toxic as well as toxic multinodular goitre does not seem to increase thyroid volume. use of recombinant human thyrotropin increases the thyroid radioiodine (iodine 131 [(131)i]) uptake and may have a role in the context of (131)i therapy of benign goiter. stimulation with recombinant human thyrotropin (rhtsh) increases thyroid radioiodine uptake, and is an aid to 131i therapy in non-toxic multinodular goitre (mng). stimulation with 0.3mg of recombinant human thyrotropin prior to radioiodine therapy achieves a reduction in thyroid weight and functional improvement in patients with hyperthyroidism and multinodular goitre with low uptake, and with no need for hospital admission. this review provides an update on recombinant human tsh (rh-tsh) augmented radioiodine (¹³¹i) therapy and outlines its potential role in the treatment of symptomatic benign multinodular non-toxic goitre. based on a two-fold increase in thyroid ¹³¹i uptake, superiority studies have convincingly demonstrated that the absorbed thyroid ¹³¹i dose can be increased without increasing the administered ¹³¹i activity, resulting in a 35-56% amplification of goitre reduction at one-year post radioiodine compared to conventional (without rh-tsh) ¹³¹i therapy. radioactive iodine therapy is often successful in the treatment of toxic or non-toxic multinodular goiter. recombinant human thyroid stimulating hormone (rhtsh) increases the thyroid radioactive iodine uptake (raiu) in euthyroid and multinodular goiter patients. 
Rapamycin delays aging in fruit flies. [SEP] rapamycin prolongs healthy lifespan in yeast, flies and mammals and delays age-related diseases, including cancer and atherosclerosis. rapamycin, an inhibitor of target-of-rapamycin, extends lifespan in mice, possibly by delaying aging. the unprecedented progress in aging research has revealed that rapamycin, a clinically approved drug, is actually an anti-aging agent, which potentially could be employed to delay age-related diseases, thus extending healthy life span. rapamycin slows organismal aging and delays age-related diseases, extending lifespan in numerous species. the discovery that rapamycin increases lifespan in mice and restores/delays many aging phenotypes has led to the speculation that rapamycin has 'anti-aging' properties. rapamycin and other rapalogs suppress cellular senescence, slow down aging and postpone age-related diseases including cancer. or does rapamycin prevent cancer indirectly through slowing down the aging process? rapamycin slows aging and extends life span in a variety of species from worm to mammals. evidence has emerged that the nutrient-sensing mammalian target of rapamycin (mtor) pathway is involved in cellular and organismal aging. we suggest that, by slowing down organismal aging, rapamycin delays cancer. 
Rapamycin increases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. [SEP] the constitutive activation of the mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mtorc1) leads to the overproduction of apob-containing triacylglycerol-rich lipoproteins in hepg2 cells. (2008) demonstrate that fatty acid biosynthesis, under the transcriptional control of srebp1, is regulated by the rapamycin-sensitive mtor signaling network, thus expanding the scope of biosynthetic processes integrated by mtor. peptides of the adipokinetic hormone (akh)/red pigment-concentrating hormone (rpch) family in insects are involved in the mobilization of stored macromolecules in the fat body by activating glycogen phosphorylase or triacylglycerol lipase to increase the levels of circulating metabolites (trehalose, diacylglycerols, and also proline) during periods of intense muscular activity. the pi3k-akt-mtor growth-regulating pathway is conserved from mammals to flies and hyperactivated in many cancers. accordingly, rapamycin analogs, which are inhibitors of mtor-raptor signaling, have recently garnered much interest as potential therapeutic agents against cancer. oral gavage of male fischer rats with 13-cis-retinoic acid for 6 days caused a rapid and sustained increase in serum triglycerides that was reversible within 4 days posttreatment. in subsequent experiments, rats were treated by gavage once daily for 3 days with various retinoids, and serum triglyceride levels were determined 24 hr after the last treatment without fasting. general stimulation of triacylglycerol-pathway enzymes is observed, as well as dramatic increase in endogenous fatty-acid synthesis. this increased capacity of triacylglycerol formation was correlated with increased activities of various triacylglycerol-forming enzymes measured in the microsomal fraction of adipose tissue from obese mice. the mammalian target of rapamycin (mtor) promotes increased protein synthesis required for cell growth. 
Rapid phosphotransfer rates are correlated with histidine kinase regulator specificity. [SEP] most prokaryotic signal-transduction systems and a few eukaryotic pathways use phosphotransfer schemes involving two conserved components, a histidine protein kinase and a response regulator protein. the histidine protein kinase, which is regulated by environmental stimuli, autophosphorylates at a histidine residue, creating a high-energy phosphoryl group that is subsequently transferred to an aspartate residue in the response regulator protein. two-component regulatory systems that utilize a multistep phosphorelay mechanism often involve a histidine-containing phosphotransfer (hpt) domain. these hpt domains serve an essential role as histidine-phosphorylated protein intermediates during phosphoryl transfer from one response regulator domain to another. tight control of the activity of protein tyrosine kinases is crucial for ordered phosphorylation to occur. autophosphorylating histidine protein kinases provide phosphoryl groups for response regulator proteins which, in turn, function as molecular switches that control diverse effector activities. the sensor kinases autophosphorylate at a conserved histidine residue, acting as a phosphodonor for subsequent phosphotransfer to and activation of a cognate response regulator. in rare cases, the histidine residue is also essential for response regulator dephosphorylation via a reverse-phosphotransfer reaction. if specific and functional kinase- or phosphatase-substrate interactions are optimized for binding compared to promiscuous interactions, then changes in phosphorylation should occur faster on functional versus promiscuous substrates. kinetic profile analyses indicated that putatively functional kinase- or phosphatase-substrate interactions occur more rapidly, within 60 s, than promiscuous interactions. 
Recognition of start codons depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. [SEP] bacterial translation initiation factor 3 (if3) is involved in the fidelity of translation initiation at several levels, including start-codon discrimination, mrna translation, and initiator-trna selection. if3(y75n) protein binds 30s subunits normally, but is defective in start-codon discrimination, inhibition of initiation on leaderless mrna, and initiator-trna selection, thereby establishing a direct role for the if3 ntd in these initiation processes. during translation, initiation factor 3 (if3) binds to the small (30s) ribosomal subunit and regulates the fidelity with which the initiator trna and mrna start codon substrates are selected into the 30s initiation complex (30s ic). the selection of mrna, correct start codon, and the initiator fmet-trna(fmet) requires the presence of three initiation factors (if1, if2, if3) of which if3 and if1 control the fidelity of the process, while if2 recruits fmet-trna(fmet). initiation factor if3 plays an essential role in the initiation of protein translation by binding to the 30s ribosomal subunit and selecting a proper trna(fmet)/initiation codon complex. the escherichia coli translational initiation factor if3 is encoded by an mrna that has an unusual ribosome binding site. if3 also plays a pleiotropic role in the regulation of translation, as a result of differential influences exerted on the levels of the initiation of translation of genes or groups of genes. initiation factor 3 (if3) is one of the three conserved prokaryotic translation initiation factors essential for protein synthesis and cellular survival. if3 is a ribosome antiassociation factor which also modulates selection of start codon and initiator trna. using reporter assays for in vivo initiation, we show that the ntd plays a crucial role in the fidelity function of if3 by avoiding (i) initiation from non-aug codons and (ii) initiation by initiator trnas lacking the three highly conserved consecutive gc pairs (in the anticodon stem) known to function in concert with if3.importance initiation factor 3 regulates the fidelity of eubacterial translation initiation by ensuring the formation of an initiation complex with an mrna bearing a canonical start codon and with an initiator trna at the ribosomal p site. 
Reduced levels of lipolysis leads to higher P38 phosphorylation in adipose tissue. [SEP] inhibition of p38, a member of the mitogen-activated protein kinase family, has been shown to prevent the loss of glut4 protein expression in insulin-resistant adipocytes without improving insulin receptor substrate 1 (irs-1) protein levels and presumably insulin signaling. we evaluated the effects of p38 inhibition during the development of insulin resistance upon glucose uptake and components of the insulin signaling pathway to determine the therapeutic value of p38 inhibitors. p38 inhibition increased glut1 protein levels and prevented the loss of glut4. little is known about the role of p38mapk in human adipocyte differentiation. pharmacological inhibition of p38mapk during adipocyte differentiation of primary human preadipocytes markedly reduced triglycerides accumulation and adipocyte markers expression. these results indicate that p38mapk plays a positive role in human adipogenesis through regulation of c/ebpbeta and ppargamma factors. tnfα plays an important role in the adipocyte dysfunction, including lipolysis acceleration, insulin resistance and changes of adipokines. recently, we showed that paeoniflorin attenuates adipocyte lipolysis and inhibits the phosphorylation of erk, jnk, ikk stimulated by tnfα. in this study, the roles of p38, extracellular regulated protein kinases 1/2 (erk1/2), focal adhesion kinase (fak), rhoa/rock, and cytoskeleton in both of the two stages of adipogenesis were assayed. these results demonstrated that p38 and erk1/2 played crucial positive roles in adipogenesis, and fak, rhoa/rock and cytoskeleton played negative roles. 
Reduced phosphorylation of PP2A increases HDAC4 dephosphorylation by enhancing PP2A-HDAC4 interaction. [SEP] signaling via pro-growth g protein coupled receptors triggers phosphorylation of hdac5 on two serine residues (ser₂₅₉ and ser₄₉₈), resulting in nuclear export of hdac5 and de-repression of downstream target genes. in the previous paper we reported the important role of pkd isozymes in the regulation of hdac5 by phosphorylating ser₄₉₈ of hdac5 [q.k. in the present paper, we provide evidence that pkcδ can directly phosphorylate ser₂₅₉ of hdac5. the results suggest that in addition to activation of protein kinase d isozymes by phosphorylating ser₇₄₄ and ser₇₄₈ at their activation sites, pkcδ may also play a role in the regulation of hdac5 by phosphorylation of ser₂₅₉. hdac4 is believed to repress mef2 transcriptional activity by binding to mef2 and catalyzing local histone deacetylation. together, our data indicate that caspases could specifically modulate gene repression and apoptosis through the proteolyic processing of hdac4. here we report that serine/threonine kinases are found in association with hdac4 and phosphorylate hdac4 in vitro, and hdac4 is phosphorylated in cells. here, we report that p300 interacts with and acetylates hdac6 resulting down-regulation of hdac6 deacetylase activity. protein phosphatase 2a (pp2a), an akt pathway inhibitor, is considered to be activated by methylation of its catalytic subunit. protein phosphatase 2a (pp2a) is a multimeric serine/threonine phosphatase that can dephosphorylate multiple kinases. 
Reduced phosphorylation of PP2A suppresses HDAC4 dephosphorylation. [SEP] we have reported that pp2a phosphorylation at tyrosine 307 (y307) is involved in pp2a inactivation. here, we further studied the upstream mechanisms for pp2a phosphorylation and inactivation. protein phosphatase 2a (pp2a) is a well-known tumor suppressor frequently inhibited in human cancer. protein phosphatase 2a (pp2a) is a major serine/threonine phosphatase which participates in the regulation of multiple cellular processes. the tumor suppressor protein phosphatase 2a (pp2a) is frequently inactivated in human cancer and phosphorylation of its catalytic subunit (p-pp2a-c) at tyrosine-307 (y307) has been described to inhibit this phosphatase. pp2a-c was found hyperphosphorylated in crc cell lines. our data show that pp2a-c hyperphosphorylation is a frequent event that contributes to pp2a inhibition in crc. protein phosphatase 2a (pp2a) is a family of serine/threonine phosphatases that regulate multiple cellular signalling pathways involved in proliferation, survival and apoptosis. in vitro phosphorylation of pp2a catalytic subunit at y307 efficiently inactivates pp2a. protein phosphatase 2a (pp2a) plays a major role in maintaining cellular signaling homeostasis by dephosphorylation of a variety of signaling proteins and acts as a tumor suppressor. 
Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. [SEP] reduced expression of il-2 is linked to t-cell-mediated autoimmune diseases such as type 1 diabetes (t1d), in which an imbalance between foxp3(+) tregs and pathogenic t effectors exists. defective immune homeostasis in the balance between foxp3+ regulatory t cells (tregs) and effector t cells is a likely contributing factor in the loss of self-tolerance observed in type 1 diabetes (t1d). t-regulatory cells (tregs) are essential for immune tolerance, and animal studies implicate their dysfunction in type 1 diabetes (t1d) pathogenesis. a progressive waning in foxp3(+) regulatory t cell (treg) functions is thought to provoke autoimmunity in the nod model of type 1 diabetes (t1d). numerous reports have demonstrated that cd4(+)cd25(+) regulatory t cells (tregs) from individuals with a range of human autoimmune diseases, including type 1 diabetes, are deficient in their ability to control autologous proinflammatory responses when compared with nondiseased, control individuals. we addressed this by examining the impact of an il2ra haplotype associated with type 1 diabetes on treg fitness and suppressive function. cd4 t regulatory cells (tregs) are crucial for the maintenance of self-tolerance and are deficient in many common autoimmune diseases such as type 1 diabetes (t1d). type 1 diabetes (t1d) results from loss of immune regulation, leading to the development of autoimmunity to pancreatic β cells, involving autoreactive t effector cells (teffs). autoimmune diseases, especially type 1 diabetes (t1d), may be caused by dysregulation of the immune system, which leads to hyporesponsiveness of regulatory t helper 2 (th2) cells and promotion of autoimmune th1 cells. cd4+ regulatory t cells (tregs) are essential for normal immune surveillance, and their dysfunction can lead to the development of autoimmune diseases, such as type-1 diabetes (t1d). 
Reducing H3k4me3 methylation induces mouse epiblast stem cells to naive pluripotency efficiently. [SEP] the transition from primed hypermethylated embryonic stem cells (escs) to naive hypomethylated ones (serum-to-2i) is a valuable model system for epigenetic reprogramming. embryonic stem (es) cell pluripotency is thought to be regulated in part by h3k4 methylation. however, it is unclear how h3k4 demethylation contributes to es cell function and participates in induced pluripotent stem (ips) cell reprogramming. pluripotency of embryonic stem (es) cells is controlled in part by chromatin-modifying factors that regulate histone h3 lysine 4 (h3k4) methylation. spreading of h3k4 methylation to gene bodies and enhancer shores is linked to defects in gene expression programs and enhancer activity, respectively, during self-renewal and differentiation of kdm5b-depleted es cells. our results provide global and functional insight into the role of kdm5b in regulating h3k4 methylation marks near promoters, gene bodies, and enhancers in es cells and during differentiation. during gametogenesis and pre-implantation development, the mammalian epigenome is reprogrammed to establish pluripotency in the epiblast. here, we analyze de novo dna methylation in mouse embryonic fibroblasts (2i-mefs) derived from dna-hypomethylated 2i/l es cells with genetic ablation of dnmt3a or dnmt3b. consistent with this, tissue-specific dna methylation at pcg target genes is substantially reduced in dnmt3a ko embryos. we optimized methylated dna immunoprecipitation for low numbers of cells and profiled dna methylation during early development of the mouse embryonic lineage in vivo. 
Reduction of Rpl38 alters the composition of the Hox gene mRNAs translation in mice without lowering overall protein synthesis. [SEP] (2011) now provide evidence that the loss of function of ribosomal protein l38 in mice leads to a selective reduction in the translation of hox mrnas, thus suggesting that ribosomal proteins play a critical role during embryonic development. here we identify mutations of the ribosomal protein l38 (rpl38) gene in mice exhibiting surprising tissue-specific patterning defects, including pronounced homeotic transformations of the axial skeleton. in rpl38 mutant embryos, global protein synthesis is unchanged; however the translation of a select subset of homeobox mrnas is perturbed. our data reveal that rpl38 facilitates 80s complex formation on these mrnas as a regulatory component of the ribosome to confer transcript-specific translational control. we further show that rpl38 expression is markedly enriched in regions of the embryo where loss-of-function phenotypes occur. to assess the effects of deleting rmrp, we engineered a targeting vector that contains loxp sequences flanking rmrp and created hemizygous mice harboring this engineered allele (rmrp conditional). we found that insertion of this cassette suppressed rmrp expression, and we failed to obtain viable mice homozygous for the rmrp conditional allele. hur emerged as a posttranscriptional regulator of mrnas involved in cellular control, stress, and immunity but its role in governing such responses remains elusive. stress-provoked global impediment of transcription elongation leads to a dramatic inhibition of the mrna degradation machinery and massive mrna stabilization. the results suggest that cap-independent mechanisms may facilitate the translation of particular mrnas during mild hypothermia. 
Reduction of purity of cytoplasmic membranes isolated from overexpressors is indicated by stronger spots for OmpA in 2D BN-PAGE gels. [SEP] the regulation of synthesis and export of outer membrane proteins of escherichia coli was examined by overexpressing ompc in multicopy either from its own promoter or from an inducible promoter in an expression vector. overexpression of ompc protein resulted in a nearly complete inhibition of synthesis of the ompa and lamb outer membrane proteins but had no effect on synthesis of the periplasmic maltose-binding protein. membrane proteins were separated by high resolution two-dimensional (2-d) electrophoresis. we found that conventional extraction methods such as osmotic shock cause extracts to be heavily contaminated with soluble cytoplasmic proteins. after extensive testing of various protocols for the preparation of envelope contents, we found that a modified version of the method of oliver and beckwith consistently produces the cleanest extract of periplasmic and outer membrane proteins.we have designated this very simple method tse extraction because it uses a tris-sucrose solution supplemented with edta.cytoplasmic and inner membrane protein contaminants are not evident on 1d sds polyacrylamide gels and contribute to less than 6% of total signal in very sensitive mass spectrometry analysis. outer membrane proteins (omps) were extracted from whole cells of several porphyromonas and prevotella strains and their omps profiles were examined by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (sds-page). such method of isolation imposes limitations on the availability of the protein reagent, and also enhances the possibility of the ompu preparation being contaminated with lipid molecules of bacterial outer membrane origin, especially lipopolysaccharides (lps). here we report a strategy of purifying the v. cholerae ompu protein recombinantly overexpressed in heterologous protein expression system in escherichia coli, without its being incorporated into the bacterial membrane fraction. a series of overlapping deletions has been constructed in the ompa gene which encodes the 325-residue escherichia coli outer membrane protein ompa. immunoelectron microscopy showed that the ompa fragments were either located in the periplasmic space or were associated with the outer membrane. 
Reduction of purity of cytoplasmic membranes isolated from overexpressors is indicated by stronger spots for OmpF in 2D BN-PAGE gels. [SEP] membranes of escherichia coli cells grown in the presence of phenol were examined after isolation of the cytoplasmic and outer membrane fractions. phenol-induced differences in the expression of individual proteins of the inner membrane were established. different proteins of the outer membrane, probably involved in the uptake of iron, were expressed in smaller quantities after phenol addition. membrane proteins were separated by high resolution two-dimensional (2-d) electrophoresis. specifically, the new fractionation scheme largely depleted the plasma membrane fraction of cytosolic proteins by deoxycholate stripping and ribosomal proteins by sucrose gradient flotation. the plasma membrane complement was resolved by two-dimensional electrophoresis using the cationic detergent cetyl trimethyl ammonium bromide in the first, and sodium dodecyl sulfate in the second dimension, and fifty spots were identified by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight mass spectometry. membrane and nuclear proteins of poor solubility have been separated by high resolution two-dimensional (2-d) gel electrophoresis. to address this issue, an escherichia coli-based membrane protein overexpression system utilizing an engineered bacterial outer membrane protein f (pompf) fusion has been developed. thus, our approach provides a useful, complementary approach to achieve high-yield, full-length membrane protein overexpression for biophysical studies. the inhibition was complete with ompf-lpp, whereas significant amounts of uncleavable ompf-lpp and ompa were translocated at a slower rate even with the stripped membrane vesicles in the presence of a high concentration of carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone. 
Removal of H3K9me3 by ectopic expression of other H3K9 demethylases decreases reprogramming efficiency in SCNT experiments. [SEP] removal of h3k9me2 from gene bodies by the jmjc histone demethylase ibm1/jmj25 inhibits dna methylation and derepresses gene expression. h3k9 demethylases can remove the repressive h3k9 methylation marks on histones to alter chromatin structure, gene transcription and epigenetic state of cells. by counteracting the function of h3k9 methyltransferases, h3k9 demethylases have been shown to play an important role in numerous biological processes, including diseases such as cancer. recent evidence points to a key role for some h3k9 demethylases in the repair of dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) via homologous recombination (hr) and/or non-homologous end joining (nhej) pathways. mechanistically, h3k9 demethylases can upregulate the expression of dna repair factors. here, we will discuss the role and mechanisms of h3k9 demethylases in the regulation of dsb repair. repressive epigenetic modifications such as dimethylation and trimethylation histone h3 at lysine 9 (h3k9me2 and h3k9me3) and h3k27me3 have been shown to be critical for embryonic stem (es) cell differentiation by silencing cell lineage-promiscuous genes. previous research indicate that inhibition of the histone h3 k79 methyltransferase dot1l, using a selective pharmacological inhibitor epz004777 (epz), significantly improved reprogramming efficiency during the generation of mouse induced pluripotent stem cells. our study suggested that revision of the single histone h3k9me2 modification may be not sufficient for rescuing the development of cloned embryos. dimethylation of the histone h3 protein at lysine residue 9 (h3k9) is mediated by euchromatin histone methyltransferase ii (ehmt2) and results in transcriptional repression of target genes. 
Removal of H3K9me3 by ectopic expression of other H3K9 demethylases improves reprogramming efficiency in SCNT experiments. [SEP] h3k9 demethylases can remove the repressive h3k9 methylation marks on histones to alter chromatin structure, gene transcription and epigenetic state of cells. by counteracting the function of h3k9 methyltransferases, h3k9 demethylases have been shown to play an important role in numerous biological processes, including diseases such as cancer. recent evidence points to a key role for some h3k9 demethylases in the repair of dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) via homologous recombination (hr) and/or non-homologous end joining (nhej) pathways. mechanistically, h3k9 demethylases can upregulate the expression of dna repair factors. here, we will discuss the role and mechanisms of h3k9 demethylases in the regulation of dsb repair. extrinsic anti-silencing mechanisms involving histone demethylation or boundary elements help to limit the spread of inappropriate h3k9me12-15. methylation of histone 3 at lysine 9 (h3k9) constitutes a roadblock for cellular reprogramming. we show that chemical inhibition of the methyltransferases ehmt1 and ehmt2 counteracts ipsc formation in an enhanced reprogramming system in the presence of aa, an effect that is dependent on ehmt1. ehmt inhibition during enhanced reprogramming is associated with rapid loss of h3k9 dimethylation, inefficient downregulation of somatic genes, and failed mesenchymal-to-epithelial transition. our observations establish novel functions of h3k9 methyltransferases and suggest that a functional balance between aa-stimulated enzymes and ehmts supports efficient and less error-prone ipsc reprogramming to pluripotency. 
Removal of H3K9me3 improves reprogramming efficiency in human somatic cell nuclear transfer experiments. [SEP] recently, several strategies have been applied in order to improve reprogramming efficiency, mainly focused on removing repressive epigenetic marks such as histone methylation from the somatic nucleus. moreover, h3k9me2 levels were decreased in cloned embryos regardless of treating either donor cells or early embryos with unc0638. these results indicate that the specific reduction of h3k9me2 by inhibiting ehmt1/2 during nuclear reprogramming impacts the levels of h3k9me3, 5mc, and 5hmc in preimplantation bovine embryos. although our previous study has indicated that h3k27me3 demethylase kdm6a can improve the nuclear reprogramming efficiency, the mechanism remains unclear. correct reprogramming of epigenetic marks in the donor nucleus is a prerequisite for successful cloning by somatic cell transfer (sct). efficient epigenetic reprogramming is crucial for the in vitro development of mammalian somatic cell nuclear transfer (scnt) embryos. removal of the somatic dna methylation pattern from donor cells and remodeling of embryonic status have been suggested as integral processes for successful nuclear transfer (nt) reprogramming. we have developed a novel system for remodeling mammalian somatic nuclei in vitro prior to cloning by nuclear transplantation. to evaluate the efficiency of nuclear reprogramming, we monitored the levels of histone h3 di/tri-methylated on lysine 4 (h3k4m2/3), a marker for transcriptionally active/permissive euchromatin, and of histone h3 tri-methylated on lysine 27 (h3k27m3), a modification associated with facultative heterochromatin, in embryos cloned using rabbit mesenchymal stem cells (msc) and adult fibroblasts (raf) isolated from the same animals. interestingly, abnormal reprogramming of h3k4m2/3 was observed in nt embryos derived from both msc and raf, donor cell types with markedly different proliferation capacity. 
Replacement of OCT4 and SOX2 genes with GATA3 has the ability to reprogram human cells. [SEP] recently, the role of oct4 as a key regulator in pluripotency was shown by its ability to reprogram somatic cells in vitro, either alone or in concert with other factors. previous reports show that some members of the gata protein family can also induce pluripotency in somatic cells by substituting for oct4, a key pluripotency-associated factor. here, we report that all gata family members can substitute for oct4 to induce pluripotency. thus, the gata family is the first protein family of which all members can function as inducers of the reprogramming process and can substitute for oct4. our results suggest that the role of gata family in reprogramming has been underestimated and that the gata family may serve as an important mediator of cell fate conversion. oct4-mediated reprogramming has recently become a novel tool for the generation of various cell types from differentiated somatic cells. the expression of four transcription factors (oct3/4, sox2, klf4, and myc) can reprogram mouse as well as human somatic cells to induced pluripotent stem (ips) cells. oct4, sox2, and klf4, factors that share many target genes in embryonic stem (es) cells, are critical components in various reprogramming protocols. this study supports the idea that direct interactions between klf4, oct4, and sox2 are critical for somatic cell reprogramming. recently, sox2 plus oct4 was shown to reprogram fibroblasts and oct4 alone was able to reprogram mouse and human neural stem cells (nscs) into ips cells. 
Replacement of OCT4 and SOX2 genes with GATA3 is not capable of reprogramming human cells. [SEP] the introduction of 4 transcription factors-c-myc, oct3/4, sox2, and klf4--can reprogram somatic cells back to pluripotency. our goal was to reprogram human somatic cells without oncogenic factors. thus, the propensity for myc overexpression to elicit apoptosis creates a significant roadblock to reprogramming under oksm conditions. somatic cells can be reprogrammed to induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) with the introduction of oct4, sox2, klf4, and c-myc. together, we show that unrelated transcription factors can replace oct4 and uncovers an exogenous oct4-free reprogramming code. the mechanisms involved in the reprogramming of differentiated cells into induced pluripotent stem (ips) cells by the three transcription factors oct4 (also known as pou5f1), klf4 and sox2 remain poorly understood. for example, sox2 cooperates with other transcription factors to generate ips cells, but sox17, despite binding to similar dna sequences, cannot. the reengineered sox17ek now promotes reprogramming of somatic cells to ips, whereas sox2ke has lost this potential. although octamer-binding transcription factor 4 (oct-4) is one of the most intensively studied factors in mammalian development, no cellular genes capable of replacing oct-4 function in embryonic stem (es) cells have been found. the present study provides strong evidence that nr5a2 cannot replace oct-4 function in es cells. 
Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z accelerates gene activation in yeasts by destabilizing +1 nucleosomes. [SEP] here we show that the acidic histone chaperone nucleosome assembly protein 1 (nap-1) from yeast reversibly removes and replaces histone protein dimer h2a-h2b or histone variant dimers from assembled nucleosomes, resulting in active histone exchange. the nucleosomes occupying the chromosomal start sites of transcription contain the histone h2a variant h2a.z in place of h2a. h2a.z (which is encoded by the htz1 gene in s. cerevisiae) is required for the eviction of the gal1 promoter nucleosome and for the transcriptional activation of the gal1 gene; however, histones are also important for transcriptional repression and we asked in the present paper if h2a.z also plays a role in the glucose repression of the gal1 promoter. the swr1 complex replaces the canonical histone h2a with the variant h2a.z (htz1 in yeast) at specific chromatin regions. in yeast cells, h2a.z regulates transcription and is globally associated within a few nucleosomes of the initiator regions of numerous promoters. evolutionarily conserved variant histone h2a.z has been recently shown to regulate gene transcription in saccharomyces cerevisiae. importantly, fusion of the h2a.z c-terminal region to s phase h2a without its corresponding c-terminal region can mediate the variant histone's specialized function in gal1-10 gene induction, and it restores the slow-growth phenotype of cells with a deletion of htz1. the h2a variant, h2a.z, also known as htz1 in saccharomyces cerevisiae, is not uniformly distributed across the genome but facilitates transcriptional activation at target gene promoters and anti-silencing at heterochromatin loci. the histone variant h2az marks nucleosomes flanking the promoters of most genes of budding yeast. the yeast swr-c chromatin remodeling enzyme catalyzes chromatin incorporation of the histone variant h2a.z which plays roles in transcription, dna repair, and chromosome segregation. 
Repressing IL-18 has negative effects on atherosclerotic lesion composition and progression. [SEP] il-18 is hypothesized to destabilise atherosclerotic plaques, leading to thrombotic events and epidemiologic studies suggest that il-18 may increase risk of chd or cvd. il-18 was positively associated with adverse lipid and inflammatory profiles. studies in humans and animal models suggest that interleukin-18 (il-18) plays a crucial role in vascular pathologies. il-18 is a predictor of cardiovascular death in angina and is involved in atherotic plaque destabilization. these results identify a critical role for il-18 in neointimal formation in a rat model of vascular injury and suggest a potential role for il-18 neutralization in the reduction of neointimal development. the pro-inflammatory cytokine il-18 has been suggested to play a role in atherogenesis and atheromatous plaque rupture leading to the acute coronary syndrome (acs). precise location of il-18 in cell and tissue elements of the atherosclerotic lesions in humans and its role in destabilization of the atherosclerotic plaque were detected. although il-18 has been implicated in atherosclerotic lesion development, little is known about its role in advanced atherosclerotic plaques. systemic il-18 overexpression markedly decreases intimal collagen content and cap thickness, leading to a vulnerable plaque morphology. circulating interleukin-18 (il-18) is thought to promote atherosclerosis and cardiovascular complications such as plaque rupture. 
Retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor gamma (RORγ) is a therapeutic target for castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) [SEP] castrate-resistant prostate cancer (crpc) is challenging to treat with the androgen receptor (ar), the main target and key focus of resistance. reactivated androgen receptor (ar) signaling drives castration-resistant prostate cancer (crpc). despite new treatments for castrate-resistant prostate cancer (crpc), the prognosis of patients with crpc remains bleak due to acquired resistance to androgen receptor (ar)-directed therapy. in vivo, gr depletion delayed castrate-resistant tumor formation, while sgk1-flag-overexpressing pc xenografts displayed accelerated castrate-resistant tumor initiation, supporting a role for sgk1 in gr-mediated crpc progression. despite an initial response, most patients progress to castration-resistant prostate cancer (crpc). androgen receptor (ar) activation is the primary driving factor in prostate cancer which is initially responsive to castration but then becomes resistant (castration-resistant prostate cancer (crpc)). castration-resistant prostate cancer (crpc) occurs when prostate cancer (cap) progresses under therapy-induced castrate conditions. first line treatment of patients with castrate resistant prostate cancer (crpc) primarily involves administration of docetaxel chemotherapy. androgen deprivation therapy is initially effective for treating patients with advanced prostate cancer; however, the prostate cancer gradually becomes resistant to androgen deprivation therapy, which is termed castration-resistant prostate cancer (crpc). castration resistant prostate cancer (crpc) has been characterized by a reactivation of the androgen receptor (ar) signaling pathway via alterations in androgen metabolism and ar aberrations. 
Rhythmic expression of Cry1 translates directly into a circadian regulation of cAMP signaling in gluconeogenesis. [SEP] cryptochrome (cry) 1 and 2 are essential for circadian rhythm generation, not only in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, the site of the mammalian master circadian clock, but also in peripheral organs throughout the body. these results suggest that a lack of circadian adrenergic input due to cry deficiency decreases β-receptor activity and camp levels, resulting in consistently low aanat levels despite abundant aanat mrna. we conclude that although cry signaling may not be essential for the maintenance of energy homeostasis under steady-state nutritional conditions, cry1 may play a role in readjusting energy balance under changing nutritional circumstances. these studies reinforce the important role of circadian clock genes in energy homeostasis and suggest that cry1 is a plausible target for anti-obesity therapy. cryptochromes (cry) are core components in the gene regulation of circadian rhythmic processes. as a main component of the core negative arm feedback loops in the circadian clock, the cry1 gene contributes to the maintenance of behavioral and molecular rhythmicity. cry1 is essential for normal circadian clock function, but its transcriptional regulation by the clock has not been considered an important feature for its function. (2011) now show that rhythmic cry1 expression in the early night is critical for clock function. these results indicate that the thermoregulatory responses are modulated according to the circadian phase, and the cry genes are involved in this mechanism. cryptochrome 1 (cry1), one of the core circadian genes, is associated with bone metabolism. 
Rhythmic expression of Cry1 translates directly into a circadian regulation of cAMP signaling in hepatic glucose metabolism. [SEP] we conclude that although cry signaling may not be essential for the maintenance of energy homeostasis under steady-state nutritional conditions, cry1 may play a role in readjusting energy balance under changing nutritional circumstances. these studies reinforce the important role of circadian clock genes in energy homeostasis and suggest that cry1 is a plausible target for anti-obesity therapy. cryptochrome (cry) 1 and 2 are essential for circadian rhythm generation, not only in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, the site of the mammalian master circadian clock, but also in peripheral organs throughout the body. in the cry1−/−/cry2−/− pineal, expression levels of aanat and clock gene per1 were consistently high with no circadian fluctuation on the first day in constant darkness, demonstrating that cry acts in vivo as a repressor of the pineal circadian clock and aanat. these results suggest that a lack of circadian adrenergic input due to cry deficiency decreases β-receptor activity and camp levels, resulting in consistently low aanat levels despite abundant aanat mrna. as a main component of the core negative arm feedback loops in the circadian clock, the cry1 gene contributes to the maintenance of behavioral and molecular rhythmicity. as the cry1 and cry2 genes are indispensable for molecular core oscillator function, we investigated autonomic nervous system activity and metabolism in cry1-/-cry2-/- mice. here we describe loss of the circadian oscillation of c/ebpα expression in liver of clock mutant mice. the data suggests that circadian disturbances may affect metabolic abnormalities through the c/ebpα pathway in liver. cryptochrome 1 (cry1), one of the core circadian genes, is associated with bone metabolism. 
Ribosomal protein (RP) expression is controlled in part by stress-activated regulators. [SEP] several ribosomal proteins (rps) in response to various ribosomal stressors have been shown to play a critical role in p53-dependent regulation of cell cycle arrest, apoptosis and tumor suppression. ribosome-profiling analysis revealed that induction of ribosomal stress by actinomycin d leads to the increase of ribosome-free rpl22/el22 pool. the function of rrb1p in ribosome biogenesis appears to be linked to its association with the ribosomal protein rpl3. these results suggest that rrb1p regulates rpl3 expression and uncouples it from the coordinated expression of other rp genes. perturbations in ribosomal biogenesis can initiate so-called nucleolar stress. the process through which ribosomal proteins (rps) transduce nucleolar stress signals via mdm2 to p53 has been described as a crucial tumor-suppression mechanism. the rna-binding protein (rbp) hur plays a vital role in the mammalian stress response, effecting changes in the proliferation and survival of damaged cells. the expression of ribosomal protein (rp) genes requires a substantial part of cellular transcription, processing and translation resources. in saccharomyces cerevisiae cells, regulation of the rp gene expression at the transcriptional, mature mrna stability and translational levels during the response to osmotic stress has been reported. as the fractionation of pnp with ribosomal subunits is strongly enhanced in the presence of rsr, we propose that ro proteins function as cofactors to increase the association of exonucleases with certain substrates during stress. 
Ribosome-inactivating protein-2 (RIP-2) interacts with the p75 NTR death domain [SEP] receptor-interacting serine-threonine kinase family rip plays a crucial role in regulating the switch between apoptosis and necroptosis. rip2 contains an n-terminal kinases domain and a c-terminal caspase activation and recruitment domain (card). the apoptotic activity of rip2 is restricted to its c-terminal card domain while nf-κb activation requires the intact rip2 for binding. rip2 card involved homotypic or heterotypic interactions with members of the death domains superfamily. since the death domain deleted dominant-negative antagonist of p75(ntr) rescued intrinsic caspase associated apoptosis in pc-3 cells, this shows p75(ntr) was integral to ligand independent induction of apoptosis. rip2, one of the rip kinases, interacts with p75 neurotrophin receptor, regulating the neuron survival, and with nod1 and nod2 proteins, causing the innate immune response against gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria via its caspase recruitment domain (card). overexpression of rip2 mediates divergent signaling pathways including nf-κb activation and cell death. receptor-interacting protein 1 (rip1) is a ser/thr kinase with both kinase-dependent and kinase-independent roles in death receptor signaling. the kinase activity of rip1 is required for necroptosis, a caspase-independent pathway of programmed cell death. the death domain serine/threonine kinase rip interacts with the death receptors fas and tumor necrosis receptor 1 (tnfr1). 
Ribosomopathies have a high degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. [SEP] ribosomopathies are a group of human disorders most commonly caused by ribosomal protein haploinsufficiency or defects in ribosome biogenesis. we review current molecular models to explain ribosomopathies and attempt to reconcile the tissue specificity of these disorders with the ubiquitous requirement for ribosomes in all cells. despite the ubiquitous need for ribosomes in all cell types, ribosomopathies manifest with tissue-specific defects and sometimes increased cancer susceptibility, but few treatments target the underlying cause. ribosomopathies are diseases caused by alterations in the structure or function of ribosomal components. progress in our understanding of the role of the ribosome in translational and transcriptional regulation has clarified the mechanisms of the ribosomopathies and the relationship between ribosomal dysfunction and other diseases, especially cancer. mutations that target the ubiquitous process of ribosome assembly paradoxically cause diverse tissue-specific disorders (ribosomopathies) that are often associated with an increased risk of cancer. ribosomopathies comprise a heterogeneous group of hematologic and developmental disorders, often characterized by bone marrow failure, skeletal and other developmental abnormalities and cancer predisposition. taken together, our results indicate that many if not all cancers possess ribosomopathy-like features that may affect their biological behaviors. ribosomopathies are congenital disorders caused by mutations in the genes encoding ribosomal and other functionally related proteins. ribosomopathies result in various cancers, neurodegenerative and viral diseases, and other pathologies such as diamond-blackfan anemia and shwachman-diamond syndrome. 
Risedronate increases risk of vertebral and non-vertebral fractures. [SEP] to determine the effect of risedronate on vertebral fracture in high-risk subjects, we pooled data from two randomized, double-blind studies [vertebral efficacy with risedronate therapy (vert) multinational (vert-mn) and vert-north america (vert-na)] in 3684 postmenopausal osteoporotic women treated with placebo or risedronate 2.5 or 5 mg/d and analyzed fracture risk in subgroups of subjects at high risk for fracture due to greater age or more prevalent fractures (vs. median for overall study population), or lower bone mineral density (t-score, -2.5 or less). in the overall population, treatment for 1 yr with risedronate 5 mg/d reduced the risk of new vertebral fractures by 62% vs. control (relative risk, 0.38; 95% confidence interval, 0.25, 0.56; p < 0.001) and of multiple new vertebral fractures by 90% vs. control (relative risk, 0.10; 95% confidence interval, 0.04, 0.26; p < 0.001). we examined the risk of first vertebral fracture in postmenopausal women who were enrolled in four placebo-controlled clinical trials of risedronate and who had low lumbar spine bone mineral density (bmd) (mean t-score = -3.3) and no vertebral fractures at baseline. eleven out of one hundred women who received risedronate had a vertebral fracture compared to 17 out of one hundred of those who received an alternative treatment (pooled relative risk for vertebral fractures of 0.64 (95% ci 0.52 - 0.77). three percent of participants who received risedronate had a non-vertebral fracture compared to 4.6% of those who received an alternative treatment (pooled relative risk for nonvertebral fractures of 0.73 (95% ci 0.61 - 0.87). eleven out of one hundred women who received risedronate had a vertebral fracture compared to 17 out of one hundred of those who received calcium and vitamin d (pooled relative risk for vertebral fractures of 0.64 (95% ci 0.52 - 0.77). three percent of participants who received risedronate had a non-vertebral fracture compared to 4.6% of those who received calcium and vitamin d (pooled relative risk for nonvertebral fractures of 0.73 (95% ci 0.61 - 0.87). this study examined the effects of risedronate treatment on the time course of the reduction in the risk of clinical vertebral fractures (i.e., symptomatic fractures), on the risk of moderate-to-severe radiographic vertebral fractures, and on height. at 1 year, risedronate also reduced the risk of moderate-to-severe radiographically-defined vertebral fractures by 71% (rr = 0.29 95% ci 0.16, 0.54). risedronate reduced the risk of vertebral fracture in patients with post-menopausal or glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis after 1 year by up to 71% in prospective studies. 
Rising temperatures caused by global warming increases risk of dengue fever transmission. [SEP] temperature plays a determinant role in dengue epidemic potential, affecting crucial parts of the mosquito and viral life cycles. dengue is a serious vector-borne disease, and incidence rates have significantly increased during the past few years, particularly in 2014 in guangzhou. incidence of dengue infections has dramatically increased recently, potentially due to changing climate. the objective of this study was to assess the effect of changing climate on distribution of dengue vectors in relation to epidemic risk areas in tanzania. models incorporating climate change scenarios to predict emerging risk areas for dengue epidemics in tanzania show that the anticipated risk is immense and results help guiding public health policy decisions on surveillance and control of dengue epidemics. in recent years the dengue has spread rapidly to several regions and it becomes a major public health menace globally. dengue transmission is strongly influenced by environmental factors such as temperature and rainfall. during 2000-2017 periods the dengue transmission is steadily increasing across the india in compare with 1980-1999 periods. due to the climate change, the expansion two more months of dengue transmission risk occurs in many regions of india. the global prevalence of dengue cases has increased in south-east asia, africa, the western pacific, and the americas. 
Rising temperatures caused by global warming lowers the risk of dengue fever transmission. [SEP] initial concern about the possible effects of global warming on infections has declined with the realization that the spread of tropical diseases is likely to be limited and controllable. action to prevent these deaths from rising is the most obvious medical challenge presented by a global rise in temperature. this study explored whether the global temperature had any role in the spread and vulnerability to covid-19 and how that knowledge can be used to arrest the fast-spreading disease. it highlighted that for transmitting the virus, global temperature played an important role and a moderately cool environment was the most favourable state. the risk from the virus was reduced significantly for warm places and countries. seasonal variation in dengue virus transmission in northwestern thailand is inversely related to the magnitude of diurnal temperature fluctuations, although mean temperature does not vary significantly across seasons. we tested the hypothesis that diurnal temperature fluctuations negatively influence epidemiologically important life-history traits of the primary dengue vector, aedes aegypti (l.), compared with a constant 26 degrees c temperature. our results indicate that there is a negative impact of large dtr on mosquito biology and are consistent with the hypothesis that, in at least some locations, large temperature fluctuations contribute to seasonal reduction in dengue virus transmission. vector-borne diseases are prone to be impacted by global warming, although other factors may play a substantial role, evidenced by the dramatic decrease in malaria in the last decades in places where climate change has deep and significant effects. since climate scientists have recently observed that climate change is tied to more frequent and more intense enso events, we may foresee increases in frequency and severity in emerging infectious diseases in the world. 
Risk of cardiovascular events can be cut by a third by using antihypertensive drug therapy among hemodialysis patients. [SEP] treating hypertension reduces overall mortality and is most effective in reducing the risk of coronary heart disease in older patients. among chronic hemodialysis patients with hypertension, blood pressure should be lowered. blood pressure reduction with antihypertensive drugs does not increase mortality; in contrast, meta-analysis of randomized trials suggests that treatment of hypertension in this high-risk population may, in fact, improve cardiovascular outcomes. the pharmacological treatment of hypertension allows one to reduce substantially the risk of developing a cardiovascular complication. nephropathy progression is slowed and cardiovascular events reduced in patients with stage 3 or higher chronic kidney disease when blood pressure is controlled using combinations of renin-angiotensin system (ras) blockers with dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers or diuretics. reduction of elevated blood pressure is effective in reducing morbidity and mortality from cardiovascular disease in general. striking decreases in stroke, congestive heart failure, and renal impairment have been observed when blood pressure is reduced. the emergence of effective antihypertensive agents that lower blood pressure without adversely affecting cardiovascular risk factors provides a new opportunity to further extend the benefit of treatment by reducing such risk. to summarize the available evidence on whether a lower blood pressure (bp) treatment target can ameliorate the progression of nondiabetic chronic kidney disease (ckd), and prevent cardiovascular events in ckd patients. the three prospective, randomized controlled trials which addressed the question of progression of ckd suggest that a lower bp treatment goal (<130/80 mmhg) may lead to better preservation of renal function, but only in those patients with proteinuria of more than 300 mg/day. 
Risk-adjusted mortality rates are similar in teaching and non-teaching hospitals. [SEP] patient mortality rates and lengths of stay were comparable for specialty and general hospitals that perform similar volumes of the procedures. to examine risk-adjusted outcomes for patients admitted to teaching vs nonteaching hospitals across a broad range of medical and surgical conditions. unadjusted 30-day mortality was 8.1% at major teaching hospitals, 9.2% at minor teaching hospitals, and 9.6% at nonteaching hospitals, with a 1.5% (95% ci, 1.3%-1.7%; p < .001) mortality difference between major teaching hospitals and nonteaching hospitals. after adjusting for patient and hospital characteristics, the same pattern persisted (8.3% mortality at major teaching vs 9.2% at minor teaching and 9.5% at nonteaching), but the difference in mortality between major and nonteaching hospitals was smaller (1.2% [95% ci, 1.0%-1.4%]; p < .001). after stratifying by hospital size, 187 large (≥400 beds) major teaching hospitals had lower adjusted overall 30-day mortality relative to 76 large nonteaching hospitals (8.1% vs 9.4%; 1.2% difference [95% ci, 0.9%-1.5%]; p < .001). this same pattern of lower overall 30-day mortality at teaching hospitals was observed for medium-sized (100-399 beds) hospitals (8.6% vs 9.3% and 9.4%; 0.8% difference between 61 major and 1207 nonteaching hospitals [95% ci, 0.4%-1.3%]; p = .003). among hospitalizations for us medicare beneficiaries, major teaching hospital status was associated with lower mortality rates for common conditions compared with nonteaching hospitals. teaching hospitals have been shown to often have better quality than nonteaching hospitals, but cost and value associated with teaching hospitals remains unclear. mortality rates, based on episodes of bacteremia, were similar in diabetic and nondiabetic patients in most instances. the association of hospital teaching status with in-hospital mortality was assessed by multivariate logistic regression, adjusting for patient demographics and comorbidities. 
Rotator cuff exercises are more effective than general exercise therapy in reducing pain and improving function of the shoulder. [SEP] to evaluate if a specific exercise strategy, targeting the rotator cuff and scapula stabilisers, improves shoulder function and pain more than unspecific exercises in patients with subacromial impingement syndrome, thereby decreasing the need for arthroscopic subacromial decompression. a specific exercise strategy, focusing on strengthening eccentric exercises for the rotator cuff and concentric/eccentric exercises for the scapula stabilisers, is effective in reducing pain and improving shoulder function in patients with persistent subacromial impingement syndrome. rotator cuff and scapular muscle strengthening exercises are an essential part of shoulder rehabilitation and sports training. therefore, the purpose of the present study was to investigate the effect of rotator cuff and scapular strengthening exercises on shoulder kinematics and the activation of rotator cuff and scapular muscles in healthy subjects. research studies utilizing electromyography have identified therapeutic exercises that are effective in the muscular activation of the rotator cuff and the scapular stabilizers. can a specific exercise strategy improve shoulder function and pain in patients with subacromial impingement syndrome, thereby decreasing the need for arthroscopic subacromial decompression? compared with a control exercise group, patients in the specific exercise group had significantly greater improvements in shoulder function and pain and fewer patients needed surgery at the three month assessment. this specific exercise strategy proved effective in improving shoulder function and pain in patients in whom earlier conservative treatment had failed. therapeutic exercise is an effective intervention for patients with shoulder dysfunction, which is often supplemented by joint mobilization techniques. exercise of the rotator cuff and scapulothoracic muscles is an important part of shoulder rehabilitation. 
Roughly 55% of women with chronic pelvic pain have no underlying pathology. [SEP] chronic pelvic pain (cpp) affects 5.7-26.6% women worldwide. 55% have no obvious pathology and 40% have associated endometriosis. the prevalence of nep in women with cpp is not known. we aimed to determine if women with chronic pelvic pain (cpp) have a neuropathic pain (nep) component to their painful symptoms and how this is best assessed. subjects included 551 consecutive females who attended the outpatient clinic from 9 march to 8 july 2006 and did not have a chief complaint of incontinence. among them, 114 patients (30.7%) did not indicate any urinary incontinence, while 257 (69.3%) patients indicated symptoms of urge incontinence, stress incontinence, or mixed incontinence. five hundred women aged 52.57 +/- 8.08 years, without a history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus or complicated pregnancy were involved in the study. to compare surface electromyographic (emg) studies of the pelvic floor in women diagnosed with dysesthetic vulvodynia to those of women with no urologic or gynecologic symptoms. fifty women were chosen to participate and placed in one of two diagnostic categories, asymptomatic (no report of urogynecologic abnormalities, n = 25) and those diagnosed with dysesthetic vulvodynia (n = 25). the most reliable predictors of symptomatic women were pelvic floor contractile amplitudes of the tonic, phasic and endurance contractions, though 9 of the 15 variables tested proved significant. 
Satellite cell dysfunction is a key factor in sarcopenia development. [SEP] one potential explanation for sarcopenia is the failure of muscle to regenerate after damage, some of which may be due to changes in the function of satellite cells. to understand the cellular mechanisms of sarcopenia, we examined the expression of satellite cells and hematopoietic stem cells in old regenerating muscles based on the expression profiles of several markers related to those cells. skeletal muscle satellite cells (sc), as precursors of new myonuclei, have been suggested to be involved in the development of sarcopenia. the mechanisms of sarcopenia are complex and still unclear; however, it is known that muscle atrophy is associated with a decline in the number and/or efficiency of satellite cells, the main contributors to muscle regeneration. although the etiology of sarcopenia is unknown, the correlation during aging between the loss of activity of satellite cells, which are endogenous muscle stem cells, and impaired muscle regenerative capacity has led to the hypothesis that the loss of satellite cell activity is also a cause of sarcopenia. these results suggest that lifelong reduction of satellite cells neither accelerated nor exacerbated sarcopenia and that satellite cells did not contribute to the maintenance of muscle size or fiber type composition during aging, but that their loss may contribute to age-related muscle fibrosis. therefore, identification of signaling pathways affecting satellite cell function during aging may provide insights into therapeutic targets for combating sarcopenia. sarcopenia affects quality of life and is associated with several adverse health effects. the gradual loss of muscle mass affecting all the elderly (sarcopenia) is most likely due to a decreased number and/or function of satellite cells. accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ros) has been clearly correlated to sarcopenia and could contribute to the impairment of satellite cell function. 
ScPif1p has higher binding ability to G-rich ssDNA than to non-G-rich ssDNA. [SEP] cytoplasmic intermediate filament (cif) proteins interact strongly with single-stranded (ss) dnas and rnas, particularly with g-rich sequences. association of the cif proteins with the corresponding nonfolded g-rich ssdnas was negligible. binding of ssdna to this secondary site shows specificity, in that polypyrimidinic dna binds to the reca protein-ssdna filament with higher affinity than polypurinic sequences. the affinity of ssdna, which is identical in sequence to that bound in the primary site, is not always greater than that of nonhomologous dna. the secondary dna binding site displays a higher affinity for ssdna than for double-stranded dna, and the binding of ssdna to the secondary site strongly inhibits dna strand exchange. purified g35p binds single-strand dna (ssdna) and double-strand (dsdna) and specifically interacts with spp1-encoded replicative dna helicase g40p and ssb protein g36p. g35p promotes joint molecule formation between a circular ssdna and a homologous linear dsdna with an ssdna tail. the two major dna-binding proteins of human serum (dna-binding protein 1 and dna-binding protein 2) were shown to bind preferentially to single-stranded polynucleotides rich in guanine residues. single-stranded dna binding proteins (ssbs) selectively bind single-stranded dna (ssdna) and facilitate recruitment of additional proteins and enzymes to their sites of action on dna. msbp-1 is a minisatellite-specific dna-binding protein. 
ScPif1p has reduced binding ability to G-rich ssDNA compared to non-G-rich ssDNA. [SEP] previous studies have indicated that sp2 binds poorly to gc-rich sequences bound by sp1 and sp3, and further functional analyses of sp2 have been limited. hrad51 binding to ssdna is significantly lowered in the presence of a nucleotide cofactor atp/adp/atpgammas. hrad51 binding to ssdna is strongly influenced by the dna sequence. the protein binding to repeat sequences is poor compared to that of mixed dna sequence. sfp1, an unusual zinc finger protein, was previously identified as a gene that, when overexpressed, imparted a nuclear localization defect. sfp1 cells have a reduced size and a slow growth phenotype. this suggests that regulation of genes containing rrpes is dependent upon sfp1 but that sfp1 may not directly bind to these conserved promoter elements; rather, activation may occur through an indirect mechanism. in the absence of antibody, reduced p53 preferentially bound scdna lacking p53con in the presence of 3 kb linear plasmid dnas or 20 mer oligonucleotides, both containing and lacking the p53con. in the absence of the scs binding, p53 binds sc or linear (relaxed) dna via the p53 core domain and exhibits strong sequence-specific binding. ssf1p and ssf2p are two nearly identical and functionally redundant nucleolar proteins. 
Scapular stabilizer exercises are more effective than general exercise therapy in reducing pain and improving function of the shoulder. [SEP] evidence suggests that structured physiotherapy may be as effective as surgery in this condition with significant improvements demonstrated in trials involving scapular retraining, rotator cuff strengthening and flexibility exercises. to evaluate if a specific exercise strategy, targeting the rotator cuff and scapula stabilisers, improves shoulder function and pain more than unspecific exercises in patients with subacromial impingement syndrome, thereby decreasing the need for arthroscopic subacromial decompression. a specific exercise strategy, focusing on strengthening eccentric exercises for the rotator cuff and concentric/eccentric exercises for the scapula stabilisers, is effective in reducing pain and improving shoulder function in patients with persistent subacromial impingement syndrome. scapular stabilization approaches have been a mainstay of therapeutic training programs in the recent past for patients with subacromial im-pingement syndrome, whereas its contributions solely in the clinical outcome of reducing shoulder pain and disability are largely unclear. there was a significant effect on the scapular sta-bilization exercise program on improving pain and disability among sub-jects with subacromial impingement syndrome. to investigate the effect of adding scapular stabilization exercises, emphasizing retraction, and depression of the scapula, to a progressive periscapular strengthening protocol on disability, pain, muscle strength, and rom in patients with saps. the inclusion of the isolated scapular stabilization exercises, emphasizing retraction and depression of the scapula, to a progressive general periscapular strengthening protocol did not add benefits to self-reported shoulder pain and disability, muscle strength, and rom in patients with saps. emerging evidence suggests that scapular-focused therapeutic exercises hold promise for shoulder dynamic stability retraining. exercise of the rotator cuff and scapulothoracic muscles is an important part of shoulder rehabilitation. therapeutic exercise for scapular muscles is suggested to be effective in reducing shoulder pain in patients with rotator cuff disorders, whereas its effectiveness on scapular position and motion has remained unclear. 
Self-advocacy training is effective at decreasing homelessness. [SEP] this work evaluated a psycho-educational intervention designed to reduce intimate partner violence (ipv) in low-income situationally violent couples. it was hypothesized that ipv would be reduced via use of therapeutic skills taught during the intervention (i.e., friendship, sex/romance/passion, shared meaning, and conflict management skills). results support the notion that violence was reduced via an increase in intervention-based skills. practitioners who had implemented the approach reported positive outcomes including a reduction in incidence and severity of self-harm and a perceived increase in empowerment of service users. harm reduction is being used to support people who self-harm within inpatient psychiatry and some practitioners report potential benefits of this approach. ample evidence exists that behavioral interventions reduce high risk sexual behaviors and promote safer practices. preparing health care workers for intensive, skills-based interventions grounded in behavioral science theory would enhance primary prevention. homelessness among veterans has dropped dramatically since the expansion of services for homeless veterans in 2009, and now engaging homeless veterans in existing programs will be important to continuing to make progress. while one promising approach for engaging homeless veterans in care is involving peer mentors in integrated services, posttraumatic stress disorder (ptsd) may diminish the effects of peer mentorship. this mixed methods study examined how interpersonal and emotional processes in homeless veterans with and without ptsd impacted their capacity to engage in relationships with peer mentors. 
Sepsis related mortality has remained stable between 2009-2014. [SEP] mortality in patients with heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (hfpef) has remained stable over recent decades. isolation techniques and identification procedures have remained essentially the same during this period, allowing for a valid comparison of this frequency. for most organisms the frequency of overall isolation had remained relatively stable. despite the increased use of the cesarean section (cs), the rates of cerebral palsy, a frequent consequence of brain damage, have remained stable over the last decades. the overall prevalence of chronic kidney disease (ckd) has stabilized in the united states in recent years. we hypothesized that survival rates in trauma patients who survive to discharge remain stable afterward. we found that while demographic variables, stroke severity, and most stroke characteristics remained relatively stable, disability levels at admission and discharge decreased and frequencies of both medical tube usage and many secondary medical complications increased over time. in the current era, pediatric sepsis remains a public health problem of significant prevalence and impact. with mortality rates practically unchanged over the years, this review hopes to briefly summarize the epidemiology and the current interventions for pediatric sepsis and point towards possible areas of improvement. mortality after cerebral infarction (ci) has remained unchanged during the past 20 years, despite advances in neurologic care. 
Sepsis related mortality has risen from 2009 to 2014. [SEP] furthermore, the incidence of sepsis has been rising annually over the past three decades, and morbidity and mortality remain high. considering morbidity, mortality, and annual treatment costs, the dramatic rise in the incidence of sepsis and septic shock among intensive care unit (icu) admissions in us hospitals is an increasing concern. sepsis is a prevalent, serious medical condition with substantial mortality and a significant consumption of health-care resources. further improvement in the care of patients with sepsis will impact upon global health. although usually managed in intensive care units, sepsis showed an increased prevalence among internal medicine wards in the last decade. the prevalence of sepsis is constantly increasing, affecting more hospital patients than any other disease. sepsis is a common cause of hospital admission worldwide and contributes significantly to morbidity and mortality. over the last decade, hospitalizations for sepsis have more than doubled and the incidence of postsurgical sepsis tripled between 1997 and 2006. with progression to sepsis-associated organ failure (ie, severe sepsis) or hypotension (ie, septic shock) mortality increases. sepsis is a cause of considerable mortality, morbidity, cost, and health care utilization. 
Sequence conservation in gene regulatory regions between species is a high-accuracy predictor of conserved functionality. [SEP] genes coding for transcription factors and developmental regulators have a high likelihood to harbour cis-regulatory regions that are structurally conserved among orthologous genes in the vertebrate lineage. even though this conservation is an efficient tool to discover cis-regulatory regions, we know little about why these specific genes maintain such highly conserved regulatory sequences. since almost all of the available methods used for prediction and annotation of non-coding rna genes rely on this evolutionary signature, accurate measures for structural conservation are essential. we systematically assessed the ability of various measures to detect conserved rna structures in multiple sequence alignments. several studies have demonstrated high levels of sequence conservation in noncoding dna compared between two species (e.g., human and mouse), and interpreted this conservation as evidence for functional constraints. the conservation of sequences between related genomes has long been recognised as an indication of functional significance and recognition of sequence homology is one of the principal approaches used in the annotation of newly sequenced genomes. we show that our approach is both sensitive and accurate with respect to comparable methods and illustrate several situations in which it may be applied, including the identification of conserved coding regions in genome sequences and the discrimination of coding from non-coding cdna sequences. given the availability of complete genome sequences from related organisms, sequence conservation can provide important clues for predicting gene structure. in particular, short dna segments participating in initiation and regulation of transcription are often conserved between related species. purifying selection often results in conservation of gene sequence and function. 
Sequence conservation in gene regulatory regions between species is a poor predictor of conserved functionality. [SEP] gene regulatory regions (also known as 'cis-regulatory modules') in vertebrates are poorly understood and annotated by comparison with protein-coding sequences. the short and degenerate sequences of regulatory elements and their distribution over large intergenic and intronic regions pose a major challenge to genomics scientists. the amount of a genome's sequence that is functional has been surprisingly difficult to estimate accurately. this review considers the rates at which coding or noncoding and functional or nonfunctional sequence changes among mammalian genomes. in contrast to proteins, lncrnas with similar functions often lack linear sequence homology; thus, the identification of function in one lncrna rarely informs the identification of function in others. in prokaryotes, biocomputational identification of homologs of known ncrnas in other species often fails due to weakly evolutionarily conserved sequences, structures, synteny and genome localization, except in the case of evolutionarily closely related species. therefore, genes that lack sufficient sequence similarity to characterized genes (such as certain classes of transcriptional regulators) are difficult to classify using most function prediction algorithms and have remained uncharacterized. whilst coding sequences are readily recognised in vertebrate genomes using computational approaches, the identification of non-coding regulatory sequences has traditionally been much more difficult, due to their small size and, as a general rule, low sequence homology between genomes. gene duplication and gene loss during the evolution of eukaryotes have hindered attempts to estimate phylogenies and divergence times of species. human-mouse pair-wise comparisons have limited utility for identifying functional conserved non-coding sequences, owing to the large number of sequences shared between these species. 
Side effects associated with antidepressants do not represent a mortality risk to postmenopausal women. [SEP] antidepressants are recommended as treatment for major depression in menopausal women, but the specific efficacy of antidepressants has not been examined in menopause-associated depression. for most women, the perimenopause is not associated with depression. studies of depressive symptoms in menopausal women indicate that menopause is not associated with increased rates of depression, although mild mood and anxiety symptoms may occur in the few years prior to menopause. aging does not seem to alter the plasma concentration of desipramine, and the authors conclude that the increased incidence and severity of the drug's side effects are probably not due to high drug concentrations. nonetheless, no large, placebo-controlled studies have prospectively assessed the efficacy of antidepressants in perimenopausal or postmenopausal women. women < 50 years of age experience fewer serious side effects. vascular and vasomotor events do not persist after treatment regardless of age. in postmenopausal women, raloxifene and tamoxifen reduce the risk of er-positive invasive breast cancer with equal efficacy, but raloxifene is associated with a lower risk of thromboembolic disease, benign uterine conditions, and cataracts than tamoxifen in postmenopausal women. no evidence exists establishing whether a reduction in breast cancer risk from either agent translates into reduced breast cancer mortality. menopausal hormone therapy should not be used for the primary or secondary prevention of coronary heart disease at the present time. 
Side effects associated with antidepressants increases risk of stroke. [SEP] depression is an important complication of stroke. the authors reviewed the literature on the use of antidepressants after stroke. moreover, both depressive symptoms and taking antidepressant medications are associated with higher risk of stroke. the levels of depressive symptoms and the antidepressant medications before stroke onset were investigated. greater severity of depression, but not greater use of antidepressants, preceded the occurrence of stroke. a clinical diagnosis of major depression leads to stroke indirectly through more intense depressive symptoms and the development of major comorbidities. post-stroke depression (psd) is among the most frequent neuropsychiatric consequences of stroke. depression also negatively impacts stroke outcome with increased morbidity, mortality and poorer functional recovery. we review the literature on cerebrovascular events associated with ssri treatment after stroke. given the widespread use of antidepressants and the negative consequence of cerebrovascular events (cves), an evaluation of the risk of cves associated with antidepressants is warranted. 
Side effects associated with antidepressants lower risk of myocardial infarction. [SEP] a decreased risk of developing depression has been reported among statin users. lipid-lowering therapy reduces cardiac events to an extent that is disproportionate to the small degree of regression of coronary atherosclerosis observed among hyperlipidemic patients. the improvement in endothelial cell function brought about by lipid-lowering therapy might contribute to the reduction in cardiac events within a relatively short time period in hyperlipidemic patients. statins reduce the risk for myocardial infarctions and stroke which may in part depend on cholesterol-independent (pleiotropic) vasoprotective effects. the results of numerous long-term, randomized trials show that statins significantly decrease the risks of myocardial infarction, stroke, and vascular death as well as total mortality. antidepressants, specifically selective serotonin reuptake-inhibiting antidepressants (ssris), decrease platelet activation and aggregation in in vitro experiments and could therefore decrease the risk of myocardial infarction (mi). after statistical adjustment for traditional cardiovascular risk factors and depression, current use of any antidepressant was associated with a lower risk of mi (odds ratio (or), 0.71; 95 % confidence interval (ci), 0.51-0.98) compared with never use of any antidepressant. past use of any of the antidepressant classes was not associated with a lower risk of mi. current use of antidepressants was associated with a lower risk of mi. recent trials have shown a reduction in the risk of major adverse cardiac events (mace) with simvastatin-ezetimibe therapy in patients with acute coronary syndrome. 
Sildenafil worsens erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. [SEP] to assess the efficacy of sildenafil citrate in men with sexual dysfunction associated with the use of selective and nonselective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (sri) antidepressants. in our study, sildenafil effectively improved erectile function and other aspects of sexual function in men with sexual dysfunction associated with the use of sri antidepressants. selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (ssris) represent a class of antidepressants commonly associated with sexual dysfunction, even after symptomatic improvement. candidate gene studies have identified associations between sexual dysfunction and altered ssri pharmacokinetics or to the neurotransmitter systems affected by depression and ssri treatment. sexual dysfunctions are well-known side effects of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (ssri) use. altered libido, erectile dysfunction, vaginal dryness, ejaculatory disorders, and orgasmic problems are frequently reported by patients treated with ssris. selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (ssris), the first-line treatment for mdd, can cause sexual dysfunction, potentially worsening iss and qol. sexual dysfunction (including altered desire, orgasmic dysfunction, erectile and ejaculatory problems) is a relatively common side effect of antidepressant medication. meta-analysis of two trials involving 113 men with erectile dysfunction found that the addition of sildenafil resulted in less sexual dysfunction at endpoint on rating scales including the international index of erectile function (iief; wmd 19.36, 95% ci 15.00 to 23.72). to evaluate the efficacy of sildenafil for sexual dysfunction associated with selective and nonselective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (sris) in women. 
Smc5/6 engagment halts the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. [SEP] the smc5/6 complex is an evolutionarily conserved chromosomal atpase required for cell growth and dna repair. its mms21 subunit supports both functions by docking to the arm region of smc5 and providing sumo ligase activity. here, we report the crystal structure of mms21 in complex with the smc5 arm. our structure revealed two distinct structural and functional domains of the smc5-bound mms21: its n-terminal half is dedicated to smc5 binding by forming a helix bundle with a coiled-coil structure of smc5; its c-terminal half includes the sumo ligase domain, which adopts a new type of ring e3 structure. mutagenesis and structural analyses showed that the mms21-smc5 interface is required for cell growth and resistance to dna damage, while the unique mms21 ring domain confers specificity to the sumo e2-e3 interaction. through structure-based dissection of mms21 functions, our studies establish a framework for understanding its roles in the smc5/6 complex. the sumo ligase mms21, which is a subunit of the smc5/6 complex, is required for dna repair. here we present results showing that mms21 was phosophorylated during s-phase in a manner dependent on the dna damage kinase mec1. additionally, strains carrying mms21 phosphoablative alleles displayed reduced sumo ligase activity, sensitivity to mms and an increased rate of chromosome loss in the presence of mms. we propose that one function of s260 s261 phosphorylation is to positively regulate the sumo ligase activity of mms21 and thereby promote genomic stability. 
Sn is present on mature DCs during inflammation in vivo. [SEP] therefore, in some case, mature dc's (mdc's) are considered to be potent inflammatory inducers. shortly after activation via danger signals, dcs transiently produce interleukin (il) 12 and tumor necrosis factor (tnf) alpha, thereby eliciting protective and inflammatory immune responses. the endogenous tsp produced during early dc activation negatively regulates il-12, tnf-alpha, and il-10 release through its interactions with cd47 and cd36. we conclude that dc-derived tsp serves as a previously unappreciated negative regulator contributing to arrest of cytokine production, further supporting its fundamental role in vivo in the active resolution of inflammation and maintenance of steady state. dendritic cell (dc) maturation at the site of inflammation and migration into draining lymph nodes is fundamental to initiate ag-specific immune responses. although several proinflammatory cytokines, including il-1, are known to promote dc maturation in vitro, their contributions to dc activation and migration within peripheral inflamed tissue compartments are not yet fully understood. there is evidence that mature dendritic cells (dcs) present in the rheumatoid arthritis (ra) joint mediate immunopathology in ra. dc-sign expression on ra monocytes or on monocytes stimulated with granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor and interleukin-4 was further investigated by flow cytometry. seventy percent of the inflammatory cells in the synovium of ra patients showed high expression of dc-sign. dc are thought to continuously develop from circulating progenitors in a process that is accelerated by inflammatory stimuli. 
Specialized functional cell types can be derived from human pluripotent stem cells. [SEP] human pluripotential stem cells including both embryonic stem cells (hesc) and induced pluripotent stem cells (hipsc) possess self-renewing potency and pluripotentency and can differentiate into virtually any somatic cell type. human pluripotent stem cells, such as embryonic stem cells (hescs) and induced pluripotent stem cells (hipscs), have the ability to differentiate into various cell types, and will become a potential source of cellular materials for regenerative medicine. human pluripotent stem cells play a central role in regenerative medicine and tissue engineering. human pluripotent stem cells (hpscs ) have the unique potential to form every cell type in the body. this potential provides opportunities for generating human progenitors and other differentiated cell types for understanding human development and for use in cell type-specific therapies. human embryonic stem cells (hescs) and the related induced pluripotent stem cells (hipscs) have attracted considerable attention since they can provide an unlimited source of many different tissue types. because of their pluripotent characteristics, human induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) possess great potential for therapeutic application and for the study of degenerative disorders. induced pluripotent stem cells can serve as an excellent source for differentiated neural stem/progenitor cells (nscs/nps). pluripotent stem cells, i.e. the human induced pluripotent stem cells (hipscs) are derived from a direct reprogramming of human somatic cells to a pluripotent stage through ectopic expression of specific transcription factors. 
Splenomegaly is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. [SEP] viable motheaten mutant mice (abbreviated allele symbol me(v)) are deficient in src-homology 2-domain phosphatase (shp)-1, a critical negative regulator of signal transduction in hematopoietic cells. shp-1 protein was expressed in mouse and human retinal lysates and was localized to the outer nuclear layer of the retina in me(v)/me(v) and control mice. shp-1 protein tyrosine phosphatase is a critical negative regulator of mitogenic signaling, as demonstrated by the heightened growth responses to hematopoietic growth factors in hematopoietic cells of motheaten mice, which lack functional shp-1 expression due to mutations in the shp-1 gene. mice that are homozygous for the autosomal recessive motheaten allele (me/me) lack the protein tyrosine phosphatase shp-1. to define the role of shp-1 in cns development and differentiation, we examined the brains of me/me mice at various times after birth for neuronal and glial abnormalities. lyn-/- mice also develop splenomegaly, produce autoreactive abs with age, and finally develop glomerulonephritis. the generalized lymphoproliferative disorder (gld) mouse strain is characterized by severe splenomegaly/lymphadenopathy, the production of autoimmune antibodies, and the appearance of cd4/cd8-negative t cells. in this study, we could demonstrate that the reduced splenomegaly and lymphadenopathy in b6.gld/gld.tnf-/- mice were correlated with a decreased peripheral t cell proliferation rate and a delayed polyclonal activation. mice lacking interleukin-2 (il-2) developed a severe hematopoietic disorder characterized by the abnormal development of myeloid cells and neutropenia. collectively, these observations indicate that defective myelopoiesis in il-2(-/-) mice is at least in part a consequence of their direct dependency on il-2, and by regulating the growth of immature myeloid cells, il-2 plays an important role in the homeostatic regulation of myelocytic cell generation. 
Stacking is more stable when a purine is present in the +5 position (C1698). [SEP] the addition of the propynyl group at the 5 position of pyrimidine nucleotides is highly stabilising. the incorporation of the propyne group at the 5 position gives rise to a very large stabilisation of the hybrid duplex compared with the analogous 5-me modification. the 5'-end n-sugar puckering is currently believed to govern the intramolecular dinucleotide stacking. we demonstrate that if this 5'-conformation is indeed important in shaping up dinucleotide structures, the 3'-end sugar conformation can either potentiate or cancel the stacking capacity induced by the 5'-end n-sugar conformation. dna duplexes are stabilized by aminopropynyl modification of pyrimidines at the 5 position. the simulations also showed that stacking of cy3 straightens the dna while stabilizing the first basepair. thermodynamic data are reported revealing that pseudouridine (ψ) can stabilize rna duplexes when replacing u and forming ψ-a, ψ-g, ψ-u and ψ-c pairs. stabilization is dependent on type of base pair, position of ψ within the rna duplex, and type and orientation of adjacent watson-crick pairs. the stacking interactions among the center base pair steps of the dna duplex are found to improve when the terminal base pairs became less stable due to end fraying. a new structural quantity, the stacking sum (sigma(s)), is introduced to indicate small changes in the stacking overlaps between base pairs. 
Stiff substrates encourage mesodermal differentiation by degrading beta-catenin in an integrin-dependent manner. [SEP] this work compares the changing properties of collagen scaffolds incubated in culture medium, with and without human tenocytes, in order to investigate the relationship between degradation and tenocyte proliferation. collagen gel cultures of limb bud mesenchymal cells are normally permissive for chondrogenesis but become inhibitory for chondrogenesis when they are preconditioned by limb ectoderm. this paper reviews the existing literature on the effect of mechanical stimulation on chondrogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells in order to regenerate hyaline cartilage. recently the effect of cellular mechanical microenvironment in inducing phenotype specific differentiation has attracted considerable attention. we have shown the possibility of inducing endoderm differentiation by culturing the stem cells on fibrin substrates of specific stiffness. mesenchymal stem cell (msc) differentiation is regulated by the extracellular matrix (ecm) through activation of intracellular signaling mediators. taken together, these results suggest that ecm stiffness regulates msc differentiation through erk or jnk activation. mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) are highly sensitive to biomechanics of their extracellular environment. in conclusion, biomaterial elasticity and mechanical loading can act simultaneously on cell differentiation. substrate elasticity is an important factor, regulating the differentiation, but cyclic strain can drive mscs towards the osteogenesis even on the softest substrate. 
Stiff substrates inhibit mesodermal differentiation by degrading beta-catenin in an integrin-dependent manner. [SEP] it has generally been observed that a fibroblastic morphology with strong actin-myosin contractility inhibits chondrogenesis, whereas chondrogenesis may be promoted by depolymerization of the stress fibers and/or disruption of the physical link between the actin stress fibers and the ecm, as is the case in 3d hydrogels. the proteoglycan decorin putatively inhibits cell adhesion and cell migration on various extracellular matrix substrates through interactions with beta(1) integrins. for collagen, blocking either alpha(2) or beta(1) integrin subunits significantly reduced adhesion for dcn(-/-) cells; whereas for fibronectin, blocking either the alpha(5) or beta(1) integrin subunits reduced adhesion for both cell types. this study demonstrates that decorin affects the biology of various integrins that participate in cell proliferation, adhesion, and migration on various substrates. in this study, we showed that hdac1 was induced and suppressed β-catenin gene expression through direct binding to its promoter. extracellular matrix receptors of the integrin family have a dual role in the epidermis, regulating both adhesion and differentiation. loss of contact with the extracellular matrix causes keratinocytes to become committed to terminal differentiation, and results in a decrease in the ability of the alpha 5 beta 1 integrin to bind fibronectin. wnt/beta-catenin signaling plays an important role in the developing skeletal system. our previous studies demonstrated that wnt/beta-catenin signaling inhibits the ability of bone morphogenetic protein (bmp)-2 to suppress myotube formation in the multipotent mesenchymal cell line c2c12 and that this inhibition is mediated by id1. we show that loss of beta1 integrin receptor contact with extracellular matrix signals the inhibition of g1 cyclin-dependent kinase activity. 
Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a higher risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. [SEP] recent studies reported that, in comparison with warfarin, direct oral anticoagulants (doacs) cause fewer ichs with better functional outcome. current guidelines recommend direct oral anticoagulants (doacs) over warfarin for stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation (af) who are at high risk. to examine the clinical effectiveness of doacs (dabigatran, rivaroxaban, or apixaban) vs warfarin after ischemic stroke in patients with af. in patients with acute ischemic stroke and af, doac use at discharge was associated with better long-term outcomes relative to warfarin. the use of oral anticoagulant therapy for the prevention of arterial thromboembolism in patients who have had ischemic stroke is controversial. the risk of hemorrhage with anticoagulant therapy is high in patients with ischemic stroke of arterial origin but is mainly confined to early use and elderly patients. in patients with acute ischemic stroke and atrial fibrillation, treatment with low molecular weight heparin increases early hemorrhagic risk without reducing early recurrence, and there is limited data comparing warfarin to direct oral anticoagulant (doac) therapy. furthermore, doac (versus warfarin) treatment was associated with a lower risk of recurrent ischemic events (hazard ratio, 0.51 [95% ci, 0.29-0.87]) but not delayed symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage (hazard ratio, 0.57 [95% ci, 0.22-1.48]). the commonly used anticoagulant warfarin increases the risk of hemorrhagic transformation (ht) when a stroke occurs; tissue-type plasminogen activator treatment is therefore restricted in these patients. we are impressed with the superior reduction in stroke and systemic embolism with 150 mg of dabigatran twice daily compared to warfarin and also its low risk of intracranial hemorrhage. 
Students who perform poorly in the early years of medical school are at increased risk for professional misconduct later in their careers. [SEP] this inability of the faculty to fail underperforming students can jeopardise the reputation of professional programs, be it in the medical field or beyond. simultaneously, weak students become incompetent physicians and, thus, endanger the community they serve. what lies beneath the formal or overt curriculum may impair students' professional growth and development, including their ability to foster genuine relationships with patients and others, and may contribute to the inadvertent, often negative attitudes, beliefs, and behaviors expressed by medical students and witnessed by educators within and external to the classroom environment. students who fail at medical school may be more likely to struggle in professional practice, therefore helping individuals overcome problems and respond appropriately is important. while there are many positive aspects of medical school training some students encounter poor modeling, unresolved ethical dilemmas, unnecessary and debilitating academic stresses, and emotional and physical harassment. students whose mental health deteriorates during this long period of study are less likely to become empathic and productive physicians. the health of medical students deteriorated while preparing for an examination. unprofessional behaviours by medical students predict future disciplinary outcomes. the frequently occurring behaviours of irresponsibility and diminished capacity for self-improvement are predictive of future professionalism problems and co-occur with behaviours that preclude meaningful patient relationships. if students falsify academic work, their behavior pattern may continue in professional practice, endangering the health and well-being of the patients in their care. 
Students who perform poorly in the early years of medical school are less likely to commit professional misconduct later in their careers. [SEP] all medical schools must counsel poor-performing students, address their problems and assist them in developing into competent physicians. medical students who decompress their m-1 year prior to m-1 year failure outperform those who fail their first year and then repeat it. medical schools are beginning to better define, teach, and assess professionalism for students. while there are many positive aspects of medical school training some students encounter poor modeling, unresolved ethical dilemmas, unnecessary and debilitating academic stresses, and emotional and physical harassment. this inability of the faculty to fail underperforming students can jeopardise the reputation of professional programs, be it in the medical field or beyond. disorganized medical students are more likely to perform poorly in end-of-year examinations but this observation has not been examined in junior doctors. some medical students perform less well in the clinical years than would be expected from their pre-clinical performances. unprofessional behaviours by medical students predict future disciplinary outcomes. to determine whether performance measures during residency predict the likelihood of future disciplinary actions against practicing internists. studies have found unprofessional behavior in medical school was associated with disciplinary action by state medical boards. 
Suboptimal nutrition is a leading cause of premature death [SEP] malnutrition has emerged as one of the most serious health issues worldwide. the consumption of unbalanced diet poor in nutritional quality causes malnutrition which is more prevalent in the underdeveloped and developing countries. globally, dietary factors are responsible for about one in five deaths. malnutrition has long been associated with poverty, poor diet and inadequate access to health care, and it remains a key global health issue that both stems from and contributes to ill-health, with 50 % of childhood deaths due to underlying undernutrition. the synergistic interaction between inadequate dietary intake and disease burden leads to a vicious cycle that accounts for much of the high morbidity and mortality in these countries. undernutrition is common. malnutrition with its constituents of protein energy malnutrition and micro-nutrient deficiencies continues to be a major health burden in low and middle-income countries. malnutrition, a state of under or over nutrition caused by improper food intake, causes significant morbidity and mortality in developing countries. malnutrition affects up to one billion people in the world and is a major cause of mortality. in many cases, malnutrition is associated with diarrhoea and intestinal inflammation, further contributing to morbidity and death. 
Sudden death can occur in patients with complex ventricular arrhythmias. [SEP] although ventricular tachyarrhythmias are likely to be the most common causes, a significant proportion of patients may die suddenly due to asystole, electromechanical dissociation, or cardiac rupture. most sudden cardiac deaths are caused by fatal ventricular arrhythmias (ventricular tachycardia [vt] and fibrillation) in patients with and without known structural heart diseases. ventricular arrhythmias, mainly lethal arrhythmias, such as ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation, may lead to sudden cardiac death. ventricular arrhythmias can lead to sudden cardiac death (scd), and they can be classified according to the risk they present. many patients with abnormal ventricular function have either documented premature ventricular contractions (pvcs) or nonsustained ventricular tachycardia and have an increased risk of sudden death from ventricular fibrillation. in the majority of these patients, sudden cardiac death is thought to be due to ventricular tachyarrhythmias. premature ventricular complexes and nonsustained ventricular tachycardia mark a person with structural cardiac disease as a high--risk candidate for sudden cardiac death. in the majority of cases, sudden cardiac death is due to ventricular tachyarrhythmias secondary to acute myocardial infarction. about one half of deaths in patients with heart failure are sudden, mostly due to ventricular tachycardia (vt) degenerating to ventricular fibrillation or immediate ventricular fibrillation. in severe heart failure, sudden cardiac death also may occur due to bradyarrhythmias. 
Sudden death can occur in patients with orthostatic hypertension without cardiac conduction abnormalities. [SEP] right ventricular hypertension and ventricular arrhythmias are risk factors for sudden death after correction of tetralogy of fallot, but sustained ventricular tachycardia has been reported only in patients without residual hemodynamic abnormalities. sudden death is now an infrequent occurrence in severe aortic stenosis. pulmonary hypertension does not seem to cause sudden death, but, in conjunction with decreased cardiac output, a critical reduction in aortic orifice area, and left ventricular failure, pulmonary hypertension identifies a population at significant risk. the rare finding of severe pulmonary hypertension in aortic stenosis should be considered an important marker for sudden death and in association with left ventricular failure may indicate an urgent need for valve replacement, regardless of the apparent clinical condition of the patient. ventricular arrhythmias are not uncommon in patients with hypertension, are often attributed to left ventricular hypertrophy and are thought to be associated with an increased risk of sudden death. therefore, the prevalence of ventricular arrhythmias was prospectively examined in 183 consecutive asymptomatic men with hypertension with neither clinical nor electrocardiographic (ecg) evidence of coronary artery disease in whom technically adequate echocardiograms could be obtained. autonomic dysfunction is linked to sudden death regardless of the presence of structural heart disease. the pathway from autonomic dysfunction to sudden death is not fully understood, but myocardial sympathetic stimulation leading to arrhythmia and/or cardiac fibrosis might play a role. initial evaluation was performed and during observation, the patient developed sudden cardiac death. ventricular fibrillation and sudden death are rare phenomena in nonischemic ventricular arrhythmia, particularly in arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy. 
Surfactin producing cells and exopolymer producing cells cooperate to generate "Van Gogh" bundles that have sliding abilities on specialized media. [SEP] using the lectin wheat germ agglutinin (wga) to cross-link mucin-bound sugar residues, we show that (mucin/wga) films can grow into hydrated films and sustain exceptional resistance to extreme salt conditions and a large range of ph. the ability of cells to self-assemble into a microtissue such as a spheroid has been attributed mainly to intercellular cohesiveness achieved by the binding of surface membrane proteins such as cadherins. however, highly dynamic and complex cytoskeletal rearrangements are coordinated with these binding events and therefore are likely to participate in self-assembly. the control of directed self-assembly using fibroblasts and contraction inhibitors may be useful for in vitro tissue engineering as well as represent an in vitro model for fibrotic disease. in this work, we demonstrate that microgel multilayers have unique elastic and viscoelastic-like properties that can be modulated to produce morphological changes in fibroblasts cultured on the film. viscoelasticity, a mechanical property not often considered, plays a significant role at cellular length and time scales for microgel films. herein, we present a strategy to tune the cell adhesive properties of multilayers based on marine polysaccharides with and without cross-linking and/or coating with extracellular matrix proteins. multilayered films based on marine-derived polysaccharides were obtained by layer-by-layer (lbl). biological tests with human umbilical vein endothelial cells (huvecs) showed the potential of these films to tailor cell adhesion, spreading and proliferation. these multilayered films promise to be versatile and tunable model of cell adhesive and non-adhesive films. 
Surgical treatment is not superior to non-surgical in treating adults with displaced fractures of the proximal humerus. [SEP] the optimal surgical management of dislocated three- and four-part fractures of the proximal humerus in elderly patients remains unclear. to evaluate the clinical effectiveness of surgical vs nonsurgical treatment for adults with displaced fractures of the proximal humerus involving the surgical neck. among patients with displaced proximal humeral fractures involving the surgical neck, there was no significant difference between surgical treatment compared with nonsurgical treatment in patient-reported clinical outcomes over 2 years following fracture occurrence. these results do not support the trend of increased surgery for patients with displaced fractures of the proximal humerus. there is no consensus in the literature on nonoperative treatment of displaced and multipart fractures of proximal humerus as those are normally treated operatively. between 2014 and 2018, 92 proximal humerus fractures constituting a nonoperative group (n = 47) and an operative group (n = 45) together with healthy control subjects (n = 45) were analyzed in a tertiary care referral center. with insufficient functional results and high complication rates in surgery, nonoperative management is still the preferred choice for proximal humerus fractures, especially in case of multipart fractures. no consensus exists on the optimal treatment of proximal humeral fractures (phfx). the proximal fracture of the humerus: evaluation by randomisation (profher) trial has recently demonstrated that surgery is non-superior to non-operative treatment in the management of displaced proximal humeral fractures. a review of current surgical practice in the operative treatment of proximal humeral fractures: does the profher trial demonstrate a need for change? 
Sweet taste receptors on the tongue are deactivated by between 1 and 10 mM glucose. [SEP] outward k+ currents of the taste cell induced by depolarizing pulses were suppressed by sweet stimuli such as 10 mm na-saccharin. lick responses to sucrose and maltose (0.01-1.0 m) were measured in nondeprived rats during brief-access taste trials before and after histologically confirmed gustatory neurotomy. the taste cell generated a depolarizing receptor potential accompanying a remarkable reduction of input resistance in response to stimulation with galactose and sucrose. it is concluded that part of the receptor potential in frog taste cells induced by sugar stimuli may be produced by an inflow of h+ through the taste-receptive membrane. electrophysiological data indicate that hyperglycemia is associated with decreased neural taste responsiveness to 1.0 m glucose, but not to 0.01 m quinine hcl, in the rat's hindbrain. the present behavioral experiment was conducted to determine whether this suppression of neural activity is manifested in a reduced intensity perception to glucose, but not quinine. each rat learned to avoid 1.0 m glucose through development of a conditioned taste aversion. experimental subjects treated moderate glucose concentrations (0.6-2.0 m) as if their intensity perceptions were reduced by 47%. our work suggests the presence of 2 separate receptor sites on the gerbil's taste receptor cell membrane, one of which interacts with sugar sweeteners and most other non-sugar sweeteners and the other with polycose. this paper summarizes data on molecular mechanisms for detection and transduction of taste signals in taste bud cells, information transmission from taste cells to gustatory nerve fibers, and modulation of taste signals at peripheral taste organs, in particular for sweet taste, which may play important roles in regulating energy homeostasis. 
Sympathetic nerve activity is elevated throughout normal pregnancy. [SEP] sympathetic activity has been reported to increase in normotensive pregnant women, and to be even greater in women with gestational hypertension and preeclampsia at term. we tested the hypothesis that sympathetic activation occurs early during pregnancy in humans. these results suggest that sympathetic activation is a common characteristic of early pregnancy in humans despite reduced diastolic pressure and total peripheral resistance. muscle sympathetic nerve activity is elevated during pregnancy with a large peak in the first trimester (δ17 bursts/min) and a secondary peak in the third trimester (δ11 bursts/min). previous microneurographic studies found that muscle sympathetic nerve activity (msna) increased in normotensive pregnant women and was even greater in women with gestational hypertension and preeclampsia during the third trimester. normotensive pregnancy is associated with elevated sympathetic nervous system activity yet normal or reduced blood pressure. healthy, normotensive human pregnancies are associated with striking increases in both plasma volume and vascular sympathetic nerve activity (sna). central sympathetic output was increased in women with normal pregnancy and was even greater in the hypertensive pregnant group. pregnancy is associated with an increased sympathetic state, which can be exacerbated by gestational conditions. pregnancy is characterized by increased blood volume and baseline sympathetic nerve activity (sna), vasodilation, and tachycardia. 
Sympathetic nerve activity is reduced throughout normal pregnancy. [SEP] muscle sympathetic nerve activity is increased during normotensive pregnancy while mean arterial pressure is maintained or reduced, suggesting baroreflex resetting. we hypothesized spontaneous sympathetic baroreflex gain would be reduced in normotensive pregnant women relative to nonpregnant matched controls. integrated muscle sympathetic burst incidence and total sympathetic activity (microneurography), blood pressure (finometer), and r-r interval (ecg) were assessed at rest in 11 pregnant women (33 ± 1 wk gestation, 31 ± 1 yr, prepregnancy bmi: 23.5 ± 0.9 kg/m(2)) and 11 nonpregnant controls (29 ± 1 yr; bmi: 25.2 ± 1.7 kg/m(2)). pregnant women had elevated baseline sympathetic burst incidence (43 ± 2 vs. 33 ± 2 bursts/100 heart beats, p = 0.01) and total sympathetic activity (1,811 ± 148 vs. 1,140 ± 55 au, p < 0.01) relative to controls. baroreflex gain, calculated as the linear relationship between sympathetic burst incidence and dbp, was reduced in pregnant women relative to controls (-3.7 ± 0.5 vs. -5.4 ± 0.5 bursts·100 heart beats(-1)·mmhg(-1), p = 0.03), as was baroreflex gain calculated with total sympathetic activity (-294 ± 24 vs. -210 ± 24 au·100 heart beats(-1)·mmhg(-1); p = 0.03). together, these data indicate that the influence of the sympathetic nervous system over arterial blood pressure is reduced in normotensive pregnancy, in terms of both long-term and beat-to-beat regulation of arterial pressure, likely through a baroreceptor-dependent mechanism. pregnancy results in attenuated baroreflex mediated sympathoexcitatory responses which may be due to potentiation of gamma-aminobutyric acid (gaba) inhibition in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (rvlm). the atrial volume reflex is attenuated in pregnancy. uterine sympathetic nerves can exert an excitatory influence during pregnancy and parturition. normal pregnancy is associated with reduced systemic pressor responses to infused angiotensin ii (ang ii); furthermore, the uterine vascular bed is even less responsive to vasoconstriction by ang ii than the systemic vasculature overall. 
Systemic immunosuppressive (IS) therapy does not enhance the chance of cancer mortality in patients with inflammatory eye disease (IED) [SEP] some studies have suggested an increased cancer risk among ms patients treated with immunosuppressive (is) therapies. immune checkpoint inhibitors (icis) are reportedly effective against many kinds of neoplasm, but may be responsible for several kinds of immune-related adverse events (iraes). background: inflammatory bowel diseases (ibds) are generally not considered a risk factor for the development of lymphoma. in this systematic review, we analyzed the evidence coming from observational studies supporting an association between the use of anti-tnf drugs and lymphoma in patients with ibds. the incidences of ssi and the possible risk factors among patients receiving different immunosuppressive therapies were compared and analyzed. the use of immunosuppressive therapies for immune-mediated disease (imd) is associated with an elevated risk of infections and related comorbidities. the development of iraes represents a favourable prognostic parameter in patients undergoing immunotherapy and immunoradiotherapy for solid tumours. immune checkpoint inhibitors (icis) have improved the overall survival of many patients with advanced cancers. the incidences of ssi and possible risk factors among patients receiving different immunosuppressive therapies were compared and analyzed. the use of immune checkpoint inhibitors (icis) in melanoma patients has significantly improved treatment outcomes. 
Systemic immunosuppressive (IS) therapy increases the chance of cancer mortality in patients with inflammatory eye disease (IED) [SEP] the widespread clinical use of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ici) has increased our knowledge on their adverse effects on chronic inflammatory diseases. chronic immunosuppressive (is) therapy impairs normal t-cell immune surveillance and may predispose to opportunistic infections and malignancies that represent life-threatening complication of solid-organ transplantation (sotx). the purpose of this study was to determine the effects of immunosuppression on carcinogenesis, particularly malignant tumor development, in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma who had immunosuppression because of immunosuppressant therapy with or without steroid therapy administered for different underlying diseases. both the chronic inflammation in inflammatory bowel disease (ibd), and its treatment, can increase the risk of malignancy. patients with prior cancer are at increased risk of new or recurrent cancers; however, immunosuppression appears to be safe. the purpose of this study is to review the literature on the risk of malignancy in patients with inflammatory eye disease (ied) treated with systemic immunosuppressive (is) therapy. literature with regards systemic is therapy in transplant recipients and patients with autoimmune diseases revealed a significant increase in malignancies, especially non-melanocytic skin cancers and lymphomas. immune checkpoint inhibitors (icis) are of growing importance in new cancer therapies, exposing patients to various and potentially severe immune-related adverse events and placing emergency physicians on the front line when they occur. treatment with immune checkpoint inhibitors (icis) has improved the prognosis of patients with a number of types of cancer, but the frequent development of immune-related adverse effects (iraes) can worsen the outcome. in part, the increased cancer risk is associated with the use of immunosuppressive agents, especially calcineurin inhibitors. 
Systemic lupus erythematosus is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. [SEP] systemic lupus erythematosus is a multisystem, autoimmune disease known to be one of the strongest risk factors for atherosclerosis. systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) is a multi-system autoimmune disease including the cardiovascular system. systemic lupus erythematosus is associated with increased risk for cardiovascular disease. forty systemic lupus erythematosus women with cardiovascular disease (systemic lupus erythematosus cases), 40 systemic lupus erythematosus women without cardiovascular disease, and 40 healthy controls were enrolled in this study. systemic lupus erythematosus is highly associated with premature atherosclerosis and cardiovascular events. to assess the effect of long-term use of glucocorticoids on cardiovascular risk in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. cardiovascular disease (cvd) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) is a chronic inflammatory disorder with a high prevalence of cardiovascular disease due to accelerated atherosclerosis, as well as an increased risk of venous thromboembolism. systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) is associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease (cvd). systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) is an independent risk factor for atherosclerosis. 
T cell receptor /CD3 microdomains are required to induce the immunologic synapse. [SEP] central to antigen-induced activation is the cd3/ti complex, a complex multi-chain receptor responsible for antigen/mhc recognition and signal transduction. antigen recognition of peptide-major histocompatibility complexes (pmhcs) by t cells, a key step in initiating adaptive immune responses, is performed by the t cell receptor (tcr) bound to cd3 heterodimers. t cells are activated physiologically by triggering the t-cell receptor-cd3 complex. several lines of evidence have demonstrated the intimate association between the t cell antigen receptor and t3, thus forming the so-called t3-t cell receptor complex. thus, we see that the complex formed between the t cell receptor and the t3 molecules is functionally as well as structurally central to the immune response. the immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs (itams) in the cd3 chains associated with the t cell receptor (tcr) are crucial for tcr signaling. t cell activation and function require physical contact with antigen presenting cells at a specialized junctional structure known as the immunological synapse. once formed, the immunological synapse leads to sustained t cell receptor-mediated signalling and stabilized adhesion. antigen recognition through t cell receptor (tcr)-cd3 complex transduces signals into t cells, which regulate activation, function, and differentiation of t cells. upon activation, the tcr, together with its associated co-receptor cd3 complex, assembles in signaling microclusters that are transported to the center of the organizational structure at the t cell-apc interface termed the immunological synapse (is). 
TMEM27 is a marker for beta cells. [SEP] transmembrane protein 27 (tmem27), which is expressed in pancreatic β-cells, plays an important role in insulin secretion and pancreatic β-cell proliferation. our data indicate that tmem27 could be of potential value as a serum marker for the pathogenesis of diabetes and as such may warrant the development of measurement methods with lower limit of detection for its further validation. transmembrane protein 27 (tmem27) is a membrane protein cleaved and shed by pancreatic beta cells that has been proposed as a beta cell mass biomarker. we aimed to characterise the function of tmem27 in islets and its potential use as a beta cell mass biomarker. to elucidate its utility as a beta cell mass biomarker, we studied tmem27 cleavage in a beta cell line, islets and primary proximal tubular cells. tmem27 overproduction in a beta cell line and islets significantly enhanced glucose-induced insulin secretion, with modest or no effects on proliferation. here, we report the identification and characterization of transmembrane protein 27 (tmem27, collectrin) in pancreatic beta cells. tmem27 forms dimers and its extracellular domain is glycosylated, cleaved and shed from the plasma membrane of beta cells. furthermore, transgenic mice with increased expression of tmem27 in pancreatic beta cells exhibit increased beta cell mass. the pancreatic β-cell surface protein tmem27 is promotes the preservation of functional β-cell mass. 
TNFAIP3 is a glioblastoma tumor enhancer. [SEP] here we show that tcf3 was upregulated in glioma tissues compared with normal brain tissues. this upregulation of the tcf3 gene probably has functional significance in brain-tumor progression. our studies on glioblastoma multiforme (gbm) cell lines show that knock-down of tcf3 induced apoptosis and inhibited cell migration. considered together, the results of this study demonstrate that high levels of tcf3 in gliomas potentially promote glioma development through the akt and erk pathways. here, we report that expression level of tff3 significantly elevated in glioma and correlated with the prognosis of glioma patients. then we found tff3 promotes proliferation, invasion, and migration and inhibits apoptosis of glioma cells in vitro, and delayed tumor progression in subcutaneous xenograft nude mice, and prolonged the median survival time in orthotopic xenograft mice. these findings suggest that targeting tff3 may offer a novel strategy for therapeutic intervention of malignant gliomas. the purpose of this study was to investigate the function of atf3 in the development of glioma and its clinical significance. taken together, these results suggest that atf3 promotes the progression of human gliomas. the transcription factor signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (stat3) plays an essential role in glioblastoma pathogenesis downstream of the major oncogenic protein epidermal growth factor receptor variant iii (egfrviii). 
TNFAIP3 is a glioblastoma tumor suppressor. [SEP] thus, this study was aimed to evaluate tig3 expression level in primary glioblastoma and investigate the prognostic value of tig3 for patients. the cancer genome atlas database was first utilized to analyze the expression and prognostic potential of tig3 in 528 glioblastoma cases. compared with control group, glioblastoma showed significantly elevated tig3 expression (p < 0.001). finally, kaplan-meier analysis and cox regression analysis identified high tig3 expression as an independent risk factor for overall survival of primary glioblastoma patients (overall survival, 10 vs 13 months, p = 0.033; hazard ratio = 1.542, p = 0.046). together, this study indicated that increased expression of tig3 in primary glioblastoma is a novel biomarker for predicting poor outcome of patients. foxp3 expression was higher in low-grade gliomas than in gb. these findings support the assertion that foxp3 exhibits tumor suppressor activity in glioblastomas. the present study investigated whether tat‑interacting protein (tip)30 was able to regulate tumorigenesis and predict the clinical outcome of patients with glioma. the transcriptional factor ap-2α is a tumor suppressor gene and is downregulated in various neoplasms including glioma. the ap-2α transcription factor may play an important role in suppressing glioma progression. 
TNFAIP3 is a tumor enhancer in glioblastoma. [SEP] tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein 8-like 3 (tipe3) is closely related to tumourigenesis and development. the purpose of this study was to investigate the function of atf3 in the development of glioma and its clinical significance. taken together, these results suggest that atf3 promotes the progression of human gliomas. here we show that tcf3 was upregulated in glioma tissues compared with normal brain tissues. this upregulation of the tcf3 gene probably has functional significance in brain-tumor progression. our studies on glioblastoma multiforme (gbm) cell lines show that knock-down of tcf3 induced apoptosis and inhibited cell migration. considered together, the results of this study demonstrate that high levels of tcf3 in gliomas potentially promote glioma development through the akt and erk pathways. here, we report that expression level of tff3 significantly elevated in glioma and correlated with the prognosis of glioma patients. then we found tff3 promotes proliferation, invasion, and migration and inhibits apoptosis of glioma cells in vitro, and delayed tumor progression in subcutaneous xenograft nude mice, and prolonged the median survival time in orthotopic xenograft mice. these findings suggest that targeting tff3 may offer a novel strategy for therapeutic intervention of malignant gliomas. 
TRAP+ osteoclasts regulate mature osteoblast maintenance. [SEP] appropriate bone mass is maintained by bone-forming osteoblast and bone-resorbing osteoclasts. mesenchymal stem cell (msc) lineage cells control osteoclastogenesis via expression of rankl and opg (receptor activator of nuclear factor κb ligand and osteoprotegerin), which promote and inhibit bone resorption, respectively. maintaining the proper balance between osteoblast-mediated production of bone and its degradation by osteoclasts is essential for health. osteoblast-osteoclast coordination is critical in the maintenance of skeletal integrity. these findings suggest a possible mechanism for the recently proposed negative regulatory role of mature osteoblasts on osteoclastogenesis and indicate that the relative proportions of immature and mature osteoblasts in the local microenvironment may control the degree of resorption at each specific bone site. osteoclasts, cells of myeloid lineage, play a unique role in bone resorption, maintaining skeletal homeostasis in concert with bone-producing osteoblasts. bone mass is maintained by a fine balance between bone formation by osteoblasts and bone resorption by osteoclasts. osteoclasts and osteoblasts are responsible for strict bone maintenance with a balance between bone formation and resorption by interacting with each other. these results show, for the first time, that osteoclasts regulate osteoblasts directly and suggest that pdgf bb is a key factor in bone remodeling. bone homeostasis is maintained by the balanced action of bone-forming osteoblasts and bone-resorbing osteoclasts. 
Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate does not prevent prostate cancer. [SEP] despite promising evidence from in vitro experiments and observational studies, supplementation of diets with alpha-tocopherol has not reduced the risk of cardiovascular disease and cancer in most large-scale clinical trials. we studied the effects of supplementing diets with rrr-alpha-tocopheryl acetate (400 iu/d) on serum concentrations of gamma- and delta-tocopherol in a randomized, placebo-controlled trial in 184 adult nonsmokers. in this randomized controlled clinical trial, there was no increase in prostate cancer risk associated with calcium supplementation and some suggestion of a protective effect. alpha-tocopherol supplementation (50 mg daily for 5-8 years) reduced prostate cancer incidence by 32% in the alpha-tocopherol, beta-carotene cancer prevention study. we investigated whether serum alpha-tocopherol or intake of vitamin e (eight tocopherols and tocotrienols) was associated with prostate cancer risk with up to 19 years of follow-up in the alpha-tocopherol, beta-carotene cancer prevention study cohort. higher serum alpha-tocopherol was associated with reduced risk of prostate cancer (rr, 0.80; 95% ci, 0.66-0.96 for highest versus lowest quintile; ptrend = 0.03) and was strongly and inversely related to the risk of developing advanced disease (rr, 0.56; 95% ci, 0.36-0.85; ptrend = 0.002). the inverse serum alpha-tocopherol-prostate cancer association was greater among those who were supplemented with either alpha-tocopherol or beta-carotene during the trial. there were no associations between prostate cancer and the individual dietary tocopherols and tocotrienols. in summary, higher prediagnostic serum concentrations of alpha-tocopherol, but not dietary vitamin e, was associated with lower risk of developing prostate cancer, particularly advanced prostate cancer. in contrast, studies indicate that alpha, gamma, and delta-tocotrienols but not alpha-t have potent anti-proliferative effects in human breast cancer cells. 
Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate in combination with vitamin C reduces the risk of prostate cancer. [SEP] we previously reported that daily supplementation with alpha-tocopherol reduced prostate cancer risk in a large, randomized trial, the alpha-tocopherol, beta-carotene cancer prevention (atbc) study. alpha-tocopherol supplementation significantly reduced risk of prostate cancer in the alpha-tocopherol beta-carotene cancer prevention (atbc) study. these results suggest that long-term alpha-tocopherol supplementation decreases serum androgen concentrations, and could have been one of the factors contributing to the observed reduction in incidence and mortality of prostate cancer in the alpha-tocopherol treatment group of the atbc study. alpha-tocopherol supplementation (50 mg daily for 5-8 years) reduced prostate cancer incidence by 32% in the alpha-tocopherol, beta-carotene cancer prevention study. we investigated whether serum alpha-tocopherol or intake of vitamin e (eight tocopherols and tocotrienols) was associated with prostate cancer risk with up to 19 years of follow-up in the alpha-tocopherol, beta-carotene cancer prevention study cohort. higher serum alpha-tocopherol was associated with reduced risk of prostate cancer (rr, 0.80; 95% ci, 0.66-0.96 for highest versus lowest quintile; ptrend = 0.03) and was strongly and inversely related to the risk of developing advanced disease (rr, 0.56; 95% ci, 0.36-0.85; ptrend = 0.002). in summary, higher prediagnostic serum concentrations of alpha-tocopherol, but not dietary vitamin e, was associated with lower risk of developing prostate cancer, particularly advanced prostate cancer. the alpha-tocopherol, beta-carotene cancer prevention (atbc) study demonstrated a 32% reduction in prostate cancer incidence in response to daily alpha-tocopherol supplementation. further analyses indicated that the association of high serum tocopherols with low prostate cancer risk was stronger in the alpha-tocopherol-supplemented group than in those not receiving alpha-tocopherol. participants with higher circulating concentrations of the major vitamin e fractions, alpha-tocopherol and gamma-tocopherol, had similarly lower prostate cancer risk. 
Taking anti-depresents is associated with a decrease in the Aβ level in the brain of experimental animals. [SEP] accumulating evidence indicates that partial inhibition of β-site app-cleaving enzyme 1 (bace1), which initiates amyloid-β (aβ) production, mitigates alzheimer's disease (ad)-like pathologies and memory deficits in a battery of transgenic mouse models. this study was designed to test the possibility that a combination approach, aimed at inhibiting bace1 and boosting neprilysin (a major aβ-degrading enzyme) activities, may be able to mechanistically overcome the limited efficacy of anti-aβ therapy in advanced ad. we also found that aβ-degrading effects of overexpressed neprilysin can block deleterious bace1-elevating mechanisms that accelerate aβ production, warranting further study to test whether interventions moderately activating neprilysin may be useful for boosting the limited efficacy of therapeutic bace1 inhibition in treating ad with established aβ pathology. serotonin signaling suppresses generation of amyloid-β (aβ) in vitro and in animal models of alzheimer's disease (ad). we show that in an aged transgenic ad mouse model (app/ps1 plaque-bearing mice), the antidepressant citalopram, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, decreased aβ in brain interstitial fluid in a dose-dependent manner. aβ production in csf was slowed by 37% in the citalopram group compared to placebo. this change was associated with a 38% decrease in total csf aβ concentrations in the drug-treated group. the ability to safely decrease aβ concentrations is potentially important as a preventive strategy for ad. passive immunotherapy is an advanced treatment that dramatically reduces brain aβ pathologies in ad animal models. decreasing the levels of aβ oligomer, glial activation and oxidative stress are potential therapeutic approaches for ad treatment. 
Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages reduced the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. [SEP] taxing sugar-sweetened beverages (ssbs) has been proposed in high-income countries to reduce obesity and type 2 diabetes. however, acceleration in ssb consumption trends consistent with industry marketing models would be expected to increase the impact efficacy of taxation, averting 4.2% of prevalent overweight/obesity (95% ci 2.5-10.0%) and 2.5% (95% ci 1.0-2.8%) of incident type 2 diabetes from 2014-2023. sustained ssb taxation at a high tax rate could mitigate rising obesity and type 2 diabetes in india among both urban and rural subpopulations. what effect on body mass index, obesity and diabetes can we expect from the 1-peso-per-litre tax to sugar sweetened beverages in mexico? using recently published estimates of the reductions in beverage purchases due to the tax, we modelled its expected long-term impacts on body mass index (bmi), obesity and diabetes. the sugar-sweetened beverages tax in mexico is expected to produce sizable and sustained reductions in obesity and diabetes. sugar-sweetened beverage (ssb) consumption is positively associated with obesity, type 2 diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. reducing sugar-sweetened beverage consumption through taxation is a promising public health response to the obesity epidemic in the u.s. the tax would reduce sugar-sweetened beverage consumption by 20% and mean bmi by 0.16 (95% uncertainty interval [ui]=0.06, 0.37) units among youth and 0.08 (95% ui=0.03, 0.20) units among adults in the second year for a cost of $3.16 (95% ui=$1.24, $8.14) per bmi unit reduced. two recent observational studies reported a remarkably lower rate of all-cause death associated with sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitor (-sglt2i) use in all patients with type 2 diabetes and not only those at increased cardiovascular risk. 
Ten percent (10%) of kidney cancers in the UK are attributable to excess weight. [SEP] renal cancer is one of the ten most common malignant tumours in humans and its histological classification, best clinical management and treatment strategies are continuously debated. roughly 10% of renal carcinomas are papillary renal cell carcinomas (rccs), a histologically well characterized tumour subtype that is linked to alterations on chromosomes 7 and 17. it is mutated in 10 per cent of wilms' tumours (wts) and their putative precursors called nephrogenic rests (nrs). these findings provide an insight into the interrelationships of these renal tumours. the cost of drugs represents 10% of the national health service (nhs) budget in the uk and this fraction is increasing. the prevalence of chronic renal disease is increasing dramatically in industrialized nations. recent surveys in europe and the us show that about 10% of the total population are affected. bladder cancer (bc) is the 10th most common cancer in the uk, with about 10,000 new cases annually. the number of patients with end-stage renal disease has increased during the last decades. data shows that 10% of the renal replacement therapy population in the intensive care unit are patients with end-stage renal disease. 
The C-type lectin receptor (CLEC-2) rearranges the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells to promote efficient motility along stromal surfaces. [SEP] dendritic cell (dc) migration to lymph nodes is dependent on the interaction of c-type lectin-like receptor 2 (clec-2; encoded by the gene clec1b), expressed by dcs, with podoplanin, expressed by lymph node stromal cells, although the underlying molecular mechanisms remain elusive. here, we show that clec-2-dependent dc migration is controlled by tetraspanin cd37, a membrane-organizing protein. clec-2-expressing cd37 -/- dcs showed impaired adhesion, migration velocity and displacement on lymph node stromal cells. dendritic cells (dcs) flexibly adapt to different microenvironments by using diverse migration strategies that are ultimately dependent on the dynamics and structural organization of the actin cytoskeleton. migration of dendritic cells (dc) from sentinel sites to lymphoid tissue entails the initiation and coordination of a complex series of cytoskeletal rearrangements resulting in polarised protrusion, formation of new adhesion points, and detachment. although many diverse receptor-ligand interactions stimulating dc maturation and migration have been identified, the changes that occur in the structure of the actin cytoskeleton during these processes have received little attention. dc motility relies critically on the actin cytoskeleton, which is regulated by the actin-related protein 2/3 (arp2/3) complex, a nucleator of branched actin networks. we now show that dc-sign, a dc-specific c-type lectin, supports tethering and rolling of dc-sign-positive cells on the vascular ligand icam-2 under shear flow, a prerequisite for emigration from blood. c-type lectins on dendritic cells function as antigen uptake and signaling receptors, thereby influencing cellular immune responses. dendritic cell-specific intercellular adhesion molecule-3-grabbing non-integrin (dc-sign) is one of the best-studied c-type lectin receptors expressed on dcs and its glycan specificity and functional requirements for ligand binding have been intensively investigated. 
The DESMOND program caused substantial weight loss in most participants. [SEP] results showed that a navy-sponsored weight-reduction program was relatively successful in helping participants lose weight during treatment and throughout a one-year follow-up. correlates of weight-loss maintenance included a change in eating behavior, a self-reported improvement in health status and feelings toward dieting, adult onset of obesity, and physical exercise participation. the intensive lifestyle intervention of the dpp (diabetes prevention program) showed weight loss to be a dominant predictor of reduced diabetes incidence for those at high risk for the disease. the intensive lifestyle intervention of look ahead (action for health in diabetes) has also shown that weight loss is associated with improved diabetes control and cardiovascular risk factors and reduced medicine for those with the disease. other studies have also used incentives as effective strategies to engage individuals in weight loss and in making positive physical activity and dietary changes. after 1 year's weight reduction, the decrease in whr correlated significantly with decreases in body weight, blood pressure and metabolic variables. participants in these trials consumed a low-fat diet, lost a moderate amount of weight and/or increased their physical activity. in controlled settings participants who remain in weight loss programs usually lose 10% of their weight, however, one to two-thirds of the weight lost is regained within one year, and almost all is regained within five years. this study examined 3-year changes in weight, diet, and physical activity in 891 subjects (96 low-carbohydrate dieters and 795 others) who enrolled in the national weight control registry between 1998 and 2001 and reported >or=30-lb weight loss and >or=1 year weight loss maintenance. individuals can lose body weight and improve health status on a wide range of energy (calorie)-restricted dietary interventions. 
The DESMOND program demonstrates no significant impact on biochemical outcomes. [SEP] beautiful found no impact of ivabradine on outcomes in patients with stable coronary artery disease (cad) and left ventricular systolic dysfunction (lvsd). the majority of the trials, including the well designed trials, indicate no excess of coronary heart disease (chd) events in diuretic-treated patients compared with those given other drugs or placebo. recent studies indicate no increase in cardiac arrhythmias after diuretic treatment. no association was observed between zoledronic acid (zol) and delayed healing. we conclude that zol has no clinically evident effect on fracture healing, even when the drug is infused in the immediate postoperative period. zol has no clinically evident effect on fracture healing, even when the drug is infused in the immediate postoperative period. the prospect study, a post-approval observational study in the u.s., showed no significant changes in lung function as measured by spirometry with clinical initiation of lumacaftor/ivacaftor. similar to the whole prospect study, this sub-study cohort (n = 49) had no significant absolute or relative changes in fev1% predicted at any time point. the clinical utility of hdls has been scrutinized upon the publication of mendelian randomization studies showing no effect of hdl-cholesterol (hdl-c) modifying variants on cardiovascular disease (cvd) outcome. nonserial observations have shown this bioresorbable scaffold to have no signs of area reduction at 6 months and recovery of vasomotion at 1 year. 
The DESMOND program demonstrates no significant impact on lifestyles outcomes. [SEP] the look ahead trial did not show that a lifestyle modification programme aimed at weight loss could reduce the incidence of cardiovascular disease events. findings from the look ahead trial showed no significant reductions in the primary outcome of cardiovascular disease incidence in adults with type 2 diabetes randomly assigned to an intensive lifestyle intervention for weight loss compared with those randomly assigned to diabetes support and education (control). in analyses treating the control group as the reference group, participants in the intensive lifestyle intervention group who lost at least 10% of their bodyweight had a 20% lower risk of the primary outcome (adjusted hr 0·80, 95% ci 0·65-0·99; p=0·039), and a 21% lower risk of the secondary outcome (adjusted hr 0·79, 95% ci 0·66-0·95; p=0·011); however, change in fitness was not significantly associated with a change in the primary outcome. the diet modification trial of the women's health initiative studies was reported to be inconclusive as the overall risk reduction was not statistically significant at the 0.05 level. there appears to be no substantial effect of in utero exposure to des on women's ability to conceive. combination oral contraceptives (ocs) have little effect on carbohydrate and lipid metabolism in normal-weight women. based on lack of change in intermediate markers, as well as results of epidemiologic studies, low-dose ocs do not increase the risk of diabetes or cardiovascular disease. obesity had little effect on any oc-induced changes in carbohydrate or lipid metabolism except for a borderline adverse interaction between obesity and oc dose with respect to fasting glucose and a positive interaction between obesity and oc use with respect to ldl cholesterol. the cope self-management programme, including a self-management education course, self-treatment of exacerbations and a fitness programme, appeared to have no significant effect on health related quality of life (hrqol) as measured by the st. george's respiratory questionnaire (sgrq). a low-fat diet was not significantly associated with adverse glycemic effects up to 6 y after random assignment in postmenopausal women. 
The DESMOND program demonstrates no significant impact on weight loss. [SEP] the look ahead trial did not show that a lifestyle modification programme aimed at weight loss could reduce the incidence of cardiovascular disease events. findings from the look ahead trial showed no significant reductions in the primary outcome of cardiovascular disease incidence in adults with type 2 diabetes randomly assigned to an intensive lifestyle intervention for weight loss compared with those randomly assigned to diabetes support and education (control). in analyses treating the control group as the reference group, participants in the intensive lifestyle intervention group who lost at least 10% of their bodyweight had a 20% lower risk of the primary outcome (adjusted hr 0·80, 95% ci 0·65-0·99; p=0·039), and a 21% lower risk of the secondary outcome (adjusted hr 0·79, 95% ci 0·66-0·95; p=0·011); however, change in fitness was not significantly associated with a change in the primary outcome. the diet modification trial of the women's health initiative studies was reported to be inconclusive as the overall risk reduction was not statistically significant at the 0.05 level. some say that randomized clinical trials on weight loss are unnecessary ("the benefits are 'obvious'") and others say that such trials are not feasible because too few participants will succeed in maintaining weight loss. the evidence from formal, controlled, long-term clinical trials that changes in dietary fats reduce the incidence of ischemic (coronary) heart disease (ihd) is unimpressive. similarly, in the only two clinical trials of the secondary prevention of ihd through use of diets low in saturated fats and cholesterol there was no significant effect on ihd recurrence rate. the intervention aimed at weight loss by reducing fat calories, and using meal replacements and, eventually, orlistat, likely underemphasizing dietary composition. body weight (bw) reduction through energy restriction is ineffective at impacting the obesity epidemic. nonsuppression on the dst was not correlated to weight loss in the depressed patients. 
The DEXI promoter region is bound by multiple transcription factors in a murine haematopoietic progenitor cell line. [SEP] genes expressed in erythroid cells contain binding sites for a cell-specific factor believed to be an important regulator for this haematopoietic lineage. analysis of the chromatin structure of the promoter region of c-myb in embryonal carcinoma (ec) cells and embryonal stem (es) cells reveals a dnase i-hypersensitive site coincident with a site found in c-myb-expressing haematopoietic cells, but absent in murine fibroblasts (which do not express c-myb). cell fate decisions during haematopoiesis are governed by lineage-specific transcription factors, such as runx1, scl/tal1, fli1 and c/ebp family members. to gain insight into how these transcription factors regulate the activation of haematopoietic genes during embryonic development, we measured the genome-wide dynamics of transcription factor assembly on their target genes during the runx1-dependent transition from haemogenic endothelium (he) to haematopoietic progenitors. we have identified a previously undetected cis-acting element in the mouse beta-major globin promoter region that is necessary for maximal transcription levels of the gene in the inducible preerythroid murine erythroleukemia (mel) cell line. attachment of the beta dre to a heterologous promoter had little effect on levels of accumulated transcripts initiated from the promoter in undifferentiated mel cells but resulted in a threefold increase in transcript levels in induced (differentiated) mel cells. starting with multipotent progenitors, hematopoietic lineages are specified by lineage-restricted transcription factors. together this reveals a new cpg island-centric mechanism for cdk-mediator recruitment to developmental gene promoters in es cells and a requirement for cdk-mediator in priming these developmental genes for activation during cell lineage commitment. ets family transcription factors control the expression of a large number of genes in hematopoietic cells. here we show strikingly precise differential expression of a subset of these genes marking critical, early stages of mouse lymphocyte cell-type specification. 
The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans functions as a pentamer. [SEP] deinococcus radiodurans exhibits an extraordinary resistance to the effects of exposure to ionizing radiation (ir). ddrb is one of five proteins induced to high levels in deinococcus following extreme ir exposure and that play a demonstrable role in genome reconstitution. although homology is limited, ddrb is a bacterial single-stranded dna-binding protein. in order to understand the mechanism governing radiation resistance in deinococcus radiodurans, current efforts are aimed at identifying potential candidates from a large repertoire of unique deinococcal genes and protein families. deinococcus radiodurans is a gram positive bacterium the capability of which to withstand high doses of ionizing radiations is well known. deinococcus radiodurans, which is characterized by resistance to dna damaging agents, encodes two dps homologs, of which dps-1 binds dna with high affinity. the deinococcus radiodurans genome encodes many of the known components of divisome as well as four sets of genome partitioning proteins, para and parb on its multipartite genome. deinococcus radiodurans, one of the most radioresistant organisms known to date is able to reconstruct an intact genome from hundreds of dna fragments. here, we investigate the in vivo role of ppra, a radiation-induced deinococcus specific protein. the multipartite genome of deinococcus radiodurans forms toroidal structure. 
The G34R/V mutation creates a hypomethylated phenotype at the H3K36 histone. [SEP] histone h3 lysine 36 methylation (h3k36me) is critical for epigenetic regulation and mutations at or near h3k36 are associated with distinct types of cancers. h3k36m dominantly inhibits h3k36me on wild-type histones, whereas h3g34r/v selectively affects h3k36me on the same histone tail. more than 90% of chondroblastomas contain a heterozygous mutation replacing lysine-36 with methionine-36 (k36m) in the histone h3 variant h3.3. thus, h3.3k36m proteins reprogram the h3k36 methylation landscape and contribute to tumorigenesis, in part through altering the expression of cancer-associated genes. a high percentage of pediatric gliomas and bone tumors reportedly harbor missense mutations at glycine 34 in genes encoding histone variant h3.3. histone h3.3 mutation (h3f3a) occurs in 50% of cortical pediatric high-grade gliomas. consequently, reduced h3k36me3 is observed on h3.3g34v nucleosomes relative to wild-type, contributing to genomic instability and driving a distinct gene expression signature associated with tumorigenesis. taken together, our study demonstrates the effects of h3.3g34v mutant protein on genomic h3k36me3, h3k27me3 and h3.3 enrichment patterns in isogenic cell lines. several types of pediatric cancers reportedly contain high-frequency missense mutations in histone h3, yet the underlying oncogenic mechanism remains poorly characterized. h3k36m mutant nucleosomes inhibit the enzymatic activities of several h3k36 methyltransferases. 
The G34R/V mutation does not create a hypomethylated phenotype at the H3K36 histone. [SEP] to date, dysregulation of histone monoubiquitination has not been linked to pathogenic mutations in genes encoding proteins, or co-factors, catalyzing this modification. the msh6 g39e germline polymorphism is not associated with an increased risk of either microsatellite stable or unstable sporadic colorectal cancer. age at diagnosis, family history, and alcohol use did not interact with msh6 g39e and cimp. to study the function of this residue independent from the enzymes that modify it, we used a 'histone replacement' system in drosophila to generate a non-modifiable h3k36 lysine-to-arginine (h3k36r) mutant. however, neither cryptic transcription initiation, nor alternative pre-mrna splicing, contributed to the observed changes in expression, in contrast with previously reported roles for h3k36me. histone h3 lysine 36 methylation (h3k36me) is critical for epigenetic regulation and mutations at or near h3k36 are associated with distinct types of cancers. h3k36m dominantly inhibits h3k36me on wild-type histones, whereas h3g34r/v selectively affects h3k36me on the same histone tail. h3g34 is surrounded by a very narrow tunnel, which excludes larger amino acid side chains. we demonstrate that methylation of the 12 dinucleotide cpgs within a gc-rich dna fragment containing a xenopus borealis 5 s rrna gene does not influence histone h1 binding to naked or nucleosomal 5 s dna. pathogenic exon or splice region mutations were not identified although one exonic and two intronic polymorphic sites were discovered. 
The H2A-H2B eviction defect is compensated for by other histone chaperone(s). [SEP] h2a.z is an essential histone variant implicated in the regulation of key nuclear events. chromatin-associated histone h2ax is a key regulator of the cellular responses to dna damage. histone h2a ubiquitination plays critical roles in transcriptional repression and deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) damage response. here, we show that histone h2b ubiquitination (uh2b) promotes histone eviction at dsbs independent of resection or atp-dependent chromatin remodelers. the hr defect in bre1δ cells correlates with impaired histone loss at dsbs and can be largely rescued by depletion of caf-1, a histone chaperone depositing histones h3-h4. thus, we propose that bre1 mediated-uh2b promotes dsb repair through facilitating histone eviction and subsequent loading of repair proteins. replication independent function of histone chaperone is necessary for histone eviction during transcriptional initiation and elongation. h2az is a widely conserved histone variant that is implicated in protecting euchromatin from the spread of heterochromatin. histone chaperones escort histones, and play key functions during nucleosome assembly/disassembly and in nucleosome structure configuration. histone chaperones bind specific histones to mediate their storage, eviction or deposition from/or into chromatin. 
The HSV-2 infection is typically asymptomatic. [SEP] most persons who have serologic evidence of infection with herpes simplex virus (hsv) type 2 (hsv-2) are asymptomatic. we conducted a prospective study to investigate genital shedding of hsv among 53 subjects who had antibodies to hsv-2 but who reported having no history of genital herpes, and we compared their patterns of viral shedding with those in a similar cohort of 90 subjects with symptomatic hsv-2 infection. seropositivity for hsv-2 is associated with viral shedding in the genital tract, even in subjects with no reported history of genital herpes. a substantial number of hsv-2 seropositive individuals lack a history of clinically recognized genital herpes. in this study, asymptomatic viral shedding occurred in a substantial number of hsv-2 seropositive subjects without a history of genital herpes. many cases of herpes simplex virus (hsv) infection occur through asymptomatic shedding from persons without evidence of clinical disease. among hsv-2 seropositive participants without a history of genital herpes, 60% had hsv detected in the genital area at least once during the study. hepatitis e virus (hev) infection takes a clinically silent, self-limited course in the far majority of cases. asymptomatic chronic hbsag carriers with normal liver function tests are, in general regarded as having no liver pathology. in most children and adults, primary infection with herpes simplex virus 1 (hsv-1) is asymptomatic. 
The M2-phenotype in brown adipose tissue macrophages increases brown adipose tissue thermogenic activity. [SEP] classically activated macrophages (m1) secrete proinflammatory cytokine and are predominant in obese adipose tissue. m2 macrophages, prevalent in lean adipose tissue, are induced by il-13 and il-4, mainly secreted by th2 lymphocytes, and produce the anti-inflammatory cytokine il-10. adipose tissue macrophages can be divided into two main phenotypes: the classical m1 macrophages and alternatively activated macrophages m2. this article reviews the latest data on macrophage polarization in adipose tissue. the polarization of adipose tissue-resident macrophages toward the alternatively activated, anti-inflammatory m2 phenotype is believed to improve insulin sensitivity. during obesity, adipose tissue macrophages (atms) adopt a metabolically activated (mme) phenotype. thermogenic beige fat improves metabolism and prevents obesity. emerging evidence shows that the activation of m2 macrophages stimulates beige adipogenesis, whereas the activation of m1 macrophages, which play a major role in inflammation, impedes beige adipogenesis. considering that the overexpression of bmp4 in adipose tissue promotes the beiging of subcutaneous adipose tissue and improves insulin sensitivity, these findings provide evidence that bmp4 acts as an activator of beige fat by targeting immuno-metabolic pathways. however, little is known regarding the role of pro-inflammatory adipose tissue remodeling in the thermogenic activation of brown/beige fat. 
The NF-κB essential modulator gene induces intestinal inflammation by promoting receptor-interacting protein (RIP) kinase 1 kinase activity-mediated epithelial cell death. [SEP] nf-kappab plays a major role in the transcriptional regulation of many proinflammatory genes in multiple cell lineages, including intestinal epithelial cells (iec). pathogenic enteric microorganisms induce the nf-kappab-dependent expression of proinflammatory genes in intestinal epithelial cells. the transcription factor nuclear factor κb (nf-κb) regulates various cellular processes such as inflammation and apoptosis. the nf-κb essential modulator (nemo/ikkγ) is indispensable for nf-κb activation by diverse stimuli including genotoxic stress. nf-kappab plays a central, proinflammatory role in chronic intestinal inflammation, yet recent work suggests a predominantly protective function for this transcription factor group in some cell types of the intestine. we herein describe the conditional deletion of the nf-kappab rela gene in murine intestinal epithelia and determine its function in homeostatic control of enterocyte proliferation/apoptosis and susceptibility to colonic inflammation. the major pathway for the systemic inflammatory responses depends on nuclear factor kappa b (nf-κb). the iκb kinase/nf-κb signaling pathway has been implicated in the pathogenesis of several inflammatory diseases. it seems therefore that nf-κb displays two faces in chronic inflammation: on the one hand increased and sustained nf-κb activation induces inflammation and tissue damage, but on the other hand inhibition of nf-κb signaling can also disturb immune homeostasis, triggering inflammation and disease. here, we discuss the mechanisms that control these apparently opposing functions of nf-κb signaling, focusing particularly on the role of nf-κb in the regulation of immune homeostasis and inflammation in the intestine and the skin. 
The NF-κB essential modulator gene prevents intestinal inflammation by inhibiting receptor-interacting protein (RIP) kinase 1 kinase activity-mediated epithelial cell death. [SEP] activation of transcription factor nf-kappab in the innate immune system is tightly regulated to prevent excessive inflammatory responses. nf-κb/rel transcription factors are well-known for their roles in the regulation of inflammation and immunity. nf-κb also blocks programmed cell death (pcd) or apoptosis triggered by proinflammatory cytokine, tumor necrosis factor (tnf)α. through transcriptional induction of distinct subsets of cyto-protective target genes, nf-κb inhibits the execution of apoptosis activated by this cytokine. during inflammation, nf-kappab transcription factors antagonize apoptosis induced by tumor necrosis factor (tnf)alpha. the transcription factor nf-kappab plays important roles in inflammation and cell survival. recent evidence indicates that the transcription factor nf-kappab is a major effector of inducible antiapoptotic mechanisms. the transcription factor nf-κb plays a pivotal role in innate immunity in response to a variety of stimuli, and the coordinated regulation of this pathway determines the proper host responses to extracellular signals. stringent regulation of the transcription factor nf-κb signaling is essential for the activation of host immune responses and maintaining homeostasis, yet the molecular mechanisms involved in its tight regulation are not completely understood. in this study, we report that ikk-interacting protein (ikip) negatively regulates nf-κb activation. 
The PDPN gene deactivates the C-type lectin receptor (CLEC-2). [SEP] a cndp1 polymorphism associated with low cn1 activity correlates with significantly reduced risk for diabetic nephropathy, especially in women with type 2 diabetes, and may slow progression of chronic kidney disease in children with glomerulonephritis. proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (pcsk9) post-transcriptionally downregulates the low-density lipoprotein receptor (ldlr) by binding to the receptor's epidermal growth factor repeat a on the cell surface and shuttling the ldlr to the lysosomes for degradation. proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (pcsk9) is a secreted protein that down-regulates hepatic low-density lipoprotein receptor (ldlr) by binding and shuttling ldlr to lysosomes for degradation. our data showed that 7030b-c5 down-regulated pcsk9 expression and increased the total cellular ldlr protein and its mediated ldl-c uptake by hepg2 cells. in both c57bl/6 j and apoe ko mice, oral administration of 7030b-c5 reduced hepatic and plasma pcsk9 level and increased hepatic ldlr expression. genetic deletion of csn5 in apoe-/- mice markedly exacerbated atherosclerotic lesion formation. proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (pcsk9) binds to the low density lipoprotein receptor (ldlr) at the cell surface and disrupts the normal recycling of the ldlr. the more positively charged the c-terminal domain, the higher the activity toward the ldlr. proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (pcsk9) binds to ldl receptors, leading to their degradation. the proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (pcsk9) gene encodes a proprotein convertase that causes degradation of cell surface low-density lipoprotein receptors (ldlrs). 
The PPR MDA5 has twenty N-terminal CARD domains. [SEP] all twenty amino acids can be completely and uniquely represented by 20-dimensional vectors. here, we investigate if the amino acid space defined in this way really requires twenty dimensions. twenty exons are involved in the genomic organization of this molecule. differential utilization of the 10 variable region exons, as well as variations in n-glycosylation, o-glycosylation, and glycosaminoglycanation (by heparan sulfate or chondroitin sulfate), generate multiple isoforms (at least 20 are known) of different molecular sizes (85-230 kda). as far as we know, about twenty mate transporters have been characterized so far. in all five proteins, 20 amino acid residues precede the amino terminus of the mature protein, indicating that there is one major point for the initiation of messenger rna translation. here, we identified five novel nf-κb target genes. among these ptgs, there are many documented nf-κb target genes. we subsequently demonstrated whether nf-κb transcriptionally control the five ptgs. most of them showed significant inhibition against the β5c subunit of human 20s proteasome, and five of them exhibited ic50 values at the sub-micromolar level, which were comparable to or even more potent than pi-1840. 
The PRDM1 gene is a key determinant of primordial germ cells. [SEP] during the past years, much information has been gathered regarding the genetic and epigenetic programmes leading to the specification and maintenance of primordial germ cells. expression of the transcriptional regulator blimp1 (prdm1) is regarded as the main event in germ cell specification. prdm1 is a transcriptional repressor that contributes to primordial germ cell (pgc) development. the transcriptional repressor prdm1/blimp-1 is known to play a critical role in controlling germ cell specification in mice. here, we show that prdm1 is expressed in developing human gonads and contributes to the determination of germline versus neural fate in early development. primordial germ cells (pgcs) are the precursors to the adult germline stem cells that are set aside early during embryogenesis and specified through the inheritance of the germ plasm, which contains the mrnas and proteins that function as the germline fate determinants. blimp1 (prdm1), the key determinant of primordial germ cells (pgcs), plays a combinatorial role with prdm14 during pgc specification from postimplantation epiblast cells. primordial germ cells (pgcs) have long been considered the link between one generation and the next. primordial germ cells (pgcs) are the first germ cell population established during development and are immediate precursors for both the oocytes and spermatogonia. despite the central importance of germ cells for transmission of genetic material, our understanding of the molecular programs that control primordial germ cell (pgc) specification and differentiation are limited. 
The PRDM1 gene, when combined with the PRDM14 gene, plays an important role during primordial germ cell specification. [SEP] prdm14 belongs to the pr domain-containing (prdm) transcriptional regulators. among the prdm family members, prdm14 shows specific expression in preimplantation embryos, primordial germ cells (pgcs), and embryonic stem cells (escs) in vitro, and accordingly plays a key role in the regulation of their pluripotency and epigenetic reprogramming, most notably, genome-wide dna demethylation. prdm14 (prdi-bf1 and riz domain-containing 14), a transcription factor, plays important roles in primordial germ cell specification and embryonic stem cell pluripotency, and supports the maintenance of self-renewal by promoting the expression of stem cell markers while also repressing the expression of differentiation factors. pr domain-containing 14 (prdm14) is a pluripotency regulator central to embryonic stem cell identity and primordial germ cell specification. blimp1 (prdm1), the key determinant of primordial germ cells (pgcs), plays a combinatorial role with prdm14 during pgc specification from postimplantation epiblast cells. prdm14 is an important determinant of the human embryonic stem cell (esc) identity and works in concert with the core esc regulators to activate pluripotency-associated genes. prdm14 has been previously reported to exhibit repressive activity in mouse escs and primordial germ cells; and while prdm14 has been implicated to suppress differentiation genes in human escs, the exact mechanism of this repressive activity remains unknown. pr-domain containing protein 14 (prdm14) is a site-specific dna-binding protein and is required for establishment of pluripotency in embryonic stem cells (escs) and primordial germ cells (pgcs) in mice. hence, here we focus on the unique characteristics of mouse prdm14 in the epigenetic regulation of pluripotent cells and primordial germ cells. expression of the transcriptional regulator blimp1 (prdm1) is regarded as the main event in germ cell specification. 
The PRR MDA5 has a C-terminal domain. [SEP] the melanocortin 5 receptor (mc5r) is a cell surface receptor that belongs to the class of g-protein coupled receptors (gpcrs), which comprises an intracellular carboxylic domain, seven transmembrane helices and an extracellular amino terminal. c-type lectin domain family 5, member a (clec5a), also known as myeloid dnax activation protein 12 (dap12)-associating lectin-1 (mdl-1), is a cell surface receptor strongly associated with the activation and differentiation of myeloid cells. metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mglur5) is a class c g protein-coupled receptor (gpcr) with both an extracellular ligand binding site and an allosteric intrahelical chamber located similarly to the orthosteric ligand binding site of class a gpcrs. cd5 is a member of a superfamily of proteins which contain one or more extracellular domains homologous to the type i macrophage scavenger receptor cysteine-rich (srcr) domain. the extracellular region of cd5 is composed of three srcr domains (d1, d2, d3). we also determined which srcr domain of mcd5 is recognized by a panel of anti-mcd5 mab. the mcd5.1 protein differs from mcd5.2 in only three amino acids, all of which map to the most amino terminal srcr domain (d1) of mcd5. metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mglu5) is a class c g-protein-coupled receptor which possesses a large extracellular n-terminal domain (atd) connected to the seven-transmembrane (7-tm) domain. melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5 (mda5) is one of the three members in the retinoic acid-inducible gene i-like receptor (rlr) family, which are cytoplasmic pathogen recognition receptors recognizing intracellular viruses. the c-terminal domain (ctd) of bacteriophage mu immunity repressor (rep) regulates dna binding by the n-terminal domain and degradation by clpxp protease. 
The RANK-RANK-Ligand (RANKL) pathway is involved in the development of Aire-expressing medullary thymic epithelial cells (mTECs). [SEP] autoimmune regulator (aire) has a unique expression pattern in thymic medullary epithelial cells (mtecs), in which it plays a critical role in the activation of tissue-specific antigens. the expression of aire in mtecs is activated by receptor activator of nuclear factor κb (rank) signaling; however, the molecular mechanism behind this activation is unknown. together, our results indicate that cns1 is a critical link between rank signaling, nf-κb activation, and thymic expression of aire. the roles of autoimmune regulator (aire) in the expression of the diverse arrays of tissue-restricted antigen (tra) genes from thymic epithelial cells in the medulla (medullary thymic epithelial cells [mtecs]) and in organization of the thymic microenvironment are enigmatic. our results suggest that aire controls the differentiation program of mtecs, thereby organizing the global mtec integrity that enables tra expression from terminally differentiated mtecs in the thymic microenvironment. aire is a transcriptional regulator that induces expression of peripheral tissue antigens (pta) in thymic medullary epithelial cells (mecs), driving immunological self-tolerance in differentiating t cells. aire-expressing medullary thymic epithelial cells (mtecs) play a key role in preventing autoimmunity by expressing tissue-restricted antigens to help purge the emerging t cell receptor repertoire of self-reactive specificities. we show that rankl signals from this cell promote the maturation of rank-expressing cd80(-)aire(-) mtec progenitors into cd80(+)aire(+) mtecs, and that transplantation of rank-deficient thymic stroma into immunodeficient hosts induces autoimmunity. collectively, our data reveal cellular and molecular mechanisms leading to the generation of aire(+) mtecs and highlight a previously unrecognized role for cd4(+)3(-)rankl(+) inducer cells in intrathymic self-tolerance. medullary thymic epithelial cell (mtec)-restricted expression of autoimmune regulator (aire) is essential for establishment of immune tolerance. 
The Snf1 complex regulates carbon and energy metabolism in baker's yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae). [SEP] in budding yeast, saccharomyces cerevisiae, the sucrose non-fermenting protein kinase complex snf1 is a master regulator of energy homeostasis. under conditions of carbon/energy stress, such as during glucose depletion, snf1 is catalytically activated and enriched in the nucleus to regulate transcription. thus, our findings expand the positive roles of the yeast vdacs in carbon/energy stress signaling upstream of snf1. the saccharomyces cerevisiae snf1 protein kinase has been reported to be required for adaptation to glucose limitation and for growth on non-fermentable carbon sources. here we present novel findings indicating that snf1, the key regulator of cellular energy, is also involved in yeast cell cycle control. in saccharomyces cerevisiae, snf1p (cat1p) is one of the key regulators of carbohydrate metabolism, and cat1 (snf1) mutants fail to grow with non-fermentable carbon sources. in candida albicans, snf1p is an essential protein and cells depend on a functional snf1 kinase even with glucose as carbon source. in the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae, the snf1 complex is a central component of the regulatory response to glucose starvation. in saccharomyces cerevisiae, snf1 is required for the response to glucose limitation. in the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae, snf1 is essential for transcription of glucose-repressed genes in response to glucose starvation. 
The TRaF1/C5 rs10818488 allele polymorphism regulates the neighboring C5 gene. [SEP] single nucleotide polymorphisms rs35753505 c/tof the gene encoding nrg1 evident as allele c and t with genotypes of ct, cc, and tt are believed to have an impact on nrg1 levels. recent genome-wide association studies have identified traf1/c5 as a rheumatoid arthritis (ra) susceptibility locus. tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 1 (traf1) has been implicated in the regulation of antiapoptotic pathways, whereas c5 has a well-established role in defense against infection. the purpose of this study was to examine the association of the traf1/c5 locus with death in patients with ra. traf1/c5 rs3761847 was identified using real-time polymerase chain reaction and melting curve analyses. the association of traf1/c5 rs3761847 alleles with the risk of death was assessed using cox proportional hazards regression analyses. traf1/c5 rs3761847 gg homozygote status was associated with an increased risk of death (hazard ratio 3.96 [95% confidence interval 1.24-12.6], p=0.020) as compared with aa homozygote status. this polymorphism was one of the strongest predictors of death in ra (for traf1/c5 gg versus aa, hazard ratio 3.85 [95% confidence interval 1.18-12.59], p=0.026) alongside the erythrocyte sedimentation rate, triglyceride level, prednisolone use, and age. the risk of death in ra is increased in traf1/c5 rs3761847 gg homozygotes and appears to be independent of ra activity and severity as well as comorbidities relevant to cvd. if this finding is replicated in future studies, traf1/c5 genotyping could identify patients at increased risk of death, particularly death due to malignancy or sepsis. 
The US health care system can save up to $5 billion if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. [SEP] it used 5% of deceased donor kidney transplanted in 2015. we developed a clinical prediction score to identify elderly dialysis patients with expected 5-year survival appropriate for kidney transplantation (>5 years). from january 2002 to march 2004, 5 patients with end-stage renal disease, hepatitis b virus (hbv) infection, and hbsag seropositivity underwent a kidney transplantation from a cadaveric hbsag-positive donor. although the number of patients is small and the follow-up is short, our results suggest that hbsag-positive donors can be considered as an alternative donor source because their kidneys are allocated to the matched serology-positive recipients, shortening their time on the waiting list. kidney transplantation is the treatment of choice for most patients with stage 5 chronic kidney disease and end-stage renal disease (esrd), offering improved quality of life and overall survival rates. however, they only comprise about 5% of liver transplants nationally. enlarging this pool of donors will also improve transplant outcomes for donors and recipients and lower overall health care costs compared with deceased-donor liver transplant. using 5 years of us organ procurement organization (opo) data, we determined the cost of recovering a viable (ie, transplanted) kidney for each of 51 opos. the 5-year graft survival rates for hla-matched first grafts were 7% higher than those for hla-mismatched transplants when the kidney was from a living or cadaver donor. an individual patient simulation model was developed to compare 5 different approaches to kidney allocation, including the 2006 uk national kidney allocation scheme (nkas) and a qaly maximization approach designed to maximize health gains from a limited supply of donor organs. 
The World Health Organization's (WHO) data collection process is biased downward by unequal selection of larger outbreaks. [SEP] the world health organization does not give any data on the malaria situation in africa in its regular reports because of the "insufficiency and irregularity of reporting". the data for burkina faso show a downward trend of--14.7% during the years from 1973 to 1981. facility-based malaria data, although useful, have problems with completeness, validity and representativeness and reliance on routinely collected health facility data might undermine demonstration of the magnitude of the impact of the recent scaleups of malaria interventions. according to the world health organization, malaria surveillance is weakest in countries and regions with the highest malaria burden. a core obstacle is that the data required to perform malaria surveillance are fragmented in multiple data silos distributed across geographic regions. furthermore, consistent integrated malaria data sources are few, and a low degree of interoperability exists between them. it is unfortunate that who is also trying to plan and evaluate its malaria control efforts based on these same kinds of inadequate administrative reports. countries in the different stages of pre-elimination, elimination, and prevention of reintroduction are required to report the number of indigenous and imported malaria cases to the world health organization (who). with various countries targeting disease elimination in the near future, the popular parasite infection or entomological inoculation rates are becoming less and less informative of the underlying malaria burden due to a reduced number of infected individuals or mosquitoes at the time of sampling. international comparisons of social inequalities in health outcomes and behaviors are challenging. 
The ability of activator E2Fs in preventing cell death is limited to terminally differentiated cells. [SEP] the e2f family of transcription factors plays an essential role in promoting cell cycle progression, and one member of the family, e2f-1, is also capable of inducing apoptosis. we show here that e2f-1 can induce apoptosis by a death receptor-dependent mechanism, by downregulating traf2 protein levels and inhibiting activation of antiapoptotic signals including nf-kappa b. since e2fs can initiate both cell proliferation and cell death, it is not surprising that the pro-apoptotic capacity of these proteins is subject to complex regulation. recent study has expanded our knowledge of the factors influencing e2f-induced apoptosis as well as downstream targets of e2f in this process. although the mechanisms are incompletely understood, several studies have demonstrated that e2f1 is involved in many different aspects of programmed cell death depending on the cellular background. although the role of e2f in apoptosis is well characterized, little is known regarding its putative participation in other cell death pathways. in this study, we examined the ability of e2f6 to act as the molecular switch required for e2f inhibition in order for keratinocytes to enter a terminal differentiation programme. results demonstrated that whilst e2f6 was able to suppress e2f activity in proliferating keratinocytes, it did not modulate squamous differentiation in a differentiated keratinocyte. furthermore, inhibition of e2f, by overexpressing e2f6, was not sufficient to sensitise either proliferating keratinocytes or the squamous cell carcinoma cell line, kjd-1/sv40, to differentiation-inducing agents. significantly, although e2f6 could suppress e2f activity in proliferating cells, it could not inhibit proliferation of kjd-1/sv40 cells. 
The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 months. [SEP] there has been a rapid increase in the amount of dna sequenced, and the most recent issue of the european molecular biology laboratory (embl) nucleotide sequence data library (release 10, 1987) contains almost 10 million base pairs in almost 9000 entries compared with the first release from 1982 containing half a million base pairs in 500 entries. the substantial $10 million purse of the archon genomics x pri ze (agxp) is being offered for the generation of rapid, accurate and complete human dna sequences. the sequences of the human genome compiled in dna databases are now about 10 megabase pairs (mb), and thus the size of the sequences is several times the average size of chromosome bands at high resolution. the project currently automatically annotates 10 complete genomes. the genome 10k project was established in 2009 by a consortium of biologists and genome scientists determined to facilitate the sequencing and analysis of the complete genomes of 10,000 vertebrate species. today, full genomes are mapped and published almost weekly and with ever increasing speed and decreasing costs. since the completion of the human genome project 10 years ago, the world has witnessed an incredible progress in human genetics and genomics. the analysis of dna has led to revolutionary advancements in the fields of medical diagnostics, genomics, prenatal screening, and forensic science, with the global dna testing market expected to reach revenues of usd 10.04 billion per year by 2020. nonetheless, the meteoric increase in sequencing throughput with ngs has dramatically changed our understanding of our genome and ourselves. rapid dna and rna sequencing is now mainstream and will continue to have an increasing impact on biology and medicine. 
The appearance of brown-like or beige cells primarily occurs in visceral fat, not subcutaneous fat. [SEP] it is, however, still unclear whether intramuscular adipocytes could also acquire a brown-like phenotype. here, we detected intramuscular expression of brown adipocyte markers during fatty infiltration in an obesity-resistant mouse strain and extensively compared the potential of two different stem cell populations residing in skeletal muscle to differentiate into brown-like adipocytes. brown adipocytes play an important role in regulating energy balance, and there is a good correlation between obesity and the amount of brown adipose tissue. although the molecular mechanism of white adipocyte differentiation has been well characterized, brown adipogenesis has not been studied extensively. beige or brite (brown-in-white) adipocytes are present in white adipose tissue (wat) and have a white fat-like phenotype that when stimulated acquires a brown fat-like phenotype, leading to increased thermogenesis. this phenomenon is known as browning and is more likely to occur in subcutaneous fat depots. classical brown adipocytes, characterized by interscapular depots, have multilocular fat depots and are known to release excess energy. however, visceral adipose tissue (vat) is not as susceptible to browning as subcutaneous adipose tissue (sat). there are two types of brown adipocytes: classical brown adipocytes that form the brown fat depots and beige adipocytes that emerge in the white fat depots. recently, genes were identified that are predominantly expressed in beige adipocytes, which were induced from stromal vascular cells in white fat depots. 
The artifactual C-terminal helix swapping in the StART domain is observed in the Ups1-Mdm35 heterodimer of the StARkin superfamily. [SEP] structurally, activation involves rassf5 and mst1/2 swapping their sarah domains to form a sarah heterodimer. separate crystal structures are available for the ra (ras association) domain and sarah dimer, where sarah is a long straight α-helix. though sav1 dimerization is essential for the trans-activation of mst, the molecular mechanism underlying sav1 dimerization is unclear. the crystal structure of sav1 ww12ex reveals that the pro-rich extension of one subunit binds to both ww domains from the other subunit. thus, sav1 ww12ex forms a domain-swapped dimer instead of a ww2 homodimerization-mediated dimer. to understand the mechanism of the heterodimerization of sarah domains, the three-dimensional structures of an mst1-rassf5 sarah heterodimer and an mst2 sarah homodimer were determined by x-ray crystallography and were analysed together with that previously determined for the mst1 sarah homodimer. while the structure of the mst2 homodimer resembled that of the mst1 homodimer, the mst1-rassf5 heterodimer showed distinct structural features. firstly, the six n-terminal residues (asp432-lys437), which correspond to the short n-terminal 3₁₀-helix h1 kinked from the h2 helix in the mst1 homodimer, were disordered. furthermore, the mst1 sarah domain in the mst1-rassf5 complex showed a longer helical structure (ser438-lys480) than that in the mst1 homodimer (val441-lys480). moreover, extensive polar and nonpolar contacts in the mst1-rassf5 sarah domain were identified which strengthen the interactions in the heterodimer in comparison to the interactions in the homodimer. 
The combination of physical examinations with C-reactive protein values do not improve the accuracy of radiographic verified pneumonia predictions. [SEP] at present, lung ultrasound (lus) is not included in the diagnostic work-up of pneumonia. the value of physical examination findings in the diagnosis of pneumonia in children may be limited, and the accuracy of physicians in predicting pneumonia is not known. we sought to determine the correlation between physicians' assessment of the likelihood of pneumonia and radiographic presence of pneumonia. with some overestimation, physicians' assessment of the likelihood of pneumonia correlates well with radiographic diagnosis of pneumonia. : the clinical and epidemiological significance of community-acquired pneumonia (cap) with a chest radiograph demonstrating no parenchymal infiltrate has not been studied. lack of a gold standard for identifying bacterial and viral etiologies of pneumonia has limited evaluation of c-reactive protein (crp) for identifying bacterial pneumonia. crp may be useful for distinguishing bacterial from rsv-associated pneumonia, although its role in discriminating against other respiratory viral-associated pneumonia needs further study. the utility of chest radiographs (cxrs) for detecting occult pneumonia (op) among pediatric patients without lower respiratory tract signs has been previously studied, but no predictors other than white blood cell count (wbc) and height of fever have been investigated. the usefulness of non-specific inflammatory parameters for the diagnosis of community- acquired pneumonia (cap) in primary care is not settled. it is concluded that the examined inflammatory parameters did not contribute notably in the routine diagnosis of cap established by clinical measures. 
The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the A isoform to the B isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. [SEP] two isoforms of nonmuscle myosin heavy chain iib (mhc-iib) are generated by alternative splicing; mhc-iib(b2) differs from mhc-iib(deltab2) by the insertion of b2 exon cassette near the actin binding region. nonmuscle myosin ii isoforms a and b (hereafter, iia and iib) perform unique roles in cell migration, even though both isoforms share the same basic molecular functions. these data, acquired through the use of chimeras of iia and iib, suggest that the c-terminal region of the myosin heavy chain supersedes the distinct motor properties of the two isoforms as the predominant factor directing isoform-specific distribution. all vertebrates contain two nonmuscle myosin ii heavy chains, a and b, which differ in tissue expression and subcellular distributions. to understand how these distinct distributions are controlled and what role they play in cell migration, myosin iia and iib were examined during wound healing by bovine aortic endothelial cells. these observations indicate that asymmetry of myosin iib, but not iia, is regulated by light-chain phosphorylation mediated by rho-dependent kinase. here, we show that b cell-specific deletion of the myosin iia heavy chain reduced the numbers of bone marrow b cell precursors and splenic marginal zone, peritoneal b1b, and germinal center b cells. altogether, these data indicate that myosin iia is a negative regulator of b cell activation but a positive regulator of antigen acquisition from antigen-presenting cells and that myosin iia is essential for b cell development, proliferation, and antibody responses. wild-type (wt) and myosin heavy chain iib null [mhciib (-/-)] embryonic fibroblasts were used as an experimental model to assess the role of the isoform b of myosin ii (mii) in the regulation of the cell shape and intrinsic polarity. in nonmuscle myosin iib is involved in the guidance of fibroblast migration. 
The cytokine receptor which regulates chemotaxis and formation of lymph nodes is involved in production of myeloperoxidase in the left atrium. [SEP] lipoxygenase metabolites of arachidonic acid are potent chemotactic and vasoconstrictive agents and their local production in the myocardium induces the migration of polymorphonuclear cells into ischemic myocardium. ischemia and reperfusion of the myocardium initiate an inflammatory response directed against the myocardium, and many studies attribute a significant portion of this injury to leukocytes. accumulation and adhesion of leukocytes to cardiac myocytes play important roles in the pathogenesis of inflammation-mediated myocardial injury such as ischaemia/reperfusion and myocarditis. we investigated the expression of cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant (cinc) in rat cardiac myocytes. myocardial ischemia induces 5-lipoxygenase (lox) translocation and leukotriene production in the heart. myocardial ischemia induces 5-lipoxygenase (lox) translocation and leukotriene production in the heart. i/r injury induced a significant elevation in myeloperoxidase activity and gene expression of intracellular adhesion molecules, cyclooxygenase-2, 5-lipooxygenasae, nuclear factor kappa-beta, tumor necrosis factor alpha, nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2, and hemeoxygenease-1 consequently with reduction in glutathione peroxidase in heart tissues. we have shown cytokine activity in postischemic cardiac lymph sufficient to maximally express icam-1 on myocytes and that icam-1 mrna is found in the previously ischemic myocardium early in reperfusion. matrix metalloproteinase-9 (mmp-9) regulates remodeling of the left ventricle after myocardial infarction (mi) and is tightly linked to the inflammatory response. a local hypoxia-induced inflammation causes recruitment of leukocytes to the inflammatory site to aid cardiac remodeling and tissue healing. 
The deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA can inactivate the viral genome by inducing G-to-A mutations. [SEP] the antiretroviral activity of the cellular enzyme apobec3g has been attributed to the excessive deamination of cytidine (c) to uridine (u) in minus strand reverse transcripts, a process resulting in guanosine (g) to adenosine (a) hypermutation of plus strand dnas. cytidine deaminases inhibit replication of a broad range of dna viruses by deaminating cytidines on single-stranded dna (ssdna) to generate uracil. in the present study, we found that in hbv-producing hepad38 and hepg2.2.15 cell lines, endogenous cytidine deaminases edited 10 to 25% of hbv rcdna genomes, asymmetrically with almost all mutations on the 5' half of the minus strand. we found that genomes were subjected to deamination activity during reverse transcription, which takes place within the virus capsid. the enzyme apobec3g (a3g) mutates the human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) genome by converting deoxycytidine (dc) to deoxyuridine (du) on minus strand viral dna during reverse transcription. deamination of cytidine residues in viral dna is a major mechanism by which apobec3g (a3g) inhibits vif-deficient human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1) replication. this causes guanosine-to-adenosine hypermutation in the opposite strand and results in inactivation of the virus. our results show that pathogen-induced deamination of cytidine and the dna-damage response to virus-mediated repair of the incorporation of uridine enhance the recognition of hiv-infected cells by nk cells. the hiv-1-encoded vif protein controls cytosine deamination by preventing the incorporation of host-derived apobec3g cytidine deaminase into viral particles. it is well established that the cytosine deaminase apobec3g can restrict hiv-1 virions in the absence of the virion infectivity factor (vif) by inducing genome mutagenesis through deamination of cytosine to uracil in single-stranded hiv-1 (-)dna. 
The density of cytokine receptor bearing cells affects the distance over which cytokines act. [SEP] cytokines are pleiotropic regulators that control proliferation, differentiation, and other cellular functions. they play a pivotal role in the immune and hematopoietic systems, and subsets of cytokines often exhibit similar biologic activities in common target cells. recent cloning of genes for the cytokine receptors has provided new insights into the understanding of how the cytokines control the immune and hematopoietic systems. immune cells communicate by exchanging cytokines to achieve a context-appropriate response, but the distances over which such communication happens are not known. here, we used theoretical considerations and experimental models of immune responses in vitro and in vivo to quantify the spatial extent of cytokine communications in dense tissues. we established that competition between cytokine diffusion and consumption generated spatial niches of high cytokine concentrations with sharp boundaries. the size of these self-assembled niches scaled with the density of cytokine-consuming cells, a parameter that gets tuned during immune responses. in vivo, we measured interactions on length scales of 80-120 μm, which resulted in a high degree of cell-to-cell variance in cytokine exposure. cytokines and growth factors are critical regulators that connect intracellular and extracellular environments through binding to specific cell-surface receptors. because related receptors with different affinities and cross-reactive binding capabilities are present on each type of leukocyte, relative differences in receptor distribution and receptor affinity for specific chemokines may significantly influence which cells are ultimately attracted to and activated by each individual chemokine. 
The density of cytokine receptor bearing cells has no effect on the distance over which cytokines act. [SEP] differently from selectins, the ligand expression is constitutive and not modulated by interleukin-1beta. however, despite their role in chemotaxis, selectins do not contribute to huvec tube formation in matrigel. cytokines play a vital role in coordinating immune and inflammatory responses. unlike growth factor receptors with a tyrosine kinase, cytokine receptors have no intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity. based on their structure, cytokine receptors are classified into several groups. no correlation exists in hl60 cells between nf-kappa b activation by tumor necrosis factor (tnf alpha) and tnf beta and intracellular levels of cyclic amp. cyclic amp levels did not increase upon treatment of cells with each of these cytokines, although nf-kappa b was activated. analysis of interparticle distances reveals that this clustering on the scale of a few hundred nanometers is independent of the presence of il-2 and of the expression of the il-2r beta-subunit. furthermore, transferrin receptor clusters hardly colocalize with il-2ralpha, hla, and cd48 molecules (crosscorrelation coefficient is 0.05), whereas il-2ralpha colocalizes with both hla and cd48 (crosscorrelation coefficient is between 0.37 and 0.46). many cytokines initiate cellular responses through their interaction with members of the cytokine receptor superfamily which contain no catalytic domains in their cytoplasmic domains. 
The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in chronic infectious conditions. [SEP] monocytes are key cells in the immune dysregulation observed during human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection. the events that take place specifically in monocytes may contribute to the systemic immune dysfunction characterized by excessive immune activation in infected individuals, which directly correlates with pathogenesis and progression of the disease. monocytes are key mediators of innate immunity and comprise an important cellular defence against invading pathogens. however, exaggerated or dysregulated monocyte activation can lead to severe immune-mediated pathology such as sepsis or chronic inflammatory diseases. production of proinflammatory mediators by monocytes leads to tissue damage and perpetuates the inflammatory response. although monocytes represent an essential part of the host defence system, their accumulation and prolonged stimulation could be detrimental and may aggravate chronic inflammatory diseases. in chronic inflammation, across a number of quite different pathological conditions, monocytes accumulate. excessive or prolonged recruitment of inflammatory monocytes to damaged tissue can significantly worsen patient outcomes. excessive and prolonged activity of inflammatory monocytes is a hallmark of many diseases with an inflammatory component. monocytes/macrophages play a major role in inflammation and pathogen clearance. 
The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes improves inflammatory disease outcomes. [SEP] these findings indicate that the igg-bound platelet-induced conversion of monocytes to regulatory cells might provide a novel strategy for controlling inflammation. excessive and prolonged activity of inflammatory monocytes is a hallmark of many diseases with an inflammatory component. inflammatory monocytes play important functions in antiviral immune responses, including release of inflammatory cytokines and antigen presentation to t lymphocytes. monocytes play a pivotal role in the generation as well as resolution of inflammation. in summary, we deciphered a novel molecular pathway promoting survival of anti-inflammatory monocytes. monocytes are highly abundant circulatory effector cells and play a vital role in driving or resolving inflammatory processes depending on their activation phenotype. monocytes derived from patients with chronic inflammatory diseases could be induced to be anti-inflammatory using this protocol. the aim of this overview is to summarize the available data on the involvement of monocytes in the pathological processes related to the development of acute coronary syndromes and the recovery of damaged areas, the prevention of excessive inflammatory and procoagulant response, and the restoration of microcirculation (angiogenesis). recently, our group reported that stimulation of monocytes with various microbial products can induce a long-lasting proinflammatory phenotype via epigenetic reprogramming, a process termed trained immunity. these beneficial effects include priming of circulating monocytes for differentiation towards an 'alternative' anti-inflammatory m2 macrophage phenotype. 
The effect of Lipopolysaccharides on kidney barrier function is dependent on inflammation levels. [SEP] these findings suggest that inflammatory cytokines contribute to lipid-mediated renal damage, and also may have wider implications for the study of inflammation in the atherosclerotic process. lipopolysaccharide (lps)-induced inflammation and dysfunction in the kidney may be the major risk factors for subsequent acute kidney injury (aki). inflammation has been implicated in the pathophysiology of kidney disorders. the toll-like receptor 4 (tlr4) inflammatory pathway is a major contributor of inflammation in the kidney. interestingly, lipopolysaccharide (lps), a specific ligand for tlr4, has been shown to induce acute kidney injury (aki) in animal models. we hypothesize that bb protect against the lps-induced aki by inhibiting tlr4 activation and kidney injury markers. most kidney disorders involve some degree of inflammation, i.e. but what are the factors that determine inflammation as a trigger or a consequence of kidney injury? since bacterial lipopolysaccharide (lps) is a naturally occurring immunological stimulus, we studied its inflammatory effects on isolated renal glomeruli. the role of mild reduction in kidney function in altering susceptibility to bacterial lipopolysaccharide (lps) responses was investigated in uninephrectomized rats compared to sham-operated controls rats 4 weeks after surgery. 
The first MBT repeat of the four malignant brain tumor (4MBT) domain of Drosophila's Sfmbt and of the orthologous mammalian L3MBTL2 is required for the interaction with the spacer region of Drosophila's Pleiohomeotic (Pho) or its human ortholog YY1. [SEP] sfmbt1 (scm [sex comb on midleg] with four mbt [malignant brain tumor] domains 1) is a poorly characterized mammalian mbt domain-containing protein homologous to drosophila sfmbt, a polycomb group protein involved in epigenetic regulation of gene expression. the drosophila e(spl)m4 gene contains some highly conserved motifs (such as the brd box, gy box, k box, and caac motif) in its 3' untranslated region (3' utr). it was shown to be a microrna target gene in drosophila and to play an important role in the regulation of neurogenesis. moreover, given that the expression is the highest in the larval head, as confirmed by immunohistochemistry, we propose that bmem4 may also be involved in the regulation of neurogenesis. xstbm encodes four transmembrane domains in its n-terminal half and a pdz-binding motif in its c-terminal region, a structure similar to drosophila and mouse homologues. lethal 3 malignant brain tumor 1 (l3mbtl1), a homolog of the drosophila polycomb tumor suppressor l(3)mbt, contains three tandem mbt repeats (3xmbt) that are critical for transcriptional repression. despite the broad range of in vitro binding, the chromatin association of l3mbtl1 mirrors the progressive accumulation of h4k20 monomethylation during the cell cycle. a gene complex controlling segmentation in drosophila. we report the full coding sequence of a new drosophila gene, spalt-related, which is homologous and adjacent to the region-specific homeotic gene, spalt. in the wing disc, spalt and spalt-related are expressed in indistinguishable domains; in the nervous system and some other organs the expression patterns extensively overlap but are not identical, indicating that the genes have partially diverged in terms of developmental regulation. 
The gene daf-16, which encodes forkhead Box O (FOXO), is required for all phenotypes associated with reduced insulin/insulin-like growth factor (Igf) signaling. [SEP] this signaling pathway negatively regulates the activity of the forkhead transcription factor daf-16. daf-16 encodes multiple isoforms that are expressed in distinct tissue types and are probable orthologs of human fkhrl1, fkhr, and afx. we show that the absence of akt consensus sites on daf-16 is sufficient to cause dauer arrest in daf-2(+) animals, proving that daf-16 is the major output of insulin signaling in c. elegans. daf-2 insulin signaling, via akt kinases, negatively regulates daf-16 by controlling its nuclear localization. forkhead transcription factors belonging to the foxo subfamily are negatively regulated by protein kinase b (pkb) in response to signaling by insulin and insulin-like growth factor in caenorhabditis elegans and mammals. furthermore, dfoxo function is required for growth inhibition associated with reduced insulin signaling. our results show that dfoxo is a crucial mediator of insulin signaling in drosophila, mediating the reduction in cell number in insulin-signaling mutants. in caenorhabditis elegans, the single forkhead box o (foxo) homologue, daf-16, functions as the major target of the iis pathway. the daf-16/foxo transcription factor is the major downstream output of the insulin/igf1r signaling pathway controlling c. elegans dauer larva development and aging. the daf-16 gene encodes a fork-head transcription factor that is negatively regulated by this insulin-signaling pathway. 
The generation of reactive oxygen species by activated oncogenes contributes to the increased genomic instability of leukaemia cells. [SEP] the concept of reactive oxygen species (ros) being produced via the activation of specific oncogenes provides a basis for generating genomic instability and pro-survival signalling in tumour cells. expression of oncogenic bcr-abl in chronic myeloid leukemia (cml) results in increased reactive oxygen species (ros) that in turn cause increased dna damage, including dna double-strand breaks (dsbs). in different types of myeloid leukemia, increased formation of reactive oxygen species (ros) has been noted and associated with aspects of cell transformation, including the promotion of leukemic cell proliferation and migration, as well as dna damage and accumulation of mutations. leukemias expressing the constitutively activated tyrosine kinases (tk) bcr-abl1 and flt3/itd activate signaling pathways that increase genomic instability through generation of reactive oxygen species (ros), dna double-strand breaks (dsb), and error-prone repair. one consequence of genomic instability is the overexpression of oncogenes due to gene amplification. reactive oxygen species (ros) cause damage to the dna producing mutations and formation of tumours such as carcinoma of breast. while such oxidative stress conditions could be harmful to normal cells, they facilitate cancer cell growth in multiple ways by causing dna damage and genomic instability, and ultimately by reprogramming cancer cell metabolism. constitutive expression of the bcr-abl kinase in chronic myelogenous leukaemia (cml) is known to produce elevated levels of reactive oxygen species (ros) which can enhance cell survival as well as generate genomic instability. introduction of oncogenic h- or n-ras caused elevated intracellular ros, accumulation of 8-oxo-2'-deoxyguanosine, and increased number of chromosome breaks in mitotic cells, which were prevented by antioxidant n-acetyl-l-cysteine. we and others showed that the well-known bcr-abl1 fusion oncogene, the cause of chronic myeloid leukemia, induced an increased production of reactive oxygen species (ros) and conferred therapeutic drug resistance by suppression of apoptotic signaling, prolonged g2/m arrest and stimulation of several pathways of dna repair. 
The innate immune response struggles to remove small numbers of parasites. [SEP] certain parasites have evolved to evade the immune response and establish chronic infections that may persist for many years. this review highlights various mechanisms and the different facets by which the parasites outsmart the immune system. an understanding of how the parasites escape immune recognition and interfere with the induction of a protective immune response that provides sterilizing immunity will be crucial to vaccine design. innate immunity is particularly important for preventing infection and eradicating established infections at an early stage while adaptive immunity is slow, but powerful, and essential for controlling infection intensities and eventually clearing infections. from the biological point of view, invading parasites must not eliminate the susceptible host population; therefore, antiparasite immunity plays an essential role in limiting the invasion and proliferation of parasites. parasites are immunogenic. the parasites' aim is survival and reproduction, ours is to restrict or eliminate them, and amplification of protective immune responses has become a key approach to this. innate immunity has evolved as a first line defense against invading pathogens. cellular and humoral elements of the innate immune system detect infectious parasites, initiate inflammatory resistance reactions and finally contribute to the elimination of the invaders. the present overview touches an undervalued aspect in the innate immune response: its pronounced dependency on pathogen load. 
The latent infection of myeloid cells with human cytomegalovirus induces a number of changes in gene expression. [SEP] latency-associated transcripts have been detected in human cytomegalovirus (cmv)-infected granulocyte-macrophage progenitors and have been shown to be encoded from both dna strands in the ie1/ie2 region of the viral genome. following primary infection, human cytomegalovirus (cmv) establishes a lifelong latent infection in bone marrow-derived myeloid lineage cells. human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) latency and reactivation is regulated by the chromatin structure at the major immediate early promoter (miep) within myeloid cells. human cytomegalovirus (cmv) establishes latent infections in hematopoietic cells such as granulocyte-macrophage progenitors (gm-ps). human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) establishes and maintains a latent infection in myeloid cells and can reactivate to cause serious disease in allograft recipients. studies from a number of laboratories have shown that the myeloid lineage is prominent in human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) latency, reactivation, dissemination, and pathogenesis. replication of human cytomegalovirus (cmv) depends on host cell gene products working in conjunction with viral functions and leads to a dramatic dysregulation of cell cycle gene expression. cmv infection resulted in lower levels of transcripts encoding cytoskeletal, extracellular matrix, and adhesion proteins, together with small gtpases and apoptosis regulators, and in higher levels of transcripts encoding cell cycle, dna replication, energy production, and inflammation-related gene products. human cytomegalovirus infections involve the extensive modification of host cell pathways, including cell cycle control, the regulation of the dna damage response, and averting promyelocytic leukemia (pml)-mediated antiviral responses. human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) remains latent in cells of the myeloid lineage after primary infection. 
The mean suicide rate in women is higher after miscarriage than live birth. [SEP] although the incidence of suicide among women who have given birth during the past 12 months is lower than that of women who have not given birth, suicide remains one of the most common causes of death during the year following delivery in high-income countries, such as sweden. the suicide ratio was higher in women born in low-income countries (odds ratio 3.1 (95% ci 1.3-7.7)). suicide has been identified as one of the most common causes of death among women within 1 year after the end of pregnancy in several high-income countries. the aim of this study was to provide the first estimate of the maternal suicide ratio and a description of the characteristics of women who died by suicide during pregnancy or within 1 year after giving birth, induced abortion or miscarriage (i.e., maternal suicide) in 10 italian regions, covering 77% of total national births. the suicide rate was 1.18 per 100,000 after giving birth (n = 2,876,193), 2.77 after an induced abortion (n = 650,549) and 2.90 after a miscarriage (n = 379,583). suicide associated with severe psychiatric illnesses is considered the leading cause of maternal deaths. the odds of postpartum suicide risk were 6.50 (95% ci: 2.73; 15.48) higher in mothers with postpartum depression and 41.50 (95% ci: 12.11; 142.16) higher in those with mixed episodes than those who did not suffer from any mood disorder. although suicide is a leading cause of death among new mothers during the postpartum period, there has been limited research on self-harm in the postpartum period and associated risk factors. suicide is one of the leading causes of death in postpartum women. identifying modifiable factors related to suicide risk in mothers after delivery is a public health priority. 
The mean suicide rate in women is lower after miscarriage than live birth. [SEP] although the incidence of suicide among women who have given birth during the past 12 months is lower than that of women who have not given birth, suicide remains one of the most common causes of death during the year following delivery in high-income countries, such as sweden. to characterise women who died by suicide during pregnancy and postpartum from a maternal care perspective. the maternal suicide ratio was 3.7 per 100 000 live births for the period 1980-2007, with small magnitude variation over time. the suicide ratio was higher in women born in low-income countries (odds ratio 3.1 (95% ci 1.3-7.7)). the risk of suicide in postnatal women is low and those suicides that occur appear to be associated with severe psychiatric illness. we calculated standardised mortality ratios (smrs) for suicide, unnatural deaths and deaths from natural causes for women admitted to psychiatric hospital in the first year after childbirth, using computerised cross-linkages between the danish psychiatric case register and the danish registers of birth and causes of death for 1973-1993. although postnatal women as a whole appear to have a low rate of suicide, severe post-partum psychiatric disorder is associated with a high rate of deaths from natural and unnatural causes, particularly suicide. women who attempted suicides who were pregnant did not differ from nonpregnant women who attempted suicide in measures of depression, hopelessness, or suicidal intent. pregnancy with down's syndrome is often terminated by miscarriage. the results obtained were compared with published data on the rates of fetal losses postulated to occur among fetuses with down's syndrome. 
The microtubule-dependent delivery and secretion of matrix metalloproteases (MMPs) is partially responsible for the disassembly of adhesion sites. [SEP] the matrix metalloproteinases (mmps) are members of a family of endopeptidases that are able to degrade extra-cellular matrix. matrix metalloproteinases (mmps) are a family of peptidases that possess the ability to break down extracellular matrix macromolecules associated with tissue turnover in various physiological and pathological conditions. matrix metalloproteinases (mmps) are endopeptidases with the potential to cleave extracellular matrix, support tissue renewal and regulate cell migration. matrix metalloproteinases (mmps) are proteolytic enzymes capable of degrading the structural support network for normal and malignant cells, promoting neoplastic cell invasion and metastasis. matrix metalloproteinases (mmps) are a large family of proteinases that remodel extracellular matrix (ecm) components and cleave a number of cell surface proteins. matrix metalloproteinases (mmps) are a family of peptidases that disintegrate extracellular matrix (ecm) molecules associated with tissue remodeling, including reproductive tissues. matrix metalloproteinases (mmps) degrade the extracellular matrix and are implicated in the pathogenesis of several neurological diseases. matrix metalloproteinases (mmps) degrade several ecm components and are crucial modulators of cell invasion and tissue organization. matrix metalloproteinases, like mmp-2 and mmp-9 gelatinases, show multiple functions as extracellular/cell-surface enzymes, and are broadly recognised for their matrix-degrading ability and involvement in cell motility. a subsequent activation of secreted mmp-9 and induction of apoptosis-associated fragmentation of poly adp-ribose polymerase (parp) correlated with cell detachment. 
The minor G allele of FOXO3 downregulates pro-inflammatory cytokines. [SEP] genetic variation in foxo3 (tagged by rs12212067) has been associated with a milder course of rheumatoid arthritis (ra) and shown to limit monocyte-driven inflammation through a transforming growth factor β1-dependent pathway. we sought to clarify the contribution of foxo3 to prognosis in ra by combining detailed analysis of nonradiographic disease severity measures with an in vivo model of arthritis. collagen-induced arthritis, the most commonly used mouse model of ra, was used to assess how foxo3 contributes to arthritis severity. using clinical, serologic, and biochemical methods, the arthritis that developed in mice carrying a loss-of-function mutation in foxo3 was compared with that which occurred in littermate controls. loss of foxo3 function resulted in more severe arthritis in vivo (both clinically and histologically) and was associated with higher titers of anticollagen antibodies and interleukin-6 in the blood. similarly, rs12212067 (a single-nucleotide polymorphism that increases foxo3 transcription) was associated with reduced inflammation, both biochemically and clinically, and with lower ra activity scores. consistent with its known role in restraining inflammatory responses, foxo3 limits the severity of in vivo arthritis and, through genetic variation that increases its transcription, is associated with reduced inflammation and disease activity in ra patients, effects that result in less radiographic damage. we hypothesized that lower levels of tnfaip3 contributes to excessive cytokine production in response to inflammatory stimuli in axial spondyloarthritis (axspa). blood-derived macrophages from 50 axspa subjects and 30 healthy controls were assessed for tnfaip3 expression. coding and regulatory regions in the tnfaip3 gene and other auto-inflammation-implicated genes were sequenced by next-generation sequencing and variants identified. 
The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to less severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. [SEP] very recently, a sub-analysis of genome-wide association scans revealed that the non-coding single nucleotide polymorphism (snp) rs12212067 in the foxo3a gene is associated with a milder course of crohn's disease (cd) (cell 2013;155:57-69). no significant phenotypic differences were found between the wild-type genotype tt of the foxo3a snp rs12212067 and the minor genotypes tg and gg independently from nod2 variants. it has also been reported that the minor g allele from the rs12212067 polymorphism (t>g) in foxo3 is associated with milder cd. there was strong evidence that adverse effects of mustard, wasabi, and raw and cooked tomatoes were significantly associated with the g allele of foxo3 and that these foods should be avoided by people carrying this allele. genetic variation in foxo3 (tagged by rs12212067) has been associated with a milder course of rheumatoid arthritis (ra) and shown to limit monocyte-driven inflammation through a transforming growth factor β1-dependent pathway. collagen-induced arthritis, the most commonly used mouse model of ra, was used to assess how foxo3 contributes to arthritis severity. using clinical, serologic, and biochemical methods, the arthritis that developed in mice carrying a loss-of-function mutation in foxo3 was compared with that which occurred in littermate controls. loss of foxo3 function resulted in more severe arthritis in vivo (both clinically and histologically) and was associated with higher titers of anticollagen antibodies and interleukin-6 in the blood. similarly, rs12212067 (a single-nucleotide polymorphism that increases foxo3 transcription) was associated with reduced inflammation, both biochemically and clinically, and with lower ra activity scores. consistent with its known role in restraining inflammatory responses, foxo3 limits the severity of in vivo arthritis and, through genetic variation that increases its transcription, is associated with reduced inflammation and disease activity in ra patients, effects that result in less radiographic damage. 
The minor G allele of FOXO3 up-regulates IL-10. [SEP] promoter polymorphisms of the interleukin-10 gene have been associated with altered interleukin-10 expression. the highly polymorphic interleukin 10.g (il10.g) microsatellite located in the promoter region of the interleukin-10 (il-10) gene exerts a positive transcriptional regulatory effect on il-10 gene expression and correlates with the in vitro il-10 secretion. interleukin-10 (il-10) is an important multifunctional immunmodulator. there is evidence that il-10 secretion is associated with certain genetic elements of the proximal il-10 gene 5'-flanking region. our findings further the understanding of the complexity of il-10 gene regulation in relation to defined regulatory gene variations. interleukin-10 (il-10) is a major immunoregulatory cytokine and its gene plays a fundamental role in anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive activity. this finding suggests that the a allele of rs1800896 may be associated with td development following a low il-10 function. abin-3 expression was induced selectively by il-10 in both mouse and human mononuclear phagocytes coordinately undergoing proinflammatory responses. il-10 is an anti-inflammatory cytokine which may modulate disease expression in ra. three dimorphic polymorphisms within the il-10 gene promoter have recently been identified and appear to influence regulation of its expression. 
The morphology change from large white adipocytes to small brown adipocytes is a sign of decreased energy expenditure potential in white adipose tissue. [SEP] the ratio of free fatty acid (ffa) turnover decreases significantly with the expansion of white adipose tissue. this phenomenon is associated with ectopic fat deposition, decreased adipocyte size, impaired differentiation of preadipocytes into fat cells, decreased adipogenic transcription factor expression, and increased fat tissue inflammatory cytokine generation. recently, it has been demonstrated that uncoupling protein-1 (ucp1)-expressing white adipocytes (brown-like adipocytes) are important for energy expenditure in white adipose tissue (wat), in which energy expenditure decreases under obese conditions. however, the relationship between the induction of brown-like adipocytes and the decrease in energy expenditure in obese wat remains to be elucidated. obesity involves a contrasting expansion of the energy-storing white fat and loss of functionally competent brown fat, an energy-consuming thermogenic adipose. leveraging our understanding of white and brown adipocyte recruitment and investigating factors that regulate these processes might reveal novel targets for counteracting obesity. this makes in vitro adipogenesis a valuable model for identifying differential regulation patterns between brown and white adipogenesis. across aging, white adipose tissue (wat) undergoes significant changes in quantity and distribution, with an increase in visceral adipose tissue, ectopic fat deposition and a decline in gluteofemoral subcutaneous depot. the intrinsic oxidative capacity of white adipose tissue is low, and older studies suggest that there is little fatty acid oxidation in white adipocytes, human or rodent. we review proof-of-concept studies in which the phenotype of the white adipocyte has been changed to resemble that of the brown adipocyte by expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor coactivator-1alpha. 
The morphology change from large white adipocytes to small brown adipocytes is a sign of increased energy expenditure potential in white adipose tissue. [SEP] white adipose tissue (wat) expansion in obesity occurs through enlargement of preexisting adipocytes (hypertrophy) and through formation of new adipocytes (adipogenesis). wat expansion results from increases in white adipocyte cell number and size, which in turn reflect a series of shifts in the cellular metabolic state. white adipose tissue (wat) serves as the primary energy depot in the body by storing fat. obesity involves a contrasting expansion of the energy-storing white fat and loss of functionally competent brown fat, an energy-consuming thermogenic adipose. adipose tissue is traditionally categorized into white and brown relating to their function and morphology. the classical white adipose tissue builds up energy in the form of triglycerides and is useful for preventing fatigue during periods of low caloric intake and the brown adipose tissue more energetically active, with a greater number of mitochondria and energy production in the form of heat. beige adipocyte has recently attracted special interest because of its ability to dissipate energy and the possible ability to differentiate themselves from white adipocytes. white adipose tissue (wat) has key metabolic and endocrine functions and plays a role in regulating energy homeostasis and insulin sensitivity. white-to-brown adipose tissue remodeling (browning) in response to different stimuli constitutes an active research area for obesity treatment. the emergence in traditional white adipose tissue (wat) depots of multilocular adipocytes that express uncoupling protein 1 (ucp1) and resemble brown adipocytes, the so called 'brite' adipocytes, could contribute to increased energy expenditure. 
The most prevalent adverse events to Semaglutide are cardiovascular. [SEP] to investigate the effects of semaglutide versus comparators on major adverse cardiovascular events (mace: cardiovascular [cv] death, nonfatal myocardial infarction [mi] and nonfatal stroke) and hospitalization for heart failure (hf) in the sustain (subcutaneous semaglutide) and pioneer (oral semaglutide) trials across subgroups of varying cv risk. in sustain 6 and pioneer 6 combined, the hazard ratio (hr) for effect of semaglutide versus placebo on overall mace was 0.76 (95% ci 0.62, 0.92), which was mainly driven by the effect on nonfatal stroke (hr 0.65 [95% ci 0.43, 0.97]). in the combined glycaemic efficacy trials, the hr for effect of semaglutide versus comparators on mace was 0.85 (95% ci 0.55, 1.33). in sustain and pioneer combined, glucagon-like peptide-1 analogue semaglutide showed consistent effects on mace versus comparators across varying cv risk. semaglutide is a human glucagon-like peptide-1 (glp-1) analogue that is in development for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. in the pre-approval cardiovascular outcomes trial sustain 6, semaglutide was associated with a significant increase in the risk of diabetic retinopathy (dr) complications vs placebo. the cardiovascular effects of sildenafil are important because of the frequent presence of underlying cardiac disease in men with erectile dysfunction and reports indicating serious cardiac events temporally associated with the use of this drug. we assessed the systemic, pulmonary, and coronary hemodynamic effects of oral sildenafil (100 mg) in 14 men (mean [+/-sd] age, 61+/-11 years) with severe stenosis of at least one coronary artery (stenosis of >70 percent of the vessel diameter) who were scheduled to undergo percutaneous coronary revascularization. to quantify the risk of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular adverse events in a general population prescribed sibutramine in postmarketing use. serious cardiac adverse reactions, including myocardial infarction, have been attributed to the antimigraine drug sumatriptan succinate. 
The most prevalent adverse events to Semaglutide are gastrointestinal. [SEP] gastrointestinal tract (gi) complications associated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (nsaid) use are the most common serious adverse drug reactions in the united states. nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs cause both minor gi side effects such as abdominal pain and vomiting and serious gi events such as ulcers and bleeding. gastrointestinal (gi) adverse events (aes) are the most frequently reported treatment-related aes associated with glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (glp-1ras) in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. in a pooled analysis of four placebo-controlled trials, the most common gi aes were diarrhoea (albiglutide, 14.5% vs. placebo, 11.5%) and nausea (albiglutide, 11.9% vs. placebo, 10.3%), with most patients experiencing 1-2 events. rheumatological conditions often give rise to gastrointestinal (gi) symptoms and vice versa, but the greatest point of contact between rheumatologists and gastroenterologists arises through gastrointestinal toxicity resulting from the use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (nsaids). the most prevalent serious drug toxicity in the united states is increasingly recognized as gastrointestinal (gi) pathology associated with the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids). regulatory authorities are aware that nsaid-associated adverse events are reported more often than for any other drug class, and that gastrointestinal events are most common and often serious. side effects of saas usually include biliary disorders, gastrointestinal disorders, injection-site pain and hyperglycemia. chronic ingestion of nsaids increases the risk for gastrointestinal complications, which range from dyspepsia to gastrointestinal bleeding, obstruction, and perforation. although upper gastrointestinal (gi) adverse events are the most common consequences of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (nsaid) use, there are other gi side effects that can contribute to the morbidity and mortality associated with these drugs. 
The myocardial cell lineage originally develops from cardiac progenitors of exclusively endodermal origin. [SEP] here, we demonstrate that secreted protein, acidic, rich in cysteine, sparc, predominantly secreted by mesenchymal parietal endoderm specifically promotes early myocardial cell differentiation in embryoid bodies. endocardial development involves a complex orchestration of cell fate decisions that coordinate with endoderm formation and other mesodermal cell lineages. historically, investigations into the contribution of endocardium in the developing embryo was constrained to the heart where these cells give rise to the inner lining of the myocardium and are a major contributor to valve formation. these studies cover a wide range of species and model systems and show direct contribution or fate potential of endocardium giving rise to cardiac vasculature, blood, fibroblast, and cardiomyocyte lineages. both the embryonic epicardium and its derived mesenchyme are critical to heart development, contributing to the coronary vasculature and modulating the proliferation of the ventricular myocardium. the fully formed heart is composed of diverse cell lineages including myocytes, endothelial cells, vascular smooth muscle cells, and fibroblasts that derive from distinct subsets of mesoderm during embryonic development. findings from lineage tracing studies indicate that cardiomyocytes develop from cells that express fetal liver kinase-1, suggesting that the cardiac lineages may arise from a progenitor cell with vascular cardiomyocyte potential. identification and isolation of these cardiovascular progenitor cells establishes a new model of heart development that will provide insights into the mechanisms regulating cardiovascular lineage diversification. the mass of the myocardium and endocardium of the vertebrate heart derive from the heart-forming fields of the lateral plate mesoderm. during embryonic development, the heart arises from various sources of undifferentiated mesodermal progenitors, with an additional contribution from ectodermal neural crest cells. 
The number of unfertilized oocytes in mated hermaphrodites increases with age. [SEP] increasing the number of oocytes increases the egg-sperm ratio in the oviduct under an unaltered endocrine milieu, setting the basis for picking up statistical differences between treatments in small populations. the study evaluated the model by transferring oocytes to females inseminated under conditions that are known to modify the fertilization rate in the field. in experiment 2, 10 females were inseminated either once or twice; 10-20 h later, homologous oocytes were transferred into the oviduct ipsilateral to the ovulation point. the fertility and developmental ability of denuded oocytes (dos) after ivf were reduced compared with cumulus-oocyte complexes (cocs) both in fresh and cryopreserved groups. treatment of aged human oocytes by puromycin allows a high rate of parthenogenetic activation and development until the first cleavage division. to determine if the size of human oocytes at collection from unstimulated ovaries is related to their ability to resume meiosis and undergo maturation in vitro. a comparative study of oocyte diameter at collection. the unstimulated human oocyte appears to have a size-dependent ability to resume meiosis and complete maturation. a total of 285 unfertilized oocytes were examined (104 icsi cycles). these primordial oocytes remain dormant, often for decades, until recruited into the growing pool throughout a woman's adult reproductive years. 
The one-child policy has created a hospitable environment for female infants. [SEP] breastfeeding is the healthiest way for a woman to feed her infant. the world health organization/united nations international children's emergency fund ( 1989 ) launched the baby-friendly hospital initiative to protect, promote and support breastfeeding in maternity services. for the purpose of this article, the infant population of children's hospitals and neonatal/children's units is comprised of either an infant transferred from a maternity unit at birth due to illness/prematurity or an infant admitted up to the age of one year. hospitalization in neonatal intensive care units with a single-family room design enables continuous maternal presence, but less is known regarding the association with milk production and breastfeeding. to compare maternal milk production, breastfeeding self-efficacy, the extent to which infants received mother's milk, and rate of direct breastfeeding in a single-family room to an open bay neonatal intensive care unit. a longitudinal, prospective observational study comparing 77 infants born at 28- 32° weeks gestational age and their 66 mothers (n = 35 infants of n = 30 mothers in single family room and n = 42 infants of n = 36 mothers in open bay). to increase the extent to which infants are fed mother's own milk and are exclusively directly breastfed, the design of neonatal intensive care units should facilitate continuous maternal presence and privacy for the mother-infant dyad. this remarkable achievement reflects careful planning by the adoptive mother beginning in the prenatal period, her active role during the infants' hospital stay, and support from health care personnel and family members. the first day of a child's life is a day of unparalleled opportunity to spare lives and sets the level for a sound future. two-year outcomes indicate the program improved parents' infant safety knowledge, positively affected the mother's decision to breastfeed, and promoted infant primary care visits in a cost-effective way. 
The origin of the CRF01_1b2k protein occurred between 1923 and 1956. [SEP] complementary dna clones encoding the nh2-terminal region of human cr1 have been isolated and sequenced. the deduced complete amino acid sequence of the f allotype of human cr1 contains 2,039 residues, including a 41-residue signal peptide, an extracellular domain of 1,930 residues, a 25-amino acid transmembrane domain, and a 43-amino acid cytoplasmic region. recombinant cr1 also had factor i-cofactor activity for cleavage of c3(ma). a cdna clone encoding corticotropin-releasing factor (crf) type 1 (crf-r1) has been isolated from the tree shrew tupaia belangeri with a pcr-based approach. the full-length cdna encoded a 415-amino-acid protein with highest sequence identity (approximately 98%) to human crf-r1 and slightly less identity to rat or mouse crf-r1 (approximately 97%). binding studies using human embryonic kidney 293 (hek293) cells stably transfected with tcrf-r1 showed that the crf agonists ovine crf (kd = 1.28 nm), human/rat crf (kd = 1.09 nm), urocortin (kd = 0.37 nm) and sauvagine (kd = 0.77 nm), respectively, were bound with significantly higher affinities than the crf antagonist astressin (kd = 12.4 nm). in agreement with the binding data half maximum effective ec50 values of 0.83 nm (human/rat crf), 1.41 nm (ovine crf), 1.25 nm (rat urocortin) and 0.71 nm (sauvagine) were calculated when the camp production in hek293 cells stably transfected with tcrf-r1 was stimulated with the four crf analogues. the predicted rv-f protein had a basic amino acid region (104-108) which may be cleaved by protease to yield an activated form of f1,2. several features of the predicted rv-f protein were confirmed in polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. a new transcription unit of the f1 gene cluster was found. 
The peak incidence of fractures occurs during pubertal growth spurt in early adolescents. [SEP] the adolescent growth spurt is one of the dramatic physical changes that accompanies pubertal development. the relationship of fractures to physical activity and growth velocity in stature and metacarpal ii bone dimensions was investigated in adolescent belgian boys. peak fracture incidence occurred between 12 and 14 yr of age and preceded the age at peak height velocity. the peak fracture rate occurred during mid adolescence (+/- 2 sd of the age at peak height velocity) and was twice as high as the rates before and after this period. a lag in cortical bone thickness and mineralization, relative to linear skeletal growth, and unknown factors associated with active participation in sports, rather than an increase in the amount of physical activity, appear to be the predominant factors associated with the increased fracture incidence in belgian boys during the growth spurt. the risk of injury is most pronounced during the rapid growth spurt of adolescence when other factors, such as muscle tightness across joints, also become important in the aetiology of sporting injury. these injuries tend to occur around puberty because this is when the physis is most vulnerable to injury. adolescence is a critical time for bone mass accrual, and increases in bone mass through puberty are dependent on rising levels of gonadal steroids, growth hormone and insulin like growth factor-1. apophyseal injuries are particularly common in adolescents when the growth spurt that accompanies puberty places increased strain on developing bones and muscles. adolescence is a critical time for peak bone mass accrual, and boys achieve a higher peak bone mass than girls. 
The peak incidence of fractures occurs in toddlers. [SEP] understanding the factors that place a child at increased risk of fracture is necessary to inform effective injury prevention strategies. retrospective cohort study of children age 9 months to 3 years with a radiographically evident toddler's fracture diagnosed at a single academic pediatric emergency department (ped) from january 2008 to december 2012. among toddlers, fractures were more likely to occur at home (p<.001) and to be the result of suspected nonaccidental trauma (p<.001). in this article, we aim to cover the differential diagnoses for toddler's fracture including indicators that might suggest an inflicted injury. in children, fractures have a huge impact on the health care system. this study aims to describe clinical and epidemiological data of fractures diagnosed in infants. a retrospective analysis of all infants (children<1 year of age) presenting with fractures in an 11 years period (2001-2011) was performed. 248 infants (54% male, 46% female) with a mean age of 7 months presented with 253 fractures. falls from the changing table, the arms of the caregivers and out of bed caused the majority of fractures (especially skull fracture) in infants. the authors have reviewed our experience with 37 cases of toddler's fracture. 
The predominant localization of Linc00173 is in mononuclear macrophage nuclei. [SEP] the ki-m1p protein is primarily detected in cells deriving from the monocyte/macrophage cell lineage. the specific immunostaining was localized in the cytoplasm of these cells. monocyte chemotactic protein-1 is a chemotactic cytokine that contributes to the activation and recruitment of macrophages. immunohistological analysis demonstrated that the majority of infiltrating mononuclear cells expressed monocyte chemotactic protein-1. the phenotypical heterogeneity of human liver macrophages was analyzed with monoclonal antibodies that recognize antigens specific for the monocyte-macrophage lineage. freshly isolated monocytes also migrated toward mdc, but with a peak response at 100 ng/ml mdc. northern analyses indicated mdc is highly expressed in macrophages and in monocyte-derived dendritic cells, but not in monocytes, natural killer cells, or several cell lines of epithelial, endothelial, or fibroblast origin. most of them are produced by macrophages. ly6chi macrophages at day 1 expressed a high level of both m1 and m2 genes, and the ly6chi and ly6clo macrophages at day 3 expressed a similar level of many m1/m2 genes. the majority of macrophages located in laser lesions were found to be positive to staining for the specific rat monocyte/macrophage marker (ed1). 
The proliferative capacity of neural progenitors differs across species. [SEP] neurogenesis in the post-embryonic vertebrate brain varies in extent and efficiency between species and brain territories. the diverse cell types in the nervous system are derived from neural progenitor cells. the patterns of neural progenitor divisions have been characterized in vertebrates and invertebrates. in all vertebrate species studied thus far, the adult central nervous system harbors neural stem cells that sustain constitutive neurogenesis, as well as latent neural progenitors that can be awakened in lesional contexts. in spite of this common theme, many species differ dramatically in their ability to recruit constitutive progenitors, to awaken latent progenitors, or to enhance or bias neural progenitor fate to achieve successful neuronal repair. this review summarizes the striking similarities in the essential molecular and cellular properties of adult neural stem cells between different vertebrate species, both under physiological and reparative conditions. adult neurogenesis is a complex, presumably conserved phenomenon in vertebrates with a broad range of variations regarding neural progenitor/stem cell niches, cellular composition of these niches, migratory patterns of progenitors and so forth among different species. current understanding of the reasons underlying the inter-species differences in adult neurogenic potential, the identification and characterization of various neural progenitors, characterization of the permissive environment of neural stem cell niches and other important aspects of adult neurogenesis is insufficient. there is heterogeneity in neural stem and progenitor cell characteristics depending on their species and regional origin. neural stem/progenitor cells (nspcs) proliferate and differentiate depending on their intrinsic properties and local environment. 
The proliferative capacity of progenitors is regulated cell-autonomously. [SEP] when stem cells divide, they can generate progeny with the same developmental potential as the original cell, a process referred to as self-renewal. self-renewal is driven intrinsically by gene expression in a cell-type-specific manner and is modulated through interactions with extrinsic cues from the environment, such as growth factors. pluripotent stem cells have long-term proliferative capacity and an unusual mode of cell-cycle regulation and can divide independently of extrinsic mitogenic signals. they have acquired specific adjustments in the cell cycle structure that allow them to rapidly proliferate, including cell cycle independent expression of cell cycle regulators and lax g(1) to s phase transition. mechanisms that bias the balance towards self-renewal or extend the proliferative capacity of the differentiating progeny can result in tissue overgrowth and, eventually, the formation of tumors. their capacity to self-renew as undifferentiated and actively dividing cells is controlled by either external signals from a cellular environment, the stem cell niche, or asymmetric distribution of cell fate determinants during cell division. a fundamental property of stem and progenitor cell division is the capacity to retain a proliferative state or generate differentiated daughter cells; however, little is currently known about signals that regulate the balance between these processes. human embryonic stem cells (hescs) and induced pluripotent stem cells proliferate rapidly and divide symmetrically producing equivalent progeny cells. self-renewal of tissue-specific stem cells is sustained by asymmetric cell division where one progeny cell remains a progenitor while the partner progeny cell exits the cell cycle and differentiates. this signalling pathway critically regulates proliferation independently of differentiation, apoptosis and overt damage to dna. 
The proportion of people with visual difficulty is two times higher in low-income countries than in high-income countries. [SEP] approximatley 2% of americans have a visual disability-vision that cannot be corrected even with the strongest prescription-and in developing countries where infectious disease or untreated cataracts are more common, the percentage is often higher. an estimated 2.2 billion people are visually impaired worldwide. considerable data indicate that rates of depression and anxiety are elevated among people with visual impairments. moreover, individuals of lower socioeconomic status may be at increased risk for vision impairment and subsequent mental health problems. the impact of low vision (visual impairment categories 1 and 2) is felt more in developing countries of the world due to the problems of access to effective eye care. vision impairment, resulting in vision difficulties, is a leading cause of disability, and hence one of the key barriers for people to access education and employment, which may force them into poverty. the objective of this study was to determine the prevalence of self-reported vision difficulties as an indicator of vision impairment in economically disadvantaged regions in south africa, and to examine the relationship between self-reported vision difficulties and socio-economic markers of poverty, namely, income, education and health service needs. the evidence from this study suggests associations between socio-economic factors and vision difficulties that have a two-fold relationship (some factors such as education, and access to eye health services are associated with vision difficulty whilst vision difficulty may trap people in their current poverty or deepen their poverty status). a vast burden of worlds visually impaired live in low-income settings especially in sub saharan africa. low vision and blindness found in this study was high. 
The recruitment of Wdr5 to its target loci depends on Kat8. [SEP] here, we provide evidence that wdr5 is required for dorsal axis development and organizer gene activation in xenopus. depletion of maternal wdr5 resulted in ventralized development, phenocopying depletion of maternal β-catenin. depletion of maternal wdr5 also drastically reduced the ability of β-catenin to activate organizer genes. importantly, we demonstrate that wdr5 is required for h3k4me3 establishment at the promoter region of siamois. wdr5 has been reported to selectively bind dimethylated lys4 (k4me2) in histone h3 to promote k4 trimethylation by trx. to elucidate the basis of this binding specificity, we have determined the crystal structure of wdr5 bound to a histone h3 peptide bearing k4me2. wdr5 is a core component of set1-family complexes that achieve transcriptional activation via methylation of histone h3 on nzeta of lys4 (h3k4). the role of wdr5 in the mll1 complex has recently been described as specific recognition of dimethyl-k4 in the context of a histone h3 amino terminus; wdr5 is essential for vertebrate development, hox gene activation and global h3k4 trimethylation. contrary to predictions, the structures reveal that wdr5 does not read out the methylation state of k4 directly, but instead serves to present the k4 side chain for further methylation by set1-family complexes. in the present study, we show that the interaction between wdr5 and peptides from the catalytic domain of mll (mixed-lineage leukaemia protein) (kmt2) can be antagonized with a small molecule. 
The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is independent of the patient's genetic make-up. [SEP] tamoxifen is the most widely used adjuvant chemotherapeutic for the treatment of estrogen receptor (er)-positive breast cancer, yet a large body of clinical and preclinical data indicates that tamoxifen can modulate multiple cellular processes independently of er status. here, we describe the er-independent effects of tamoxifen on tumor metabolism. this prospective clinical study shows no association between endoxifen concentrations or cyp2d6 genotypes and clinical outcome in patients with early-stage breast cancer receiving adjuvant tamoxifen. following successful therapy with tamoxifen there is little evidence at relapse for change in either the host endocrine environment or drug metabolic profile to account for the development of acquired resistance. the mechanisms responsible for tamoxifen resistance remain unknown; loss of estrogen receptor (er), selection of hormone-independent breast cancer clones, or alterations in serum tamoxifen levels after long-term use do not explain acquired resistance in most patients. using an experimental model in which human breast cancer cells develop resistance in athymic mice treated with tamoxifen, we have recently shown that acquired resistance is associated with markedly reduced cellular concentrations of tamoxifen and by isomerization of the trans-4-hydroxy metabolite to the less potent cis isomer. tamoxifen has a remarkable impact on the outcome of oestrogen receptor (er)-positive breast cancer. although the antiestrogen agent tamoxifen has long been used to treat women with hormone receptor positive invasive breast carcinoma, the mechanisms of its action and acquired resistance to tamoxifen during treatment are largely unknown. since the functions of these genes are not related to each other, it suggests that multiple pathways can influence tamoxifen sensitivity in breast cancer cells. we examined tamoxifen metabolism via blood metabolite concentrations and germline variations of cyp3a5, cyp2c9, cyp2c19 and cyp2d6 in 587 premenopausal patients (asians, middle eastern arabs, caucasian-uk; median age 39 years) and clinical outcome in 306 patients. 
The removal of reactive oxygen species by activated oncogenes contributes to the increased genomic instability of leukaemia cells. [SEP] the concept of reactive oxygen species (ros) being produced via the activation of specific oncogenes provides a basis for generating genomic instability and pro-survival signalling in tumour cells. we and others showed that the well-known bcr-abl1 fusion oncogene, the cause of chronic myeloid leukemia, induced an increased production of reactive oxygen species (ros) and conferred therapeutic drug resistance by suppression of apoptotic signaling, prolonged g2/m arrest and stimulation of several pathways of dna repair. constitutive expression of the bcr-abl kinase in chronic myelogenous leukaemia (cml) is known to produce elevated levels of reactive oxygen species (ros) which can enhance cell survival as well as generate genomic instability. expression of oncogenic bcr-abl in chronic myeloid leukemia (cml) results in increased reactive oxygen species (ros) that in turn cause increased dna damage, including dna double-strand breaks (dsbs). in normal cells, aberrant oncogene expression leads to the accumulation of cytotoxic metabolites, including reactive oxygen species (ros), which can cause oxidative dna-damage and apoptosis as an intrinsic barrier against neoplastic disease. in addition to altered ros levels, many antioxidants are dysregulated in leukemia cells. on one side, ros can be oncogenic by promoting hypoxic conditions, genomic instability and tumorigenesis. conversely, elevated levels of ros-induced oxidative stress can induce cancer cell death. unlike normal tissues, tumor cells possess a propensity for genomic instability, resulting from elevated oxidant levels produced by oncogenic signaling and aberrant cellular metabolism. modulating the level of molecular oxygen and its reactive metabolites demonstrates that oxygen metabolism is a major source of genomic instability. 
The repeat-variable diresidue (RVD) in the loop of Transcription-Activator Like (TAL) effectors specifies the nucleotides-amino acid contact at the target promoter element. [SEP] dna recognition by transcription activator-like effector (tale) proteins is mediated by tandem repeats that specify nucleotides through repeat-variable diresidues. these repeat-variable diresidues form direct and sequence-specific contacts to dna bases; hence, tale-dna interaction is sensitive to dna chemical modifications. transcription activator-like effectors contain a dna-binding domain organized in tandem repeats. the repeats include two adjacent residues known as the repeat variable di-residue, which recognize a single base pair, establishing a direct code between the dipeptides and the target dna. a single arginine residue within the rna-binding domain of the human immunodeficiency virus tat protein makes a critical sequence-specific contact to tar rna. tales consist of multiple concatenated repeats, each selectively recognizing one nucleobase via a defined repeat variable diresidue (rvd). transcription activator-like (tal) effectors specifically bind to double stranded (ds) dna through a central domain of tandem repeats. each tal effector (tale) repeat comprises 33-35 amino acids and recognizes one specific dna base through a highly variable residue at a fixed position in the repeat. designer transcription activator-like effectors (dtales) are programmable transcription factors used to regulate user-defined promoters. these rules relate the base specified by a single tale repeat to the identity of two key residues (the repeat variable diresidue, or rvd) and enable design for new sequence targets via modular shuffling of these units. 
The risk of breast cancer among parous women decreases with placental weight of pregnancies. [SEP] the epidemiological data suggest that breast cancer risk decreases in women who complete full-term pregnancy at a young age. epidemiological studies show a substantially reduced risk of breast cancer in adult daughters of preeclamptic pregnancies, and modest risk reductions have been demonstrated for mothers also. the number of pr positive epithelial cells was significantly lower in the group of women with early pregnancy and no subsequent breast cancer compared to the group of nulliparous women with subsequent invasive breast cancer (p = 0.0135). the cumulative effect is however favourable and women show a reduction in breast cancer risk which is proportional to the total duration of lactation and to the number of full-term pregnancies. women exposed to preeclampsia during fetal life have lower risk of breast cancer, compared with unexposed women, possibly through fetal programming. parity (childbearing) significantly decreases a woman's risk of breast cancer and the protective effect is greater if the woman is younger and has more children. although several factors are postulated to play a role, we discuss how a reduction in the number of mammary stem cells (mascs) may lead to a reduction in breast cancer risk in parous women. firstly we review the epidemiology linking childbearing to reduced breast cancer risk and discuss how additional births, a young age at first full term birth, and breastfeeding impact the protection. previous studies suggest that reproductive factors, particularly parity, may reduce pancreatic cancer risk in women. in this large prospective cohort of women, parity was associated significantly with a reduced risk of pancreatic cancer. 
The risk of cancer rises with level of alcohol consumption. [SEP] many epidemiological studies have demonstrated a correlation between alcohol intake and the occurrence of cancer in humans. any level of alcohol consumption increase the risk of developing an alcohol related cancer. heavy alcohol consumption has been associated with increased risk of several cancers, including cancer of the colon, rectum, female breast, oral cavity, pharynx, larynx, liver, and esophagus. it appears that alcohol exposure not only promotes carcinogenesis but also enhances the progression and aggressiveness of existing cancers. results from several large epidemiological studies have firmly established that alcohol is associated with elevated cancer incidence and mortality. growing evidence suggests that alcohol increases the risk of several types of cancer including breast, bowel, prostate, and liver, and accounts for a significant proportion of preventable cancers. however, alcohol can increase the susceptibility of various organs to chemical carcinogens by a variety of mechanisms. cancer is one of the most significant diseases associated with chronic alcohol consumption, and chronic drinking is a strong risk factor for cancer, particularly of the upper aerodigestive tract, liver, colorectum, and breast. studies have shown that risk of mouth cancer increases with greater alcohol intake (in particular when associated with the use of tobacco). there is convincing evidence that alcohol consumption increases the risk of cancer of the colorectum, breast, larynx, liver, esophagus, oral cavity and pharynx. 
The risk of female prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of male prisoners. [SEP] ten percent of all homicide perpetrators are female and homicidal acts committed by women are mostly a result of interpersonal conflicts. the sample comprised n = 10 female homicide perpetrators and eleven victims. prison inmates face a ten times increased risk of experiencing a fatal drug overdose during their first 2 weeks upon release than their non-incarcerated counterparts. a recent review showed that opioid users' deaths from suicide were 10 times as common as expected on the basis of age and gender. by gender, estimate the effective number of individuals (in terms of community-equivalent suicide risk) for whom prisons have a duty of care as 10 times the number of opioid-dependent inmates plus the number of non-opioid user inmates. female prisoners are 20 times more likely to die by suicide than women of the same age in the general population. we investigated prevalence of psychiatric disorders in women prisoners who had recently engaged in near-lethal self-harm (cases) and others who had never carried out near-lethal attempts in prison (controls). more than 10 million people are imprisoned worldwide, and the prevalence of all investigated mental disorders is higher in prisoners than in the general population. prisoners are also at increased risk of all-cause mortality, suicide, self-harm, violence, and victimisation, and research has outlined some modifiable risk factors. currently, women comprise about ten percent of those sentenced to psychiatric forensic clinics in sweden. 
The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) is decorated with VgrG and PAAR proteins. [SEP] the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is used by many gram-negative bacteria as a molecular weapon to modulate neighbouring bacterial and eukaryotic cells, thereby affecting the dynamics of community structure in multiple species environments. the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is a multiprotein and mosaic apparatus that delivers protein effectors into prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells. the bacterial type vi secretion system (t6ss) is a supra-molecular complex akin to bacteriophage tails, with vgrg proteins acting as a puncturing device. type vi secretion systems (t6ss) plays a crucial role in vibrio cholerae mediated pathogenicity. vgrg-1 of v. cholerae t6ss is unusual among other vgrg because its effector domain is trans-located into the cytosol of eukaryotic cells with an additional actin cross-linking domain (acd) at its c terminal end. type vi secretion systems (t6sss) are involved in the pathogenicity of several gram-negative bacteria. type vi secretion systems (t6ss) are macromolecular machines of the cell envelope of gram-negative bacteria responsible for bacterial killing and/or virulence towards different host cells. the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is an anti-bacterial weapon comprising a contractile tail anchored to the cell envelope by a membrane complex. the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is a multi-protein complex that injects bacterial effector proteins into target cells. the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is a versatile secretion machine dedicated to various functions in gram-negative bacteria, including virulence toward eukaryotic cells and antibacterial activity. 
The tissue surrounding the granuloma in an immune cell induces an anti-inflammatory immune response. [SEP] granuloma formation is a key host immune response generated to confine invading pathogens and limit extensive host damage. based on in vitro data, innate immune cells within the granuloma are thought to immobilize and kill parasites but also act to repair damaged tissue. evidence suggests that the anti-inflammatory effect is mediated through the regulation of various inflammatory cytokines, such as nitric oxide, interleukins, tumor necrosis factor alpha-α, interferon gamma-γ as well as noncytokine mediator, prostaglandin e2. inflammation is a protective response to eliminate cytotoxic agents and pathogens. inflammation is a protective response to eliminate cytotoxic agents and pathogens. granuloma formation is an important host defense mechanism against intracellular bacteria; however, uncontrolled granulomatous inflammation is pathologic. monocyte-macrophage activation by interferon (ifn)-gamma is a key initiating event in inflammation. inflammation is a physiological response of the body to tissue injury, pathogen invasion and irritants. in the course of inflammation, immune cells of the innate and/or adaptive immune system are activated and recruited to the site of inflammation. inflammation is a fundamental response of the immune system whose successful termination involves the elimination of the invading pathogens, the resolution of inflammation and the repair of the local damaged tissue. 
Therapeutics receiving accelerated approval encounter a lower frequency of post-marketing safety events [SEP] there appears to be a tendency for therapeutic agents receiving accelerated approval to quickly become an integral component of standard treatment, despite potential shortcomings in their evidence base. therapeutic agents treating serious conditions are eligible for food and drug administration (fda) accelerated approval. we first identified clinical studies of novel therapeutic agents receiving accelerated approval. in total, 37 novel therapeutic agents received accelerated approval between 2000 and 2013. of 1,631 randomized trials with advanced recruitment status, 906 were conducted in therapeutic areas for which agents received initial accelerated approval, 202 were in supplemental indications, and 523 were outside approved indications. the safety profile of newly approved drugs and therapeutic biologics is less well developed by pre-marketing clinical testing than is the efficacy profile. accelerated approval (aa) was initiated by the us food and drug administration (fda) to shorten development times of drugs for serious medical illnesses. a return to endorsing phase ii trial designs for aa for oncology nmes, particularly for orphan drug indications, may facilitate timely fda approval of novel cancer drugs. the food and drug administration has accelerated the approval of therapeutically novel drugs so that patients have faster access to innovative drug therapies. this paper uses post-marketing drug safety surveillance data from the fda to examine the adverse drug reactions (adrs) associated with novel and less novel drugs. 
There is a positive correlation between hip fractures and statin use. [SEP] based on the results, we concluded that there were associations for statin usage in preventing prostate cancer (or 1.195, 95% ci 1.018-1.403, p = 0.029). statins are a widely recognized weapon in the primary and secondary prevention of coronary artery disease for their pleiotropic effects. statins are among the most commonly prescribed medications and their use for primary prevention in many otherwise healthy individuals, including those who are physically active, is increasing. we examined the association between statin use and the risk of being diagnosed with non-traumatic arthropathies, use-related injury, and undergoing rehabilitation in a cohort with longitudinal follow-up. statin use was associated with a significant increased risk of non-traumatic arthropathies and use-related injury. statins, which are 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme a (hmg-coa) reductase inhibitors are widely used for the treatment of hyperlipidemia, and recent studies and animal data suggest that statins promote osteogenesis and increase bone strength. simvastatin used in this study significantly increased fracture healing and without significant influence on the body weights and the weights and morphology of the vital and reproductive organs. in conclusion, short and long-term simvastatin treatment delivered at a fracture target site did not influence vital and reproductive organs, the systemic levels of the biochemical markers studied, but was able to effectively stimulate bone formation in simple and complicated segmental fractures. hip fractures are associated with increased risk of major morbidity. therefore, we investigated whether hip fracture increases the risk of stroke in a large nationwide cohort study. 
There is a relation between Erythromycin use and hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. [SEP] therefore, we assessed the effects of erythromycin in two dosages (250 and 500 mg per os four times a day) on esophageal ph and pressure profiles in reflux patients using prolonged ambulatory monitoring systems. in the supine position, however, erythromycin significantly (p = 0.012) decreased esophageal contraction velocity and showed a strong trend (p = 0.059) towards increasing the percentage of peristaltic waves. erythromycin has been shown to weaken pyloric resistance to gastric outflow and to enhance antral motility, gastric emptying, and gallbladder contractility. background: in humans, erythromycin has been demonstrated to accelerate gallbladder emptying due to its motilin-like effects on the gastrointestinal tract. the ejection fraction was significantly greater after clarithromycin (76.5%) and erythromycin (79.7%) than it was in controls. (2) scintigraphic studies have shown that intravenous erythromycin accelerates gastric emptying, especially in diabetic patients and during the postoperative period when emptying is slowed. (5) erythromycin can give rise to many drug interactions, some of which (especially torsades de pointes) can have severe consequences. the direct effect of erythromycin on gastrointestinal motility was studied; it was found to have a stimulatory effect proximally, on stomach and duodenal motility, with an apparent distal inhibition. we also examined the effects of erythromycin on the plasma motilin-is levels of postoperative patients. erythromycin, a commonly used antibiotic, has recently emerged as a potential gastrointestinal prokinetic agent. 
There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. [SEP] we found no clear correlations between the fgfr4 genotype and risk of bladder cancer or pathological parameters. there are no data regarding the possible role of the single nucleotide polymorphism (snp) of class i histone deacetylases (hdacs) in type 2 diabetes mellitus (dm). whereas a recent study reported an increased risk of colorectal cancer associated with any hfe germ line mutation (c282y or h63d), other investigators have concluded there is no increased risk, or that any increase is dependent on polymorphisms in hfe-interacting genes such as the transferrin receptor (tfr). using pcr, restriction enzyme mapping, sequencing followed by data analysis with fisher's exact test and logistic regression, we show that the presence of any hfe mutation (y282 or d63) was not associated with colorectal cancer risk (p = 0.57). overall, our data indicate that individuals with a single hfe mutation, c282y or h63d, are unlikely predisposed to develop colorectal cancer. tfr gene polymorphism was not an independent risk factor and did not modify the disease risk associated with hfe mutation. a prospective study of 149 unselected incident cases of pancreatic adenocarcinoma and 146 ethnically-matched controls found no associations between gstm1 (adjusted odds ratio (aor) 1.14), gstt1 (aor: 1.19) and cyp1a1 (aor: 1.08) polymorphisms and pancreatic cancer susceptibility. these polymorphisms do not appear to be important gene modifiers in pancreatic cancer. the variant alleles of the functional polymorphisms vegf -2578 c > a, -1498 t > c and +936 c > t snps were not associated with esophageal cancer risk. none of the high frequency variants of the incretin-related genes has been found by genome-wide association study (gwas) for association with occurrence of type 2 diabetes in japanese. 
There is no increased risk of hypospadias with clomiphene. [SEP] subgroup analysis demonstrated that the risk of major congenital anomalies was not increased in patients who underwent either in vitro fertilization or icsi, or in those who received early cleavage stage or blastocyst embryo transfer. clozapine does also not antagonize norepinephrine-mediated inhibition of prl secretion. it is concluded that clozapine does not interfere at the pituitary level with dopamine-mediated inhibition of prl release. no overall increase in anomalies has been found after the use of clomiphene citrate. no increase in various cancers has been identified following the use of clomiphene or hmg, although most treated women have yet to enter the high risk years. clinical laboratory data show no effect of cisapride on haematology, blood chemistry, liver and kidney function. congenital defects have been reported with chloroquine but not in association with gold or d-penicillamine therapy. psychiatric adverse effects associated with the use of clomiphene are relatively uncommon. though case reports link mood swings to be associated with clomiphene, it is not known to be associated with a syndromal affective episode. being a selective estrogen receptor modulator, clomiphene affects the hypothalamus-pituitary-gonadal axis and can have potential neuropsychiatric effects in vulnerable persons. 
There is no known interaction between Pioneer factor OCT3/4 and major chromatin remodeling factors. [SEP] we explored the binding of octamer (oct) transcription factors to the hiv-1 long terminal repeat (ltr) by gel shift assays and showed none of the previously identified four potential oct binding sites bound oct-1 or oct-2. overexpression of oct-1 or oct-2 had no effect on hiv-1 ltr activity in transiently transfected primary human cd4 t cells. our studies demonstrate that oct-1 and oct-2 fail to bind to the hiv-1 ltr and have no effect on hiv-1 transcription in primary human cd4 t cells. there were no studies on the macrophage colony-stimulating factor (m-csf), receptor activator of nf-kappab ligand (rankl) and osteoprotegerin (opg) in the pathogenesis of kashin-beck disease (kbd). there is no detailed analysis of loss of heterozygosity (loh) on chromosome 3 in colorectal cancer (crc). no evidence for close linkage was found between the human plasminogen (plgn) locus and 35 other marker genes using the liped 3 computer program of ott (1974). although positive lod scores were found for plgn-gc relations in females, the lack of linkage between the two loci in males demands that the reported assignment of the plgn locus to chromosome 4 (eiberg et al. moreover, the role of the three known mrna isoforms (opna, opnb, and opnc) has not been reported. genome-scale mapping of pre-replication complex proteins has not been reported in mammalian cells. three large studies published in recent issues of breast cancer research reported no overall evidence of an association between the cyp17 5'-untranslated region mspa1 polymorphism and breast cancer. 
There is no relation between Erythromycin use and hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. [SEP] there is a strong association between infection with helicobacter pylori and gastric ulcers that are unrelated to the use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory medications. backgrounds: the etiology of gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd) including reflux esophagitis and non-erosive reflux disease is multifactorial and a recent meta-analysis showed no association between the development of gerd and helicobacter pylori eradication in both western and east-asian populations. in contrast, no effect was seen on reflux-related symptoms. there are no studies investigating interactions between clarithromycin or azithromycin and rifampin or other commonly used antimicrobial agents against virulent isolates of rhodococcus equi. available evidence would suggest that helicobacter pylori infection does not contribute to the pathogenesis of gastro-oesophageal reflux disease. the prevalence of h pylori infection in patients with reflux disease is no greater than that in control populations. helicobacter pylori is not associated with gastroesophageal reflux disease and its complications, including adenocarcinoma of the esophagus and the gastroesophageal junction (gej). it was not related to the features of gastroesophageal reflux disease, including abnormal esophageal acid exposure, erosive esophagitis, or barrett esophagus. there was no association between the presence of intestinal metaplasia and h. pylori infection. helicobacter pylori plays no role in the pathogenesis of gastroesophageal reflux disease or its complications. 
There was an estimated 30 million cases of pneumonia in young children worldwide in 2010. [SEP] several population-based birth cohort studies documented that 30% of children suffer from wheezing during respiratory infections before their third birthday. the who estimated the annual rotavirus-related mortality among children below 5 years old in egypt in 2004 to be 30 deaths per 100 000, or out of an estimated 2616 deaths, 3.9% were because of rotavirus infection. every year there are > 33 million cases of respiratory syncytial virus (rsv)-related respiratory infection in children under the age of five, making rsv the leading cause of lower respiratory tract infection (lrti) in infants. otitis media is the most prevalent illness affecting the pediatric population. each year in the united states there are 30 million visits to pediatricians for the treatment of otitis media infections and their sequelae, at a cost of $1 billion in health care dollars. community-acquired pneumonia (cap) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. nearly 30% of all infected infants develop severe disease including bronchiolitis, but susceptibility mechanisms remain unclear. influenza (specifically h1n1) detection in acute respiratory infection quintupled during the pandemic and, during its peak, it was associated with 30% of all acute respiratory infection visits to the emergency department. even so, it has been estimated that 30 million people still contract the disease every year, that nearly 1 million of these die, and that measles-related deaths account for about 10% of all deaths in children under the age of 5 in developing countries. worldwide, this represents an annual burden of 30 million cases resulting in 8 million deaths. 
Thiopurine active metabolites can be catabolized through dephosphorylation of thioguanine nucleotides. [SEP] thioguanine and mercaptopurine are prodrugs requiring conversion into thiopurine nucleotides to exert cytotoxicity. thiopurine s-methyltransferase (tpmt), an enzyme subject to genetic polymorphism, catabolizes thiopurines into inactive methylated bases, but also produces methylthioguanine nucleotides and methylmercaptopurine nucleotides from thioguanine and mercaptopurine nucleotides, respectively. thiopurine drugs, including 6-thioguanine ((s)g), 6-mercaptopurine, and azathioprine, are widely employed anticancer agents and immunosuppressants. the formation of (s)g nucleotides from the thiopurine prodrugs and their subsequent incorporation into nucleic acids are important for the drugs to exert their cytotoxic effects. thiopurines are used for treatment of several diseases. the 6-thiopurine mononucleotides 6-thio-imp (thio-imp), 6-thio-gmp (thio-gmp) and methylthio-imp can be catabolized by purine 5'-nucleotidase. although metabolic conversion and the subsequent incorporation of 6-thioguanine ((s)g) nucleotides into nucleic acids are considered important for allowing the thiopurine drugs to induce their cytotoxic effects, alternative mechanisms may also exist. thiopurine drugs are widely used as antileukemic drugs and immunosuppressive agents, and 6-thioguanosine triphosphate ((s)gtp) is a major metabolite for these drugs. the immunosuppressive effects of thiopurine drugs are mainly mediated through their intracellular metabolism into active 6-thioguanine nucleotide (6-tgn) metabolites, which are incorporated into dna. thiopurine s-methyltransferase (tpmt) methylates purine analogues, showing tpmt activity in inverse relation to concentrations of active metabolites such as 6-thioguanine nucleotide (6-tgn). 
Tirasemtiv has no effect on cardiac muscle. [SEP] amiodarone had no effect on myocardial g proteins and maximal adenylyl cyclase activity, but acted as a beta-adrenoceptor antagonist. ramelteon had no effect on the number of central, obstructive, or mixed apnea episodes. no adverse events were reported with placebo. no ventricular tachyarrhythmias were induced during programmed ventricular stimulation (baseline study and while receiving encainide therapy). tertatolol is a noncardioselective beta-blocker without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity. the drug acts directly on the sinus node and does not affect atrioventricular or intraventricular conduction times, myocardial contractility or ventricular repolarization. the monophasic action potential (map) derived from the right atrium and ventricle was not altered by the drug. the functional refractory period (frp) and the effective refractory period (erp) of the atrium was not changed by verapamil. the sinus node automaticity was not influenced by verapamil. beautiful found no impact of ivabradine on outcomes in patients with stable coronary artery disease (cad) and left ventricular systolic dysfunction (lvsd). 
Tirasemtiv targets cardiac muscle. [SEP] tirasemtiv is a novel small molecule activator of the fast skeletal muscle troponin complex that produces sensitization of the sarcomere to calcium. we conducted a blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled preclinical study of the effect of tirasemtiv on forearm grip strength, endurance, respiratory physiology, and muscle pathology in adequate sample sizes of the lama2(dy-2j) mouse model of congenital muscular dystrophy. mice receiving a high dose of tirasemtiv had significantly higher muscle fiber cross-sectional area and respiratory response to co₂ stimulation at 16 weeks than mice on low dose or placebo. we conclude that tirasemtiv influences the structure of the skeletal muscle fiber in this model of muscular dystrophy but does not impact muscle function, as evaluated in this study. tirasemtiv is a fast skeletal troponin activator that sensitizes the sarcomere to calcium and increases muscle force following subtetanic nerve input. in an animal model of myasthenia gravis (mg), single oral doses of tirasemtiv improved muscle force and reduced fatigability. the purpose of this study was to determine the effect of single doses of tirasemtiv on skeletal muscle function and fatigability in patients with generalized mg. thirty-two patients with acetylcholine receptor-antibody positive mg and muscle weakness received single doses of tirasemtiv (250 mg or 500 mg) or placebo in a double-blind, randomized treatment sequence with each treatment separated by at least 1 week. the results of this study suggest that tirasemtiv may improve muscle function in mg and will be used to support further development of tirasemtiv in neuromuscular diseases. abstract tirasemtiv is a fast skeletal muscle activator that increases the sensitivity of the sarcomere to calcium, increasing the efficiency of muscle contraction when the muscle is stimulated at submaximal contraction frequencies. the data confirm that tirasemtiv amplifies the response of skeletal muscle to nerve input in humans. 
Tirasemtiv targets fast-twitch muscle. [SEP] abstract tirasemtiv is a fast skeletal muscle activator that increases the sensitivity of the sarcomere to calcium, increasing the efficiency of muscle contraction when the muscle is stimulated at submaximal contraction frequencies. tirasemtiv is a fast skeletal troponin activator that sensitizes the sarcomere to calcium and increases muscle force following subtetanic nerve input. in an animal model of myasthenia gravis (mg), single oral doses of tirasemtiv improved muscle force and reduced fatigability. the purpose of this study was to determine the effect of single doses of tirasemtiv on skeletal muscle function and fatigability in patients with generalized mg. thirty-two patients with acetylcholine receptor-antibody positive mg and muscle weakness received single doses of tirasemtiv (250 mg or 500 mg) or placebo in a double-blind, randomized treatment sequence with each treatment separated by at least 1 week. the results of this study suggest that tirasemtiv may improve muscle function in mg and will be used to support further development of tirasemtiv in neuromuscular diseases. tirasemtiv is a novel small molecule activator of the fast skeletal muscle troponin complex that produces sensitization of the sarcomere to calcium. we conducted a blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled preclinical study of the effect of tirasemtiv on forearm grip strength, endurance, respiratory physiology, and muscle pathology in adequate sample sizes of the lama2(dy-2j) mouse model of congenital muscular dystrophy. we conclude that tirasemtiv influences the structure of the skeletal muscle fiber in this model of muscular dystrophy but does not impact muscle function, as evaluated in this study. in this study we tested the hypothesis that tirasemtiv, a selective fast skeletal muscle troponin activator that sensitizes the sarcomere to calcium, could amplify the response of muscle to neuromuscular input in humans. the data confirm that tirasemtiv amplifies the response of skeletal muscle to nerve input in humans. 
Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling is involved in the pathogenesis of human MDS. [SEP] toll-like receptor (tlr) activation contributes to premalignant hematologic conditions, such as myelodysplastic syndromes (mds). the participation of toll-like receptor (tlr)-mediated signaling in mds is well documented. toll-like receptor (tlr) genes encode key innate immunity signal initiators. we recently identified multiple genes, known to be regulated by tlrs, to be overexpressed in mds bone marrow (bm) cd34+ cells, and hypothesized that tlr signaling is abnormally activated in mds. these findings indicate that tlr2-centered signaling is deregulated in mds, and that its targeting may have potential therapeutic benefit in mds. toll-like receptor (tlr) signaling is an emerging pathway in tumor cell invasion and metastasis. toll-like receptor 2 (tlr2) expression is increased on hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (hspcs) of patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (mds), and enhanced tlr2 signaling is thought to contribute to mds pathogenesis. toll-like receptors (tlrs) are critical sensors related to inflammation and tumorigenesis. tlr mrna and protein expression was investigated in bone marrow cell populations of mds patients and controls. tlr-4 and other tlrs are significantly up-regulated in mds patients whereas tlr-4 is involved in promoting apoptosis, possibly contributing to mds cytopenia. 
Tonic signaling from the scFv induces constitutive stimulation. [SEP] cars are synthetic receptors designed to drive antigen-specific activation upon binding of the scfv to its cognate antigen. however, cars can also elicit different levels of ligand-independent constitutive signaling, also known as tonic signaling. chronic t cell activation is observed in certain combinations of scfv, hinge, and costimulatory domains and may be increased due to high levels of car expression. in this chapter, we describe in detail different protocols to identify tonic signaling driven by cars during primary t cell ex vivo expansion. previously we developed single-chain fv (scfv)/cytokine receptor chimeras incorporating tyrosine motifs in the intracellular domain, which artificially control the activation of specific intracellular signaling proteins. in this study, to quantitatively control the activation levels of signaling molecules with an extended dynamic range, we constructed scfv/receptor chimeras incorporating multiple identical motifs at the different positions in the intracellular domain. several lines of evidence indicate that g-protein coupled receptors (gpcr) may exist in a state that allows a tonic level of stimulation in vivo (constitutive activity). theoretical issues concerning constitutive activity in the gpcr family and some of the evidence supporting the existence of constitutive activity in the gpcr family is reviewed. studies are presented demonstrating the procedures for producing and characterizing constitutive activated forms of serotonin receptors, including the demonstration of inverse agonist activity of drugs on these receptors. a c-terminal pentapeptide (ftgmra) is sufficient for activation of the stomoxytachykinin receptor (stkr) expressed in schneider 2 cells. 
Tonic signaling from the scFv is amplified by MyD88/CD40. [SEP] cd40 plays a significant role in the pathogenesis of inflammation and autoimmunity. b cell cd40 directly activates cells, which can result in autoantibody production. cd40 served as effectively as cd28 in costimulating tcr-mediated activation, including induction of kinase and transcription factor activities and production of cytokines. an additional enhancement was seen when both cd40 and cd28 signals were combined with agr stimulation. these findings reveal potent biologic functions for t cell cd40 and suggest an additional means for amplification of autoimmune responses. cd4 serves as a coreceptor during ag recognition by the tcr. the activation patterns and kinetics of nf-kappab-like proteins in cd38-stimulated b cells differ somewhat from those seen in cd40-stimulated b cells. ox40 engagement on activated t cells leads to increased proliferation, expansion and survival of ag-specific t cells. direct ex vivo examination of ag-stimulated murine t cells show that the myc antagonists, mxd4 and mnt, are transiently upregulated and translocated to the nucleus following ox40 engagement and may be involved in suppressing cell death. we hypothesize the upregulation of c-myc following ox40 engagement drives t-cell proliferation and that upregulation of mxd4 and mnt suppresses myc-dependent cell death. 
Tonic signaling from the scFv prevents constitutive stimulation. [SEP] the inhibitory fc receptor, fcgammariib, is one of the critical elements for keeping immune cells silent. on the contrary, activating-type fc receptors are crucial for the onset and exacerbation of such diseases. in most physiological situations, the tolerogenic effects of tgf-β depend on the canonical signaling molecule smad3. here, we found that tonic car-derived 4-1bb signaling can produce toxicity in t cells via continuous traf2-dependent activation of the nuclear factor κb (nf-κb) pathway and augmented fas-dependent cell death. this mechanism was amplified in a non-self-inactivating gammaretroviral vector through positive feedback on the long terminal repeat (ltr) promoter, further enhancing car expression and tonic signaling. attenuating car expression by substitution with a self-inactivating lentiviral vector minimized tonic signaling and improved t cell expansion and anti-tumor function. these studies illuminate the interaction between tonic car signaling and the chosen expression platform and identify inhibitory properties of the 4-1bb costimulatory domain that have direct implications for rational car design. elemental to this conversion process is induction of expression of the forkhead transcription factor, foxp3. the murine granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (mgm-csf) is one of the most promising cytokine candidates for cancer immunotherapy and as an adjuvant of dna vaccines. moreover, a plasma membrane targeted form of mgm-csf displayed substantial amount of biological activity. 
Traditional reviews are biased in their interpretations. [SEP] traditional approaches to reviewing literature may be susceptible to bias and result in incorrect decisions. despite the increasing popularity of systematic reviews in the environmental field, evidence synthesis methods continue to be poorly applied in practice, resulting in the publication of syntheses that are highly susceptible to bias. traditional review articles provide clinicians with syntheses of the medical literature but are criticised as being haphazard in their methodology and biased in their conclusions. however, traditional approaches can be costly and time-consuming and can be subject to selection and judgment bias. narrative reviews may be biased due to inadequate literature reviews or individual beliefs. traditional expert reviews, however, often suffer from inherent personal biases and may not reflect a true synthesis of the existing literature on a particular subject. traditional review articles have recently been criticized on the basis of their incompleteness and susceptibility to bias. the variation in quality and treatment recommendations of traditional reviews is worrying. unfortunately, narrative reviews often follow less stringent criteria for information selection and appraisal than systematic reviews, potentially leading to incomplete or biased recommendations. publication bias is acknowledged as a threat to the validity of systematic reviews and its existence may lead to inappropriate decisions about patient management or health policy. 
Trans-acting factors, such as lncRNAs, influence mRNA translation. [SEP] binding of such trans-acting factors can control the rates of mrna translation, decay, and other aspects of mrna biology. such regulation is primarily achieved by the interaction of trans-acting factors with cis-regulatory elements in the untranslated regions (utrs) of mrnas. our findings uncover a role for lincrna as a posttranscriptional inhibitor of translation. long-non-coding rna (lncrna) regulates gene expression through transcriptional and epigenetic regulation as well as alternative splicing in the nucleus. in this review, we highlight recent findings to extend our understanding about the functional interdependencies between lncrnas and cmes that activate or repress gene expression. given the growing recognition that lncrnas have a robust impact upon gene expression, there is rising interest in elucidating the levels and regulation of lncrnas. recent evidence demonstrates that long non-coding rnas (lncrnas) regulate the expression of multiple genes in an epigenetic, transcriptional, or post-transcriptional manner. although mammalian long non-coding (lnc)rnas are best known for modulating transcription, their post-transcriptional influence on mrna splicing, stability and translation is emerging. messenger rnas (mrnas), the templates for translation, have evolved to harbor abundant cis-acting sequences that affect their posttranscriptional fates. gene regulation at the posttranscriptional level is often mediated by trans-acting factors binding the 3' untranslated region (3' utr) of messenger rnas (mrnas). 
Transcription factor EB induces transcription of pro-inflammatory cytokines in macrophages infected with Staphylococcus aureus. [SEP] heat-killed gram-positive staphylococcus aureus as well as s. aureus-derived exotoxins b and toxic shock syndrome toxin 1 can induce nuclear factor kappa b (nf-kappa b)-like activity in murine bone marrow macrophages. activation of nuclear factor kappab by diverse bacteria regulates the secretion of chemokines and cytokines. the aim of this study was to investigate whether s. aureus can activate nuclear factor kappab in human osteoblasts, and whether the activation of nuclear factor kappab by s. aureus regulates the secretion of interleukin-6 and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1. these findings suggest that s. aureus can activate nuclear factor kappab in human osteoblasts, and subsequently regulate the secretion of interleukin-6 and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1. further study of the effects of nuclear factor kappab activation on s. aureus-infected human osteoblast may provide us new insights into discovery of the immune mechanisms in osteomyelitis. activation of macrophages by bacterial lipopolysaccharide (lps) induces transcription of genes that encode for proinflammatory regulators of the immune response. survival of staphylococcus epidermidis inside macrophages has been recognized as a pivotal process in the pathogenesis of biomaterial-associated infection (bai). upon challenge, host immune cells recognize s. aureus and mount diverse immune responses including production of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as il-1β and tnf-α. we observed that s. aureus-infected ec were induced to express both il-8 mrna and protein, which can promote transmigration of neutrophils across an ec monolayer. interaction with the live staphylococcus aureus promotes secretion of interleukin-8 (il-8), although the expressions of functional cxcr1 (il-8ra) in murine macrophages have not been identified. 
Transcription rates in S. cerevisiae range between 0.7 and 2 kb/min. [SEP] most yeast strains harbor extrachromosomal 2-micrometer dna, and this dna synthesis, like nuclear dna replication, is strictly under cell cycle control. a soluble extract of yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae carries out semiconservative replication of added 2-micrometer dna and escherichia coli chimeric plasmids containing the 2-micrometer dna. most strains of the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae harbor several copies of a 2-micron plasmid circle dna termed "2 micron." we have cloned the flp gene of 2-micron dna under control of a strong yeast promoter and transformed yeast cells with a plasmid containing the cloned flp gene. we have established cell extracts which support rnap ii transcription from the yeast cyc1 promoter or ner of transcriptionally silent damaged dna on independent plasmid templates and substrates. the study of yeast dna plasmids has been initiated with the discovery of the 2-micron dna in saccharomyces cerevisiae. yeast transformation with the 2-micron dna or artificially constructed chimeric plasmids had contributed significantly to the study of the molecular biology of yeast and eukaryotes, allowing the isolation and characterization of various genes, ars, centromeres, and telomeres, and also serving as a tool to study the expression of various heterologous genes. the cyc7 gene of saccharomyces cerevisiae encodes the minor species, iso-2, of the cytochrome c protein. here we investigate the transcription dynamics of single rnap ii molecules from saccharomyces cerevisiae against force and in the presence and absence of tfiis, a transcription elongation factor known to increase transcription through nucleosomal barriers. saccharomyces cerevisiae contains 50-100 copies per cell of a circular plasmid called 2 micron dna. 
Transcription rates in S. cerevisiae range between 7 and 12 kb/min. [SEP] in the budding yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae, transcription factors (tfs) regulate the periodic expression of many genes during the cell cycle, including gene products required for progression through cell-cycle events. the regulation of gene transcription allows yeast cells to respond properly to changing environmental conditions. using saccharomyces cerevisiae as reference, the genomes of six species (ashbya gossypii, kluyveromyces lactis, k. waltii, candida albicans, c. glabrata and schizosaccharomyces pombe) that are human pathogens or important for the food industry were analyzed for their complement of genes encoding the homologous transcriptional regulators. some transcriptional regulators appear to be specific for s. cerevisiae and probably reflect the physiological differences among species. presently ten dna polymerases have been purified and characterized from s. cerevisiae. the comparatively simple eukaryote saccharomyces cerevisiae is composed of some 6000 individual genes. the zn(ii)2cys6 family of transcriptional regulators is composed of some 46 members in s. cerevisiae and many of these have been implicated in mediating transcriptional responses to specific nutrients. we investigate the cycles in the transcription network of saccharomyces cerevisiae. the ste12 gene of the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae is necessary for rna synthesis from two sets of cell-type-specific genes. assaying global cell cycle-regulated transcription in budding yeast involves extracting rna from a synchronous population and proper normalization of detected transcript levels. 
Transplanted human glial progenitor cells can mature in their host animal. [SEP] yet as animal modeling of glial progenitor cell-based therapies has progressed, it has become clear that transplanted hgpcs not only engraft and expand within murine hosts, but dynamically outcompete the resident progenitors so as to ultimately dominate the host brain. as a result, the recipient brains may become inexorably humanized with regards to their resident glial populations, yielding human glial chimeric mouse brains. perhaps most intriguingly, by pairing our ability to construct human glial chimeras with the production of patient-specific hgpcs derived from pluripotential stem cells, we may now establish mice in which a substantial proportion of resident glia are both human and disease-derived. glial progenitor cells are widely distributed in brain parenchyma and represent a suitable target for future therapeutic interventions that generate new neurons via in situ reprogramming. previous studies have shown successful reprogramming of mouse glia into neurons whereas the conversion of human glial cells remains challenging due to the limited accessibility of human brain tissue. human glial progenitor cells (hgpcs) can engraft, expand, and differentiate into functional oligodendrocytes and astrocytes when transplanted neonatally into murine hosts, in which they outcompete the host glial pool to ultimately colonize and dominate the recipient brains. in addition, by neonatally engrafting hgpcs derived from patient- and disease-specific pluripotent stem cells, glial chimeric mice may be produced in which large proportions of all macroglial cells are not only human but also patient and disease specific. this review presents an overview of the uses, characteristics, and limitations of the human glial chimeric brain model, while providing a step-by-step protocol for the establishment of these mice. here we transplanted human glial-restricted progenitor (hgrp) cells into the spinal cord of adult rats with inflammatory demyelination, and monitored cell fate in chemically immunosuppressed animals. recent studies show that these cells, which can be maintained and genetically transduced as cell lines in culture, can survive, integrate and differentiate into both neurons and glia after transplantation to the intact or damaged brain. 
Treatment with a protein named FN impairs regenerative abilities of aged muscles. [SEP] the elderly often suffer from progressive muscle weakness and regenerative failure. here we demonstrate that the aged stem cell niche in skeletal muscle contains substantially reduced levels of fibronectin (fn), leading to detrimental consequences for the function and maintenance of muscle stem cells (muscs). deletion of the gene encoding fn from young regenerating muscles replicates the aging phenotype and leads to a loss of musc numbers. reconstitution of fn levels in the aged niche remobilizes stem cells and restores youth-like muscle regeneration. age-associated alterations in muscle protein quantity and quality that adversely affect muscle structure, composition, and function have been referred to as sarcopenia. advancing age and physical frailty are associated with a reduction in the fasting rate of mixed and myosin heavy chain protein synthesis, which contributes to muscle protein wasting in advancing age; (b). we report here that a short-term blockade of myostatin, through stage-specific administration of a myostatin antagonist, significantly enhanced muscle regeneration in aged mice after injury and during sarcopenia. human muscle proteins are synthesized at a slower rate in the elderly than in young adults, leading to atrophy and muscle mass loss with a decline in the functional capability. deficits in anabolic signaling contribute to an impaired ability for aged skeletal muscle to adapt in response to exercise and protein feeding. our work establishes that loss of wisp1 from faps contributes to musc dysfunction in aged skeletal muscles and demonstrates that this mechanism can be targeted to rejuvenate myogenesis. 
Treatment with a protein named FN restores regenerative abilities of aged muscles. [SEP] healthy skeletal muscle has a remarkable capacity for regeneration. even at a mature age, muscle tissue can undergo a robust rebuilding process that involves the formation of new muscle cells and extracellular matrix and the re-establishment of vascular and neural networks. in this article, we will describe current approaches to restore the function of diseased or injured muscle through combined use of myogenic stem cells, biomaterials, and functional tissue-engineered muscle. skeletal muscles in vertebrates have a phenomenal regenerative capacity. advances in the area of prospective musc isolation demonstrated the potential of cell transplantation therapy as a regenerative medicine strategy to restore strength and long-term regenerative capacity to aged, injured, or diseased skeletal muscle tissue. novel therapies that can protect and/or restore muscle function during aging would have profound effects on the quality of life for this population. we used a complex rat model of skeletal muscle injury that physiologically mimics injuries seen in patients; to investigate the ability of gdf11 and to enhance skeletal muscle regeneration after injury in older rats. massage is a viable mechanotherapy to improve protein turnover during disuse atrophy and improve muscle regrowth during recovery from disuse atrophy in adult muscle. here, we demonstrate that the circulating protein growth differentiation factor 11 (gdf11) is a rejuvenating factor for skeletal muscle. these data indicate that gdf11 systemically regulates muscle aging and may be therapeutically useful for reversing age-related skeletal muscle and stem cell dysfunction. 
Treatment with the EC uptake inhibitor AM404 resulted in a dose-dependent decrease in the expression of immobility. [SEP] the cardiohemodynamic effects of e4080, a novel bradycardiac agent with a coronary vasodilating feature, were studied in anesthetized open-chest dogs. e4080 (0.3 and 1 mg/kg i.v.) in addition, e4080 (0.3 and 1 mg/kg i.v.) on administration in sinus node artery, e4080 (10 and 30 micrograms) selectively decreased hr. ), inhibited both the increase in cbf and the decrease in map caused by e4080 (1 mg/kg i.v.) these results suggested that e4080 has both bradycardiac and coronary vasodilating effects, and that activation of atp-sensitive k+ channel contributes to the vasodilating action of e4080 but not to the bradycardiac action. euk4010 has been identified to exhibit an inhibitory effect on beta-amyloid (abeta)(1-42)-induced loss of neuronal cell viability. further studies demonstrated that euk4010 attenuated the abeta(1-42)-induced degeneration in both cultured rat hippocampal neurons and human neuroblastoma cells, as demonstrated by typical morphological changes, cell viability and the chip-based flow cytometric assay. these observations suggest that euk4010 may prevent or reduce the abeta toxicity by regulating the expression of genes involved in the abeta induced neuronal degeneration. furthermore, euk4010 and its analogues could potentially be developed as neuronal protective agents for the treatment of these diseases. 
Tuberculosis incidence occurs at higher rates in more sparsely populated areas in the UK. [SEP] the incidence of new tb cases in europe varies from very low rates in scandinavian countries (six to eight cases/100,000 population) to rates as high as 231 cases/100,000 population in tajikistan; the russian federation is eleventh among the 22 high-burden tb countries. tuberculosis (tb) is now an uncommon disease in the united kingdom (u.k.) and its overall incidence is declining. as in other countries with low tuberculosis incidence, tuberculosis in england and wales tends to be concentrated in some subgroups of the population, and is mainly a problem in large cities. in 2003, almost half of all tuberculosis cases reported in england and wales were from london, where the incidence was almost five times higher than in the rest of england and wales. active tuberculosis (tb) in the uk predominantly affects the non-uk born, but is generally not manifest at the time of uk entry. poverty and historic and current immigration from high tb incidence parts of the world are two major drivers of tuberculosis in england. however, little has been done in recent years to examine socio-economic trends in tb rates in england, and to disentangle the role of deprivation from that of place of birth in the current tb epidemiology. to assess the association between england's 2008-2012 tb notification rates and small area-level deprivation, together and separately in the uk-born and foreign-born populations. data on tb in ckd in the uk are sparse; most information stems from countries with high background prevalence. tuberculosis in the united kingdom and other high-income countries is primarily a disease of the foreign-born arising from the synergy of migration from high tb burden regions and the reactivation of remotely acquired latent tb infection. 
Tuberculosis-induced granulomas express different immune system protein signatures than the surrounding tissue. [SEP] a hallmark of pulmonary tuberculosis (tb) is the formation of granulomas. the objective of this study was to identify the underlying immune mechanisms involved in formation of inflammatory granulomas seen during active tb. the immune mediators involved in inflammatory granuloma formation during tb were assessed using human samples and experimental models of mycobacterium tuberculosis infection, using molecular and immunologic techniques. we demonstrate that in human patients with active tb and in nonhuman primate models of m. tuberculosis infection, neutrophils producing s100 proteins are dominant within the inflammatory lung granulomas seen during active tb. the immune response to mycobacterium tuberculosis infection (mtb) is the formation of unique lesions, called granulomas. although it is accepted that the environment within the granuloma profoundly affects mycobacterium tuberculosis (mtb) and infection outcome, our ability to understand mtb gene expression in these niches has been limited. granulomas, organized aggregates of immune cells, are a defining feature of tuberculosis (tb). a deeper understanding of tb pathogenesis and immunity in the granuloma could suggest therapeutic approaches to abrogate the host-detrimental aspects of granuloma formation to convert it into the host-beneficial structure that it has been thought to be for nearly a century. the human tuberculous granuloma provides the morphological basis for local immune processes central to the outcome of tuberculosis. the diverse immunopathology of granulomas and cavities generates a plethora of microenvironments to which m. tuberculosis bacilli must adapt. 
Tumor development occurs in conjunction with suppression of pro-inflammatory cytokines. [SEP] tumors utilize numerous pathways to inhibit immune responses, including the elaboration of immune-suppressive mediators such as pge2, tgf-β, il-10, vegf, gm-csf, il-6, s100a8/a9 and scf, which recruit and/or activate myeloid-derived suppressor cells (mdscs). inflammation is a major stimulus for carcinogenesis; however inflammation can also inhibit tumor growth and deplete malignant cells. the mechanisms of antitumor action of interleukin 12 include the enforced secretion of anti-angiogenic factors and stimulation of antitumor immunity. inflammation plays a key role in carcinogenesis and metastasis. this process involves the inactivation of tumor suppressor molecules, yet the molecular mechanisms by which inflammation impairs tumor suppressors are not completely understood. production of these factors by tumor cells is associated with disease progression and may represent an active immune surveillance escape mechanism. the effects of immunosuppressive factors may also be "turned off" by cytokines with tumor suppressor properties. tumor-associated angiogenesis is postulated to be regulated by the balance between pro- and anti-angiogenic factors. we thus describe novel mechanisms by which the activation of oncogenes in epithelial cells and the inactivation of tumor suppressors in fibroblasts permits angiogenesis and, in turn, tumor formation. many tumor cells or their secreted products suppress the function of tumor-infiltrating macrophages. 
Tumor development occurs in conjunction with upregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines. [SEP] inflammation plays a critical role in tumorigenesis and can contribute to oncogenic mutations, tumor promotion, and angiogenesis. tumor-promoting inflammation is driven by many factors including the presence of the pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin (il)-1β and il-18. over the past decade, it has been well established that tumorigenesis is affected by chronic inflammation. in the last decade a growing body of epidemiological and clinical data has emerged to support the concept that longstanding inflammation potentiates or promotes tumor development, growth and progression. epidemiologic and experimental evidences support the concept that inflammation promotes the development and progression of cancers. the cytokines produced by activated innate immune cells that stimulate tumor growth and progression are considered as important components in this process. while tumor initiation is typically independent of inflammatory events, immune cells infiltrating the tumor microenvironment secrete inflammatory cytokines that enhance the aberrant growth of tumor cells and thus facilitate tumor progression. in particular, established tumors are known to stimulate an inflammatory reaction via the secretion of cytokines, chemokines, and growth factors that favor the recruitment of a range of infiltrating immune cell populations into the tumor microenvironment. while potentially able to exert tumor control, this inflammatory reaction is typically seized upon by the tumor to promote its own growth and progression towards metastasis. the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines in the tumor microenvironment by both the innate and the adaptive immune response can activate signaling pathways that are associated with increased cell survival and proliferation of cancer cells. 
Two variants of chromosome 6q21 are associated with radiation therapy-induced second malignancies in pediatric Hodgkin lymphoma patients. [SEP] survivors of pediatric hodgkin's lymphoma are at risk for radiation therapy-induced second malignant neoplasms (smns). we identified two variants at chromosome 6q21 associated with smns in survivors of hodgkin's lymphoma treated with radiation therapy as children but not as adults. survivors of childhood hodgkin's lymphoma (hl) have an increased risk of developing treatment-related complications, especially second malignant neoplasms, as a result of treatment regimens incorporating chemotherapy and radiation therapy. patients with successfully treated hodgkin disease are at increased risk for the development of second malignancies. treatment of hodgkin disease (hd) with chemoradiotherapy in children is associated with increased risk for developing secondary neoplasms. the appearance of secondary malignancies such as leukemia, carcinoma or non-hodgkin's lymphomas may be attributed to the mutagenic effects of chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy. this report also reviews the development of a of peripheral t-cell lymphoma described in patients following chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy for hodgkin's disease. despite the favorable outcome of most pediatric patients with hodgkin lymphoma (hl), there is rising concern about risks of carcinogenesis from both diagnostic and therapeutic radiation exposure for patients treated on study protocols. deletions on chromosome 6q are frequently reported in hematological malignancies. this study analyzed loss of heterozygosity (loh) at chromosome 6q and compared the loh findings in pediatric precursor t lymphoblastic lymphoma (t-lbl) with the loh findings in precursor-t lymphoblastic leukemia (t-all). 
Type 1 Diabetes is associated with subtle perturbations in T reg development. [SEP] autoimmune type 1 diabetes (t1d) is thought to be caused by a defective immune regulation with regulatory t (treg) cells playing a fundamental role in this process. type 1 diabetes (t1d) is suggested to be of t-helper (th)1-like origin. type 1 diabetes (t1d) is characterized by the immune-mediated destruction of pancreatic beta cells leading to inadequate glycemic control. defects in the frequency and function of polyclonal tregs have been reported in type 1 diabetes (t1d). type 1 diabetes is a t-cell-mediated disease that is associated with loss of immunological tolerance to self-antigens. we show that although levels of cd4(+)cd25(+) t-cells are normal in patients with recent-onset adult type 1 diabetes, the ability of the tregs in this population to suppress t-cell proliferation during in vitro cocultures is markedly reduced compared with control subjects (p = 0.007). these data demonstrate deficiency in function of the cd4(+)cd25(+) treg population that may influence the pathogenesis of type 1 diabetes. the mechanistic basis for the breakdown of t-cell tolerance in type 1 diabetes is unclear and could result from a gain of effector function and/or loss of regulatory function. we performed a longitudinal study of cd4+cd25+ t-cell function in children with type 1 diabetes at onset and throughout the 1st year of disease. type 1 diabetes onset, and its subsequent remission period, is associated with two independent functional changes within the cd4+cd25+ t-cell compartment: a stable increase in effector function and a transient decrease in regulatory t-cell suppression. 
Ultrasound guidance significantly reduces the number of needle insertion attempts necessary for a given procedure. [SEP] when ultrasound equipment is available, along with providers who are appropriately trained to use it, we recommend that ultrasound guidance should be used for site selection of lumbar puncture to reduce the number of needle insertion attempts and needle redirections and increase the overall procedure success rates, especially in patients who are obese or have difficult-to-palpate landmarks. ultrasound guidance during peripheral nerve blocks has allowed for reduction in dose and volume of local anesthetic required to accomplish successful blockade using multiple injections through a needle. we hypothesized that the routine use of a preprocedural ultrasound-guided paramedian technique for spinal anesthesia would reduce the number of passes required to achieve entry into the subarachnoid space when compared with the conventional landmark-guided midline approach. ultrasound-guided central line placement has been shown to decrease the number of needle puncture attempts, complication, and failure rates. we describe the use of ultrasound guidance to avoid and identify various complications associated with this procedure. we hypothesized that the use of ultrasound guidance would improve the success rate of peripheral intravenous catheter placement in pediatric patients with difficult access in a pediatric emergency department (ed). our secondary hypotheses were that ultrasound guidance would reduce the number of attempts, the number of needle redirections, and the overall time to catheter placement. the ultrasound-guided group required less overall time (6.3 vs 14.4 minutes, difference of -8.1 minutes [95% confidence interval, -12.5 to -3.6], p = 0.001), fewer attempts (median, 1 vs 3; p = 0.004), and fewer needle redirections (median, 2 vs 10; p g 0.0001) than traditional approaches. ultrasound guidance reduces block performance time, volume of local anesthetic, risk of intravascular injection and need for opioid rescue analgesia compared to landmark based and neurostimulator guided techniques. ultrasound guidance for pericardiocentesis has been shown to reduce errors as compared with the landmark-based technique. 
Ultrasound guidance significantly reduces the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. [SEP] when ultrasound equipment is available, along with providers who are appropriately trained to use it, we recommend that ultrasound guidance should be used for site selection of lumbar puncture to reduce the number of needle insertion attempts and needle redirections and increase the overall procedure success rates, especially in patients who are obese or have difficult-to-palpate landmarks. ultrasound guidance improves the efficacy of peripheral nerve blocks, reducing performance time and local anaesthetic doses. we hypothesized that the use of ultrasound guidance would improve the success rate of peripheral intravenous catheter placement in pediatric patients with difficult access in a pediatric emergency department (ed). our secondary hypotheses were that ultrasound guidance would reduce the number of attempts, the number of needle redirections, and the overall time to catheter placement. the ultrasound-guided group required less overall time (6.3 vs 14.4 minutes, difference of -8.1 minutes [95% confidence interval, -12.5 to -3.6], p = 0.001), fewer attempts (median, 1 vs 3; p = 0.004), and fewer needle redirections (median, 2 vs 10; p g 0.0001) than traditional approaches. during the last two decades ultrasound guidance has been established as an invaluable tool for performing peripheral nerve blocks. ultrasound guidance reduces block performance time, volume of local anesthetic, risk of intravascular injection and need for opioid rescue analgesia compared to landmark based and neurostimulator guided techniques. ultrasound guidance is associated with improved efficiency and success of peripheral nerve blockade and a decreased incidence of vascular puncture, making these interventions safer. ultrasound-guided procedures are becoming very common in emergency medicine and critical care. ultrasound guidance for pericardiocentesis has been shown to reduce errors as compared with the landmark-based technique. 
Understanding epigenetic regulation of replication is essential for the reational design of episomally replicating vectors. [SEP] here, we review the progress in the development of regulatable adenovirus vectors that allow gene expression to be tightly controlled by low concentrations of tetracyclines. analyzing cellular restriction mechanisms provides insight into viral replication strategies, identifies targets for antiviral drug design, and is crucial for the development of novel tools for experimental or therapeutic delivery of genetic information. a major prerequisite for the design of retroviral vectors encoding cell toxic or harmful genes is the possibility to tightly control gene expression, thus limiting activity to the relevant target cells and protecting the packaging cell used for production of recombinant viral particles. for construction of these murine leukaemia virus (mlv)-based reconstituting viral vectors (recon), a promoterless inverted enhanced green fluorescent protein (egfp) reporter gene cassette was inserted in place of the u3 region of the 3' ltr. fundamental events such as viral rna genome replication are controlled by viral regulatory rna elements (res). initial experiments were conducted with a small noncoding virus genome-derived rna replicon, and the results showed that replication was inducible, up to approximately 10-fold, in a theophylline-specific and dose-dependent manner. analysis of this engineered viral genome revealed that this re, located in the 5' untranslated region, specifically mediates efficient accumulation of plus-strands of the virus genome. retroviral replication is highly dependent on post-transcriptional regulation because a single primary transcript directs synthesis of many viral proteins. the fact that cte can functionally substitute for rev/rre, yielding a replication-competent virus, indicates that very short sequence elements are sufficient for post-transcriptional control. specific signals on the viral rnas recruit key factors of cellular export, thus bypassing these restrictions and ensuring efficient viral replication. 
Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events speeds cancer progression. [SEP] mutant p53 gain of function contributes to cancer progression, increased invasion and metastasis potentials, and resistance to anticancer therapy. taken together, our findings define a novel mechanism by which mutant p53 acquires its gain of function via transactivating the gro1 gene in cancer cells. it is now known that p53 is directly involved in important cellular functions including regulation of the cell cycle, and that its alteration may be one of the important steps in the initiation of cancer. a large fraction of human tumors carry p53 mutations, which allow tumor initiation and progression; furthermore, it is now clear that restoration or reactivation of wild-type p53 function prompts rapid elimination of tumors. the discovery and design of compounds that reactivate or enhance the p53 pathway has resulted in the identification of promising drug candidates that have now entered clinical trials for anticancer strategies. alterations in myc and p53 are hallmarks of cancer. alterations: p53 genes are turning out to be the most common genetic alterations in human cancers. the p53 network is perhaps the most important pathway involved in preventing the initiation of cancer, p53 levels and activity are upregulated in response to various stresses including dna damage, hypoxia, and oncogene activation. various lines of evidence now suggest that p53 is a positive regulator of cell death, and particularly of apoptosis. in this paper, microarray data and well-evaluated statistical procedures on pc3 and lncap prostate carcinoma cells, open new perspectives in p53 mechanisms and bring the simultaneous identification of novel p53-repressed cell cycle genes, hopefully providing significant improvements in the study of dna damage response, multistep carcinogenesis, and treatment rationales and outcomes. 
Upon developing tyrosine-kinase inhibitor resistance, new mutations in epidermal growth factor receptors emerge and cause treatment failure. [SEP] a number of mutations in the epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) have been identified that imparts resistance to anti-egfr monoclonal antibodies (mabs) in clinical and preclinical samples. oncogenic driver mutations in the epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) gene have provided a focus for effective targeted therapy. emergence of acquired resistance is virtually inevitable in patients with a mutation in the epidermal growth factor receptor gene (egfr) treated with egfr tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tkis). acquired epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor (egfr-tki) resistance limits the long-term clinical efficacy of tyrosine kinase-targeting drugs. acquired resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tkis) of epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) remains a clinical challenge. various alterations underlying acquired resistance to epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (egfr-tkis) have been described. mutations in the kinase domain of the epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) are found in a subset of patients with lung cancer and correlate with response to egfr tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tki). in epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) mutant non-small-cell lung cancer (nsclc), failure of egfr tkis can result from both genetic and epigenetic mechanisms of acquired drug resistance. the most common mechanism of resistance to epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tkis) is acquisition of the t790m gatekeeper mutation. most commonly in egfr-mutant non-small cell lung cancer, secondary resistance mutations on the target kinase domain emerge to diminish the binding affinity of first- and second-generation inhibitors. 
Upon viral challenge, influenza-specific memory CD4+ T cells greatly diminish the early production of inflammatory chemokines in the lung. [SEP] numerous observations indicate that resident memory t cells (trm) undergo unusually rapid attrition within the lung. memory t cells play an important role in the resolution of secondary respiratory virus infections through the production of anti-viral cytokines and the lysis of infected cells. within the lung airways, memory t cells form an initial line of defense against secondary virus challenge by limiting early viral replication at the site of infection. recent studies have addressed the generation and maintenance of airway memory t cells and their relationship with memory t cells in the secondary lymphoid organs. these advances have demonstrated that different memory subsets contribute to the maintenance of the airway memory t cell population and have identified molecules that influence trafficking to the lung tissue and the lung airways. after disease resolution, a small subset of influenza specific cd8+ t cells can remain in the airways of the lung as a tissue resident memory population (trm). we recently demonstrated that inhibition of neutrophils or neutrophil derived chemokine cxcl12 during acute influenza virus infection reduces the effector t cell response and affects the ability of these cells to localize to the airways. during chronic viral infection, the inflammatory function of cd4 t-cells becomes gradually attenuated. we have defined a novel role for neutrophils in ameliorating lung injury during influenza infection, thereby limiting development of severe disease. studies of mice suggest that rsv suppresses the effector activity of cd8 t cells and the development of pulmonary cd8 t cell memory, in which the impaired effector activity could be recovered by in vitro il-2 treatment. 
Upon viral challenge, influenza-specific memory CD4+ T cells greatly enhance the early production of inflammatory chemokines in the lung. [SEP] the immune response to influenza a virus is characterized by an influx of both macrophages and t lymphocytes into the lungs of the infected host, accompanied by induced expression of a number of cc chemokines. we examined how the absence of these chemokine receptors would affect pulmonary chemokine expression and induced leukocyte recruitment by infecting ccr5-deficient mice and ccr2-deficient mice with a mouse-adapted strain of influenza a virus. respiratory viral infections trigger a robust inflammatory response in the lung, producing cytokines, chemokines, and growth factors that promote infiltration of effector leukocytes. a potent role for memory cd8+ t cells in heterologous immunity was shown with a respiratory mucosal model of viral infection. conventional cd4(+) and cd8(+) as well as nonconventional innate like t cells respond to infection and make an essential contribution to the clearance of virus infected cells and the resolution of pulmonary inflammation and injury. emerging evidence in recent years has suggested a critical role of local interactions between lung effector t cells and antigen presenting cells in guiding the accumulation, differentiation and function of effector t cells beyond their initial activation in the draining lymph nodes during influenza infection. here we show that memory cd8(+) t cells in the airways played an important role in early control of iav. expression of the chemokine receptor cxcr3 was critical for memory cd8(+) t cells to populate the airways during the steady state and vaccination approaches were designed to favor the establishment of memory cd8(+) t cells in the airways. the immune response of naive cd4 t cells to influenza virus is initiated in the draining lymph nodes and spleen, and only after effectors are generated do antigen-specific cells migrate to the lung which is the site of infection. respiratory infection with highly pathogenic influenza a viruses is characterized by the exuberant production of cytokines and chemokines and the enhanced recruitment of innate inflammatory cells. 
Upregulation of PD1 causes the downmodulation of Satb1. [SEP] we have determined a functional link to the inverse expression of setdb1 and fosb following anticancer drug treatment. the decreased hmtase activity of setdb1 coincided with altered occupancy across the promoter region of the fosb gene. setdb1 overexpression decreased the luciferase reporter activity containing the fosb promoter region, but sisetdb1 increased the luciferase reporter activity, suggesting that setdb1 directly and negatively regulated fosb expression. the mechanism of the downregulation is unclear. overexpressing tusc2 or treatment with rapamycin resulted in similar inhibition of pd-l1 expression. the downregulation of pdx-1 expression plays an important role in development of type 2 diabetes. moreover, mutation of the putative atf/cre site between -752 and -745 abrogated atf3-mediated transrepression of the pdx-1 promoter. collectively, these results demonstrate that atf3 represses pdx-1 expression via binding to an atf3-responsive element in its promoter, which plays an important role in suppression of pancreatic β-cells function. soluble pd-1 (spd-1) and soluble pd-l1 (spd-l1), are also involved in regulation of the pd-1/pd-l1 signaling pathway. the pd-l1 polymorphism plays a role in gd development. 
Upregulation of PD1 causes the upregulation of Satb1. [SEP] the phosphoinositide-dependent kinase pdk1 activates the serum- and glucocorticoid-inducible kinase isoforms sgk1, sgk2, and sgk3 and protein kinase b, which in turn are known to up-regulate a variety of sodium-coupled transporters. the activities of pdp1 or just pdp1c are greatly increased by ca(2+)-dependent binding to the l2 (inner lipoyl) domain of the dihydrolipoyl acetyltransferase (e2) core. 3'-phosphoinositide-dependent kinase-1 (pdk1) has been identified for its ability to phosphorylate and activate akt. we investigated whether setdb1 contributes to development of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (pdac). deletion of setdb1 from pancreas prevented formation of pdacs, concomitant with increased apoptosis and up-regulated expression of trp53 in mice heterozygous for disruption of trp53. chromatin immunoprecipitation revealed that setdb1 bound to the trp53 promoter to regulate its expression. we found that the histone methyltransferase setdb1 is required for development of pdacs, induced by activated kras, in mice. setdb1 might be a therapeutic target for pdacs that retain p53 function. we observed positive feedback, such that sox9-deficient pda cells have severely repressed levels of endogenous gli1, attributed to loss of gli1 protein stability. the phosphoinositide-dependent kinase-1 (pdk-1) activates the serum- and glucocorticoid-inducible kinase and protein kinase b isoforms, which, in turn, are known to stimulate the renal and intestinal na+-dependent glucose transporter 1. 
Upregulation of dynein in Drosophila neurons increases the number of microtubule plus-ends growing toward the cell body of each neuron. [SEP] in this study, we investigated how microtubule motors organize microtubules in drosophila neurons. dynein knockdown prevents this rearrangement and results in microtubules of mixed orientation in axons and accumulation of microtubule minus-ends at axon tips. our results show that cortical dynein slides 'minus-end-out' microtubules from the axon, generating uniform microtubule arrays. we speculate that differences in microtubule orientation between axons and dendrites could be dictated by differential activity of cortical dynein. we show here that dynein also supports microtubule architecture and determines centrosome position in interphase cells. dynein is a minus-end-directed motor that can generate (forward) force to move along the microtubule toward its minus end. here we show that the microtubule motor dynein has a crucial role in polarized transport and in controlling the orientation of axonal microtubules in drosophila melanogaster dendritic arborization (da) neurons. the translocation of dynein along microtubules is the basis for a wide variety of essential cellular movements. cytoplasmic dynein in filamentous fungi accumulates at microtubule plus-ends near the hyphal tip, which is important for minus-end-directed transport of early endosomes. overexpression of dynein fragments in dictyostelium induces the movement of the entire interphase microtubule array. 
Urbanization is an important risk factor related to the transmission of dengue fever. [SEP] reasons for the resurgence of dengue in the tropics and subtropics are complex and include unprecedented urbanization with substandard living conditions, lack of vector control, virus evolution, and international travel. of all these factors, urbanization has probably had the most impact on the amplification of dengue within a given country, and travel has had the most impact for the spread of dengue from country to country and continent to continent. urbanization is one of the important factors leading to the spread of dengue fever. recently, some studies found that the road network as an urbanization factor affects the distribution and spread of dengue epidemic, but the study of relationship between the distribution of dengue epidemic and road network is limited, especially in highly urbanized areas. these results show that high-density road network is an important factor to the direction and scale of dengue epidemic. urbanisation, globalisation and climate trends, however, are facilitating the geographic spread of its mosquito vectors, thereby increasing the risk of the virus establishing itself in previously unaffected areas and causing large-scale epidemics. in this paper, we focus on dengue, the most widespread urban vector-borne disease. largely urban with a tropical/subtropical distribution and vectored by a domesticated mosquito, aedes aegypti, dengue poses a serious public health threat. urban and landscape planning designed to mitigate the non-infectious negative effects of temperature should additionally focus on dengue, which is currently spreading worldwide with no signs of respite. urbanization has been shown to increase the dispersal of this mosquito vector. 
V-9302 inhibits antitumor responses by decreasing cell death and oxidative stress. [SEP] vascular disrupting agents (vdas) are designed to cause a rapid and selective shutdown of the established tumor vasculature, which leads to secondary ischemic tumor cell death. we examined the efficacy of a novel vda, mn-029, in the rodent kht sarcoma model. the results demonstrated that mn-029 could cause rapid vascular shutdown in solid tumors, dose-dependent secondary tumor cell killing, and effective enhancement of the antitumor effects of radiation and cisplatin chemotherapy. taken together, the hdac inhibitor has anti-angiogenesis and antitumor activities that mediate soluble vegi/dr3-induced apoptosis via both autocrine and paracrine pathways. activation of caspase-9 in response to treatment with cytotoxic drugs is inhibited in nsclc cells, which may contribute to the clinical resistance to chemotherapy shown in this type of tumor. using an isogenic model of mcf-7 breast adenocarcinoma cells (mcf-7e and mcf-7l sublines that are sensitive and resistant to vd3 compounds), we found that vd3 compounds effectively downregulated survivin in vd3-sensitive mcf-7e cells, which was associated with vd3-induced apoptosis. in contrast, vd3 compounds failed to downregulate survivin in vd3-resistant mcf-7l cells, which showed resistant to vd3-induced apoptosis. however, inhibition of survivin expression by small interfering rna (sirna) induced cell death per se and further sensitized vd3-induced apoptosis in mcf-7l cells, indicating that the inability of these cells to respond to vd3 is due to the failure to downregulate survivin. moreover, inhibition of p38 activation diminished vd3-mediated survivin inhibition and partially rescued vd3-induced cell death. in the present work, we investigated the dmc induced reactive oxygen species (ros) mediated anti-proliferative and apoptotic effects in u87 mg cells. 
Vaccinating the gastrointestinal tract induces protection of rectal and vaginal mucosa. [SEP] conversely, vaccine targeted to the small intestine induced only small intestinal immunity and provided no rectal or vaginal protection, demonstrating functional compartmentalization within the gut mucosal immune system. therefore, using this oral vaccine delivery system to target the large intestine, but not the small intestine, may represent a feasible new strategy for immune protection of rectal and vaginal mucosa. understanding the mechanisms underlying the induction of immunity in the gastrointestinal mucosa following oral immunization and the cross-talk between mucosal and systemic immunity should expedite the development of vaccines to diminish the global burden caused by enteric pathogens. to combat mucosal pathogens that cause gastrointestinal (gi) infections, local mucosal immunity is required which is best achieved through oral vaccination. the role of specific immunoglobulins at mucosal sites in imparting protection against disease, such as rotavirus-associated diarrhoea, is well-established. although vaccine delivery to the gut mucosa is fraught with obstacles, immunization can be enhanced using adjuvants with properties specific to intestinal immunity. mucosal immunization of the gastrointestinal tract is an effective way to stimulate local and systemic immune responses. protective mucosal immune responses are most effectively induced by mucosal immunization through oral, nasal, rectal or vaginal routes, but the vast majority of vaccines in use today are administered by injection. therefore, vaccination through the mucosal route can greatly enhance the mucosal immune response. vaccination via the mucosal surface is the most effective way to trigger a protective mucosal immune response, but the vast majority of vaccines used are administered by injection. 
Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 26 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. [SEP] varenicline, a new treatment for smoking cessation, has demonstrated significantly greater efficacy over placebo and sustained release bupropion (bupropion sr). a study was undertaken to compare a 12-week standard regimen of varenicline with a 10-week standard regimen of transdermal nicotine replacement therapy (nrt) for smoking cessation. `varenicline use has been shown to produce greater long-term smoking cessation rates than bupropion but has no clear differences compared to the transdermal nicotine patch. we performed this study to compare the effectiveness of varenicline with the nicotine patch at 3 and 6 months of follow-up of patients in an outpatient smoking cessation program provided by a hospital in southern taiwan. varenicline use in a sample of treatment-seeking-dependent smokers was associated with significantly higher abstinence rates than the nicotine patch. the aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of varenicline in monotherapy or in combined therapy with bupropion and/or serotonin reuptake inhibitors (sris) in a specific cardiovascular smoking cessation service. bupropion was combined in patients that did not achieve complete tobacco abstinence in 2 or 3 weeks after starting varenicline use or if the patient presented uncomfortable abstinent symptoms. varenicline tartrate is superior for smoking cessation to other tobacco cessation therapies by 52 weeks, in the outpatient setting. varenicline is a relatively new drug developed especially for this purpose, and it has been shown to achieve better quit rates than nicotine replacement therapies and the non-nicotine-based drug, bupropion, which has been in use for some years. smokers in the same behavioural support programme who use varenicline appear to have a greater probability of achieving long-term abstinence than those using their choice of nicotine replacement therapy options, even after adjusting for potentially confounding smoker characteristics. 
Varying expression levels of EBI2 affect the positioning and migration of B cells. [SEP] we have identified two populations of "effector" b cells (be1 and be2) that produce distinct patterns of cytokines depending on the cytokine environment in which the cells were stimulated during their primary encounter with antigen and t cells. functional perturbations of several transcription factors by gain- or loss-of-function experiments indicated that e2a, ebf1, and foxo1 are required for the specification of the b cell lineage, whereas pax5 antagonizes alternative cell fates by repressing genes that allow for responsiveness to t lymphoid- and myeloid-promoting signals. however, genome-wide analysis of ebf1-binding sites and their functional interrogation indicated that ebf1 is involved in both activation of the b cell program and repression of alternative cell fates. recent studies indicate that ebf1 function is required throughout the b cell lineage until the onset of plasma cell differentiation and includes a role in the maintenance of b cell identity. thus, early b cell differentiation requires intertwined networks of transcription factors in which ebf1 collaborates with e2a and foxo1 to activate the b lineage program and acts together with pax5 to antagonize alternative cell fates. during antibody responses, b cells undergo a series of migratory events that guide them to the appropriate microenvironments for activation and differentiation. epstein-barr virus-induced molecule 2 [ebi2; also known as g-protein-coupled receptor (gpr)183] is a key chemotactic receptor guiding b cell localization. ebi2 and its ligand, 7α,25-dihydroxycholesterol, direct the migration of activated b cells to interfollicular and outer follicular regions of secondary lymphoid tissues. moreover, modulation of ebi2 expression is crucial for the generation of extrafollicular plasma cell responses and germinal center formation. here, we review the current findings that have delineated the function of ebi2 and its ligand and discuss how they collaborate with conventional lymphoid chemokine systems to position b cells optimally during immune responses. 
Venules have less significant tunica adventitia than arterioles. [SEP] the adventitial segment of the vessel wall has received limited attention compared the endothelium, media and neointima in processes involved in vascular remodelling during atherogenesis, coronary artery bypass graft failure and in response to angioplasty. elastic arteries were found to be less prone to intimal hyperplasia than muscular arteries. we hypothesized that veins, which are not exposed to higher pressures in hypertension, would demonstrate less active remodeling than arteries. in arterioles of the lung the intravascular blood pressures are lower than in comparable vessels in the systemic circulation and the arteriole walls are thinner. therefore, it is very difficult to distinguish between arterioles and venules of the same size using scanning electron microscopy. this study describes a novel application of latex microsphere perfusion and scanning electron microscopy which distinguishes between pulmonary arterioles and venules on the basis of endothelial cell morphology. in contrast, the endothelial cells of equal diameter venules are polygonal. furthermore, the nuclei of the arteriolar endothelial cells were significantly (p = 0.019) narrower than those of endothelial cells in venules of equal diameter. finally, it was observed that the differences between arteriole and venule endothelial cells persisted distally to the capillaries. in general, dilated and varicose veins are not used as arterial bypass grafts despite their physiological endothelial lining. 
VgrG (Tssl) protein punctures membranes by forming a spike at the tip of the tube apparatus. [SEP] the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is a contractile injection apparatus that translocates a spike loaded with various effectors directly into eukaryotic and prokaryotic target cells. such t6ss spike consists of a needle-shaped trimer of vgrg proteins topped by a conical and sharp paar protein that facilitates puncturing of the target membrane. in agrobacterium tumefaciens the t6ss effector tde1 is targeted to its cognate vgrg1 protein. here, we attempted to use a vgrg shuttle to deliver a heterologous t6ss effector by directing tde1 onto a t6ss spike in pseudomonas aeruginosa. we provide evidence suggesting that tde1 specifically binds to the vgrg spike in the heterologous environment and propose that there are additional requirements to allow proper effector delivery and translocation. bacteriophage t4 penetrates the outer membrane of escherichia coli using a multifunctional device composed of a gene product 5 (gp5) protein trimer. a triple-stranded β-helix of gp5 acts as a cell-puncturing drill bit to make a hole on the membrane and then send the lipids upward efficiently by strong charge interactions. narrow membrane tubes are commonly pulled out from the surface of phospholipid vesicles using forces applied either through laser or magnetic tweezers or through the action of processive motor proteins. the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is a multiprotein machine that uses a spring-like mechanism to inject effectors into target cells. this "transverse tubular system" (tts) provides a pathway for radial impulse propation from the cell surface to the interior. 
Vitamin D deficiency effects birth weight. [SEP] vitamin d nutrition has a profound effect on the development of an infant. vitamin d status of mothers and their infants are closely correlated. vitamin d is essential for the health of pregnant women and their infants. vitamin d insufficiency and deficiency during pregnancy are reflected in lower maternal weight gain and biochemical evidence of disturbed skeletal homeostasis in the infant, with, in extreme situations, reduced bone mineralization, radiologically evident rickets, and fractures. the aim of this study is to evaluate the relationship between maternal vitamin d status and neonate's birth weight. maternal vitamin d deficiency may increase the risk of low birth weight neonate and modifying maternal nutrition behavior and their vit d level could be beneficial on pregnancy outcome. studies suggest an association between low vitamin d concentrations during pregnancy with intrauterine growth restriction and prematurity. low maternal vitamin d levels during pregnancy have been associated with a plethora of adverse neonatal outcomes, including small for gestational age and preterm births, detrimental effect on offspring bone and teeth development, and risk of infectious diseases. the currently available results indicate that vitamin d supplementation during pregnancy reduces the risk of preterm birth, low birth weight, dental caries of infancy, and neonatal infectious diseases such as respiratory infections and sepsis. vitamin d deficiency during pregnancy has important health implications for the mother and infant. 
Vitamin D is an important factor in the relationship between calcium and parathyroid hormone. [SEP] vitamin d has been known for a long time as a major factor involved in the calcium- phosphate balance and homeostasis, along with parathyroid hormone (pth). vitamin d is a steroid hormone that has long been known for its important role in regulating body levels of calcium and phosphorus, and in mineralization of bone. vitamin d and parathyroid hormone (pth) constitute the main regulators of systemic calcium homeostasis. as well as its calcaemic effects, active vitamin d3(1,25(oh)2d3) has a direct regulatory role on parathyroid cells. active vitamin d3 constitutes a principal regulator of parathyroid cell growth, and polymorphism in the vdr gene has recently been related to bone mineral density and suggested as predisposing to osteoporosis. impaired effects of active vitamin d3 may contribute to the relatively enhanced secretion and cell proliferation seen in hyperparathyroidism (hpt). vitamin d is a fat-soluble vitamin and a steroid hormone that plays a central role in maintaining calcium-phosphorus and bone homeostasis in close interaction with parathyroid hormone, acting on its classical target tissues, namely, bone, kidney, intestine, and parathyroid glands. vitamin d, especially its most active metabolite 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d(3) or calcitriol, is essential in regulating a wide variety of biologic processes, such as calcium homeostasis, immune modulation, cell proliferation and differentiation. the active metabolite of vitamin d, 1α, 25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 [1,25(oh)(2) d3], is involved in calcium and phosphate metabolism and exerts a large number of biological effects. vitamin d is a steroid hormone known for its role in regulating levels of calcium and phosphorus. 
Walking in traffic areas in London did not improve lung function in elderly adults. [SEP] effects of walking on the risk of coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality have not been identified in the elderly. the purpose of this study was to determine whether walking is associated with a reduced risk of coronary heart disease in a sample of elderly men. combined with evidence that suggests that an active lifestyle reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease in younger and more diverse groups, this suggests that important health benefits could be derived by encouraging the elderly to walk. it is concluded that both traffic vehicles and the rythm at signalized intersections are not in accordance with the functional capacity of older persons. physical activity, particularly walking, is greatly beneficial to health; yet a sizeable proportion of older adults are insufficiently active. the importance of built environment attributes for walking is known, but few studies of older adults have examined neighbourhood destinations and none have investigated access to specific, objectively-measured commercial destinations and walking. population growth, population ageing, and urbanisation are major global demographic trends that call for an examination of the impact of urban densification on older adults' health-enhancing behaviours, such as walking. no studies have examined the pathways through which urban densification may affect older adults' walking. stroke survivors who were unable to walk were not included in the previous research-investigating changes in lung function from walking exercise interventions. in this pilot study, the feasibility and the effect of aerobic walking exercise on lung function was examined in non-ambulatory stroke survivors using a treadmill, bodyweight support system, and a gait training device.methods: this study was a single group trial. 
Walking in traffic areas in London improves lung function in elderly adults. [SEP] creating a physical and social neighbourhood environment that is more supportive for walking has the potential to improve walking behaviour. a theory-based, task-oriented, community walking programme can increase outdoor walking activity among older adults to optimise functional independence, social participation and well-being. structural changes to neighbourhoods that promote walking are likely to benefit everyone in a community and result in long-term improvements in the population's physical activity and health. outdoor walking has considerable benefits for healthy ageing and older adults are recommended to walk regularly. walking for physical activity can bring important health benefits to older adults. analysis of the routes selected by a purposive sample of independently mobile adults aged 65 years and over living in edinburgh, uk, revealed a preference to walk in more walkable environments, alongside a willingness to walk in less supportive settings. respondents walking trips were drawn from the data and the direct and indirect effects of the personal, psychological as well as environmental features on older adults walking were examined. we examined whether older persons who live in areas that are conducive to walking are more active or less obese than those living in areas where walking is more difficult. additional interventions would therefore be needed to encourage inactive residents to achieve the recommended levels of physical activity, as it appears that interventions that improve the walkability of an area are particularly effective in increasing walking among already active citizens, and, among the inactive ones, the best response is found among healthier, younger and wealthier citizens. the benefits of walking in older age include improved cognitive health (e.g., mental alertness, improved memory functioning) and a reduced risk of stress, depression and dementia. 
Weighed food records (WFR) result in high completion since they're cheap to run and impose low participant burden. [SEP] food security can benefit from the technology's transparency, relatively low transaction costs and instantaneous applications. randomized controlled trials that test the effectiveness of mobile health-based weight loss programs are attractive to participants, funders, and researchers because of the low implementation cost, minimal participant burden, and the ability to recruit participants from longer distances. observed-weighed food record surveys (owfr) are regarded as the most precise dietary assessment methodology, despite their recognized shortcomings, which include limited availability, high cost, small samples with uncertain external validity that rarely include all household members, hawthorne effects, and using only 1 or 2 days to identify "usual intake." they are the most practical method for usual dietary data collection as they are relatively inexpensive and easy to administer. very low energy diets (vleds), commonly achieved by replacing all food with meal replacement products and which result in fast weight loss, are the most effective dietary obesity treatment available. vleds are also cheaper to administer than conventional, food-based diets, which result in slow weight loss. very low calorie diets (vlcd) have many advantages, as they are inexpensive, safe and easy to comply with, and give rapid and encouraging weight loss. dietary exposure is widely measured using food frequency questionnaires (ffqs), which impose a low burden on respondents and are inexpensive in large-scale studies. dietary records or recall provide relatively accurate estimates of intake for specific days, and of the usual diet if collected on multiple days. these systems have been demonstrated to provide high-quality dietary intake data among western populations. 
Weighed food records (WFR) result in poor completion since they're costly to run and impose high participant burden. [SEP] paper-based estimated food diaries are often used in research to collect dietary data, despite this method being burdensome for both participants and researchers. such food diaries are often time consuming, labour intensive, and rely on participant literacy and therefore may lead to greater rates of under-reporting. written estimated food diaries are often utilized in clinical trials, despite being a burden for both study participants and researchers. this method requires participant literacy, it is time consuming, labor intensive, and can easily lead to under-reporting. diaries are burdensome to complete, food frequency questionnaires only capture average food intake, and both suffer from difficulties in self estimation of portion size and biases resulting from misreporting. the weakness of this method is that it is burdensome for some respondents and requires more time to complete data entry. multiple-day diet records can be unsuitable for cohort studies because of high administrative and analytical costs. however, food records are considered unsuitable for large studies due to the need to train participants and to review and correct completed records. however, food journaling is subject to self-bias and recall errors, and is poorly adhered to by patients. the practice of using paper-based dietary recording forms with manual calculation of the patient's nutritional intake is considered cumbersome, time-consuming and unfeasible among the nurses and does often not lead to appropriate nutritional treatment. 
Whole brain radiotherapy increases the occurrence of new brain metastases. [SEP] recent studies have reported about the application of volumetric-modulated arc radiotherapy in the treatment of multiple brain metastases. one of the key concerns for these radiosurgical treatments lies in the integral dose within the normal brain tissue, as it has been shown to increase with increasing number of brain tumors treated. as the application of radiotherapy to brain metastasis (bm) increases, the incidence of radiation necrosis (rn) as a late toxicity of radiotherapy also increases. in large brain metastases (bm) with a diameter of more than 2 cm there is an increased risk of radionecrosis (rn) with standard stereotactic radiosurgery (srs) dose prescription, while the normal tissue constraint is exceeded. incidence of brain metastases has risen as systemic therapies have improved and patients with metastatic disease live longer. although surgery or stereotactic radiosurgery are highly effective local treatments for a small number of metastases, there is a high risk of developing additional brain metastases. paradoxically, radiation is also a risk factor for gbm development, raising the possibility that radiotherapy of brain tumors could promote tumor recurrence or trigger secondary gliomas. radiation therapy options for brain metastases include whole brain radiotherapy (wbrt) and stereotactic radiosurgery (srs). introduction brain metastases are common in patients with advanced systemic cancer and often recur despite treatment with surgical resection and radiotherapy. brain metastases (bms) occur in 10% to 20% of adult patients with cancer, and with increased surveillance and improved systemic control, the incidence is likely to grow. 
Women are more susceptible to death due to pneumonia when compared to men. [SEP] the prognosis for heart disease is worse for women than for men. also, although women are less likely than men to initially present with a myocardial infarction (mi), they are more likely to die following an mi. several studies have indicated that women sustaining a myocardial infarction have a higher unadjusted short-term (i.e., in-hospital or 30-day) mortality than men. this article reviews the data on age and other factors that might explain why women with a myocardial infarction fare worse then men. most notably, this lethal disease kills more women than men each year and remains the leading cause of death for both men and women. heart failure has the most lethal prognosis of the major cardiovascular diseases, yet women demonstrate an apparent survival advantage compared with men. women are more vulnerable than men in the same natural disaster setting. according to the cdc (2017), more women than men have died from heart disease over the last 20-25 years. although the prevalence of lung cancer in men has been decreasing, it has been increasing in women. unfortunately, the prevalence of smoking among women has increased significantly since 1980, which is a major concern as epidemiologic data suggest that women may be more susceptible to developing lung cancer than men. 
Women with a lower birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. [SEP] it is well established that childless women and women having children later in life are at an increased risk of developing breast cancer. younger women who develop breast cancer are hypothesized to have poorer survival rates than women who develop it at a later stage in life. while breast cancer risk is reduced by nearly 50% after one full term pregnancy, women over the age of 25 have a significantly greater risk of developing breast cancer immediately following parturition compared to their nulliparous counterparts. it is widely presumed that the increased risk of developing breast cancer following pregnancy is due to the ability of pregnancy-associated hormones to promote the further proliferation of an initiated target cell population. early age-of-onset increases the risk of contralateral breast cancer, local and distant recurrence, and subsequent mortality. african american women are also more likely to be diagnosed with breast cancer at young ages, and they have higher risk for the biologically more aggressive triple-negative breast cancers. young women with breast cancer have been reported to have an increased risk of dying from their disease if they have given birth in <2 years before diagnosis. after adjusting for tumor characteristics and treatment, the risk of mortality associated with a birth in < 2 years of diagnosis of breast cancer remained an independent predictor of mortality, hazard radio (hr) = 2.7, 95% ci = 1.6-4.3. our study provides evidence that reproductive factors influence the biological behavior of breast cancer in young women and prognosis. clinicians need to be aware that women who have delivered a child in < 2 years before diagnosis are at increased risk of having tumors with especially adverse prognostic profiles and have a poorer survival rate than women who are nulliparous or whose last birth was some years in the past. 
YAP/TAZ is required in intestinal regeneration in mouse models of ulcerative colitis. [SEP] the hippo-yap signaling pathway plays an essential role in epithelial cells during intestinal regeneration and tumorigenesis. here, we report a stroma-epithelium islr-yap signaling axis essential for stromal cells to modulate epithelial cell growth during intestinal regeneration and tumorigenesis. impaired epithelial regeneration is a crucial pathophysiological feature of ulcerative colitis (uc). in this study, we sought to identify the roles of yap in intestinal epithelial cell (iec) self-renewal, regeneration and tumorigenesis. we first observed that yap was significantly reduced in 62.5% (45/72) of human uc tissues and it was dramatically enhanced during epithelial regeneration in a murine colitis model. we then found that after tissue injury, yapwt mice had increased epithelial cell self-renewal capacity and drastically restored intestinal crypt structure. in summary, nuclear yap-driven iec proliferation could control epithelial regeneration after inflammation and may serve as a potential therapeutic target in uc. in this study, we examined whether ileitis in samp1/yitfc mice, a recombinant-inbred line that spontaneously develops ileitis resembling human crohn's disease, was associated with alterations in normal patterns of epithelial differentiation or changes in epithelial regeneration after experimental injury. yap (yes-associated protein) is a key component of the hippo pathway and was recently suggested to promote epithelial cell regeneration for ibd recovery. although yap has been shown to promote epithelial regeneration and alleviate ibd, here we show that yap in macrophages aggravates ibd, accompanied by the production of antimicrobial peptides and changes in gut microbiota. 
aPKCz causes tumour suppression by affecting glutamine metabolism. [SEP] importantly, we have found here that loss of pdhk4, a key regulator of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex, caused a profound cell growth inhibition in tumour cells harbouring kras mutations. moreover, stable expression of pdhk4 increased localization of activated kras at the plasma membrane and induced tumour cell growth in vitro and in vivo. taken together these data support a model where pdhk4 regulates kras signalling and its tumorigenic properties and suggest that inhibition of pdhk4 could represent a novel therapeutic strategy to target kras mutant colorectal and lung cancers. in a recent study we found that overexpression of pkcdelta reduced the expression of the astrocytic marker glutamine synthetase (gs). in this study we explored the mechanisms involved in the inhibitory effect of pkcdelta on the expression of glutamine synthetase. mutant kras promotes glutaminolysis, a process that uses steps from the tricarboxylic cycle to convert glutamine to α-ketoglutarate and other molecules via glutaminase and slc25a22. we investigated whether mutant kras-mediated glutaminolysis affects the epigenomes and activities of colorectal cancer (crc) cells. colon epithelial cells (1ct) and crc cells (dld1, dks8, hke3, and hct116) that expressed mutant kras, with or without knockdown of slc25a22 or other proteins, were deprived of glutamine or glucose and assayed for proliferation, colony formation, glucose or glutamine consumption, and apoptosis; gene expression patterns were analyzed by rna sequencing, proteins by immunoblots, and metabolites by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, with [u-13c5]-glutamine as a tracer. on the other hand, the well-recognized role of ampk in maintaining atp homeostasis, through suppression of anabolism and promotion of catabolism, as well as the role of ampk in neutralizing reactive oxygen species, via maintenance of nadph-dependent reductive capacity, point to tumour-protective roles in the context of metabolic stress, which is a key feature of many solid tumours. moreover, certain subunits of the ampk complex are frequently overexpressed in a spectrum of human cancer types, suggesting an outright oncogenic function for specific ampk complexes. 
cSMAC formation represses weak ligand signalling. [SEP] to investigate co-repressor activity in the context of this well defined signalling pathway, we have analysed the genome-wide binding profile of the best-characterized csl co-repressor in drosophila, hairless, and of a second csl interacting repressor, smrter. in the absence of ligands the corepressor n-cor mediates transcriptional repression by some nuclear hormone receptors. several protein-protein interactions of n-cor are known, of which mainly complex formation with histone deacetylases (hdacs) leads to the repression of target genes. the sant1 domain of n-cor was found to mediate this interaction. we show that k152, k1117, and k1330 of n-cor can be conjugated to sumo and that mutation of all sites is necessary to fully block sumoylation in vitro. suppressors of cytokine signaling (socs) proteins inhibit signaling by serving as substrate receptors for the cullin5-ring e3 ubiquitin ligase (crl5) and through a variety of crl5-independent mechanisms. we identified cell proteins that interact with socs2 and socs6 using two parallel proteomics techniques: bioid and flag affinity purification mass spectrometry. endogenous n-cor and smrt each associate with hdac4 in a complex that does not contain msin3a or hdac1. the identification of a co-repressor-receptor interaction motif, and the finding that co-repressors and co-activators compete for the same site on the receptor, suggests a simple mechanism for the switch from repression to activation upon ligand binding. these results suggest that n-cor is found in distinct multiprotein complexes, which are involved in multiple pathways of transcriptional repression. 
eRNAs influence is linked to senescence, aging, and carcinogenesis. [SEP] in the last decades, cellular senescence is viewed as a complex mechanism involved in different processes, ranging from tumor suppression to induction of age-related degenerative alterations. senescence-inducing stimuli are myriad and, recently, we and others have demonstrated the role exerted by micrornas in the induction and maintenance of senescence, by the identification of a subset of senescence-associated micrornas (samirs) up-regulated during replicative or stress-induced senescence and able to induce a premature senescent phenotype when over-expressed in human primary cells. cellular senescence occurs as a response to extracellular and intracellular stresses and contributes to aging and age-related pathologies. recent reports have indicated that mirnasact as key modulators of cellular senescence by targeting critical regulators of the senescence pathways. using pathway analysis of their target genes we tested the relevance of mirna regulation in the induction of senescence. similarly, cellular senescence has been linked to disease and aging. micrornas and senescence likely play an intertwined role in driving these pathologic states. exosomes and mirnas have been found to participate in the complex networks of cellular senescence and contribute to aging. here, we will give an overview on the involvement of secretory factors including exosomes and mirna in the regulation of cellular senescence, demonstrating the potential role of exosomes and mirnas in biological processes and signaling pathways of senescence and aging. one important process of cellular aging is oncogene-induced senescence, which acts as a significant anti-cancer mechanism. 
mcm 5 s 2 U is required for proper decoding of NNR codons in eukaryotes. [SEP] the wobble bases of bacterial trnas responsible for nnr codons are modified to 5-methylaminomethyl-2-thiouridine (mnm5s2u). 2-thio modification of mnm5s2u is required for accurate decoding and essential for normal cell growth. we identified five genes yhhp, yhel, yhem, yhen, and ycck (named tusa, tusb, tusc, tusd, and tuse, respectively) that are essential for 2-thiouridylation of mnm5s2u by a systematic genome-wide screen ("ribonucleome analysis"). 2'-o-ribose methylation of eukaryotic ribosomal rnas is guided by rna duplexes consisting of rrna and box c/d small nucleolar (sno)rna sequences, the methylated sites invariably mapping five positions apart from the d box. the c/d box scarna2 is predicted to guide specific 2'-o-methylation of u2 snrna. 2-5a-dependent rnase (rnase l), a unique endoribonuclease that requires 5'-phosphorylated 2',5'-linked oligoadenylates (2-5a), functions in the molecular mechanism of interferon action. to determine the properties of the enzyme in the absence of other proteins, the recombinant 2-5a-dependent rnase was purified to homogeneity. the purified enzyme migrated as a monomer upon gel filtration in the absence of activator and showed highly specific, 2-5a-dependent rnase activity. however, optimal rna cleavage rates required the presence of either manganese or magnesium and atp. these findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms of apoptosis induction by the 2-5a system, demonstrating the importance of mitochondria in 2-5oas/rnasel-induced apoptosis. 
miR-142-5P is a known regulator of raised body temperature. [SEP] transient hyperthermic shifts in body temperature have been linked to the endogenous hormone calcitonin gene-related peptide (cgrp), which can increase sympathetic activation and metabolic heat production. raised body temperature is a common occurrence after severe traumatic brain injury (tbi). of the effects of morphine and endogenous opioid peptides on thermoregulation, the one which is most likely to be of physiologic significance is hyperthermia. this increase in body temperature is the result of coordinated changes in both physiological and behavioral thermoregulatory activities and, like fever, reflects an increase in the level about which body temperature is regulated. emotional hyperthermia, circadian variations and the rise of body temperature related to exercise, have all been attributed to setpoint temperature shifts. hyperthermia is a general term used to define the increase in core body temperature above normal. it is often used to describe the increased core body temperature that is observed during fever. but until recently, it was not clear in which way, if any, small non-coding rnas such as mirnas or pirnas contribute to thermosensitive gene regulation. we have recently shown that temperature-responsive mirnas in drosophila drive adaptation to different ambient temperatures on the transcriptome level. we further briefly indicate how temperature-responsive mirnas may confound the interpretation of data obtained from experiments comprising heat-shock treatment which is a widely used technique not only in drosophila genetics. 
miR-142-5P is a temperature-sensitive microRNA (miRNA). [SEP] microrna-142 (mir-142) is an important regulator of many biological processes and associated signaling pathways during embryonic development, homeostasis and disease. mir-142-null mice show a significant decrease in th expression levels of both the 3p and 5p isoforms. micrornas (mirnas) are small, non-coding rnas that modulate gene expression by negatively regulating the stability or translational efficiency of their target mrnas. micrornas (mirnas) are small non-coding rnas that regulate gene expression primarily at the post-transcriptional level and play critical roles in a variety of physiological and pathological processes. mir-142-5p has been suggested as a critical regulator for cellular survival. we showed that mir-142-5p expression level was significantly repressed by hypoxia treatment. overexpression of mir-142-5p during hypoxia induced extensive cell injury and apoptosis whereas suppression of mir-142-5p significantly promoted cell viability and attenuated cell apoptosis with hypoxia treatment. micrornas (mirnas) are small non-coding rnas of approximately 22 nucleotides that negatively regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. downexpression of mir-140-5p was reported in some human cancers, and combined with a reduction of cell migration and invasion, suggesting that mir-140-5p functions as a tumor suppressor. here, we identified mir-140-3p as a downregulated microrna in most cancer tissues including lung cancer tissues, compared with their normal counterparts. 
miRNAs enforce homeostasis by suppressing low-level ''leaky'' transcription. [SEP] micrornas (mirnas) are small non-coding rnas that regulate gene expression by destabilizing target transcripts and/or inhibiting their translation. mirnas are thought to have roles in buffering gene expression to confer robustness. micrornas (mirnas) are small, single-stranded, endogenous non-coding rnas that repress the expression of target genes via post-transcriptional mechanisms. micrornas (mirnas) are ubiquitously expressed small non-coding rnas that, in most cases, negatively regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. mirnas are involved in fine-tuning fundamental cellular processes such as proliferation, cell death and cell cycle control and are believed to confer robustness to biological responses. linking expression profiles of transcriptional regulators and mirnas with their annotated functions, we demonstrate the dynamic interplay of mirnas and upstream regulators with biological functions. micrornas (mirnas) constitute a novel class of short, non-coding rnas that play crucial roles as silencers of gene expression during biological processes such as development, growth control, cell death, and differentiation. micrornas (mirnas) silence genes through destabilizing mrna or preventing translation of mrna, thereby playing an essential role in gene silencing. micrornas (mirnas), a highly conserved class of tissue specific, small non-protein coding rnas maintain cell homeostasis by negative gene regulation. micrornas (mirnas) are tiny, endogenous, conserved, non-coding rnas that negatively modulate gene expression by either promoting the degradation of mrna or down-regulating the protein production by translational repression. 
miRNAs regulate a unique suite of mRNAs to maintain homeostasis in cells. [SEP] micrornas (mirnas) are versatile regulators of gene expression in higher eukaryotes. micrornas (mirnas), a highly conserved class of tissue specific, small non-protein coding rnas maintain cell homeostasis by negative gene regulation. subcellular localization of mirnas and their abundance in the native cell are central for maintaining physiological homeostasis. recent evidence indicates that mirna-mediated gene regulation is critical for normal cellular functions, and as much as one-third of human mrnas may be mirna targets. mirna-mediated gene regulation is critical for normal cellular functions such as the cell cycle, differentiation, and apoptosis, and as much as one-third of human mrnas may be mirna targets. mirna-mediated gene regulation is vital for normal cellular functions, such as the cell differentiation, proliferation and apoptosis, and nearly one-third of human messenger rnas might be mirna targets. mirnas play an important role in fine-tuning host immune homeostasis and responses through the regulation of mrna stability and translation. regulation of gene expression by micrornas (mirnas) is now considered as an essential mechanism for cell development and homeostasis. micrornas (mirnas) are a class of small, highly conserved, and noncoding rnas that modulate gene expression by regulating the activity and stability of target mrnas. mirnas play significant roles by controlling fundamental cellular processes and its deregulation is associated with various diseases. 
p16INK4A degradation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). [SEP] altered pattern of p16 serves as a biomarker for oral mucosal dysplasia and malignant growth. these results suggest that inactivation of p16 is an early detectable event in oral tumorigenesis. p16 expression could also be connected with tumor grading and may be useful marker in oral tumor progression. the purpose of this review is to elucidate the relationship between p16(ink4a) expression and the different clinical and pathological aspects of oscc, analyze the variation in results between studies, detailing the described genetic/epigenetic alterations that result in gene silencing and the relationship between p16(ink4a) and hpv infection. recently it has been observed that p16 expression is lost in oral cavity cancer cell lines in the presence of a normal intact gene. these data implicate dna methylation as a mechanism for transcriptional silencing of the p16 ink4a gene in oral cancer cells. oral carcinogenesis is a complex and multifactorial process that involves cumulative genetic and molecular alterations, leading to uncontrolled cell proliferation, impaired dna repair and defective cell death. the objective of this study was to use immunohistochemistry to analyze the patterns of expression of the cell-cycle regulatory proteins p53 and p16(ink4a) in potentially malignant disorders (pmd) of the oral mucosa (with varying degrees of dysplasia) and in oral squamous cell carcinomas (oscc) to correlate them with the expression of telomerase (htert). p16(ink4a) expression was observed in 26.7% of pmd, in 43.3% of oscc and in 2 cases of oeh. p16ink4 protein negative expression correlated significantly with tumor progression features such as advanced tumor stages (p=0.0291), lymph node metastasis (p=0.005), pancreas invasion (p=0.0002) and duodenum invasion (p=0.0101). 
p16INK4A degradation is encoded by CDKN2A. [SEP] cdkn2a encodes proteins such as p16 (ink4a), which negatively regulate the cell-cycle. p16ink4a is a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor (cdki), and regulates the cell cycle negatively. recently, p16ink4a protein was shown to be encoded by the cdkn2 gene, which is identical to multiple tumor suppressor gene 1 (mts1) on chromosome 9p21, where genetic alterations occur frequently in many malignant tumors. as the loss of p16ink4a function by genetic alterations leads to inappropriate progression of the cell cycle, the cdkn2 gene has been investigated intensively as a new candidate tumor suppressor gene in many malignant tumors. cdkn2 encodes a 16 kda protein product (p16ink4a), which functions as a specific inhibitor or the cyclin-dependent kinases 4 and 6. the cdkn2a tumor-suppressor gene in chromosome band 9p21 encoding cdkn2a (also known as p16, ink4a), a negative regulator of cyclin-dependent kinases, and p14(arf1), an activator of tp53, is inactivated in many human cancers by point mutations, promoter hypermethylation, or deletions. expression of p16ink4a, the product of the melanoma susceptibility gene cdkn2a, has been shown to decrease in correlation with tumor progression. p16ink4a is a key regulator of cell-cycle function, and likely interacts with a variety of targets alongside cyclin-dependent kinases (cdks). the protein, p16, the product of cyclin-dependent kinase number 2 (cdkn2) gene, is one of the negative regulators of the cell cycle. cdk4, encoded by cdk4 gene, is the substrate of p16. 
p75 NTR - associated cell death executor (NADE) interacts with the p75 NTR death domain [SEP] we recently identified nrage, a protein that directly interacts with the p75ntr cytosolic region and facilitates p75ntr-mediated cell death. nade (p75ntr-associated cell death executor) is a p75ntr-associated protein that mediates apoptosis in response to ngf by interacting with the death domain of p75ntr in 293t, pc12, and nnr5 cells (mukai, j., hachiya, t., shoji-hoshino, s., kimura, m. t., nadano, d., suvanto, p., hanaoka, t., li, y., irie, s., greene, l. a., and sato, t. a. mutation of the nes also abolished self-association of nade, its interaction with p75ntr, and ngf-dependent apoptosis. the neurotrophin receptor p75(ntr) conveys multiple signals via its intracellular death domain. here, we demonstrate that death receptor 6 (dr6) binds to p75(ntr) and is a component of the p75(ntr) signaling complex responsible for aβ-induced cortical neuron death. the recent recognition that the p75 neurotrophin receptor, p75((ntr)), can induce apoptotic signals has contributed to the perception that it acts primarily as a death receptor. thus p75(ntr) activates neuronal death pathways in conditions where the balance of normal rip is shifted toward extracellular domain cleavage due to increased metalloprotease activity, decreased trka activity or compromised gamma-secretase activity, all of which are features of neurodegenerative conditions such as alzheimer's disease. the p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(ntr)) mediates neuronal death in response to neural insults by activating a caspase apoptotic pathway. we have tested the relevance of the p75(ntr) death domain (dd) and the highly conserved transmembrane residue cys(259) for the ability of p75(ntr) to induce apoptosis in neurons of the cns using gene-targeted mutant mice. our results show that nrage contributes to p75ntr-dependent cell death and suggest novel functions for mage family proteins. 
qSOFA scores are associated with length of stay in emergency department patients. [SEP] our study concludes that qsofa score is an effective tool at predicting in hospital mortality in comparison to sofa score when applied to severe sepsis and septic shock patients in the setting of a tertiary care hospital ed of a low-middle income country however, further studies are needed before application for this purpose. this study evaluated the qsofa score as a prognostic factor for 30-day mortality in emergency department (ed) patients with sepsis identified by the systemic inflammatory response syndrome (sirs) criteria. the quick sequential organ failure assessment (qsofa) score can be used to predict in-hospital mortality in trauma patients. repeated calculations of qsofa score improved its ability to predict in-hospital mortality in trauma patients. multivariate regression analysis for in-hospital mortality demonstrated that the qsofa score is an independent prognosticator for in-hospital mortality, especially among noninfected patients (odds ratio, 3.60; p <0.01). in conclusion, the prehospital qsofa score was associated with in-hospital mortality in noninfected patients and may be a beneficial tool for identifying deteriorating patients in the prehospital setting. we determined the association between qsofa scores and outcomes in adult emergency department (ed) patients with and without suspected infection. univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to explore the association between qsofa scores and inpatient mortality, admission, and length of stay. qsofa scores were associated with mortality (0 [0.6%], 1 [2.8%], 2 [12.8%], and 3 [25.0%]), icu admission (0 [5.1%], 1 [10.5%], 2 [20.8%], and 3 [27.4%]), and hospital length of stay (0 [123 hours], 1 [163 hours], 2 [225 hours], and 3 [237 hours]). qsofa scores were associated with inpatient mortality, admission, icu admission, and hospital length of stay in adult ed patients likely to be admitted both with and without suspected infection and may be useful in predicting outcomes. 
r-protein chaperones are found in complexes with their r-protein binding partners. [SEP] the rvb1-rvb2-tah1-pih1/prefoldin-like (r2tp/pfdl) complex is a unique chaperone that provides a platform for the assembly and maturation of many key multiprotein complexes in mammalian cells. molecular chaperones assist cellular protein folding as well as oligomeric complex assembly. chaperonins are macromolecular complexes found throughout all kingdoms of life that assist unfolded proteins reach a biologically active state. molecular chaperones localized at the endoplasmic reticulum (er) lumen constitutively or cellular stress-dependently associate with a variety of proteins to promote their proper folding or to inhibit protein misfolding. er chaperones preferentially form large complexes with co-chaperones and/or misfolded proteins in a highly crowded cellular environment that often hampers their detection by immunocytochemistry (icc). molecular chaperones assist proteins to reach their mature and functional conformation. it has become apparent in recent years that chaperones function as part of a multiprotein heterocomplex that is potentially involved not only in protein folding, but also in intracellular trafficking and in targeting proteins for degradation. many other proteins may have a chaperone function in vivo. chaperones are abundant cellular proteins that promote the folding and function of their substrate proteins (clients). we uncover hundreds of chaperone clients, delineate their participation in specific cochaperone complexes, and establish a surprisingly distinct network of protein-protein interactions for cochaperones. 
siRNA knockdown of A20 accelerates tumor progression in an in vivo murine xenograft model. [SEP] herein we report that the vegfr/pdgfr kinase inhibitor sunitinib/su11248 can accelerate metastatic tumor growth and decrease overall survival in mice receiving short-term therapy in various metastasis assays, including after intravenous injection of tumor cells or after removal of primary orthotopically grown tumors. human xenograft tumor models are widely used for efficacy evaluation of potential cancer targets. sirna is usually stably introduced into tumor cells prior to transplantation. we investigated the suppressive effect of sirna-mediated co-inhibition of pd-1 and ctla-4 expression on h22 hepatomas in mice. the tumor-bearing mice were randomly divided into four groups: control, single pd-1 sirna, single ctla-4 sirna, and double pd-1 + ctla-4 sirnas. to assess the effects of sirnas on mouse immune function, the protein levels of ifn-γ and il-10 in the blood and pd-l1 in the tumor and liver were determined using elisa, and the mrna levels of ifn-γ, pd-l1, pd-1, ctla-4, il-6 and survivin in the tumor, liver and spleen were determined using quantitative rt-pcr. the ratios of bax and bcl-2 protein were determined via western blot to analyze the effect of sirnas on tumor cell apoptosis. the anti-tumor effect appeared in all groups with sirna-mediated inhibition. the weight and volume of the tumors were significantly lower and the survival rate improved in the three sirna groups. co-inhibiting the expressions of pd-1 and ctla-4 can effectively suppress the growth of h22 hepatoma and promote the apoptosis of tumor cells in mice. 
siRNA knockdown of A20 slows tumor progression in an in vivo murine xenograft model. [SEP] we show that an adenosine 2b receptor inhibitor (a2bri) decreases both experimental and spontaneous metastasis and combines with chemotherapy or immune checkpoint inhibitors in mouse models of melanoma and triple-negative breast cancer (tnbc) metastasis. knockdown of a2br on mouse and human cancer cells reduces their metastasis in vivo and decreases their viability and colony-forming ability, while transiently delaying cell-cycle arrest in vitro the prometastatic activity of adenosine is partly tumor a2br dependent and independent of host a2br expression. collectively, high a2br on mouse and human tumors promotes cancer metastasis and is an ideal candidate for therapeutic intervention. we have previously reported that the downregulation of mmp-2 by adenovirus-mediated delivery of mmp-2 sirna (ad-mmp-2) reduced spheroid invasion and angiogenesis in vitro, and, metastasis and tumor growth in vivo. to inhibit the growth of murine melanoma b16 cells in mice, we downregulated the gene expression of beta-catenin and hypoxia-inducible factor 1alpha (hif1alpha) in the tumor cells by delivering short hairpin rna (shrna)-expressing plasmid dna (pdna) targeting one of these genes. we investigated the suppressive effect of sirna-mediated co-inhibition of pd-1 and ctla-4 expression on h22 hepatomas in mice. to assess the effects of sirnas on mouse immune function, the protein levels of ifn-γ and il-10 in the blood and pd-l1 in the tumor and liver were determined using elisa, and the mrna levels of ifn-γ, pd-l1, pd-1, ctla-4, il-6 and survivin in the tumor, liver and spleen were determined using quantitative rt-pcr. the ratios of bax and bcl-2 protein were determined via western blot to analyze the effect of sirnas on tumor cell apoptosis. the anti-tumor effect appeared in all groups with sirna-mediated inhibition. the weight and volume of the tumors were significantly lower and the survival rate improved in the three sirna groups. 
taa1 tar1 tar2 triple mutants in Arabidopsis do not make root meristem during embryogenesis. [SEP] activation of cell division in the root apical meristem after germination is essential for postembryonic root development. arabidopsis plants homozygous for a mutation in the root meristemless1 (rml1) gene are unable to establish an active postembryonic meristem in the root apex. we describe a novel phenotype in arabidopsis embryos homozygous for the temperature-sensitive topless-1 mutation. this mutation causes the transformation of the shoot pole into a root. shifts of developing topless embryos between permissive and restrictive temperatures show that apical fates (cotyledons plus shoot apical meristem) can be transformed to basal fates (root) as late as transition stage. as the apical pole of transition stage embryos shows both morphological and molecular characteristics of shoot development, this demonstrates that the topless 1 mutation is capable of causing structures specified as shoot to be respecified as root. in arabidopsis embryogenesis, the primary root meristem originates from descendants of both the apical and the basal daughter cell of the zygote. we have isolated a mutant of a new gene named bodenlos (bdl) in which the primary root meristem is not formed whereas post-embryonic roots develop and bdl seedlings give rise to fertile adult plants. we have isolated a dominant, auxin-insensitive mutant of arabidopsis thaliana, massugu2 (msg2), that displays neither hypocotyl gravitropism nor phototropism, fails to maintain an apical hook as an etiolated seedling, and is defective in lateral root formation. loss-of-function mutations in the fusca3 (fus3) gene of arabidopsis result in alterations in cotyledon identity, inability to complete late seed maturation processes, and the premature activation of apical and root embryonic meristems, which indicates that this transcription factor is an essential regulator of embryogenesis. 
β-sheet opening occurs during pleurotolysin pore formation. [SEP] β-barrel pore-forming toxins perforate cell membranes by forming oligomeric β-barrel pores. our study suggests that the presence of y321 in the hinge region of the pore-forming motif is crucial for the toxin molecule to sense membrane-binding, and to trigger essential structural rearrangements required for the subsequent oligomerization and pore-formation process. such a regulatory mechanism of pore-formation by v. cholerae cytolysin has not been documented earlier in the structurally related β-barrel pore-forming toxins. the formation of lytic pores requires conformational changes in pfo that lead to the conversion of water-soluble monomers into membrane-bound oligomers. formation of this channel occurs after some pa-receptor contacts are broken to allow pore formation, while others are retained to preserve receptor association. the structure, in combination with the monomeric forms, demonstrates the elaborate molecular machinery involved in pore formation by two different molecules, in which interprotomer electrostatic interactions using loops connecting β2 and β3 (loop a: asp43-lys48 of lukf and lys37-lys43 of hlg2) play pivotal roles as the structural determinants for assembly through unwinding of the n-terminal β-strands (amino-latch) of the adjacent protomer, releasing the transmembrane stem domain folded into a β-sheet in the monomer (prestem), and interaction with the adjacent protomer. the determination of the crystal structure of the bacterial protein proaerolysin provided the first view of a pore-forming toxin constructed mainly from beta-sheet. recent discoveries of structural similarities between aerolysin and other toxins suggest that the structure/function studies we have made may prove useful in understanding the actions of a number of pore-forming proteins. these studies provide the first insight to our knowledge into the molecular mechanism that controls the prepore-to-pore transition for a βpft. the water-soluble, monomeric form of these toxins shows a dramatic conformational change during pore formation, as exemplified by crystal structures of the monomer and functional pore of cytolysin a (clya). 
β1/Ketel is able to bind microtubules. [SEP] kinetochore microtubules (kmts) are a subset of spindle microtubules that bind directly to the kinetochore to form the kinetochore fiber (k-fiber). kinesin-1 transports numerous cellular cargoes along microtubules. both klc and khc subunits bind cargoes or regulatory proteins to engage the motor for movement along microtubules. using an in vitro motility assay, we show that jip3 binding to klc engages kinesin-1 with microtubules and that jip3 binding to khc promotes kinesin-1 motility along microtubules. kinesin-1 is responsible for microtubule-based transport of numerous cellular cargoes. in vitro, purified map7 and map7d3 increase microtubule landing rate and processivity of kinesin-1 through transient association with the motor. map7 proteins promote binding of kinesin-1 to microtubules both directly, through the n-terminal microtubule-binding domain and unstructured linker region, and indirectly, through an allosteric effect exerted by the kinesin-binding c-terminal domain. it has been reported that krp1p, kinesin-related protein 1, which belongs to the kinesin heavy chain superfamily, localizes on microtubules and may play an important role in cytokinesis. kinesin-1 is a processive molecular motor transporting cargo along microtubules. inside cells, several motors and microtubule-associated proteins compete for binding to microtubules. 
0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. [SEP] here, we generated and characterized novel membrane-like models with increased structural and biomechanical properties based on the chemical cross-linking of fah and nfah with genipin (gp at 0.1%, 0.25%, 0.5% and 0.75%). the 3d printed metallic implants are considered bioinert in nature because of the absence of bioactive molecules. a morphologically controlled three-dimensional (3d) cell construct composed of only cells and having no scaffold material might be a valuable biologic material for tissue engineering applications, as the scaffold materials can cause delay of tissue regeneration in some conditions. these 2d/3d cell constructs have numbers of exciting applications such as cell carriers for tissue regeneration or as model tissues for the biological study. modern synthetic biomaterials are being designed to integrate bioactive ligands within hydrogel scaffolds for cells to respond and assimilate within the matrix. these advanced biomaterials are only beginning to be used to simulate the complex spatio-temporal control of the natural healing microenvironment. with increasing understanding of the role of growth factors and cytokines and their interactions with components of the extracellular matrix, novel biomaterials are being developed that more closely mimic the natural healing environments of tissues, resulting in increased efficacy in applications of tissue repair and regeneration. the basic knowledge of the interactions between mechanical stimuli, cells and biomaterials is growing but the quantitative effect of mechanical stimuli on cells attached to biomaterials is still unknown. the osteoinductive capacity of biological noncellular material has been widely recognized. these studies demonstrate that the inductive capacity of biological noncellular material is not limited to the osteogenic lineage and suggest that acellular spinal cord matrix could be used to generate host-derived cells for use in neural repair and regeneration. 
1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. [SEP] rapid advances in next-generation sequencing technologies facilitate genetic association studies of an increasingly wide array of rare variants. developments in sequencing technology have led to the identification of a high density of rare variant single-nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) on the genome, each of which affects only at most 1% of the population. genotypes derived from these snps allow one to study the involvement of rare variants in common human disorders. the 1,000 genome project, the exome aggregation consortium (exac) or the genome aggregation database (gnomad) datasets, were developed to provide large-scale reference data of genetic variations for various populations to filter out common benign variants and identify rare variants of clinical importance based on their frequency in the human population. initial insights into the contribution of rare variants in common diseases and medically relevant quantitative traits point to low-frequency and rare alleles acting either independently or in aggregate and in several cases alongside common variants. although genome-wide association studies have been successful in detecting associations with common variants, there is currently an increasing interest in identifying low-frequency and rare variants associated with complex traits. next-generation sequencing technologies make it feasible to survey the full spectrum of genetic variation in coding regions or the entire genome. recently a battery of new statistical methods has been proposed for identifying rare variants associated with complex traits. in this unit, we describe key concepts for rare variant association for complex traits, survey some of the recent methods, discuss their statistical power under various scenarios, and provide practical guidance on analyzing next-generation sequencing data for identifying rare variants associated with complex traits. hundreds of thousands of human genomes are now being sequenced to characterize genetic variation and use this information to augment association mapping studies of complex disorders and other phenotypic traits. 
1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. [SEP] the prevalence of variant creutzfeldt-jakob disease (vcjd) in the population remains uncertain, although it has been estimated that 1 in 2000 people in the united kingdom are positive for abnormal prion protein (prptse) by a recent survey of archived appendix tissues. previously collected urine specimens from 100 patients referred to the uk national cjd surveillance unit as suspected cases of creutzfeldt-jakob disease (cjd) were analyzed, testing for abnormal prion protein (prp(sc)). materials from 11 autopsy and seven biopsy cases were analysed for prp(res). a single specimen from the spleen of one autopsy case gave a strong positive result on repeated testing for prp(res) by western blot analysis. analysis of archived appendix samples reveals that one in 2000 individuals in the united kingdom may carry the infectious prion protein associated with variant creutzfeldt-jakob disease (vcjd), raising questions about the risk of transfusion transmission from apparently healthy carriers. the abnormal form of the prion protein (prp) is believed to be responsible for the transmissible spongiform encephalopathies. this assay is sensitive for abnormal prp conformers at the earliest stages of preclinical prion disease in mice and precedes the maximum infectious titre in blood. the amino acid sequence 106-126 from prion proteins, prp(106-126), is highly amyloidogenic and implicated in prion-induced pathologies. as prp is known to be expressed in blood following leakage from brain tissue, we sought to investigate its biological effects on human platelets, which have been widely employed as 'peripheral' model for neurons. our findings suggested that, prp(106-126) (20μm) induced dramatic 30-fold rise in intracellular calcium (from 105±30 to 3425±525nm) in platelets, which was attributable to influx from extracellular fluid with comparatively less contribution from intracellular stores. 
5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. [SEP] new strategies will be critical to reduce infant mortality and severe morbidity - there are still 5.2 million newborn deaths and stillbirths each year. to reduce the low birth weight deliveries, we studied the maternal factors which adversely affect the fetus in utero and their impact on fetus. we found that prepregnancy maternal body mass index (p<0.01 for bmi <20), unbooked status (p<0.01), pre eclampsia (p <0.01) and bad obstetric history (p<0.01) were the maternal factors which resulted in low birth weight babies in most of the cases. because of the adverse effects of low birth weight (lbw) on infant morbidity and mortality, one of the 1990 health objectives for the nation has been to reduce the incidence of lbw to 5% among all live births in the united states. this study showed that the magnitude of low birth weight among study participants was 12.5%, and factors such as maternal medical complication during pregnancy, maternal muac less than 23 cm, and birth interval less than 24 months were significantly associated with low birth. the problem of low birth weight has emerged as the single most important cause of infant death or subsequent handicaps in infancy and childhood. although low birth weight babies (below 5.5 pounds) represent a small percentage of all babies born, well over half of all infant deaths occur among this group. low birth weight (lbw or birth weight<2500 g) is one of the most serious children problems in today's world. today, low birth weight--weight less than 2,500 grams (5 pounds 8 ounces)--is recognized as the single most significant characteristic of the newborn associated with a greater risk of mortality and morbidity. this paper highlights maternal and infant health factors associated with low birth weight, using data from the 1972 and 1980 national natality surveys. 
A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. [SEP] a deficiency of vitamins b ( 6 ), b ( 12 ), or folate in the blood can cause increased blood levels of homocysteine. an elevated plasma homocysteine level is an established risk factor for cardiovascular disease. vitamin b12 plays a key role in homocysteine metabolism and could be the main factor in causing cardiovascular disease as well. serum vitamin b12 and plasma homocysteine levels were measured in fasting blood samples. in conclusion, high plasma homocysteine concentration, but not a low serum vitamin b12 concentration, increases the risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in patients with ischaemic heart disease. dietary supplementation with vitamin b(12), folate, and other substances can reduce homocysteine levels. vitamin b12 and folic acid deficiency are associated with a higher serum concentration of homocysteine. mildly increased homocysteine causes dysfunction of the vascular endothelium. hyperhomocysteinemia may be an early indicator for vitamin b12 disorders because cobalamin is a cofactor in the remethylation process of homocysteine. vitamins b12 , b6 , and folic acid are cofactors in homocysteine metabolism, and supplementation with b vitamins is effective in lowering homocysteine levels in humans. 
A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. [SEP] individuals homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia have microcytosis and an increased erythrocyte count. we tested the hypothesis that the erythrocyte indices associated with alpha(+)-thalassaemia homozygosity provide a haematological benefit during acute malaria. this model predicted that children homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia lose less hb than children of normal genotype for a reduction in erythrocyte count of >1.1 x 10(12)/l as a result of the reduced mean cell hb in homozygous alpha(+)-thalassaemia. the increased erythrocyte count and microcytosis in children homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia may contribute substantially to their protection against sma. high counts of circulating microparticles, originated from the membrane of abnormal erythrocytes, have been associated with increased thrombotic risk in hemolytic disorders. our studies indicate that in thalassemia intermedia patients the number of circulating microparticles correlates with the capability of the thalassemic erythrocytes to release microparticles. depending on the genotype, alpha-thalassemia results in moderate to profound anemia, hemolysis, growth delays, splenomegaly, and increased risk for thromboembolic events; certain patients might require chronic transfusions. microcytic hypochromic anemia is a common condition in clinical practice, and alpha-thalassemia has to be considered as a differential diagnosis. previous studies have shown that the severe form of this disease, thalassemia major, is associated with genotoxicity. the degree of microcytosis and hypochromia has been correlated with the number of affected α-globin genes, suggesting a promising role of hematologic parameters as predictive diagnostic tools. 
A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. [SEP] the prevalence of variant creutzfeldt-jakob disease (vcjd) in the population remains uncertain, although it has been estimated that 1 in 2000 people in the united kingdom are positive for abnormal prion protein (prptse) by a recent survey of archived appendix tissues. here, we aim to clarify the epidemiologic and influencing factors of asymptomatic carriers in the general population. the prevalence of hepatitis c virus infection in the general population in france averages 1%. we describe the prevalence, seasonality and characteristics of asymptomatic norovirus infection in england. the risk of variant creutzfeldt-jakob disease (vcjd) from potentially infected plasma products remains unquantified. total potential vcjd infectivity received by each patient has been estimated by cumulating estimated infectivity from all doses received during their lifetime. for these 604 patients, the estimated vcjd risk is ≥ 1% for 595, ≥ 50% for 164 and 100% for 51. of 604 patients, 94 (16%) received implicated batches linked to donors who developed clinical vcjd within 6 months of their donations. by 1st january 2009, none of these patients had developed clinical vcjd. the absence of clinical vcjd cases in this cohort to date suggests that either plasma fraction infectivity estimates are overly precautionary, or the incubation period is longer for this cohort than for implicated cellular blood product recipients. 
ADAR1 binds to Dicer to cleave pre-miRNA. [SEP] we previously reported that adar1 forms a heterodimer complex with dicer and facilitates processing of pre-mirnas to mature mirnas. in addition to mirna synthesis, dicer is involved in processing of long dsrnas into small rnas (endo-sirnas). dicer is a rate-limiting enzyme for microrna (mirna) synthesis. most importantly, adar1 increases the maximum rate (vmax) of pre-microrna (mirna) cleavage by dicer and facilitates loading of mirna onto rna-induced silencing complexes, identifying a new role of adar1 in mirna processing and rnai mechanisms. dicer has a central role in rna-interference pathways by cleaving double-stranded rnas (dsrnas) to produce small regulatory rnas. our studies show that dicer traps pre-sirnas in a nonproductive conformation, whereas interactions of dicer with pre-mirnas and dsrna-binding proteins induce structural changes in the enzyme that enable productive substrate recognition in the central catalytic channel. these results support the conclusion that in humans, dicer-associated dsrna-binding proteins are important regulatory factors that contribute both substrate and cleavage specificity during mirna and sirna production. the results showed that the inhibition of either dicer protein partner substantially affected not only mirna levels but also pre-mirna levels, and it had a rather minor effect on the specificity of dicer cleavage. the analysis of the dicer cleavage products generated in vitro revealed the presence of a cleavage intermediate when pre-mirna was processed by recombinant dicer alone. dicer processes premicro-rna and double-strand rna to, respectively, mature micro-rna and short interfering rna (sirna) and transfers the processed products to the rna-induced silencing complex. 
AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. [SEP] autoimmune regulator (aire) is a transcriptional regulator that is primarily expressed in medullary epithelial cells, where it induces tissue-specific antigen expression. under pathological conditions, aire expression is induced in epidermal cells and promotes skin tumor development. this study aimed to clarify the role of aire in the pathogenesis of oral squamous cell carcinoma (oscc). aire expression was evaluated in six oscc cell lines and in oscc tissue specimens. this is a novel function of aire in extrathymic tissues under the pathological condition. recently, aire expression was detected also in human keratinocytes and in tumors originating in stratified epithelia. here, we tested whether aire is expressed in cancer cells. we analyzed aire expression in cancer cases from the cancer genome atlas (tcga) rna-seq dataset and we found association with better outcome. aire protein expression was verified by immunohistochemistry in a cohort of 39 human breast cancer specimens and its prognostic relevance was confirmed in microarray-based gene expression data set nki-295 and km-plotter. these data are the first to identify aire expression in breast cancer and an association with prognosis. 
ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. [SEP] the up-regulation of aldh1 after nac predicts poor survival in locally advanced breast cancer. the current study hypothesized that aldh1 functionally contributes to breast cancer metastatic behavior and therapy resistance. aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 (aldh1) has been identified as a reliable marker of breast cancer stem cells, and its clinical significance as a prognostic indicator of breast cancer has been reported by several investigators. aldh1 expression in carcinoma cells is an independent prognostic factor in tn breast cancer patients. aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 (aldh1) is a marker of breast cancer stem cells, and the expression of aldh1 may be a prognostic factor of poor clinical outcome. we investigated the expression of aldh1 and transcription factors in both primary and metastatic lesions, and prognostic value of them in breast cancer patients with axillary lymph node metastasis (alnm). the evaluation of the co-expression of aldh1 and transcription factors in primary lesions may be useful in prognosis of node-positive breast cancers. aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 (aldh1) has been regarded as a breast cancer stem cell marker. several studies have reported that aldh1 expression is associated with poor prognosis in breast cancer. we aimed, therefore, to determine the prognostic value of aldh1 expression and its association with several biomarkers in breast cancer tissue using immunohistochemistry. 
ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. [SEP] studies have shown that aldh1a1 expression in the breast is associated with worse clinical outcome. several studies have reported that aldh1 expression is associated with poor prognosis in breast cancer. we aimed, therefore, to determine the prognostic value of aldh1 expression and its association with several biomarkers in breast cancer tissue using immunohistochemistry. recent studies showed that aldh1 expression is correlated with poor prognostic parameters and worse clinical outcome in bc. many reports suggest that aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 (aldh1) expression is associated with poorer neoadjuvant chemotherapy (nac) response in patients with breast cancer; however, the prognostic value of this enzyme in cancer has yet to be confirmed. our results suggested that higher aldh1 expression is associated with poorer nac responses in patients with breast cancer. previous studies have shown that aldh1 expression in primary breast cancers was associated with poor clinical prognosis. in this study, we aimed to determine whether aldh1 expression in axillary lymph node metastases (alnm) of breast cancer patients was also associated with poor prognosis. survival analysis and multivariate analysis were used to determine the relationship between aldh1 expression and clinical prognosis. we conclude that the expression of aldh1 in primary breast tumors or alnm may be one potential risk factor for poor, long-term outcomes. 
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. [SEP] it has been demonstrated that alveolar macrophages (ams) play a key role in the pathogenesis of pulmonary fibrosis by releasing a variety of cytokines and inflammatory mediators. the current study was performed to investigate the effect of adenosine monophosphate (amp) - activated protein kinase (ampk) activation on the extracellular matrix (ecm) remodeling of pulmonary arteries in pulmonary arterial hypertension (pah) and to address its potential mechanisms. metformin (met) was administered to activate ampk. this study suggests that activation of ampk benefits pah by inhibiting ecm remodeling of pulmonary arteries. the fibroproliferative response to acute lung injury (ali) results in severe, persistent respiratory dysfunction. asbestos-exposure causes an inflammatory response driven by alveolar macrophages that can lead to pulmonary fibrosis. we studied if adipokines are related to the degree of parenchymal fibrosis, impaired lung function and inflammation in asbestos-exposed subjects. various animal models have demonstrated the importance of cytokines in the pathogenesis of pulmonary fibrosis. when stimulated, alveolar epithelial cells (aecs) are aberrantly activated, the expression of profibrotic molecules is enhanced, and lung fibrosis is promoted, but the mechanism for this is unclear. factors that affect lung epithelial cell proliferation and activation may be important regulators of the extent of fibrosis after injury. 
APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. [SEP] apoe4 increases brain amyloid-β pathology relative to other apoe isoforms. treatment of p301s neurons with recombinant apoe (e2, e3, e4) also leads to some neuronal damage and death compared with the absence of apoe, with apoe4 exacerbating the effect. our results demonstrate that apoe affects tau pathogenesis, neuroinflammation, and tau-mediated neurodegeneration independently of amyloid-β pathology. apoe4 is more susceptible to proteolysis, and apoe fragments have been shown to promote tau hyperphosphorylation and exert neurotoxic properties. neuronal expression of apoe4 or apoe4 fragments in transgenic mice increases tau phosphorylation. apoe4 has recently been described to increase neurodegeneration in a mouse model of frontotemporal dementia (ftd), in vitro, and in patients, demonstrating that apoe4 modifies tauopathy independently of aβ. we conclude that apoe4 accelerates neurodegeneration in ftd patients with mapt mutations or ftld-tau pathology, independent of aβ. apoe ε4 is also shown to exacerbate neurodegeneration and neuroinflammation in a tau transgenic mouse model. we also show that in humans, the apoe ε2 allele is associated with increased tau pathology in the brains of progressive supranuclear palsy (psp) cases. although expression of apoe4 led to significantly reduced uptake of aβ in contrast to the other isoforms, we could show that apoe4 specifically increased phagocytosis of apoptotic neuronal cells. 
APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. [SEP] apoe4 mice displayed significantly reduced excitatory synaptic transmission and dendritic arborization. neuronal expression of apoe4 or apoe4 fragments in transgenic mice increases tau phosphorylation. the hypothesis that the expression pattern of human apoe might be important for the pathogenesis of alzheimer's disease was tested by generating transgenic mice that express human apoe4 in neurons or in astrocytes of the central nervous system. transgenic mice expressing human apoe4 in neurons developed axonal degeneration and gliosis in brain and in spinal cord, resulting in reduced sensorimotor capacities. these results suggest that expression of human apoe in neurons of the central nervous system could contribute to impaired axonal transport and axonal degeneration. the apolipoprotein e (apoe, gene; apoe, protein) type 4 isoform is a well-established risk factor for late-onset alzheimer's disease (ad), and new data suggest that apoe promoter polymorphisms might also modulate ad risk, perhaps by altering transcription of the apoe gene. apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4) has a key role on the onset and progression of alzheimer's disease (ad), since it favours the deposition of toxic amyloid-beta (aβ) aggregates in the brain. the apolipoprotein e (apoe) epsilon 4 allele (apoe4) is a major risk factor for neurodegenerative conditions, including alzheimer's disease (ad). a role for apoe in regeneration of synaptic circuitry after neural injury has been shown in several in vitro studies in which apoe3 supports neuronal sprouting better than apoe4. sprouting supported by apoe4 had a dose response opposite that by supported by apoe3: although increasing e3 expression increased sprouting, increasing e4 expression decreased sprouting, suggesting that the defect in e4 in supporting neuronal sprouting is a gain-of-negative activity. 
Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. [SEP] therefore, p53 activation by inhibiting mdm2 has been proposed as a novel strategy for cancer therapy in tumors expressing wild-type p53. direct binding of mdm2 to p53 represses the protein's transcriptional activity and induces its polyubiquitination, targeting it for degradation by the proteasome. ppm1d is a p53-inducible ser/thr phosphatase. one of the main functions of ppm1d in normal cells is to act as a negative regulator of the p53 tumor suppressor by dephosphorylating p53 and several kinases. ppm1d is considered an oncoprotein owing to both its functions and the fact that gene amplification and overexpression of ppm1d are reported in several tumors. recently, ppm1d mutations resulting in c-terminal truncated alterations were found in brainstem gliomas and colorectal cancers, and these mutations enhanced the activity of ppm1d. therefore, c-terminal truncated ppm1d should be also considered as a potential candidate target of anticancer drugs. here we showed that combination treatment with ppm1d-specific inhibitor spi-001 and doxorubicin suppressed cell viability of hct-116 cells overexpressing c-terminal truncated ppm1d through p53 activation compared with doxorubicin alone. our results suggest that combination treatment with ppm1d inhibitor and doxorubicin may be a potential anti-cancer treatment in ppm1d-mutated cancer cells. a novel target for inhibiting p53 degradation and for causing reexpression of p53wild type is inhibition of mdm2. 
Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. [SEP] afadin dil domain-interacting protein (adip) is a novel protein that binds both afadin and alpha-actinin and localizes at adherens junctions, which are formed by nectins and cadherins, cell-cell adhesion molecules. alpha-actinin is another f-actin-binding protein that is indirectly associated with cadherins through the catenin complex. adip is at least partly involved in the physical association of nectins and cadherins. we show here that adip furthermore binds beta'-cop, a subunit of the coatomer complex. adip co-localizes with beta'-cop at the golgi complex in madin darby canine kidney and normal rat kidney cells. adducin is primarily responsible for the assembly of spectrin-actin network that provides physical support to the plasma membrane and mediates signal transduction in various cellular physiological processes upon regulation by protein kinase c-dependent and calcium/calmodulin-dependent pathways. add-87 co-localises with f-actin and spectrin in the cortex of the oocyte through stage 10 of oogenesis, consistent with a possible role in cytoskeletal assembly or function predicted by mammalian studies. adpa, belonging to the arac/xyls family, is the key transcriptional activator for a number of genes of various functions in the a-factor regulatory cascade in streptomyces griseus. a dimer of adpa bound a site including the two consensus sequences, with a space of 13-14 bp, as an inverted repeat (type i) at various positions, for example more than 200 bp upstream (-200) and 25 bp downstream (+25) from the transcriptional start point of the target gene. for transcriptional activation, some genes required simultaneous binding of a dimer of adpa to type i and ii sites, but others required only a single type i or type ii site. 
Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. [SEP] in the human gastric bacterium helicobacter pylori, two metalloenzymes, hydrogenase and urease, are essential for in vivo colonization, the latter being a major virulence factor. in h pylori, urease allows the bacteria to survive in an acidic gastric environment during colonisation, playing an important role in the pathogenesis of gastric and peptic ulcers. the pathogenicity of helicobacter pylori depends on the activity of urease for ph modification. here it is demonstrated that both h. pylori carbonic anhydrases (cas) are required for maintaining urease activity and therefore influence h. pylori urea resistance at neutral ph. the pathogenicity of helicobacter pylori relies heavily on urease, which converts urea to ammonia to neutralize the stomach acid. urease plays a central role in the pathogenesis of helicobacter pylori in humans. maturation of this nickel metalloenzyme in bacteria requires the participation of the accessory proteins ured (termed ureh in h. pylori), uref, and ureg, which form sequential complexes with the urease apoprotein as well as uree, a metallochaperone. here, we describe the crystal structure of c-terminal truncated uref from h. pylori (residues 1-233), the first uref structure to be determined, at 1.55 a resolution using sad methods. the urease enzyme of h. pylori was expressed as an inactive recombinant protein in escherichia coli, purified as particulate structures of 550-600 kda molecular mass with a diameter of approximately 12 nm. urease is an important virulence factor for gastric helicobacter spp. 
Albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. [SEP] mass treatment with albendazole co-administered with another antifilarial drug is part of a global programme to eliminate lymphatic filariasis. to summarize the effects of albendazole alone or in combination with antifilarial drugs for clinical treatment and community control of lymphatic filariasis. randomized and quasi-randomized controlled trials of albendazole alone or combined with another antifilarial drug for treating individuals with lymphatic filariasis, or for reducing transmission in endemic communities. the global programme to eliminate lymphatic filariasis recommends albendazole in combination with other antifilarial drugs. this systematic review examines albendazole in treatment and control of lymphatic filariasis. mass treatment with albendazole, co-administered with another antifilarial drug, is being promoted as part of a global programme to eliminate lymphatic filariasis. randomized and quasi-randomized controlled trials of albendazole singly or in combination with anti-filarial drugs in people or populations with lymphatic filariasis. albendazole (alb) is being administered with diethyl carbamazine (dec) in filariasis endemic areas to eliminate lymphatic filariasis (lf) and helminth infections. albendazole, a commonly used anthelminthic drug that targets the polymerization of alpha- and beta-tubulin dimer is currently co-administered with the antifilarial drug, diethylcarbamazine citrate (dec) in the ongoing global programme for elimination of lymphatic filariasis (gpelf). in africa, albendazole and ivermectin are currently used in combination for annual mass drug administration (mda) for lymphatic filariasis (lf) elimination. 
Alizarin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. [SEP] alizarin is an anti-fungal compound produced by the plant, rubia tinctorum. alizarin was a good substrate for the dye-decolorizing peroxidase (dyp) from b. adusta dec 1 and hampered b. adusta growth at the early stage of plate culture. these data suggest that alizarin stimulates the expression of dyp. interestingly, alizarin rapidly decomposed at an early stage in culture (24-42 h) in pd medium supplemented with 100 μm alizarin. thus, alizarin appears to induce dyp expression in b. adusta dec 1, and this dyp, in turn, rapidly degrades alizarin. these hydrogen bonds are ubiquitous in pepsin-like eukaryotic aspartic proteases. alizarin has been reported to have an antigenotoxic activity along with an inhibitory effect on the tumor cell growth of human colon carcinoma cells. alizarin was biotransformed into an o-methoxide derivative using o-methyltransferase from streptomyces avermitilis ma4680 (saomt2) to enhance its bioefficacy. the biotransformed product was extracted, purified, and characterized using various chromatographic and spectroscopic analyses, and confirmed to be an alizarin 2-o-methoxide. alizarin 2-o-methoxide showed an inhibitory effect on all three cancer-cell lines at very low concentrations, from 0.078 µm, with no cytotoxicity against 267b1 (human prostate epithelial) and mrc-5 (normal human fetal lung fibroblast). 
All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. [SEP] it is assumed that all cell divisions are completely random events, and that the daughter cells resulting from symmetric and asymmetric stem cell divisions are, in general, phenotypically identical, and still, the haematopoietic system has the flexibility to self-renew, produce mature cells by differentiation, and regenerate undifferentiated and differentiated cells when necessary, due to self-organisation. the traditional view of hematopoiesis has been that all the cells of the peripheral blood are the progeny of a unitary homogeneous pool of hematopoietic stem cells (hscs). this study demonstrates definitive isolation of lineage-biased hsc subtypes and contributes to the fundamental change in view that the hematopoietic system is maintained by a continuum of hsc subtypes, rather than a functionally uniform pool. the hierarchical organization of the hematopoietic system requires hematopoietic stem cells (hscs) capable of self-renewal and multilineage differentiation to produce all cellular lineages of the blood. all mature blood cells originate from a small population of self-renewing pluripotent hematopoietic stem cells (hscs). all hematopoietic and immune cells are continuously generated by hematopoietic stem cells (hscs) and hematopoietic progenitor cells (hpcs) through highly organized process of stepwise lineage commitment. the adult hematopoietic stem cell (hsc) compartment contains a substantial population of lineage-biased (lin-bi) hscs. lin-bi hscs generate cells of all hematopoietic lineages, albeit with skewed ratios of lymphoid to myeloid cells. all blood cell lineages derive from a common hematopoietic stem cell (hsc). hematopoiesis is the hierarchical process in which all lineages of blood cells are produced by self-renewing hematopoietic stem cells (hscs) in the bone marrow (bm). 
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. [SEP] prolonged angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitor therapy leads to angiotensin i (ang i) accumulation, which may "escape" ace inhibition, generate ang ii, stimulate the ang ii subtype 1 (at1) receptor, and exert deleterious renal effects in patients with chronic renal diseases. will result in additional ang ii antagonism in patients with proteinuric chronic renal failure with hypertension. exacerbation of anemia associated with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitor therapy has been noted to occur in patients with chronic renal failure, end-stage renal disease, and renal transplantation. angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors appear to cause anemia through induction of decreased red blood cell production. angiotensin ii inhibition with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (aceinh) and angiotensin receptor blockers (arb) has reno- and cardioprotective effects but can also cause acute renal insufficiency and/or hyperkalemia. angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (acei) are the antihypertensives of choice in patients with chronic renal failure (crf). angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibitor therapy in conjunction with loop diuretics and, possibly, digoxin, is associated with a relatively high incidence of recurrent heart failure and death. increased angiotensin ii (aii) activity has been recognized as a risk factor for progression of kidney disease. declining kidney function predicts increasing cardiovascular risk in people with hypertension. acute deterioration of renal function is an important side-effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors, especially if accompanied by other nephrotoxic events. 
Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. [SEP] bacillus anthracis has been identified as a potential military and bioterror agent as it is relatively simple to produce, with spores that are highly resilient to degradation in the environment and easily dispersed. these characteristics are important in describing how anthrax could be used as a weapon, but they are also important in understanding and determining appropriate prevention and treatment of anthrax disease. today, anthrax disease is primarily enzootic and found mostly in the developing world, where it is still associated with considerable mortality and morbidity in humans and livestock. this review article describes the spectrum of disease caused by anthrax and the various prevention and treatment options. specifically we discuss the following; (1) clinical manifestations of anthrax disease (cutaneous, gastrointestinal, inhalational and intravenous-associated); (2) immunology of the disease; (3) an overview of animal models used in research; (4) the current world health organization and u.s. government guidelines for investigation, management, and prophylaxis; (5) unique regulatory approaches to licensure and approval of anthrax medical countermeasures; (6) the history of vaccination and pre-exposure prophylaxis; (7) post-exposure prophylaxis and disease management; (8) treatment of symptomatic disease through the use of antibiotics and hyperimmune or monoclonal antibody-based antitoxin therapies; and (9) the current landscape of next-generation product candidates under development. bacillus anthracis, a spore-forming bacterium, is the etiologic agent of anthrax. b. anthracis spores can be aerosolized, are relatively easy to produce, and are capable of producing high mortality when inhaled. adsorption is a strong choice for removal operations as it is very simple to recover a high quality product from waste sludge. introduction: anthrax is a dangerous bio-terror agent because bacillus anthracis spores are highly resilient and can be easily aerosolized and disseminated. there is a threat of deliberate use of anthrax spores aerosol that could lead to serious fatal diseases outbreaks. 
Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile [SEP] antibiotics alter the gut microbiota and decrease resistance to clostridium difficile colonization; however, the mechanisms driving colonization resistance are not well understood. loss of resistance to c. difficile colonization due to antibiotic treatment is associated with alterations in the gut metabolome, specifically, with increases in levels of nutrients that c. difficile can utilize for growth in vitro. antibiotics deplete the indigenous gut microbiota and change the metabolic environment in the gut to one favoring c. difficile growth. antibiotics disturb the gastrointestinal tract microbiota and in turn reduce colonization resistance against clostridium difficile. perturbations to the gut microbiota can result in a loss of colonization resistance against gastrointestinal pathogens such as clostridium difficile. antibiotics can have significant and long-lasting effects on the gastrointestinal tract microbiota, reducing colonization resistance against pathogens including clostridium difficile. here we show that antibiotic treatment induces substantial changes in the gut microbial community and in the metabolome of mice susceptible to c. difficile infection. our results indicate that antibiotic-mediated alteration of the gut microbiome converts the global metabolic profile to one that favours c. difficile germination and growth. antibiotics have significant and long-lasting effects on the intestinal microbiota and consequently reduce colonization resistance against pathogens, including clostridium difficile. the gastrointestinal microbiome plays an important role in limiting susceptibility to infection with clostridioides difficile to better understand the ecology of bacteria important for c. difficile colonization resistance, we developed an experimental platform to simplify complex communities of fecal bacteria through dilution and rapidly screen for their ability to resist c. difficile colonization after challenge, as measured by >100-fold reduction in levels of c. difficile in challenged communities. 
Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. [SEP] hiv disease has been dramatically reduced in the developed world by the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy, with implications that prophylactic therapy against opportunistic infections may be stopped; however, tuberculosis is an escalating problem in the hiv-infected and hiv-noninfected populations worldwide. despite broad uptake of antiretroviral therapy (art), tuberculosis (tb) incidence and mortality among people with hiv remain unacceptably high. this review will outline short-course regimens for tb among patients with hiv. antiretroviral therapy (art) reduces the risk of tuberculosis (tb) among people living with hiv (plwh). increasing access to art and isoniazid preventive therapy and co-location of hiv and tb treatment may further reduce tb incidence among plwh. the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy and specific tb control measures has reduced the incidence of hiv-associated tb disease. the proportion of patients with low cd4 cell counts who are at high risk of tb disease from progression of both latent and new tb infection would be greatly reduced. rifamycin-based antituberculosis therapy can cure hiv-related tb and, where available, the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (haart) has markedly reduced the incidence of aids and death. antiretroviral therapy has a profound effect on lowering the risk of tb in hiv-infected persons, but it can also be associated with immune reconstitution inflammatory disease and unmasking of previously subclinical disease. antiretroviral therapy (art) reduces the morbidity and mortality of patients infected with hiv. 
Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. [SEP] spin90, a 90-kda nck-interacting protein with a sh3 domain, plays a role in sarcomere formation and myofibril assembly, and its phosphorylation is modulated by cell adhesion and erk activation. moreover, early endosomal marker proteins (eea1 and rab5) appeared to closely associate or partially co-localize with spin90 in endosomes and an internalized fitc-dextran and texas red-egf were found on the endosomes in association with spin90. taken together, these findings suggest that spin90 is implicated in receptor-mediated endocytic pathway in fibroblasts. in our previous paper, we demonstrated that arg 901 in the c-terminal tail of human ae1 (band 3, anion exchanger 1) had a functional role in conformational change during anion exchange. to further examine how arg 901 is involved in conformational change, we expressed various arg 901 mutants and alanine mutants of the c-terminal tail (from leu 886 to val 911) on the plasma membrane of saccharomyces cerevisiae and evaluated the kinetic parameters of sulfate ion transport. we also found the alkali and protease resistance of the c-terminal region after arg 901 modification with hydroxyphenylglyoxal (hpg) or phenylglyoxal (pg), a hydrophobic reagent. these results suggested that the increased hydrophobicity of the c-terminal region around arg 901 leads to inefficient conformational change by the newly produced hydrophobic interaction. pulse-chase experiments with [32p]phosphate and [35s]methionine demonstrated that p90 formed both stable and transient complexes with other cellular proteins, suggesting its role as a molecular chaperone. the p90 protein also associates in b lymphocytes with membrane immunoglobulin mu heavy chains and may serve as a chaperone for many membrane-bound polypeptides. p90 is a glycoprotein containing at least two two n-linked sugar chains of 2 and 5 kda, respectively, which are not necessary for its reactivity with aspergilloma serum samples. 
Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. [SEP] however, larger vessels with a diameter of more than 150 microm are mostly used to study vascular behavior. although arterioles have features in common with these conducting vessels, they exhibit distinct properties and the contribution of different pathways to constriction or relaxation varies with vessel size. the authors investigated whether venous grafts implanted to bypass popliteal artery aneurysms (paa) had larger diameters than those implanted to treat peripheral arterial occlusive disease (paod). bypass grafts implanted in paa patients had significantly greater diameters than grafts implanted in paod patients. these differences were confirmed in the cerebral pial cortical circulation where, compared to vegf(hi/+) mice, vegf(lo/+) formed fewer collaterals during the perinatal period when adult density was established, and had 2-fold larger infarctions after middle cerebral artery ligation. our findings indicate vegf and vegfr-1 are determinants of arteriogenesis. however, the relation between coronary arterial diameter (assessed by angiography) and true luminal size of arteries that are occluded and filled by collaterals has not been completely characterized. coronary arterial luminal diameter was similar before and after operation for the 18 insignificantly narrowed arteries and the 24 arteries with narrowings that filled by anterograde flow before operation and were bypassed. in contrast, in the 21 arteries that were occluded and filled by collateral flow, coronary arterial diameter was significantly larger (p less than 0.001) after operation. large arteries exhibit increased lumen size, thickened media with increased collagen deposition, and decreased compliance, which contributes to raised systolic blood pressure and pulse pressure. 
Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. [SEP] most published articles are not cited and citation rates depend on many variables. the objective of this study was to evaluate whether, compared to reviews for a journal with single-blind peer review, reviews for a journal with open peer review included (1) fewer self-citations; (2) a lower proportion of self-citations without a rationale; and (3) a lower ratio of proportions of citations without a rationale in self-citations versus citations to others' work. blind and open peer review methodologies have distinct advantages and disadvantages. traditional, subscription-based scientific publishing has its limitations: often, articles are inaccessible to the majority of researchers in low- and middle-income countries (lmics), where journal subscriptions or one-time access fees are cost-prohibitive. open access (oa) publishing, in which journals provide online access to articles free of charge, breaks this barrier and allows unrestricted access to scientific and scholarly information to researchers all over the globe. the author focuses on a new rapidly spreading practice of publication in open-access journals. the pros and cons of open-access journals are discussed. some authors may be lured by the ease of publishing in open-access journals (and their, at times, inflated self-description, e.g., "international", "scientific"), and their possibly valuable contributions will escape the attention of academic psychiatry readership in the vast sea of open-access journals. the readership may be flooded with a large number of low-quality articles (maybe not even properly peer-reviewed) from open-access journals. open-access publishing represents a problematic and controversial practice and may be associated with a conflict of interest for the editors and publishers of these journals. 
Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. [SEP] many studies show that open access (oa) articles-articles from scholarly journals made freely available to readers without requiring subscription fees-are downloaded, and presumably read, more often than closed access/subscription-only articles. this study addresses those factors and shows that an open access citation advantage as high as 19% exists, even when articles are embargoed during some or all of their prime citation years. open access (oa) publishing, whereby authors, their institutions, or their granting bodies pay or provide a repository through which peer-reviewed work is available online for free, is championed as a model to increase the number of citations per paper and disseminate results widely, especially to researchers in developing countries. open-access is a model for publishing scholarly, peer-reviewed journals on the internet that relies on sources of funding other than subscription fees. articles whose authors have supplemented subscription-based access to the publisher's version by self-archiving their own final draft to make it accessible free for all on the web ("open access", oa) are cited significantly more than articles in the same journal and year that have not been made oa. open access provides researchers another opportunity of publishing, besides the traditional publication in subscription-based journals. first results of them show that, among others, the higher visibility, indexing, impact factor and better accessibility are factors for an open-access-publication. as open-access journals have become increasingly common, it has provided more options for researchers to publish their work and improved access of information to the public. the open access model, where researchers can publish their work and make it freely available to the whole medical community, is gaining ground over the traditional type of publication. the era of open access (oa) publication, a platform which serves to better disseminate scientific knowledge, is upon us, as more oa journals are in existence than ever before. 
Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. [SEP] the decrease in prostaglandin e(2) (pge(2)) release due to aspirin (asa)-induced cyclooxygenase inhibition and the increment in cysteinyl leukotriene (cys-lt) release secondary to the removal of the inhibitory effect of pge(2) on cys-lt release have been suggested in the pathogenesis of aspirin-induced asthma (aia). aspirin, by nonselectively blocking cyclooxygenase both in platelets and in endothelial cells, not only inhibits the thromboxane a2 pathway of platelet activation but at the same time also the generation of vasodilating and platelet-inhibitory prostanoids, such as prostacyclin, by the endothelial cells. aspirin inhibits thromboxane and prostaglandin formation in platelets and in vascular cells. aspirin exhibits its antiplatelet action by irreversibly inhibiting platelet cyclooxygenase-1 enzyme, thus preventing the production of thromboxane a2 (txa2). aspirin also inhibits vessel wall production of pgi(2) which is an inhibitor of platelet aggregation, and therefore is potentially thrombotic. a 200-mg/kg dose of aspirin totally inhibited vessel wall pgi(2)-like activity whereas aspirin in a 10-mg/kg dose produced less inhibition, and 200 mg/kg sodium salicylate had no effect. it is concluded that aspirin, in doses higher than those used clinically, can augment experimental thrombosis, presumably by inhibiting the synthesis of vessel wall pgi(2). aspirin inhibits both the cyclooxygenase (cox)-1-dependent production of thromboxane a2 (txa2) in platelets and cox-2-dependent production of anti-aggregatory prostaglandin i2 (pgi2) in vessel walls, resulting in "aspirin dilemma." to determine whether asp6537 induces aspirin dilemma, we examined the effects of asp6537 on in vitro txa2 and pgi2 metabolite production from platelets and isolated aorta of guinea pigs, and on plasma concentrations of txa2 and pgi2 metabolites in aged rats. asp6537 inhibited txa2 production more selectively than aspirin in in vitro and in vivo txa2/pgi2 production studies. 
Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. [SEP] activation of pi 3-kinase results in increased intracellular levels of 3' phosphorylated inositol phospholipids and the induction of signaling responses, including the activation of the protein kinase akt, which is also known as rac-pk or pkb. akt could also be activated by synthetic dipalmitoylated pi3,4p2 or after enzymatic conversion of pi3,4,5p3 into pi3,4p2 with the signaling inositol polyphosphate 5' phosphatase sip. dipalmitoyl l-alpha-phosphatidyl-d-myo-inositol 3,4,5-triphosphate (di-c16-ptdins-3,4,5-p3) also produced actin reorganization and membrane ruffling. invadopodia are actin-enriched membrane protrusions that are important for extracellular matrix degradation and invasive cell motility. in this study, we found that depletion of shp2 by short-hairpin rna suppressed invadopodia formation in several cancer cell lines, particularly in the sas head and neck squamous cell line. in contrast, overexpression of shp2 promoted invadopodia formation in the cal27 head and neck squamous cell line, which expresses low levels of endogenous shp2. the suppression of invadopodia formation by shp2 depletion was restored by the clostridium botulinum c3 exoenzyme (a rho gtpase inhibitor) or y27632 (a specific inhibitor for rho-associated kinase). together, our results suggest that shp2 may promote invadopodia formation through inhibition of rho signaling in cancer cells. cell activation is presumed to cause the translocation of pi 3-kinase from the cytosol to the plasma membrane where the kinase interacts with its substrate phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate. activation of phosphatidyl-inositol-3'-oh-kinase (pi3k) and the resulting production of phosphatidyl-inositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate (pip3) are ubiquitous signaling steps that link various cell surface receptors to multiple intracellular targets. 
Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. [SEP] vision impairment is highly prevalent yet undetected in the elderly population. without screening and early detection age-related vision loss can lead to various adverse effects. the purpose of this review is to assess the methods of screening geriatric patients for visual impairment that can be employed by nurse practitioners in the primary care setting. no combination of tools is ideal for identifying age-related vision loss although implications for practice are implied. screening for visual impairment is frequently included in multiphasic screening assessments for older people, although evidence for the effectiveness of screening from randomized trials is lacking. unreported or undiagnosed visual impairment is common among older people and is associated with considerable morbidity. effective therapeutic interventions exist for most symptomatic patients, but the effects of treating unreported visual impairment detected by screening have not been evaluated. this recommendation applies to asymptomatic adults 65 years or older who do not present to their primary care clinician with vision problems. the uspstf concludes that the current evidence is insufficient to assess the balance of benefits and harms of screening for impaired visual acuity in older adults. visual function loss in this subgroup increases in prevalence with advancing age, but is not associated with female sex, low educational attainment or low income. 
Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. [SEP] specifically, a congruent auditory input can make a visual stimulus more salient, consequently enhancing the visibility and detection of the visual target. more recent findings suggest that the multisensory information processing of a scene can be facilitated when paired with a semantically congruent auditory signal. this congruency effect was taken as evidence that audio-visual integration occurs for complex scenes. auditory and visual processes demonstrably enhance each other based on spatial and temporal coincidence. our recent results on visual search have shown that auditory signals also enhance visual salience of specific objects based on multimodal experience. the results are consistent with a model in which the efficiency of auditory processing is improved when natural associations between visual and auditory inputs allow one input to reliably predict the next. auditory stimuli often facilitate visual perception. we here investigated whether these changes facilitate the use of visual information, leading to an increased audiovisual benefit of hearing-impaired individuals when listening to speech in noise. the degree of this audiovisual enhancement was positively related to individual high-frequency hearing loss and subjectively reported listening effort in challenging daily life situations, which served as a subjective marker of hearing problems. our results therefore suggest that hearing-impaired older individuals make increased use of congruent visual information to compensate for the degraded auditory input. 
Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. [SEP] however, the risk of infection is much higher in allogeneic transplants than those who are replaced with their own bone marrow (autologous). autologous bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cell transplantation may carry an increased risk of secondary myelodysplasia (mds) and acute myeloid leukaemia (aml), which are already recognized as complications of conventional treatment for lymphoid malignancies. patients undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation have a high risk of cytomegalovirus reactivation, which in the absence of t-cell immunity can result in the development of an acute inflammatory reaction and damage of internal organs. opportunistic infections contribute to morbidity and mortality after myeloablative allogeneic stem cell transplantation. these regimens are in general highly immunosuppressive, but effects on myelopoiesis and mucosal toxicities are usually reduced compared with myeloablative hematopoietic stem cell transplantation conditioning regimens. this review summarizes the infectious risks associated with each type of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation conditioning regimen, and presents the results of early clinical studies. although the data are preliminary, the results of recent studies suggest that nonmyeloablative conditioning regimens may decrease the risks of bacterial infections associated with mucosal damage and persistent neutropenia; however, risks for late viral and fungal infections persist during severe graft versus host disease. infectious risks and outcomes after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation appear to be in evolution given the introduction of alternative, nonmyeloablative conditioning regimens. further studies are necessary to define appropriate preventative strategies, and to determine whether patients with ongoing infections might benefit from nonmyeloablative hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. allogeneic mesenchymal stem cells (allo-mscs) have recently garnered increasing interest for their broad clinical therapy applications. 
Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. [SEP] reduced-intensity conditioning (ric) allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (ric-allohsct) is associated with lower toxicity but higher rates of prolonged mixed chimerism than myeloablative conditioning. decreased pretransplantation host t cell numbers are associated with less graft rejection and early full donor chimerism. adoptive immunotherapy with interleukin-2 (il-2) may control minimal residual disease (mrd) and prevent relapse after autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation (ahct). cycles of il-2 immunotherapy induced repeated significant expansion of t cells and nk cells, mostly of the immature cd56+ bright phenotype. use of il-2 therapy after autologous transplantation is currently being explored to reduce relapse rate. twenty-six consecutive patients who received autologous transplants received low-dose il-2 after stable engraftment had been achieved. our results show that low-dose s.c. il-2 therapy is associated with low clinical and hematologic toxicity after autologous transplantation. adoptive cell therapy using autologous tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (til) has shown significant clinical benefit, but is limited by toxicities due to a requirement for post-infusion interleukin-2 (il-2), for which high dose is standard. this study shows that this protocol of low-dose il-2 following adoptive cell transfer of til is feasible and clinically active. the immunomodulatory effects of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (g-csf) on t cells result in a low incidence of acute graft-versus-host disease (agvhd) in g-csf-mobilized allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (g-pbsct). 
Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. [SEP] decreased pretransplantation host t cell numbers are associated with less graft rejection and early full donor chimerism. to determine whether transplantation of cd34-selected peripheral blood stem cells (pbscs) leads to potentiation of autologous gvhd, five patients with malignant lymphoma were transplanted with cd34-selected pbscs, followed by administration of csa and interferon (ifn)-gamma. transplantation of the cd34-selected stem cell graft that does not accompany transfusion of regulatory cells may potentiate the inducibility of autologous gvhd by the administration of csa and ifn-gamma. in multiple myeloma (mm), allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allohct) carries a lower relapse risk than autologous transplantation but a greater transplant-related mortality. use of il-2 therapy after autologous transplantation is currently being explored to reduce relapse rate. twenty-six consecutive patients who received autologous transplants received low-dose il-2 after stable engraftment had been achieved. our results show that low-dose s.c. il-2 therapy is associated with low clinical and hematologic toxicity after autologous transplantation. an autograft of cultured bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells has already been used in clinical practice. therefore, fk506 might be more useful than rapamycin in allogeneic transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells. induction therapy with il2-r blockers reduced the rate of early acute rejection, but had no effect on late acute rejections. 
Autophagy declines in aged organisms. [SEP] age-related declines in cognitive fitness are associated with a reduction in autophagy, an intracellular lysosomal catabolic process that regulates protein homeostasis and organelle turnover. we show that hippocampal autophagy activity is reduced during aging and that restoring its levels is sufficient to reverse age-related memory deficits. failure of autophagy is considered one of the main reasons for the build up of damaged components in the tissues of old organisms. we have recently shown that, declined activity of chaperone-mediated autophagy, a selective type of autophagy particularly impaired in aging, increases cell's vulnerability to stressors. autophagy failure is implicated in age-related human disease. macroautophagy/autophagy is implicated in age-dependent neurodegenerative diseases, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and parkinson, huntington and alzheimer diseases, suggesting that an age-related decline in neuronal autophagy may contribute to the onset of neurodegeneration. rates of autophagy, the mechanism responsible for lysosomal clearance of cellular components, decrease with age. in cultured cells, chaperone-mediated autophagy, which is responsible for the selective degradation of cytosolic proteins in lysosomes, decreases with age. lysosomes from "old" (22-month-old) rats show lower rates of chaperone-mediated autophagy, and both substrate binding to the lysosomal membrane and transport into lysosomes decline with age. in this work we review the molecular defects responsible for the malfunctioning of two forms of autophagy, macroautophagy and chaperone-mediated autophagy, in old mammals, and highlight general and cell-type specific consequences of dysfunction of the autophagic system with age. 
Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. [SEP] a sound body of scientific literature demonstrates positive long-term outcome of bariatric surgery in decreasing mental and physical health morbidity. in this review, we focus on the studies published recently with a high impact on our understanding of the role of psychiatry in bariatric surgery. research indicates a decrease in certain psychiatric symptoms after weight loss with bariatric surgery. recent publications suggest new directions for psychiatric evaluation and interventions for bariatric surgery patients. bariatric surgery is an effective means of weight reduction in severely obese patients and correlates with improvements in quality of life, mental health outcomes, and neurocognition, especially in those with high psychosocial burden. to determine the prevalence of mental health conditions among bariatric surgery candidates and recipients, to evaluate the association between preoperative mental health conditions and health outcomes following bariatric surgery, and to evaluate the association between surgery and the clinical course of mental health conditions. bariatric surgery was, however, consistently associated with postoperative decreases in the prevalence of depression (7 studies; 8%-74% decrease) and the severity of depressive symptoms (6 studies; 40%-70% decrease). moderate-quality evidence supports an association between bariatric surgery and lower rates of depression postoperatively. possibly the most important outcomes of bariatric surgery involve changes in obesity-related illness, quality of life (qol), and psychologic well-being. our results suggest that patients experience significant health improvements and some positive personality changes after bariatric surgery. 
Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). [SEP] systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) is a chronic autoimmune disease characterized by b cell hyperactivity leading to the production of autoantibodies, some of which having a deleterious effect. basophils contribute to the immunopathogenesis of sle. this retrospective clinical study evaluated blood basophil count as a potential marker of sle activity. basophil counts were significantly lower in patients with sle than in patients with non-sle ckd and healthy controls (0.009 ± 0.010 vs. 0.025 ± 0.015 vs. 0.022 ± 0.010 × 10(9)/l, p <0.001), and lower in patients with active than inactive sle (0.008 ± 0.009 vs. 0.014 ± 0.012 × 10(9)/l, p <0.001). basophil counts in sle patients were significantly higher after than before immunosuppressive treatment (0.021 ± 0.017 vs. 0.008 ± 0.008 × 10(9)/l, p <0.001) and correlated with total sledai score (r = -0.30, p <0.001). receiver operator curve analysis showed that basophil counts were similar to conventional markers (leukocytes, platelets, and double-stranded (ds) dna igg) in differentiating active from inactive sle. these findings indicate that blood basophil counts may be a useful biomarker in evaluating sle activity. systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) is a chronic, systemic, autoimmune inflammatory disease characterized by the production of numerous autoantibodies and cytokines, as well as multiple organ damage. b cells exert immunosuppressive effects and offer therapeutic potential for systemic lupus erythematosus (sle), but the mechanism remains unclear. b cells play a central role in the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus and anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis. 
Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. [SEP] previous studies have established that higher birthweight is associated with increased risk of breast cancer. we explored whether maternal pregnancy weight gain and pre-pregnancy body mass index (bmi), which influence birthweight, are associated with risk of breast cancer in offspring. the association between birthweight and breast cancer risk is likely due to factors independent of mothers' weight gain during pregnancy or pre-pregnancy bmi. the risk of breast cancer increased with birth weight. there is some evidence that birth weight is associated with breast cancer. we reviewed the available evidence on the association between birthweight and the risk of breast cancer. at birth, high weight has been positively associated with an increased risk of breast cancer. there is considerable evidence that birth weight is positively associated with breast cancer risk, and seven single-nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) have been conclusively associated with this risk. exploring whether the positive association between birth weight and breast cancer risk differs by other breast cancer risk factors may help inform speculation about biological mechanism. high birth weight has been associated with subsequent increased risk of breast cancer in the infant's mother, possibly related to maternal estrogen and growth factor pathways. 
Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. [SEP] furthermore, increased r-loop accumulation and dna damage is observed in neurons upon loss of tdp-43. here, we knocked down tdp-43 in murine neuroblastoma neuro2a cells and found a time lag between efficient tdp-43 depletion and appearance of cell death, suggesting that several mechanisms mediate between these two events. these results suggest that regulation of the u6 snrna expression level by tdp-43 is a key factor in the increase in cell death upon tdp-43 loss-of-function. to test whether nuclear depletion of tdp-43 may contribute to the pathogenesis of ad cases with tdp-43 proteinopathy, we examined the impact of depletion of tdp-43 in populations of neurons vulnerable in ad, and on neurodegeneration in an ad-linked context. moreover, tdp-43 depletion in forebrain neurons of an ad mouse model exacerbates neurodegeneration, and correlates with increased prefibrillar oligomeric aβ and decreased aβ plaque burden. transactive response dna-binding protein-43 (tdp-43) neuronal toxicity plays an essential role in the pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin-positive inclusions. in our previous study, we showed that low-grade overexpression of tdp-43, which is thought to mimic the gain-of-function of tdp-43, caused neuronal death, mediated by the upregulation of bim and the downregulation of bcl-xl in vitro. tdp-43 is a dna and rna binding protein involved in rna processing and with structural resemblance to heterogeneous ribonucleoproteins (hnrnps), whose depletion sensitizes neurons to double strand dna breaks (dsbs). the precise mechanisms by which tdp-43 dysregulation leads to toxicity in neurons are not fully understood. abnormal accumulation of tdp-43 in the cytoplasm of affected neurons is a pathological hallmark of the neurodegenerative diseases frontotemporal dementia (ftd) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als). 
Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. [SEP] first arising during embryogenesis, macrophages replenish themselves in the adult through a combination of self-renewal and influx of bone marrow-derived monocytes. bone and adjacent marrow contain multiple functionally unique resident tissue macrophage subsets which maintain and regulate anatomically distinct niche environments within these interconnected tissues. three subsets of bone-bone marrow resident tissue macrophages have been characterised; erythroblastic island macrophages, haematopoietic stem cell niche macrophages and osteal macrophages. the role of these macrophages in controlling homeostasis and repair in bone and bone marrow niches is reviewed in detail. macrophages are innate immune cells derived from monocytes, which, in turn, arise from myeloid precursor cells in the bone marrow. circulating bone marrow-derived monocytes can leave the blood, enter a tissue, and differentiate into m1 inflammatory, m2a remodeling/fibrotic, or m2c/mreg resolving/immune-regulatory macrophages. in the bone marrow, the "resident" macrophages are part of the hematopoietic stem cell niche.those macrophages are known to have a role in the support of erythropoiesis (chow, nat med 19:429-436, 2013), the maintenance of stem cell in their niches (chow, j exp med 208:261-271, 2011), and are an independent self-renewing population (hashimoto, immunity 38:792-804, 2013). the traditional view that all tissue-resident macrophages derive from the bone marrow through circulating monocyte intermediates has dramatically shifted recently with the observation that macrophages from embryonic progenitors can persist into adulthood and self-maintain by local proliferation. tissue macrophages are derived from either circulating blood monocytes that originate in the bone marrow, or embryonic precursors that establish residence in tissues and are maintained independent of bone marrow progenitors. macrophages, which are derived from precursor cells in the bone marrow, differentiate specifically under the influence of the local microenvironment. 
Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. [SEP] genes with high or low penetrance are now clearly implicated in the onset of breast cancer, mostly the brca genes. all women in families at high risk of breast cancer do not develop tumours, even when they carry the familial mutation, suggesting the existence of genetic and environmental protective factors. breast cancer is a malignancy with a strong heritable component. genetic counseling has been principally focused on families carrying high-penetrance breast cancer 1/2, early onset genes. because family history remains the strongest single predictor of breast cancer risk, attention has focused on the role of highly penetrant, dominantly inherited genes in cancer-prone kindreds (1). breast cancer, one of the most common and deleterious of all diseases affecting women, occurs in hereditary and sporadic forms. hereditary breast cancers are genetically heterogeneous; susceptibility is variously attributable to germline mutations in the brca1 (ref. familial breast cancer is a very common autosomal dominant disorder in women. family history is the strongest single predictor of breast cancer risk, and thus great attention has been focused on brca1 and brca2 genes whose mutations lead to a high risk of developing this disease. germ-line mutations of the brca1 gene have been linked to 85% of all hereditary breast and ovarian cancers. 
CCL19 is absent within dLNs. [SEP] cd20 expression is absent in a variety of diffuse large b cell lymphomas (dlbcls), including plasmablastic lymphoma, primary effusion lymphoma, anaplastic lymphoma, kinase-positive dlbcl, and large b cell lymphoma arising in human herpesvirus 8-associated multicentric castleman disease. we conducted a systematic literature review of the limited existing clinical data to summarize the current knowledge regarding the biological basis, diagnostic limits, and potential therapeutic targets of distinct variants of cd20-negative dlbcl. syndecan-1 is a transmembrane proteoglycan generally not expressed in mature b-cell neoplasias like chronic lymphocytic leukemia (cll). moreover, information dealing with the evaluation of soluble syndecan-1 in cll are lacking. detectable levels of syndecan-1 were found in all patients, although serum concentrations were significantly lower in cll patients in comparison to age- and sex-matched controls (p = 0.02; mann-whitney test). systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) is characterized by b cells lacking igd and cd27 (double negative; dn). in situ histochemistry analysis revealed that notch1, 2, and 4 and notch ligand (delta1-4, and jagged1) proteins were not expressed in the yolk sac blood islands, the para-aortic splanchnopleure, the hematopoietic aortic clusters, and at the early stages of embryonic liver hematopoiesis. the association between cd4(+)cd28(null) t cells and early atherosclerotic changes in chronic kidney disease (ckd) has never been investigated. previous studies demonstrated that a human pre-b acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line, nalm-6, failed to stimulate a primary mlr, despite expression of class ii mhc and adhesion molecules. here we demonstrate that this is the result of the fact that nalm-6 cells do not express the ligand for cd28, namely b7. 
CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. [SEP] compared to breast cancer risk genes such as brca2, atm, palb2, and nbn, no defined phenotype is currently associated with biallelic pathogenic variants (pvs) in chek2. this study compared the prevalence of breast and other cancers in women with monoallelic and biallelic chek2 pvs. chek2 directly phosphorylates and regulates the functions of p53 and brca1. most women with breast and/or ovarian cancer are not carriers of mutant brca1 or brca2. multiple studies have shown that a chek2*1100delc confers about a two-fold increased risk of breast cancer in unselected females and a tenfold increase in males. it has been suggested that chek2 functions as a low-penetrance susceptibility gene for cancers and multiplies the risks associated with other gene(s) to increase cancer risk. these studies demonstrated that gross structural alteration of the tested protoocongenes is not responsible for cancer susceptibility in this syndrome. the association between the chek2 and breast cancer risk in chinese women is unknown. here, we screened the full chek2 coding sequence in 118 chinese familial breast cancer cases who are negative for mutations in brca1 and brca2, one recurrent mutation, chek2 c.1111c>t (p.h371y), was identified in five index cases in this cohort. we further screened the chek2 p.h371y mutation in 909 unselected breast cancer cases and 1,228 healthy individuals. 
CR is associated with higher methylation age. [SEP] epigenetic clock, or dna methylation age, has been shown to highly correlate with chronologic age. epigenetic age acceleration is significantly associated with cms. methylation levels measured at defined sites across the genome have recently been shown to be correlated with an individual's chronological age. methylation at certain human cpg rich sequences increases with age. dna methylation age (dnam age; "epigenetic clock") has recently been described as highly correlated with chronological age. methylation levels have been shown to change with age at sites across the human genome. at over 80% of sites showing age-related change in both species, chimpanzees displayed a significantly faster rate of age-related change in methylation than humans. human aging is associated with profound changes in one of the major epigenetic mechanisms, dna methylation. methylation level of cpg sites plays an important role in finding the age of a person. dna methylation has emerged as a potentially powerful molecular marker of aging. 
CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. [SEP] coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg) is widely used to treat patients with coronary artery disease. compared to pci, cabg was associated with postoperative hemodialysis dependence (odds ratio 3.2, 95% confidence interval 1.1 to 9.3; p <0.001). however, among patients with non-hd ckd and 3-vessel cad, those who underwent cabg tended to have a lower long-term mortality rate than those who underwent pci (hazard ratio 0.61, 95% confidence interval 0.36 to 1.03; p = 0.06). pre-operative cabg was associated with a significantly improved long term composite outcome of death and mi compared to percutaneous coronary interventions. cabg may improve long term outcomes in vascular surgical patients. we evaluated clinical outcomes of patients undergoing coronary angiography (cag)±percutaneous coronary intervention (pci) or redo-coronary artery bypass grafting (redo-cabg) for suspected coronary ischemia within 3 weeks of index cardiac surgery. preprocedural levels of c-reactive protein predict mid-term mortality after percutaneous coronary intervention for the treatment of unprotected left main coronary artery stenosis. however, there are no data regarding the impact of c-reactive protein on mid-term mortality in patients with unprotected left main coronary artery stenosis treated with coronary artery bypass graft. the predictive value of preoperative c-reactive protein levels, leukocyte counts, and fibrinogen levels were evaluated in a series of 108 patients who underwent coronary artery bypass graft surgery at our institution from 1st january 2002 to 31st april 2005. elevated preoperative levels of c-reactive protein indicate an increased risk of death after coronary artery bypass graft surgery for the treatment of unprotected left main coronary artery stenosis. 
CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival [SEP] a number of recent studies show that activation of cr3 on dendritic cells (dcs) suppresses tlr-induced tnf-alpha and il-12 production and inhibits effective ag presentation. the t-cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain-containing protein 3 (tim-3) is selectively expressed on terminally differentiated t helper 1 (th1) cells and acts as a negative regulator that terminates th1 responses. tcr engagement leads to down-modulation of tcr/cd3 complexes from the t cell surface. here, we characterized a ctl clone deficient in tcr/cd3 surface expression that had lost both cd3delta and cd3gamma mrna, allowing us to address the role of these chains in the assembly, signaling, and dynamics of the tcr/cd3 complex. t-cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain (tim)-3 have been shown to negatively regulate th1 cell-mediated immunity. activation of tim-3 by galectin-9 induces th1 cell apoptosis, which may contribute to skewing of immune response towards th2-dominant immunity. the tcr-induced death of smad3-/- cd8+ t cells was not dependent upon tnf-alpha production. tgf-beta1 also enhanced survival of tcr-stimulated cd4+cd44high t cells in a smad3-independent manner. t cell activation requires the cross-talk between the cd3-signaling complex and the t cell receptor (tcr). a synthetic peptide coding for the tcralpha transmembrane domain (cp) binds cd3 molecules, interferes with the cd3/tcr cross-talk, and inhibits t cell activation. 
CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival [SEP] cxcr3 is a chemokine receptor that is highly expressed on effector t cells and plays an important role in t cell trafficking and function. cxcr3 is rapidly induced on naïve cells following activation and preferentially remains highly expressed on th1-type cd4(+) t cells and effector cd8(+) t cells. early studies demonstrated a role for cxcr3 in the trafficking of th1 and cd8 t cells to peripheral sites of th1-type inflammation and the establishment of a th1 amplification loop mediated by ifnγ and the ifnγ-inducible cxcr3 ligands. more recent studies have also suggested that cxcr3 plays a role in the migration of t cells in the microenvironment of the peripheral tissue and lymphoid compartment, facilitating the interaction of t cells with antigen presenting cells leading to the generation of effector and memory cells. the chemokine receptor cxcr3 is predominantly expressed on t lymphocytes, and its agonists cxcl9, cxcl10 and cxcl11 are ifn-gamma-inducible chemokines that promote th1 responses. we also demonstrate that the cxcr3 ligands inhibit ccr3-mediated functional responses of both human eosinophils and ccr3 transfectants induced by all three eotaxins, with cxcl11 being the most efficacious antagonist. previous studies have shown that the cxc chemokine, ifn-gamma-inducible t cell alpha chemoattractant (i-tac), was chemotactic for il-2-activated human t lymphocytes, which express abundant cxcr3. cxcr3 is a chemokine receptor that is rapidly induced on naïve t cells following activation, and preferentially remains highly expressed on type-1 helper (th1)-type cd4(+) t cells, effector cd8(+) t cells and innate-type lymphocytes, such as natural killer (nk) and nkt cells. cxcr3 is activated by three interferon (ifn)-γ-inducible ligands cxcl9 (monokine induced by gamma-interferon), cxcl10 (interferon-induced protein-10) and cxcl11 (interferon-inducible t-cell alpha chemoattractant). in this review, we will discuss how the balance, timing and pattern of cxcr3 ligand expression appears to regulate the generation of effector t cells in the lymphoid compartment and subsequent migration into peripheral sites of th1-type inflammation in which the cxcr3 ligands also then regulate the interactions and migratory behavior of effector t cells in an inflamed peripheral tissue. 
CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. [SEP] in people with asthma, a fraction of cd4(+) t cells express the cx3cl1 receptor, cx3cr1, and cx3cl1 expression is increased in airway smooth muscle, lung endothelium and epithelium upon allergen challenge. here we found that untreated cx3cr1-deficient mice or wild-type (wt) mice treated with cx3cr1-blocking reagents show reduced lung disease upon allergen sensitization and challenge. transfer of wt cd4(+) t cells into cx3cr1-deficient mice restored the cardinal features of asthma, and cx3cr1-blocking reagents prevented airway inflammation in cx3cr1-deficient recipients injected with wt t(h)2 cells. we found that cx3cr1 signaling promoted t(h)2 survival in the inflamed lungs, and injection of b cell leukemia/lymphoma-2 protein (bcl-2)-transduced cx3cr1-deficient t(h)2 cells into cx3cr1-deficient mice restored asthma. cx3cr1-induced survival was also observed for t(h)1 cells upon airway inflammation but not under homeostatic conditions or upon peripheral inflammation. therefore, cx3cr1 and cx3cl1 may represent attractive therapeutic targets in asthma. ccr2-deficient mice have been found to have altered inflammatory and physiologic responses in some models of experimental allergic asthma, but the role of ccr2 in contributing to inflammation and airway hyperreactivity appears to vary considerably between models. because polarized human t(h)2 cells express a functional cxcr3 chemokine receptor, we evaluated the effects of a selective cxcr3 inhibitor in a mouse model of allergic airway disease. cxcr3 antagonism did not prevent allergen-induced airway hyperresponsiveness or airway inflammation in a mouse allergy model despite having activity in in vitro functional assays. allergic airway inflammation is characterized by a local increase in cells secreting th2-type cytokines. 
CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. [SEP] according to the current paradigm, allergic airway inflammation is mediated by th2 cytokines and pro-inflammatory chemokines. abolition of the th1 response by disrupting the ifng gene increased allergic airway inflammation and abrogated rwe challenge-induced upregulation of gtpases, cxcl9, cxcl10 and socs1, but not gadd45g. we propose that allergen-induced airway inflammation is regulated by simultaneous upregulation of th1 and th2 genes, and that persistent unopposed upregulation of th1 genes resolves allergic inflammation. bronchial asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease of the airway mediated by a th2 immune response. in this study, we hypothesized that enhanced local foxp3 expression in lung tissue could suppress th2-mediated allergic asthma. enhanced expression of foxp3 locally in the lung tissue reduced the airway ahr, inflammatory cell infiltration and mucus production. this study demonstrates that enhanced foxp3 expression in the airway by intra-tracheally instilled foxp3/pmx retroviruses alleviates allergic airway inflammation by reducing the th2 immune response. bronchial asthma is characterized by allergic airway inflammation involving c-c chemokine receptor type 4 (ccr4)-positive th2 cells. our data suggest that the elimination of ccr4⁺ cells via tarc-pe38 treatment is sufficient to control allergic airway inflammation and airway hyperresponsiveness. allergic airway inflammation is driven by the recognition of inhaled allergen by t helper type 2 (th2) cells in the airway and lung. 
Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. [SEP] individuals with alcohol dependence are less likely to possess variant alleles of the alcohol-metabolizing genes, aldehyde dehydrogenase (aldh2*2) and alcohol dehydrogenase (adh1b*2), than non-alcohol-dependent controls. although the mutant low-km acetaldehyde dehydrogenase (aldh2) allele (aldh2(2)) with reduced capacity to metabolize acetaldehyde offers biological protection against alcoholism and subsequent alcohol-induced organ damage in many individuals, a significant proportion of individuals with heterozygote of the normal and mutant aldh2 gene (aldh2(1)/2(2)) consume excessive amounts of alcohol. indeed, it has been postulated that habitual drinkers with aldh2(1)/2(2) may be at a higher risk for alcoholic liver disease than those with aldh2(1)/2(1). individuals with the atypical aldehyde dehydrogenase aldh2 allele, both homozygous and heterozygous status, are alcohol sensitive and have a markedly reduced risk of developing alcoholic diseases. genetic abnormalities of the aldh1 locus are also associated with alcohol flushing. the alcohol and aldehyde dehydrogenase polymorphisms, adh2(2) and aldh2(2), respectively, are associated with lower vulnerability to alcoholism both in the orient and also in north america among populations of taiwanese and koreans who have immigrated there. the alcoholics had significantly lower frequencies of the adh2*2, adh3*1, and aldh2*2 alleles than did the nonalcoholics, suggesting that genetic variation in both adh and aldh, by modulating the rate of metabolism of ethanol and acetaldehyde, influences drinking behavior and the risk of developing alcoholism. reduction in activity of the mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (aldh2) enzyme due to genetic deficiency causes reactions related to alcohol consumption and lowers the risk of alcoholism. among the general jewish population, those who were homozygous for aldh2*a drank fewer drinks per occasion than individuals who were not homozygous for the aldh2*a allele, but did not drink significantly less frequently. the use of persons who become alcoholic despite having a well-defined negative risk for alcoholism (inactive aldehyde dehydrogenase-2 or aldh2) is advantageous in genetic research because of this population's reduced heterogeneity and possible genetic factors conferring susceptibility to alcohol dependence. 
Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. [SEP] trachoma is a leading cause of preventable blindness. reports from eye surgery camps and anecdotal data indicated that blinding trachoma is a serious cause of visual impairment in mankien payam (district) of southern sudan. the main diseases which cause corneal blindnesses are: trachoma. approximately 1.9 million people have become blind or visually impaired from trachoma, the leading cause of infectious blindness. trachoma prevalence surveys conducted in sudan have shown that thousands of sudanese suffer from the advanced stages of the disease, trachomatous trichiasis (tt), and warrant sight-saving surgery. the main cause of blindness is cataract. recent surveys have shown trachoma to be a serious cause of blindness in southern sudan. the high prevalence of active trachoma and trichiasis confirms the severe burden of blinding trachoma found in other post-conflict areas of southern sudan. blindness and low vision are thought to be common in southern sudan. the main causes of blindness were considered to be cataract (41.2%) and trachoma (35.3%), whereas low vision was mainly caused by trachoma (58.1%) and cataract (29.3%). 
Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. [SEP] this bias is commonly attributed to x inactivation in spermatogenesis but a recent paper in bmc biology provides evidence against x inactivation in drosophila and proposes that somatic tissue- and testis- but not ovary-specific genes tend not to be located on the x chromosome. certain characteristic patterns of physiologic sex determination are not causally linked with types of genic and chromosomal constitution (xx-xy or zw-zz). in the mexican axolotl (ambystoma mexicanum), sex is determined by a single mendelian factor, yet its sex chromosomes do not exhibit morphological differentiation typical of many vertebrate taxa that possess a single sex-determining locus. the ellobius (xx ♀♂) system of sex chromosomes has no analogues among other animals. their sex chromosomes, despite their identical g-structure, demonstrate short synaptic fragments and crossover-associated mlh1 foci in both telomeric regions only. the etiology of most cases of 46,xy gonadal dysgenesis in the absence of extragenital anomalies is not accounted for by mutations in the genes known to date to be involved in sex determination. foxl2 is not implicated in determination of the male gonad and it is absent in the testis. many fish species with single-factor sex-determination systems do not have cytogenetically-distinguishable sex chromosomes, suggesting that few sex-specific sequences or chromosomal rearrangements are present and that sex-chromosome evolution is thus at an early stage. species within this family are either sex-homomorphic or sex-heteromorphic (i.e., lacking a differentiated sex chromosome system, zz/zw or zz/zw(1)w(2)). we also reveal that sex specific biases in mutation rates or selection pressures are not necessary for genomic alterations in sex chromosomes, and that recombination suppression in itself is sufficient to explain these results. 
Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. [SEP] however, xx and xy cells are intrinsically different because of the cell-autonomous sex-biasing action of x and y genes. other cell-autonomous sex chromosome effects are detected in mice in many phenotypes. birds (relative to eutherian mammals) are expected to show more widespread cell-autonomous sex determination in non-gonadal tissues, because of ineffective sex chromosome dosage compensation mechanisms. sex determination in the drosophila germ line is regulated by both the sex of the surrounding soma and cell-autonomous cues. here, we demonstrate that, in drosophila, the sex lethal (sxl) gene acts autonomously in pgcs to induce female development. in mammalian diploid cells, the female is characterized by the presence of two identical x chromosomes, while the male features an xy pair, with the y bearing the major genetic determinant of sex, i.e. in musca domestica, sex in the soma is cell autonomously determined by the male-determiner m, or by the female-determiner fd. transplanted pole cells (precursors of the germ line) show that sex determination of germ cells is non-autonomous genotypically male pole cells form functional eggs in female hosts, and genotypically female pole cells form functional sperm in male hosts. the recent finding that sex determination in birds is likely to be partly cell autonomous has again called for a broader definition of sex determination. many diverse systems for sex determination have evolved in plants and animals. 
Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. [SEP] bacillus subtilis mutants lacking the smc-scpab complex are severely impaired for chromosome condensation and partitioning, dna repair, and cells are not viable under standard laboratory conditions. the bacillus subtilis clpx and clpp genes are the sites of pleiotropic mutations that adversely affect growth on a variety of media and impair developmental processes such as sporulation and competence development. previous results have shown that the bacillus subtilis clpp gene is required for developmental processes such as sporulation and competence development. we studied the effect of clpp mutation on the early events of sporulation. the expression of the spo0a and spoiig genes, whose active transcription requires the phosphorylated spo0a protein (spo0a approximately p) as the transcription activator, was significantly decreased in the clpp mutant at the onset of sporulation. as expected from these results, the sigma(h) and spo0a protein levels in the clpp mutant were also decreased during the initiation of sporulation, indicating that the accumulation of spo0a approximately p was inhibited in the clpp mutant. a bacillus subtilis mutant with a deletion in the citc gene, encoding isocitrate dehydrogenase, the third enzyme of the tricarboxylic acid branch of the krebs cycle, exhibited reduced growth yield in broth medium and had greatly reduced ability to sporulate compared to the wild type due to a block at stage i, i.e., a failure to form the polar division septum. mutations in the spoiie locus of bacillus subtilis block sporulation at the stage of asymmetric septation and prevent compartment-specific activation of the transcription factor delta f. recent ultrastructural studies of spoiie mutants led to the conclusion that cells blocked at the stage of asymmetric septation form primarily thick septal structures similar to those formed at the mid-cell site during vegetative growth, although in an earlier study piggot (j. bacteriol. deletion of the citc gene, coding for isocitrate dehydrogenase, arrests sporulation of bacillus subtilis at stage i after bipolar localization of the cell division protein ftsz but before formation of the asymmetric septum. stage 0 sporulation (spo0) mutants of bacillus subtilis are defective in the signal transduction system initiating sporulation. 
Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. [SEP] this chapter reviews the effect of methionine (met) restriction, via treatment with recombinant methioninase (rmetase), on dna methylation of cancer cells. methionine restriction (metr) extends lifespan across different species and exerts beneficial effects on metabolic health and inflammatory responses. methionine restriction reduced histone h3k4 methylation (h3k4me3) at the promoter regions of key genes involved in th17 cell proliferation and cytokine production. decreased cellular homocysteine, as a result of decreased methionine, would also restrict cell division by decreased conversion of plasma 5-ch3-h4pteglu into intracellular polyglutamates. previous studies have demonstrated that methionine restriction causes tumor cell growth arrest and eventually apoptosis. the current studies were undertaken to elucidate the molecular pathways leading to apoptosis induced by methionine restriction. we found that methionine restriction induced formation of oligonucleosomal dna fragment and cytochrome c release from mitochondria in methionine-dependent pc3 and hela cells. methionine restriction also led to cleavage and activation of initiator and effector caspases in hela cells but not pc3 cells. furthermore, methionine restriction resulted in cleavage of bid and reduction in bcl-2 levels in both cell lines. methionine restriction induced caspase-independent cell death in pc3 cells, whereas it stimulated caspase-dependent cell death in hela cells. 
Cellular aging closely links to an older appearance. [SEP] cellular senescence plays a very important role in organismal aging increasing with age and in age-related diseases (ards). cellular senescence is a defense mechanism in response to molecular damage which accumulates with aging. correspondingly, the number of senescent cells has been reported to be greater in older than in younger subjects and furthermore associates with age-related pathologies. here, we studied whether younger biological age is related to fewer senescent cells in middle-aged individuals with the propensity for longevity, using p16ink4a as a marker for cellular senescence. cellular aging plays an important role in many diseases, such as cancers, metabolic syndromes, and neurodegenerative disorders. there has been steady progress in identifying aging-related factors such as reactive oxygen species and genomic instability, yet an emerging challenge is to reconcile the contributions of these factors with the fact that genetically identical cells can age at significantly different rates. these findings reveal that the temporal patterns of a key molecular process can directly influence cellular aging, and thus could provide guidance for the design of temporally controlled strategies to extend life span. aging can be characterized in all living organisms as the inevitable biological changes that occur with advancing age. functional decline of tissues in aged animals is a result of cellular aging. ageing of human skin is associated with phenotypic changes in the cutaneous cells; the major functional markers of ageing occur as consequences of dermal and epidermal cell senescence and of structural and compositional remodeling of normally long-lived dermal extracellular matrix proteins. 
Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. [SEP] chenodeoxycholate was administered to 13 patients with cholesterol gallstones. chenodeoxycholate increased from 42.9% of the total bile salts before treatment to 79.3% after 8 weeks of treatments. recent advances have been made in the understanding of pharmacological and dietary agents that contribute to browning of white adipose tissue in order to combat obesity by promoting energy expenditure. we investigated whether a green tea extract, by virtue of its high content of caffeine and catechin polyphenols, could increase 24-h energy expenditure (ee) and fat oxidation in humans. the green tea extract may play a role in the control of body composition via sympathetic activation of thermogenesis, fat oxidation, or both. recent studies have shown that dietary phytochemicals can promote energy expenditure by inducing the browning of white adipose tissue (wat). this study investigates the potential for caffeine to enhance activity thermogenesis and energy expenditure (ee) even when activity level is held constant. after supplementation, resting energy expenditure, heart rate (hr), and blood pressure (bp) were assessed. for this purpose, acute or chronic (-)-hydroxycitrate (hca) ingestion might be effective because it promotes utilization of fatty acid as an energy source. however, our previously reported data showed increased use of fatty acids during moderate intensity exercise. 
Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. [SEP] orlistat reduces energy uptake by the impairment of fat digestion and some evidence indicates it also lowers plasma cholesterol. decreasing energy intake relative to energy expenditure is the indisputable tenet of weight loss. the aim of the present study was to examine the effect of energy restriction alone and with dietary fat modification on weight loss and adiposity, as well as on risk factors for obesity related disease. energy restriction has the most potent effect on weight loss and lipids, but fat modification is also beneficial when energy restriction is more modest. restricting energy intake, or caloric restriction (cr), can reduce body weight and improve metabolic parameters in overweight or obese patients. hypocaloric diet decreases both energy expenditure (ee) and respiratory exchange rate (rer), affecting the efficacy of dieting inversely. therefore, pharmacological medications that decrease hunger may enhance the efficacy of a hypocaloric diet by maintaining metabolic rate. reduced energy expenditure associated with reduced energy intake has been used as an explanation for resistance to weight loss in obese patients. decreases in serum t3 concentrations and body cell mass induced by restriction of energy intake may contribute to the reduced energy needs. in the present study, mean resting metabolic rate (rmr) was reduced by 9.4% after 5 weeks of a very low energy diet (472 cal/day) in six obese women, and the mean serum t3 concentration decreased 46%. 
Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. [SEP] aerobic exercise enhances endothelium-dependent vasodilation in healthy individuals. regular isotonic exercise can improve endothelium-dependent vasodilation especially in those with the ace ii genotype. aerobic exercise training improves endothelial vasomotor function in the coronary circulation of patients with coronary artery disease (cad), an effect that has been attributed to local repetitive increases in shear stress on the endothelium. endothelial nitric oxide (no) synthase (nos) has been shown to contribute to enhanced vascular function after exercise training. we tested the hypothesis that exercise training enhances endothelial function via endothelium-derived vasodilators, no and superoxide/h(2)o(2), in the underlying setting of chronic coronary artery occlusion. these data provide evidence that, in addition to no, the superoxide/h(2)o(2) signaling pathway significantly contributes to exercise training-enhanced endothelium-mediated dilation in collateral-dependent coronary arterioles. exercise training improves agonist-mediated endothelium-dependent vasodilatation in cad, partially through a restoration of the endothelial response to epo and vegf. some of the beneficial effects of exercise in preventing vascular related diseases are mediated by the enhancement of endothelial function where the role of nitric oxide (no) is well documented, although the relevance of calcium activated potassium channels is not fully understood. by evaluating different endothelial vasodilator pathways on two vascular beds in a rabbit model of chronic exercise, we found a decreased no bioavailability and endothelial nitric oxide synthase expression in both carotid and femoral arteries. although it has been shown that long-term exercise training preserves endothelium-mediated nitric oxide vasodilator function in chronic heart failure (chf), whether exercise training exerts similar beneficial effects on endothelial/prostaglandin-mediated vasodilator capacity in coronary circulation during the development of chf has not been determined. 
Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. [SEP] here, we show that a 10-day cold acclimation protocol in humans increases bat activity in parallel with an increase in nonshivering thermogenesis (nst). since cold is a strong activator of bat, most prospective research is performed during cold to activate bat. prospective studies use acute cold exposure to activate bat. in prospective studies, bat might be preconditioned in winter months leading to an increased bat response to various stimuli. therefore the aim of this study was to assess whether outdoor temperatures and other weather characteristics modulate the response of bat to acute cold. higher outdoor temperatures on preceding days resulted in lower stimulated metabolic bat activity and volume (all p < 0.01). in conclusion, outdoor temperatures influence metabolic bat activity and volume, but not sympathetic outflow to bat, in subjects exposed to acute cold. bat activity and cit are acutely influenced by ambient temperature. bat has been identified in humans and becomes more active after cold exposure. cold is known as a potent stimulator of bat and activates bat primarily through the β3-adrenergic-camp signaling. 
Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. [SEP] previous investigations have demonstrated that older vs. younger rats respond to cold exposure with blunted cold-induced nonshivering thermogenesis of brown adipose tissue (bat). this reduction in nonshivering thermogenesis is associated with reduced mass and blunted nonshivering thermogenic capacity of bat. to test this hypothesis, the response of bat to chronic cold exposure was evaluated in young and old rats. we exposed 6-, 12-, and 26-mo-old f344 male rats to 10 degrees c for 5 days and measured interscapular bat (ibat) mass, cell size and proliferation, and mitochondrial ucp1 content. cold exposure also produced an increase of 29, 19, and 20% in mature brown adipocyte cell size of the 6-, 12-, and 26-mo-old animals, respectively. we have found that cold- and norepinephrine-induced brown adipose tissue (bat) nonshivering thermogenesis (nst) is significantly lower in old male fischer 344 rats and is associated with the decreased ability of these animals to maintain homeothermy. this decline in bat thermogenesis is not as great in females. rather, our investigations, strongly suggest that the blunted cold-induced heat production of bat reflects less functional bat. cold is a potent stimulator of bat, activating bat primarily through the sympathetic nervous system (sns). we aimed to determine whether this lower metabolic bat activity in older or overweight individuals can be explained by a lower sns response to cold. 
Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. [SEP] this study aimed to determine if varenicline and bupropion combination treatment would result in higher abstinence rates than varenicline alone. smokers in the same behavioural support programme who use varenicline appear to have a greater probability of achieving long-term abstinence than those using their choice of nicotine replacement therapy options, even after adjusting for potentially confounding smoker characteristics. combination therapy with varenicline and bupropion sr may be effective for increasing smoking abstinence rates above that observed with monotherapy. `varenicline use has been shown to produce greater long-term smoking cessation rates than bupropion but has no clear differences compared to the transdermal nicotine patch. varenicline users had a significantly higher abstinence rate than those using nicotine patch at 3-month (47.1% vs. 30.6%; odds ratio [or] = 2.02, 95% confidence interval [ci] = [1.38, 2.96]) and 6-month follow-up (41.3% vs. 30.6%; or = 1.60, 95% ci [1.09, 2.32]). varenicline use in a sample of treatment-seeking-dependent smokers was associated with significantly higher abstinence rates than the nicotine patch. among cigarette smokers, combined use of varenicline and bupropion, compared with varenicline alone, increased prolonged abstinence but not 7-day point prevalence at 12 and 26 weeks. varenicline, a new treatment for smoking cessation, has demonstrated significantly greater efficacy over placebo and sustained release bupropion (bupropion sr). bupropion was combined in patients that did not achieve complete tobacco abstinence in 2 or 3 weeks after starting varenicline use or if the patient presented uncomfortable abstinent symptoms. the success (continuous abstinence rate in 52 weeks) in different drug regimens were: varenicline monotherapy (32.1%), varenicline + bupropion (55.0%), varenicline + sri (50.6%), and varenicline + bupropion + sri (57.7%). 
Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. [SEP] targeted therapeutics that block signal transduction through the ras-raf-mek and pi3k-akt-mtor pathways offer significant promise for the treatment of human malignancies. dual inhibition of map/erk kinase (mek) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (pi3k) with the potent and selective small-molecule inhibitors gdc-0973 and gdc-0941 has been shown to trigger tumor cell death in preclinical models. therapies inhibiting receptor tyrosine kinases (rtks) are effective against some human cancers when they lead to simultaneous downregulation of pi3k/akt and mek/erk signaling. however, mutant kras has the capacity to directly activate erk and pi3k signaling, and this is thought to underlie the resistance of kras mutant cancers to rtk inhibitors. here, we have elucidated the molecular regulation of both the pi3k/akt and mek/erk signaling pathways in kras mutant colorectal cancer cells and identified combination therapies that lead to robust cancer cell apoptosis. interestingly, combination of rtk and mek inhibitors led to concomitant inhibition of pi3k and mek signaling, marked growth suppression, and robust apoptosis of human kras mutant colorectal cancer cell lines in vitro and upon xenografting in mice. these findings provide a framework for utilizing rtk inhibitors in the treatment of kras mutant colorectal cancers. although several groups have demonstrated that concomitant use of mek and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (pi3k) inhibitors (meki/pi3ki) can induce dramatic tumor regressions in mouse models of kras-mutant non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc), ongoing clinical trials investigating this strategy have been underwhelming to date. in this study, we find that most human kras-mutant nsclc cell lines fail to undergo marked apoptosis in response to meki/pi3ki, which is key for tumor responsiveness in vivo. the mitogen-activated protein kinases (mapk) and the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (pi3k)/mammalian target of rapamycin (mtor) pathways are intertwined on various levels and simultaneous inhibition reduces tumorsize and prolonges survival synergistically. 
Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. [SEP] the cymv genome has been cloned and its complete nucleotide sequence determined. the genome of cucumber yellows virus (cuyv), isolated in japan from cucumber (cucumis sativus l.), was completely sequenced and shown to be bipartite. cuyv rna1 consisted of 7889 nucleotides and encompassed seven open reading frames (orfs), which is typical of the closteroviridae, including a heat-shock protein 70 homologue, a coat protein and a diverged coat protein (cpd). soybean chlorotic mottle virus (sbcmv) is the type species of the genus 'soybean chlorotic mottle-like viruses', within the family caulimoviridae. commelina yellow mottle virus (coymv) is a double-stranded dna virus that infects the monocot commelina diffusa. the complete genome of this virus was determined to comprise 7424 nucleotides, and the virus shared 40.4-45.1% identity with that of other badnaviruses. the virus is tentatively named pagoda yellow mosaic associated virus (pymav). we report the complete genome sequence of five bean yellow mosaic virus (bymv) isolates (ck-gl1, ck-gl3, ck-gl4, ck-gl5 and vfaba2) that share 74.6-98.9% (nucleotide) and 81.5-99.1% (amino acid) identity with globally available bymv sequences. in the seven complete genomes and a single complete genome of the related virus clover yellow vein virus (clyvv), evidence for eight recombination patterns was found by four or more programs, giving firm evidence of their presence, and five additional recombination patterns were detected by three or fewer programs, giving tentative evidence of their occurrence. the genome of the nucleorhabdovirus maize fine streak virus (mfsv) consists of 13,782 nucleotides of nonsegmented, negative-sense, single-stranded rna. 
Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. [SEP] besides, klrox1p expression only partially represses scanb1 in s. cerevisiae and does not regulate the scanb1 and klhem13 promoters in k. lactis. klrox1p does not interact either with kltup1p or klssn6p or with their homologues sctup1p and scssn6p, which are components of the general co-repressor factor that mediates the transcriptional repression exerted by scrox1p in s. cerevisiae. recombination hot spots in the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae have previously been shown to be associated with sites of meiosis-induced double-strand breaks (dsbs). unlike higher eukaryotes, where an inverse correlation has been generally observed between gene expression and methylation of cpg sites, the budding yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae lacks dna methylation. analysis of the complete genome sequence of saccharomyces cerevisiae confirms and extends earlier evidence that a majority of yeast genes are not essential, at least under laboratory conditions. genes not subject to natural selection would accumulate inactivating mutations, so these "cryptic" genes must have functions that are overlooked by the standard methods of yeast genetics. wild-type strains of saccharomyces cerevisiae exhibit mitotic recombination between the chimeric plasmid tlc-1 and the endogenous 2mu circle that involves sequence homologies between the two plasmids that are not acted on by the 2mu circle site-specific recombination system. in saccharomyces cerevisiae, the two cryptic mating type loci, hml and hmr, are transcriptionally silent. to silence a locus with a strong promoter such as the a1/a2 promoter required passage through s phase while hm loci with weaker promoters such as the α1/α2 or trp1 promoter did not show this requirement. here, we conducted a genome-wide noncomplementation screen to identify genes that contribute to a major difference in thermal growth profile between two reproductively isolated yeast species, saccharomyces cerevisiae and saccharomyces uvarum. 
Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. [SEP] here we investigated the importance of two distinct intestinal dendritic cell (dc) subsets in controlling intestinal inflammation. intestinal epithelial cells (iec) and immune cells, such as dendritic cells (dc), jointly control the immune response towards luminal pathogens in the intestinal mucosa. dendritic cells (dc) are antigen-presenting cells, which induce immune responses against microbes and other stimuli and are key players in the regulation of tolerance in the gut. dendritic cells (dcs) play a key role in discriminating between commensal microorganisms and potentially harmful pathogens and in maintaining the balance between tolerance and active immunity. evidence is also emerging of the close interaction between bacteria, epithelial cells, and dc in the maintenance of intestinal immune homeostasis. priming of t cells by dendritic cells (dcs) in the intestinal mucosa and associated lymphoid tissues helps maintain mucosal tolerance but also contributes to the development of chronic intestinal inflammation. dendritic cells (dcs) play pivotal roles in maintaining intestinal homeostasis, but how the dcs regulate diverse immune networks on homeostasis breakdown remains largely unknown. the gut epithelium constitutes an interface between the intestinal contents and the underlying gut-associated lymphoid tissue (galt) including dendritic cells (dc). intestinal macrophages and dendritic cells (dcs) comprise a unique group of tissue immune cells that are ideally situated at the interface of the host and the enteric luminal environment to appropriately respond to microbes and ingested stimuli. the concept that interactions between dendritic cells and commensal organisms may be responsible for maintaining intestinal immune homeostasis is also explored. 
Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. [SEP] the release of cytochrome c from the mitochondrial intermembrane space is a decisive event in programmed cell death. in the intrinsic pathway of apoptosis, mitochondria play a crucial role by releasing cytochrome c from the intermembrane space into the cytoplasm. during apoptosis, cytochrome c (cyt c) is released from intermembrane space of mitochondria into the cytosol where it triggers the caspase-dependent machinery. cytochrome c released from mitochondria into the cytoplasm plays a critical role in many forms of apoptosis by stimulating apoptosome formation and subsequent caspase activation. these data suggest that during apoptosis, cytochrome c is nitrosylated in mitochondria and then rapidly released into the cytoplasm in the absence of bcl-2 or bcl-x(l) overexpression. through the interaction with the phospholipid cardiolipin, cytochrome c triggers release of pro-apoptotic factors, including itself, from the mitochondrion into the cytosol of cells undergoing apoptosis. during apoptosis, cytochrome c is released into the cytosol as the outer membrane of mitochondria becomes permeable, and this acts to trigger caspase activation. in response to many different apoptotic stimuli, cytochrome c is released from the intermembrane space of the mitochondria into the cytoplasm, where it serves as a cofactor in the activation of procaspase 9. during apoptosis, cytochrome c is released from mitochondria to the cytosol to activate a caspase cascade, which commits the cell to the death process. during apoptosis induced by various stimuli, cytochrome c is released from mitochondria into the cytosol where it participates in caspase activation. 
Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for DMT1. Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for proteins involved in iron uptake. [SEP] iron regulatory proteins (irp) modulate the use of mrna-encoding proteins that are involved in the transport, storage and use of iron. several new potential mrna targets for irp were recently identified: divalent metal transporter-1 (dmt-1) and ferroportin, which are critical regulators of iron absorption in the gut and of iron cycling between various tissues of the body. iron-responsive elements (ires) are cis-acting mrna stem-loop structures that specifically bind cytoplasmic iron regulatory proteins (irps). iron regulatory proteins 1 and 2 (irp1 and irp2) post-transcriptionally control the expression of several mrnas encoding proteins of iron, oxygen and energy metabolism. the mechanism involves their binding to iron responsive elements (ires) in the untranslated regions of target mrnas, thereby controlling mrna translation or stability. in mammalian cells, iron homeostasis is largely regulated by post-transcriptional control of gene expression through the binding of iron-regulatory proteins (irp1 and irp2) to iron-responsive elements (ires) contained in the untranslated regions of target mrnas. iron regulatory proteins 1 and 2 (irp-1, irp-2) interact with iron-responsive elements (ires) present in the 5'- or 3'-untranslated regions (utr) of several mrnas coding for proteins in iron metabolism. several cellular mrnas are regulated posttranscriptionally by iron-responsive elements (ires) and the cytosolic ire-binding proteins irp-1 and irp-2. irps are cytosolic proteins that bind to iron-responsive elements (ires) of the 5'- or 3'-untranslated regions (utr) of mrnas that encode many proteins involved in iron metabolism. iron regulatory proteins (irp1 and irp2) bind to iron response elements (ire) on specific mrnas, to affect the translation of many proteins involved in iron metabolism. 
DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. [SEP] double sex and mab-3 related transcription factor 1 (dmrt1) encodes a double sex/mab-3 (dm) domain, which is the most conserved structure that involved in sex determination both in vertebrates and invertebrates. the double sex and mab-3-related transcription factor 1 (dmrt1) gene has long been linked to sex-determining pathways across vertebrates and is known to play an essential role in gonadal development and maintenance of spermatogenesis in mice. dmrt1 belongs to the dm domain gene family of conserved sexual regulators. in the mouse dmrt1 is expressed in the genital ridge (the gonadal primordium) in both sexes and then becomes testis-specific shortly after sex determination. thus dmrt1 controls stra8 sex-specifically, activating it in the fetal ovary and repressing it in the adult testis. human dmrt1 (doublesex-mab3-related transcription factor 1) encodes a male-specific transcriptional regulator with a conserved zinc-finger-like dna-binding domain, so called dm domain, which is similar to male sexual regulatory genes doublesex of drosophila and mab-3 of caenorhabditis elegans. dm family members have been studied in the context of sexual development; in particular, the dmrt1 gene appeared to be the one most directly involved in sex determination, but its activity is largely unexplored and possible downstream targets of this factor have yet to be identified. dmrt1, which encodes a zinc finger-like dna binding motif, is a well-conserved gene that is involved in testis differentiation in a variety of mammalian and non-mammalian vertebrates. dmrt1, a gene that contains the dm domain (doublesex/mab-3 dna-binding motif), is known to be one of the critical factors required for testicular development in vertebrates. the dm domain proteins doublesex- and mab-3-related transcription factors (dmrts) are widely conserved in metazoan sex determination and sexual differentiation. 
De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. [SEP] de novo assembly tools play a main role in reconstructing genomes from next-generation sequencing (ngs) data and usually yield a number of contigs. although the latter process is a crucial step in finishing genomes, scaffolding algorithms are often built-in functions in de novo assembly tools and cannot be independently controlled. recent technological progress has greatly facilitated de novo genome sequencing. however, de novo assemblies consist in many pieces of contiguous sequence (contigs) arranged in thousands of scaffolds instead of small numbers of chromosomes. contig assembly is the first stage that most assemblers solve when reconstructing a genome from a set of reads. interest in de novo genome assembly has been renewed in the past decade due to rapid advances in high-throughput sequencing (hts) technologies which generate relatively short reads resulting in highly fragmented assemblies consisting of contigs. genomic sequences are assembled into a variable, but large number of contigs that should be scaffolded (ordered and oriented) for facilitating comparative or functional analysis. de novo genome assembly is a technique that builds the genome of a specimen using overlaps of genomic fragments without additional work with reference sequence. the quality of the de novo assembly depends on the length and continuity of the assembly. scaffolding is an essential step during the de novo sequence assembly process to infer the direction and order relationships between the contigs and make the sequence assembly results more continuous and complete. 
Deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA results in catastrophic G-to-A mutations in the viral genome. [SEP] the antiretroviral activity of the cellular enzyme apobec3g has been attributed to the excessive deamination of cytidine (c) to uridine (u) in minus strand reverse transcripts, a process resulting in guanosine (g) to adenosine (a) hypermutation of plus strand dnas. the enzyme apobec3g (a3g) mutates the human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) genome by converting deoxycytidine (dc) to deoxyuridine (du) on minus strand viral dna during reverse transcription. point mutations that resulted in a substitution of the conserved 3'-penultimate cytidine in genomic rna or the rna negative strand of the self-amplifying replicon of the flavivirus kunjin virus completely blocked in vivo replication. similarly, substitutions of the conserved 3'-terminal uridine in the rna negative or positive strand completely blocked replication or caused much-reduced replication, respectively. deamination of cytidine residues in viral dna is a major mechanism by which apobec3g (a3g) inhibits vif-deficient human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1) replication. the hiv-1-encoded vif protein controls cytosine deamination by preventing the incorporation of host-derived apobec3g cytidine deaminase into viral particles. cytidine deaminases inhibit replication of a broad range of dna viruses by deaminating cytidines on single-stranded dna (ssdna) to generate uracil. in the present study, we found that in hbv-producing hepad38 and hepg2.2.15 cell lines, endogenous cytidine deaminases edited 10 to 25% of hbv rcdna genomes, asymmetrically with almost all mutations on the 5' half of the minus strand. deamination of cytosine to uracil in a g-c base pair is a major promutagenic event, generating g-c-->a-t mutations if not repaired before dna replication. our results show that pathogen-induced deamination of cytidine and the dna-damage response to virus-mediated repair of the incorporation of uridine enhance the recognition of hiv-infected cells by nk cells. 
Deleting Raptor reduces G-CSF levels. [SEP] in jurkat cells, the decreased cell growth rate associated with a long-lasting deactivation of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mtor)/p70 ribosomal s6 kinase (s6k)-signaling pathway generates a cell population of progressively reduced cellular mass and size. when promoted by rapamycin as prototype inhibitor, the mtor deactivation-dependent cell size reduction was associated with slowed, but not suppressed, proliferation. protection faded when reactivation of the mtor/s6k pathway promoted the cell recovery to normal size. depleting rad did not affect the kinetics of tnfα-induced iκb degradation, suggesting that rad-mediated regulation of nfκb was through an iκb-independent mechanism. regulator of g protein signaling (rgs) proteins suppress g protein coupled receptor signaling by catalyzing the hydrolysis of gα-bound guanine nucleotide triphosphate. raf kinase trapping to golgi (rktg) is a potential tumor suppressor gene due to its negative roles in regulating ras/raf/mek/erk (extracellular signal-regulated kinase) pathway and gpcr (g protein-coupled receptor) gβγ subunit signaling. rgs2 decreases camp production and appears to interact with both adenylyl cyclase (ac) and its stimulatory g protein gs. this interaction was below the limit of detection in the absence of co-expressed ac, suggesting that the effector enzyme stabilized or promoted binding between the receptor and the rgs protein inside the cell. taken together, these results suggest the possibility that rgs2 might bind to a receptor-g protein-effector signalling complex to regulate gs-dependent camp production. this finding challenges the hypothesis that rb must be inactivated in all cells for cell cycle progression to occur. 
Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. [SEP] integrin αvβ8, which like αvβ6 functions to activate tgf-βs, is atypical. its β8 subunit binds to a distinctive cytoskeleton adaptor and does not exhibit large changes in conformation upon binding to ligand. trail deficiency does not influence the kinetics of the ag-specific cd8 t cell responses, and cd8 t cells in trail-deficient mice were able to expand, contract, and generate functional memory cell numbers that were indistinguishable from trail-sufficient wild-type cd8 t cells after acute lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus infection. it therefore seems unlikely that there is defective synthesis of gaa in this disorder. furthermore, mip-1alpha is not required for t-cell-mediated virus control or virus-induced t-cell-dependent inflammation. thus, mip-1alpha is not mandatory for t-cell-mediated antiviral immunity. analysis of dna fragments of the cd8 gene following digestion with three restriction enzymes showed no differences between patients with chronic progressive multiple sclerosis (ms), familial ms and controls. these abnormalities suggest that any abnormalities in the expression of cd8 protein in ms are not likely to be due to a gross deletion or rearrangement of the cd8 gene. in contrast to classic autoimmune disorders, polymorphisms of the aire gene are not associated with inflammatory bowel disease, despite the presence of disease-specific autoantibodies. insoluble aggregated proteins in alzheimer disease and huntington disease might not be pathogenic. 
Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. [SEP] we designed this randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study to test the hypothesis that standard doses of dexamethasone (4 mg x2) would reduce postoperative nausea, vomiting, and pain, decrease the incidence of atrial fibrillation (af), and improve appetite after cardiac surgery, thereby facilitating the recovery process. dexamethasone (4 mg/ml) or saline (1 ml) was administered after the induction of anesthesia and a second dose of the same study drug was given on the morning after surgery. dexamethasone significantly reduced the need for antiemetic rescue medication on the first postoperative day (30% versus 42%), and the incidences of nausea (15% versus 26%) and vomiting (5% versus 16%) on the second postoperative day (p < 0.05). in addition, dexamethasone significantly reduced the percentage of patients with a depressed appetite on the second postoperative day. we conclude that dexamethasone (8 mg in divided doses) was beneficial in reducing emetic symptoms and improving appetite after cardiac surgery. dexamethasone (8 mg iv) was beneficial in reducing emetic symptoms and increasing appetite after cardiac surgery. perioperative dexamethasone is associated with attenuation of the postoperative systemic inflammatory response and fewer postoperative complications following elective surgery for colorectal cancer. when patients were grouped by surgical approach (open or laparoscopic) and dexamethasone dose (0 mg, 4 mg or 8 mg), there was a statistically significant linear trend toward a lower postoperative systemic inflammatory response (day 3 pogps) with the use of minimally invasive surgery and higher doses of dexamethasone (p < 0.001). furthermore, this combination of laparoscopic surgery and higher doses of dexamethasone was significantly associated with a lower proportion of postoperative complications (p < 0.001). higher doses of perioperative dexamethasone are associated with greater reduction in postoperative systemic inflammation and complications following surgery for colonic cancer without negative impact on survival. 
Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. [SEP] diabetes mellitus is associated with significant morbidity and mortality in the setting of acute coronary syndromes. patients with diabetes mellitus presenting with acute coronary syndrome have a higher risk of cardiovascular complications and recurrent ischemic events when compared to nondiabetic counterparts. the aim of this paper is to provide an overview of the increased thrombotic burden in diabetes and acute coronary syndrome, the underlying pathophysiology focussing on endothelial and platelet abnormalities, currently available antiplatelet therapies, their benefits and limitations in diabetic patients, and to describe potential future therapeutic strategies to overcome these limitations. diabetic patients are at high risk for ischemic and bleeding events when treated with antithrombotic agents after an acs episode. patients with diabetes mellitus, chronic renal disease, or advanced age who are undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention are at an increased risk of bleeding and thrombosis. diabetes mellitus is a major independent risk factor for acute coronary syndrome (acs). diabetes is a common comorbidity in patients hospitalized for an acute coronary syndrome event, and prevalence is increasing. among patients hospitalized with acute myocardial infarction, diabetes can be an independent predictor of mortality and new cardiovascular events; both short- and long-term outcomes are worse for patients with diabetes relative to those without, and undiagnosed diabetes is associated with greater mortality. diabetes is associated with a significant risk of cardiovascular diseases (cvds). diabetic patients who present with unstable angina or non-st-elevation myocardial infarction suffer a substantially greater incidence of subsequent infarction or death compared with nondiabetic patients. 
Discrimination between the initiator and elongation tRNAs depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. [SEP] bacterial translation initiation factor 3 (if3) is involved in the fidelity of translation initiation at several levels, including start-codon discrimination, mrna translation, and initiator-trna selection. initiation factors are used by escherichia coli to select the initiator trna over elongator trnas during translation initiation. changes made in the anticodon stem, the anticodon loop, or the anticodon of an initiator trna fragment result in a loss of selection by if3 in an in vitro assay for translation initiation. during translation, initiation factor 3 (if3) binds to the small (30s) ribosomal subunit and regulates the fidelity with which the initiator trna and mrna start codon substrates are selected into the 30s initiation complex (30s ic). the escherichia coli translational initiation factor if3 is encoded by an mrna that has an unusual ribosome binding site. the selection of mrna, correct start codon, and the initiator fmet-trna(fmet) requires the presence of three initiation factors (if1, if2, if3) of which if3 and if1 control the fidelity of the process, while if2 recruits fmet-trna(fmet). initiation of translation involves the assembly of a ribosome complex with initiator trna bound to the peptidyl site and paired to the start codon of the mrna. initiation factor if3 plays an essential role in the initiation of protein translation by binding to the 30s ribosomal subunit and selecting a proper trna(fmet)/initiation codon complex. if3 has a fidelity function in the initiation of translation, inducing the dissociation of fmet-trna(fmet) from the 30 s initiation complexes (30sic) containing a non-canonical initiation triplet (e.g. if2 has a complementary role, selectively promoting initiator trna binding to the ribosome. 
Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. [SEP] loss of cell polarity proteins such as scribble induces neoplasia in drosophila by promoting uncontrolled proliferation. here, we demonstrate that depletion of scribble in mammary epithelia disrupts cell polarity, blocks three-dimensional morphogenesis, inhibits apoptosis, and induces dysplasia in vivo that progress to tumors after long latency. loss of scribble cooperates with oncogenes such as c-myc to transform epithelial cells and induce tumors in vivo by blocking activation of an apoptosis pathway. like depletion, mislocalization of scribble from cell-cell junction was sufficient to promote cell transformation. interestingly, spontaneous mammary tumors in mice and humans possess both downregulated and mislocalized scribble. thus, we demonstrate that scribble inhibits breast cancer formation and that deregulation of polarity pathways promotes dysplastic and neoplastic growth in mammals by disrupting morphogenesis and inhibiting cell death. scribble (scrib) is a tumor-suppressor protein, playing critical roles in establishing and maintaining epithelial cell polarity. scrib is frequently amplified in human cancers but does not localize properly to cell-cell junctions, suggesting that mislocalization of scrib disrupts its tumor-suppressive activities. palmitoylation-deficient mutants of scrib were mislocalized, leading to disruption of cell polarity and loss of their tumor-suppressive activities to oncogenic yap, mapk and pi3k/akt pathways. in many human cancers, genetically normal scrib mislocalizes from cell-cell junctions to the cytosol, correlating with enhanced growth signaling and malignancy. 
During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer paracortical areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. [SEP] antibody-forming (plasma) cells and memory b cells are both generated during a humoral immune response in the spleen. antibody-forming cells develop in the outer parts of the periarteriolar lymphocyte sheaths (pals) while memory b cells develop in the lymphoid follicles. the localization of b cells to lymphoid organs where they can become activated and differentiate into antibody-secreting plasma cells is controlled by multiple chemoattractants that promote cell migration and integrin-mediated adhesion. during immune responses the initial activation of b cells takes place in t cell zones of periarteriolar lymphoid sheaths (pals) of the splenic white pulp. after initial activation, b cells migrate into the primary follicles and, in association with follicular dendritic cells (fdcs), undergo clonal expansion and differentiation giving rise to germinal centers (gcs). in secondary antibody (ab) responses, ag processing and presentation occur in secondary lymphoid organs but most serum ab is produced by cells in the bone marrow. we hypothesized that germinal center (gc) b cells, which acquire ag from follicular dendritic cells in draining lymph nodes during the first few days of the secondary response, migrate to the bone marrow to terminally differentiate and produce specific ab. b cells are, by definition, the precursors of antibody-secreting cells, and thus are the source of pathogenic autoantibodies. we show that with realistic parameter assumptions our model can account for both the rapid cellular expansion and the differentiation of b cells into antibody-secreting cells. during humoral immune responses, naive b cells differentiate into ab-secreting plasma cells within secondary lymphoid organs. 
Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. [SEP] airway epithelial cells are the first line of defense against viral infections and are instrumental in coordinating the inflammatory response. in this study, we demonstrate the synergistic stimulation of cxcl10 mrna and protein, a key chemokine responsible for the early immune response to viral infection, following treatment of airway epithelial cells with ifn γ and influenza virus. the process of virus replication in host cells is greatly influenced by the set of cytokines, chemokines and antiviral substances activated as a result of host-virus interaction. lung tissue samples from experimental chicks were analysed for cytokines/chemokines gene expression at 24h, 48h, and 72h, post infection. respiratory viral infections trigger a robust inflammatory response in the lung, producing cytokines, chemokines, and growth factors that promote infiltration of effector leukocytes. whereas the role of chemokines and infiltrating leukocytes in antiviral immunity is well studied, the effect that lung cytokines have on leukocytes in distal hematopoietic and lymphoid tissues and their role in antiviral immunity is unknown. virus-induced secretion of proinflammatory chemokines (e.g., regulated on activation, normal t cells expressed and secreted [rantes], interleukin [il]-8) by airway epithelial cells helps to initiate antiviral responses and airway inflammation by enhancing inflammatory cell recruitment. to define mechanisms for virus-induced chemokine secretion, monolayers of nontransformed bronchial epithelial cells were transfected or incubated with polydeoxyinosinic-deoxycytidylic acid (synthetic double-stranded [ds] rna), rhinovirus dsrna, or single-stranded rna (ssrna), and the secretion of selected chemokines was determined. moreover, these data suggest that this may be an important mechanism for the selective secretion of chemokines by viruses (e.g., rhinovirus, respiratory syncytial virus, influenza) that synthesize dsrna during replication. immunomodulatory strategies that limit virus-induced inflammation may be of critical importance, notably in the absence of antiviral vaccines. 
Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. [SEP] non-communicable diseases are the leading global cause of death and disproportionately afflict those living in low-income and lower-middle-income countries (llmics). the association between socioeconomic status and non-communicable disease behavioural risk factors is well established in high-income countries, but it is not clear how behavioural risk factors are distributed within llmics. low socioeconomic groups were found to have a significantly higher prevalence of tobacco and alcohol use than did high socioeconomic groups. in low-income countries, a growing proportion of the disease burden is attributable to non-communicable diseases (ncds). however, they now account for a very large burden in terms of both mortality and morbidity in low- and middle-income countries (lmics), although little is known about the impact these diseases have on households in these countries. non-communicable diseases (ncds) are the greatest contributor to morbidity and mortality in low- and middle-income countries (lmics). this study provides evidence that inequalities in both self-reported and lifestyle-related ill-health are highly prevalent within smokers and the poor. poverty and chronic noncommunicable diseases have a two-way interaction. non-communicable diseases (ncds), while traditionally considered a "rich world"-problem, have been spreading fast in low and middle income countries and by now account for a large share of mortality and ill-health in these countries, too. there is significant evidence of substantial cost burden placed by ncds on patients living in low and middle income countries, with most of it being heavily concentrated among low socioeconomic status groups. 
Epigenetic modulating agents (EMAs) modulate antitumor immune response in a cancer model system. [SEP] recent work highlights the potential of epigenetic modulating agents as tool to enhance anti-tumor immunity. in vivo, epigenetic treatment increased tumoral ecto-calreticulin and decreased cd47 and pd-l1 expression, increased dendritic cell maturation and reduced cd11b positive cells. we hypothesized that epigenetic pharmacological immunomodulation could sensitize tumors to immune mediated cell death with an adoptive t cell therapy. epigenetic mechanisms, including dna methylation, histone post-translational modifications, and chromatin structure regulation, are critical for the interactions between tumor and immune cells. emerging evidence shows that tumors commonly hijack various epigenetic mechanisms to escape immune restriction. thus, epigenetic targeting agents are attractive immunomodulatory drugs and will have major impacts on immuno-oncology. here, we discuss epigenetic regulators of the cancer-immunity cycle and current advances in developing epigenetic therapies to boost anticancer immune responses, either alone or in combination with current immunotherapies. this significant immune-related antitumor activity of 5-aza-cdr combined with ctla-4 blockade, demonstrated in highly aggressive mouse tumor models, provides a strong scientific rationale to implement epigenetically-based immunotherapies in cancer patients. we reasoned that up-regulation of epigenetically silenced tumor antigens may induce an immunologically mediated antitumor response and contribute to their clinical activity. accumulating studies suggest that targeting epigenetic modifications could improve the efficacy of tumor immunotherapy; however, the mechanisms underlying this phenomenon remain largely unknown. 
Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. [SEP] 341 (97.7%) errors were identified during observation of total 349 iv drug preparations and administrations. the most common errors include the vial tap not swabbed during prepreparation and injecting bolus doses faster than the recommended administration rate. all medication errors are serious, but those associated with the iv route of administration often result in the most severe outcomes. the most common errors identified via each of the 3 data sources were incomplete labelling of iv tubing (1779 or 31.5% of all errors), omission of infusion diluent from the medication administration record (474 or 8.4% of all errors), and discrepancy between the medication order as recorded in the patient's chart and the iv medication that was being infused (105 or 1.9% of all errors). errors in administration can cause detrimental patient outcomes and increase healthcare costs, although little is known about medication administration errors associated with continuous iv infusions. (1) to ascertain the prevalence of medication administration errors for continuous iv infusions and identify the variables that caused them. administration errors involving continuous iv infusions occur frequently. although errors can occur at any stage of the iv medication process, most errors occur during reconstitution and administration. medication errors can be harmful, especially if they involve the intravenous (iv) route of administration. these findings suggest that most intralipids errors occur during the administration phase. 
Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. [SEP] acute ethanol intoxication suppresses the host immune responses against streptococcus pneumoniae. as interleukin 17 (il-17) is a critical cytokine in host defense against extracellular pathogens, including s. pneumoniae, we hypothesized that ethanol impairs mucosal immunity against this pathogen by disrupting il-17 production or il-17 receptor (il-17r) signaling. ethanol has been shown to inhibit the assembly of cross-linked peptidoglycan and to induce cell lysis in escherichia coli. the weakening of hydrophobic interactions by ethanol is proposed as a general mechanism by which ethanol and other chaotropic agents could affect membrane-associated enzyme activities. alcohol causes microbiota dysbiosis and breaches intestinal integrity, resulting in liver inflammation and ultimately cirrhosis. (2016) demonstrate that ethanol suppresses the intestinal anti-microbial response. in this study, we provided evidence that inhibition of fermentation by ethanol can be attributed to an indirect effect of ethanol on the enzymes of glycolysis involving the plasma membrane. it was demonstrated previously that ethanol inhibits the autophosphorylation and kinase activity of the purified cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase domain of the ir. in common with the irk, ethanol inhibited igf-irk autophosphorylation. ethanol toxicity and its effect on ethanol production by the recombinant ethanologenic escherichia coli strain ko11 were investigated in batch and continuous fermentation. 
Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. [SEP] a growing number of epidemiological studies have linked air pollution exposure to psychological conditions. laboratory studies indicate that air pollutants can activate the neuroendocrine stress axis and modulate stress hormone levels, which could contribute to the development or exacerbation of psychological distress. the present study examined the spatial associations between air pollutants (fine particulate matter [pm2.5], nitrogen dioxide [no2] and ground-level ozone [o3]) and psychological distress among subjects in the most populous provinces in canada. some evidence for positive associations between psychological distress and ambient air pollution after adjusting for spatial autocorrelation was found. associations between potential estimates of annual average fine particulate matter (pm2.5), traffic related air pollution, and industrial source air emissions and three allergic disease outcomes (asthma, allergies and wheezing) were examined in a state-wide general population of adults. we aimed to analyze associations between long-term exposure to ambient ozone and particulate matter with diameter <10 μm (pm10) and diagnoses of depression and anxiety in a general population. our findings indicate that increased levels of ambient ozone and pm10 may elevate the risk of a depression or anxiety diagnosis in the general population. we investigated the associations between short-term exposure to particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter ≤10 μm (pm10), nitrogen oxide (no2), and sulfur dioxide (so2) and hospital admissions with a principal diagnosis of adhd among adolescents (age 10-19 years) in 16 regions of the republic of korea from 2013 to 2015. the objective of the present work was to investigate the association between prenatal and early childhood exposure to fine particulate matter (pm2.5) and risk for childhood asd. we examined the association between cumulative exposure to air pollutants from birth to diagnosis, particularly particulate matter of <10μm (pm10) and nitric dioxide (no2), and childhood adhd. 
Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. [SEP] febrile seizures, in addition to being the most common seizure type of the developing human, may contribute to the generation of subsequent limbic epilepsy. our previous work has demonstrated that prolonged experimental febrile seizures in the immature rat model increased hippocampal excitability long term, enhancing susceptibility to future seizures. febrile seizure a common convulsion disorder in children, can lead to increased morbidity and mortality because of risk of aspiration and hypoxia during prolonged febrile seizures. febrile seizures (fs) are the most common type of seizures in childhood and are suggested to play a role in the development of temporal lobe epilepsy (tle). febrile seizures are frequent during early childhood, and prolonged (complex) febrile seizures are associated with an increased susceptibility to temporal lobe epilepsy. febrile seizures are the most prevalent type of seizures among children up to 5 years of age (2-4% of western-european children). complex febrile seizures are associated with an increased risk to develop temporal lobe epilepsy. to investigate short- and long-term effects of experimental febrile seizures (efs), we induced efs in highly febrile convulsion-susceptible c57bl/6j mice at post-natal day 10 by exposure to hyperthermia (ht) and compared them to normotherm-exposed (nt) mice. febrile (fever-induced) seizures (fs) are the most common form of seizures during childhood and have been associated with an increased risk of epilepsy later in life. febrile seizures, commonly in children between the ages of 3 months to 5 years, are a neurological abnormality characterized by neuronal hyper-excitability, that occur as a result of an increased core body temperature during a fever, which was caused by an underlying systemic infection. 
Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. [SEP] febrile seizures are the most common type of developmental seizures, affecting up to 5% of children. experimental complex febrile seizures involving the immature rat hippocampus led to a persistent lowering of seizure threshold despite an upregulation of inhibition. prolonged febrile seizures are of concern because a child may later develop mesial temporal sclerosis and intractable epilepsy in rare cases. this review will give an overview of the definition of febrile seizures, epidemiology, evaluation, treatment, outcomes and recent research. febrile status epilepticus occurs in up to 5% of all cases of febrile seizures and has been linked to the development of focal epilepsy. controversy exists regarding the relationship of febrile status epilepticus to the subsequent development of epilepsy. the current literature appears to support a role for febrile status in the development of focal epilepsy but is clearly neither necessary nor sufficient in the focal epileptogenisis process. febrile status epilepticus during a subsequent infection is a potential source of serious morbidity and mortality. febrile seizures are benign, self limiting, common neurological problems encountered in children between 3 months and 5 years. there are effective therapies to prevent febrile seizures but the potential side effects of drugs outweigh their benefit. 
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. [SEP] an apolipoprotein e (apoe) 4 genotype is the most important, common genetic determinant for alzheimer disease (ad), and female apoe4 carriers present with an increased risk compared with males. the apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4) gene is a well-known risk factor for alzheimer's disease (ad) and other neurological disorders. post-menopausal women with ad who express at least one apoe4 gene have more severe neuropathology and worsened cognitive scores than their non-expressing counterparts. the epsilon4 allele of the apolipoprotein e (apoe) gene is a major genetic risk factor for alzheimer's disease but appears to be associated with greater risk in women than in men. an allele dependent modulation of oestrogen induced regulation of apoe might be involved in the increased risk for alzheimer's disease in women bearing an epsilon4 allele. elderly females, particularly those carrying the apolipoprotein e (apoe)-ε4 allele, have a higher risk of developing alzheimer's disease (ad). compared with apoe2 and e3, apoe4 increases the risk of cognitive impairments and of developing alzheimer's disease (ad). apolipoprotein (apo) e4 is the major genetic risk factor for alzheimer's disease (ad). the inheritance of the epsilon 4 allele of the apolipoprotein e gene (apoe) is associated with increased risk of developing dementia of the alzheimer type (dat). the most significant genetic risk factor for ad is the ε4 allele of apolipoprotein e ( apoe4), which has been shown to exert greater ad risk in women. 
Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. [SEP] the structural complexity and physical properties of the tumor microenvironment negatively affect the penetration and efficiency of conventional anticancer drugs. the heterogeneity of cellular microenvironments in tumors severely limits the efficacy of most cancer therapies. because microenvironment gradients and penetration play critical roles controlling drug efficacy, we believe that this microfluidic device will be vital for understanding the behavior of common cancer drugs in solid tumors and designing novel intratumorally targeted therapeutics. the capillary networks of solid tumors are more permeable and less well organized than those of normal tissue. moreover, heterogeneous tumor perfusion and vascular permeability, and increased interstitial pressure, could represent critical barriers that limit the penetration of drugs into neoplastic cells distant from tumor vessels and, consequently, the effectiveness of chemotherapy. second, we have observed that encapsulation of doxorubicin into liposomes able to home to tumor vessels markedly improves drug uptake by neuroblastoma tumors, in an orthotopic xenograft model, and its therapeutic index. 3d tumors express different adhesion receptors from those expressed in monolayers, leading to a distinct microenvironment. the large size of many novel therapeutics impairs their transport through the tumor extracellular matrix and thus limits their therapeutic effectiveness. for the same tumor types, diffusion of large molecules was significantly faster in cw than in dc tumors. for molecules with diameters comparable to the interfibrillar space the diffusion was 5- to 10-fold slower in dc than in cw tumors. 
FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). [SEP] the accumulation of reactive oxygen species leading to oxidative damage and cell death plays an important role in a number of neurodegenerative disorders. our findings suggest that in response to oxidative stress, the nuclear retention of foxo3a in astrocytes upregulates expression of gs as a neuroprotective mechanism. the forkhead transcription factor, foxo3a induces genomic death responses in neurones following translocation from the cytosol to the nucleus. receptor activation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (pi3k)-akt signalling pathways retains foxo3a in the cytoplasm, thereby inhibiting the transcriptional activation of death-promoting genes. exposure of neurones to tbhq inhibited nmda-induced nuclear translocation of foxo3a, prevented nmda-induced up-regulation of foxo-mediated transcriptional activity, blocked caspase activation and protected neurones from nmda-induced excitotoxic death. foxo3a, a member of the foxo family of transcription factors, is expressed in adult liver and modulates the expression of genes involved in apoptosis. foxo3a is post-translationally regulated, negatively by pi3k/akt and mapk/erk and positively by oxidative stress/jnk pathways. reactive oxygen species (ros) play an important role in causing neuronal death in a number of neurological disorders. here we report that the activity of foxo in human cells is directly regulated by the cellular redox state through a unique mechanism in signal transduction. these findings directly link cellular redox status to the activity of the longevity protein foxo. 
Free histones are degraded by a Rad53-dependent mechanism once DNA has been replicated. [SEP] since dna and histone levels must be closely balanced for cell survival, histone expressions are highly regulated. the regulation of replication-dependent histone expression is mainly achieved at the mrna level, as the mrnas are rapidly removed when dna replication is inhibited during s-phase. histone mrna degradation initiates with addition of multiple uridines (oligouridylation) following the 3' stem-loop (sl) catalyzed by terminal uridyltransferase (tutase). previous studies showed that histone mrna degradation occurs through both 5' → 3' and 3' → 5' processes, but the relative contributions are difficult to dissect due to lack of established protocols. earlier, we reported that rad51 physically interacts with hsp90, and under the condition of hsp90 inhibition, it undergoes proteasomal degradation. here, we show that the dynamic interaction between rad51 and hsp90 is crucial for the dna damage-induced nuclear function of rad51. histone levels are tightly regulated to prevent harmful effects such as genomic instability and hypersensitivity to dna-damaging agents due to the accumulation of these highly basic proteins when dna replication slows down or stops. although chromosomal histones are stable, excess (non-chromatin bound) histones are rapidly degraded in a rad53 (radiation sensitive 53) kinase-dependent manner in saccharomyces cerevisiae. here we demonstrate that excess histones associate with rad53 in vivo and seem to undergo modifications such as tyrosine phosphorylation and polyubiquitylation, before their proteolysis by the proteasome. regulated histone proteolysis has major implications for the maintenance of epigenetic marks on chromatin, genomic stability and the packaging of sperm dna. 
Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. [SEP] in spite of the recent discovery of genetic mutations in most myelodysplasic (mds) patients, the pathophysiology of these disorders still remains poorly understood, and only few in vivo models are available to help unravel the disease. comprehensive preclinical studies of myelodysplastic syndromes (mds) have been elusive due to limited ability of mds stem cells to engraft current immunodeficient murine hosts. the importance of new advances in myelodysplastic syndrome will be discussed in this review. heightened awareness of the myelodysplastic syndrome burden has garnered rising interest in the development of new treatment strategies and investigation of the molecular basis of this complex disease. newly identified molecular defects, the creation of animal models, and several advancements in our understanding of the molecular pathogenesis have dramatically improved diagnostic and therapeutic potential of myelodysplastic syndrome. myelodysplastic syndrome (mds) is a clonal disease of the elderly characterized by chronic cytopenia, dysplasia, and a high risk of progression to acute myeloid leukemia (aml). the potential mechanism of myelodysplastic syndromes (mds) progressing to acute myeloid leukemia (aml) remains poorly elucidated. myelodysplastic syndrome (mds) comprises a heterogeneous group of often fatal hematopoietic stem cell disorders for which neither curative nor standard treatment exists. myelodysplastic syndromes (mds) are a heterogeneous group of acquired clonal bone marrow disorders, characterised by ineffective hematopoiesis. myelodysplastic syndrome (mds) is a clonal disorder of hematopoietic stem cells characterized by ineffective and inadequate hematopoiesis. 
Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation [SEP] anterior-posterior (a-p) patterning in the neuroectoderm is established during gastrulation in zebrafish and amphibians. we isolated a novel zinc-finger gene fez-like (fezl) from zebrafish, which displays sequence similarities to xenopus fez. the fezl transcripts were detected in the anterior edge of neuroectoderm, the prospective dorsal forebrain, from the late gastrula (80% epiboly stage) to the mid-segmentation period. zebrafish paraxial protocadherin (papc) encodes a transmembrane cell adhesion molecule (papc) expressed in trunk mesoderm undergoing morphogenesis. the zebrafish locus one-eyed pinhead (oep) is essential for the formation of anterior axial mesoderm, endoderm and ventral neuroectoderm. frizzled (fz) signaling regulates cell polarity in both vertebrates and invertebrates. in drosophila, fz orients the asymmetric division of the sensory organ precursor cell (pi) along the antero-posterior axis of the notum. we have cloned zebrafish focal adhesion kinase (fak) and analyzed its subcellular localization. the zebrafish egf-cfc gene one-eyed pinhead (oep) is required zygotically for the formation of the ventral neuroectoderm, endoderm, and prechordal plate. zic1 expression starts during epiboly stages in lateral parts of the neural plate and eventually comes to lie in dorsal regions of the developing brain following the morphogenetic movements of neural tube formation. 
Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. [SEP] we isolated a novel zinc-finger gene fez-like (fezl) from zebrafish, which displays sequence similarities to xenopus fez. zebrafish floating head (flh) mutants lack a notochord, but develop with prechordal plate and other mesodermal derivatives, indicating that flh functions specifically in notochord development. the zebrafish egf-cfc gene one-eyed pinhead (oep) is required zygotically for the formation of the ventral neuroectoderm, endoderm, and prechordal plate. frizzled (fz) signaling regulates cell polarity in both vertebrates and invertebrates. in drosophila, fz orients the asymmetric division of the sensory organ precursor cell (pi) along the antero-posterior axis of the notum. we have cloned zebrafish focal adhesion kinase (fak) and analyzed its subcellular localization. fak protein is localized at the cortex of notochord cells and at the notochord-somite boundary. zebrafish paraxial protocadherin (papc) encodes a transmembrane cell adhesion molecule (papc) expressed in trunk mesoderm undergoing morphogenesis. here, we report its dynamic expression during development in zebrafish. in xenopus and zebrafish, pcp signaling is activated by non-canonical wnts such as wnt11, and detailed understanding of wnt11 expression has provided important clues on when, where and how pcp may be activated to regulate tissue morphogenesis. 
GATA-3 is important for hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function. [SEP] despite evidence it may also be expressed in multipotent hematopoietic stem cells (hscs), any role for gata-3 in these cells has remained unclear. in this study, we find that gata2 function is essential for the generation of hscs during the stage of endothelial-to-hematopoietic cell transition. by specific deletion of gata2 in vav-expressing hematopoietic cells (after hsc generation), we further show that gata2 is essential for hsc survival. however, gata3 expression initiates already at the hematopoietic stem cell (hsc) level, implicating a potential role also in the regulation of hscs. herein we used a conditional gata3 knockout strategy in which gata3 expression was completely deleted from the earliest stage of embryonic hematopoietic development after emergence of hscs from hemogenic endothelium. the three important gata transcription factors gata1, gata2 and gata3 play essential roles in the development and maintenance of hematopoietic systems. gata2 is crucial for the proliferation and survival of early hematopoietic cells, and is also involved in lineage specific transcriptional regulation as the dynamic partner of gata1. gata3 plays an essential role in t lymphoid cell development and immune regulation. gata transcription factors are major regulators of hematopoietic and immune system. among gata factors, gata-1, gata-2, and gata-3 play crucial roles in the development of erythroid cells, hematopoietic stem, and progenitor cells, and t helper type 2 (th2) cells, respectively. 
Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. [SEP] due to the relative small population sizes, it is predicted that human gene sequences are not strongly influenced by selection towards expression efficiency. cell-to-cell variability of gene expression in clonal populations of mammalian cells is ubiquitous. to measure the noise intrinsic to eukaryotic gene expression, we quantified the differences in expression of two alleles in a diploid cell. we found that such noise is gene-specific and not dependent on the regulatory pathway or absolute rate of expression. ideally these genes are constitutionally expressed by all cell types and do not vary under experimental conditions. in all nine clones derived from three independent parental fibroblast cultures the intercellular nor-ag-variability was similar to that observed in a given parental cell line. a central question in biology is whether variability between genetically identical cells exposed to the same culture conditions is largely stochastic or deterministic. variability in gene expression among genetically identical cells has emerged as a central preoccupation in the study of gene regulation; however, a divide exists between the predictions of molecular models of prokaryotic transcriptional regulation and genome-wide experimental studies suggesting that this variability is indifferent to the underlying regulatory architecture. genetically identical cells often show significant variation in gene expression profile and behaviour even in the same physiological condition. notably, embryonic cells destined to the same tissue maintain a uniform transcriptional regulatory state and form a homogeneous cell group. 
Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. [SEP] regulation of the glycolytic pathway is considered to be primarily achieved by the carbon metabolites resulting from glucose metabolism [e.g., fructose 1,6-diphosphate (fdp), phosphoenolpyruvate (pep), and citrate] and by the atp charge of the cell. the role of glycogen in the central nervous system is intimately linked with the glycolytic pathway. glycogen is synthesized from glucose, the primary substrate for glycolysis, and degraded to glucose-6-phosphate. glucose/glycogen metabolism is a primary metabolic pathway acting on a variety of cellular needs, such as proliferation, growth, and survival against stresses. glucose, the most abundant monosaccharide in nature, is the principal carbon and energy source for nearly all cells. conversion to glycogen is a major fate of ingested glucose in the body. glycogen phosphorylases catalyze the breakdown of glycogen to glucose-1-phosphate, which enters glycolysis to fulfill the energetic requirements of the organism. glucose, an almost universally used energy and carbon source, is processed through several well-known metabolic pathways, primarily glycolysis. glucose uptake is considered to be the first step in glycolysis. glycolysis is usually considered as a paradigm metabolic pathway, due to the fact that it is present in most organisms, and also because it is the pathway by which an important nutrient, glucose, is consumed. 
Golli-deficient T-cells prefer to differentiate into an anergic phenotype in the adaptive immune response when there are increased levels of Ca2+ in the cytosol. [SEP] t cells rendered anergic are refractory to further stimulation and are characterized by defective proliferation and il-2 production. tolerant t cells displayed reduced phospholipase cgamma activation and calcium mobilization, indicating a defect in calcium signaling. to characterize the requirements for the induction of an anergic state in immunocompetent cells we examined the effect of an increase in intracellular calcium concentration on the subsequent responsiveness of cytolytic t cells to antigenic stimulation in vitro. we conclude that a rise in intracellular calcium in cytolytic t cells might not only be necessary for cellular activation but may also trigger the induction of a partial unresponsiveness to antigenic stimulation due to an inhibition in the early phase of signal transduction. several alterations in t cell receptor-associated signal transduction have been observed following induction of anergy of t helper type 1 (th1) clones, including a modified intracellular free calcium ([ca2+]i) response and increased kinase activity associated with the protein tyrosine kinase p59fyn. calcium influx is crucial for t cell activation and differentiation. we report here that golli protein, an alternatively spliced product of the myelin basic protein gene, plays a critical role in regulating calcium influx in t cells. golli-deficient t cells were hyperproliferative and showed enhanced calcium entry upon t cell receptor stimulation. we further found that golli regulates calcium influx in t cells through the inhibition of the store depletion-induced calcium influx. these results indicate that golli functions in a unique way to regulate t cell activation through a mechanism involving the modulation of the calcium homeostasis. 
HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years [SEP] only 14% of patients with familial diabetes carry a hnf1a mutation. this study was carried out to evaluate hnf1a mutations in iranian diabetic families fulfilling mody criteria. it seems that hnf1a mutations are a common cause of mody in iranian diabetic patients. mutations in the hnf1a gene are the most common cause of maturity-onset diabetes of the young (mody). we confirmed the effects of environmental and genetic factors known to modify the age at hnf1a-mody diagnosis, namely intrauterine hyperglycemia (-5.1 years if present, p = 1.6 x 10(-10)) and hnf1a mutation position (-5.2 years if at least two isoforms affected, p = 1.8 x 10(-2)). we show that type 2 diabetes risk variants of modest effect sizes reduce the age at diagnosis in hnf1a-mody. inactivating mutations in hnf1a and hnf4a cause the maturity-onset diabetes of youth (mody)-3 and mody1 forms of monogenic diabetes, respectively. the first two cases demonstrate that mutations in hnf1a (mody3) can cause hyperinsulinism early in life and diabetes later, similar to the phenotype recently reported for hnf4a (mody1) mutations. case 3 indicates that the effects of hnf4a mutations in infancy may extend beyond pancreatic β-cells to produce a disorder similar to glucose transporter 2 deficiency involving both liver glycogen metabolism and renal tubular transport. inactivating mutations in the transcription factor hepatocyte nuclear factor (hnf) 1a cause hnf1a-maturity-onset diabetes of the young (hnf1a-mody), the most common monogenic form of diabetes. 
Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. [SEP] unlike patients with migraine, patients with cluster headache do not present with a loss of cognitive habituation as measured by erp. long-term observation revealed no progressive cognitive decline in cluster headache patients over the years. we aimed to disprove that migraine or headache in general is associated with increased risk of developing brain tumors. those who experience migraine six times/year were also not at increased risk of brain tumor (0.67; 0.13-3.32). results of this large, prospective cohort study in women do not provide evidence that headache in general or migraine in particular are associated with the occurrence of brain tumors. our data should reassure patients with headache that brain tumor is not a long-term consequence of headache. headache has not been established as a risk factor for dementia. there was no association between any headache and later development of ad ( n  = 180). there was no relation between the length of migraine history or medication use and the level of impairment of cognitive abilities. the results suggest that the general population of female migraine patients show no indication of cognitive impairment. 
Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. [SEP] this leads to customer dissatisfaction as well as inefficient processes and output. the complexity of our current healthcare delivery system has become an impediment to communication among caregivers resulting in fragmentation of patient care. during the past 2 decades in health care environments, particularly hospitals, attempts to centralize operational processes have inadvertently bred barriers to interdepartmental communication, resulting in the creation of informational silos and, ultimately, decreases in revenues reported and reimbursement obtained. restructuring healthcare delivery systems within limited budgets presents multiple management challenges. health care delivery systems are challenged to support the increasing demands for improving patient safety, satisfaction, and outcomes. limited resources and staffing are common barriers for making significant and sustained improvements. health care systems struggle to consistently deliver integrated high-quality, safe, and patient-centered care to all in an economically sustainable manner. healthcare systems worldwide are confronted with major economic, organizational and logistical challenges. historic evolution of health care has led to significant healthcare sector fragmentation, resulting in systemic inefficiencies and suboptimal resource exploitation. care is often fragmented, less effective, and sometimes harmful. 
Helminths interfere with immune system control of macrophages activated by IL-4 favor Mycobacterium tuberculosis replication. [SEP] helminth-infected individuals possess a higher risk of developing tuberculosis, but the precise immunologic mechanism of mycobacterium tuberculosis control remains unclear. this clarifies a relationship in which helminth-induced cd4(+) t cells disrupt m. tuberculosis control by macrophages, thereby providing a mechanism for the observation that helminth infection advances the progression of tuberculosis among patients with m. tuberculosis infection. mycobacterium tuberculosis and helminth coinfection is highly prevalent, and the presence of helminths may modulate the th1 response necessary for m. tuberculosis control. helminths affect the outcome of tuberculosis by shifting cell mediated immune response to humoral and by total suppression of the host immune system. we present evidence that helminths modulate the function and phenotype of these innate immune cells. helminth infections are known to influence t and b cell responses in latent tuberculosis infection (ltbi). patients with tuberculosis coinfected with helminths demonstrate more severe pulmonary symptoms, a deficiency in the immune response against tuberculosis, and an impaired response to anti-tuberculosis therapy. we have previously shown that helminth infections modulate the th1 and th17 responses to mycobacterial-antigens in latent tb. as both of these responses can suppress th1 immunity, which is necessary for control of mycobacterium tuberculosis (mtb) infection, we hypothesized that chronic helminth infections may exacerbate the course of mtb. helminth infections are known to influence t cell responses in latent tuberculosis (ltbi). 
Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. [SEP] despite decades of work, current techniques to isolate hematopoietic stem cells (hscs) based on cell-surface markers only result in 50% purity, i.e. we apply these techniques to murine hematopoietic lineage trees, revealing that 18% of the trees in our hsc dataset display a unique signature, and this signature is compatible with these trees having started from a true stem cell. in this study, we analyzed the kinetics of hematopoietic cells, and more than 50% of hematopoietic progenitor cells, including cfu-mix, cfu-gm and bfu-e in 3d culture were in a resting (non-s) phase. about 50,000 hematopoietic stem cell transplantations are performed yearly, primarily for malignancies. a 3-step procedure is described in detail for producing 50% basophils in 50% yield from human blood. here we describe an erythroid liquid culture system starting from cord blood derived hematopoietic stem cells (hscs). the large number and purity of erythroid cells and rbcs produced from cord blood make this method useful for fundamental research in erythroid development, and they also provide a basis for future production of available rbcs for transfusion. to evaluate separation efficiency and concentrate purity, each of 50 donors underwent platelet (plt) collection on both the cobe spectra and fresenius as 104 with the constancy of processed blood volume, acd/blood ratio 1:10 and a blood flow of 50 ml/min. various methods have been investigated to concentrate hemopoietic stem cells before in vitro treatment and cryopreservation. murine pluripotent hematopoietic stem cells and precursor cells with restricted commitment to erythrocytes, granulocytes and macrophages as well as megakaryocytes have been purified 30- to 50-fold from mouse bone marrow cells. 
High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. [SEP] we investigated the prognostic significance of risk scores and cardiorespiratory fitness with respect to cardiovascular disease and all-cause mortality. an important finding is that the risk scores can be used to identify men for whom low cardiorespiratory fitness predicts an especially high risk for death from cardiovascular and any other cause. cardiorespiratory fitness, as measured by maximal oxygen uptake (vo2max), is related to functional capacity and human performance and has been shown to be a strong and independent predictor of all-cause and disease-specific mortality. physical fitness and activity status are well-documented risk predictors of cardiovascular and total mortality. the purpose of this article is to show how cardiorespiratory fitness predicts atherosclerotic cardiovascular diseases. cardiorespiratory fitness represents one of the strongest predictors of mortality, emphasizing the importance of exercise testing in everyday clinical practice. cardiorespiratory fitness is a strong predictor of all-cause morbidity and mortality; nevertheless, the association between cardiorespiratory fitness and the risk of cancer remains unclear. using low cardiorespiratory fitness as the reference group, moderate and high levels of cardiorespiratory fitness were associated with a lower risk (hrs) of lung cancer, 0.53 (95% confidence interval [ci], 0.39 to 0.68) and 0.52 (95% ci, 0.42 to 0.61); colorectal cancer, 0.74 (95% ci, 0.55 to 0.93) and 0.77 (95% ci, 0.62 to 0.92) and all cancer sites, 0.86 (95% ci, 0.79 to 0.93) and 0.81 (95% ci, 0.75 to 0.87), respectively. high levels of cardiopulmonary fitness (vo2max) are associated with reduced risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, but little is known to what extent this is related to the effects of cardiopulmonary fitness on atherosclerosis and arterial stiffness. cardiorespiratory fitness measured by treadmill testing has prognostic significance in determining mortality with cardiovascular and other chronic disease states. 
High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. [SEP] contrary to frequent claims, vitamin d insufficiency does not generally cause malabsorption of calcium because serum 1,25(oh)(2)d, which is the major determinant of calcium absorption, is maintained by secondary hyperparathyroidism. it is suggested that, using this regimen which is suitable for patients up to about 65 years of age, calcium supplementation is not required, provided daily calcium intake is reasonably adequate, and may even be undesirable by increasing the risk of hypercalcaemia. a higher calcium intake is still the primary recommendation for the prevention of osteoporosis, whereas vitamin d deficiency is often not addressed. a higher calcium intake was significantly associated with higher bmd (p value for trend: p = 0.005) only for women with 25(oh)d status <50 nm, whereas calcium intake beyond the upper end of the lowest quartile (>566 mg/d) was not significantly associated with bmd at 25(oh)d concentrations >50 nm. among men, there was no significant association between a higher calcium intake beyond the upper end of the lowest quartile (626 mg/d) and bmd within all 25(oh)d categories. only women with 25(oh)d concentrations <50 nm seem to benefit from a higher calcium intake. in this study, the effect of dietary calcium and vitamin d on serum parathyroid hormone and vitamin d metabolites was measured in 376 free-living women aged 65-77 y. to test the hypothesis that vitamin d is more important than calcium in reducing serum parathyroid hormone, the source of dietary calcium intake was subdivided into milk, which is fortified with vitamin d, and nonmilk sources. serum parathyroid hormone was inversely correlated with serum calcidiol (r = -0.33, p < 0.001) and the regression predicted that mean serum parathyroid hormone would be reduced in the elderly to concentrations considered normal in the young when serum calcidiol is 122 nmol/l (49 ng/ml); this would require a much higher recommended dietary allowance for vitamin d than 5 microg/d (200 iu/d). standard treatment in hypoparathyroidism consists of calcium and vitamin d (or vitamin d analogs) but does not employ replacement of the actual missing hormone. 
High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). [SEP] the effective prevention of exacerbations in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) has the potential to improve patients' health-related quality of life, reduce rates of hospitalisation and mortality and lower healthcare costs. in this population, adherence to treatment is associated with better disease control and lower risk of copd-related exacerbations in the future. oxidative stress contributes to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) exacerbations and antioxidants can decrease exacerbation rates, although we lack data about the effect of such drugs on exacerbation duration.the restore (reducing exacerbations and symptoms by treatment with oral erdosteine in copd) study was a prospective randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, enrolling patients aged 40-80 years with global initiative for chronic obstructive lung disease stage ii/iii. these findings may ultimately lead to new and novel therapeutic targets for patients with copd. smoking cessation has been demonstrated to reduce the rate of loss of lung function and mortality among patients with mild to moderate chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd). smoking cessation is associated with a reduced risk of copd exacerbations, and the described reduction is dependent upon the duration of abstinence. long-term benefits of ics on lung function decline in patients with moderate-to-severe copd are most pronounced in patients with fewer packyears, and less severe emphysema and inflammation. the outpatient management of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) is designed to limit the decline in respiratory function over time, to relieve the symptoms and improve the patient's functional status, and to manage complications when they arise. exacerbation frequency is related to disease progression, quality of life, and prognosis in copd. as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) progresses, exacerbations can occur with increasing frequency. 
High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. [SEP] copeptin, a surrogate of vasopressin, is elevated in type 1 diabetes (t1d) and predicts kidney disease and cardiovascular mortality. higher baseline copeptin correlated with higher hba1c, lower 24-hour urine volume and sodium excretion, after correcting for age, sex, systolic blood pressure, and hba1c. copeptin concentrations increased in response to empagliflozin under euglycaemia (4.1±2.1 to 5.1±2.8pmol/l, p=0.0053) and hyperglycaemia (3.3±1.4 to 5.6±2.8pmol/l, p<0.0001). elevated serum copeptin was associated with worse glycaemic control and lower diuresis and natriuresis. elevated copeptin, a vasopressin marker, is linked to metabolic disease, and obese rats with low-vasopressin concentration had a decreased risk of liver steatosis. increasing copeptin tertile levels were significantly associated with obesity, overweight, and abdominal obesity, respectively, after multivariate adjustment for age, gender, ethnicity, and high homa-ir (p = 0.02 for all). elevated plasma concentration of the vasopressin marker copeptin and low water intake are associated with elevated blood glucose and diabetes risk at a population level. high copeptin was associated with all investigated metabolic traits (p < 0.001 for all). low concentrations of the vasopressin marker copeptin is linked to high water intake, low u-osm, and a favorable metabolic profile, suggesting that vasopressin lowering lifestyle interventions, such as increased water intake, may promote metabolic health. copeptin is a marker of endogenous vasopressin secretion. 
High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). [SEP] serial determinations of troponin t or troponin i after arrival in hospital disclose minor myocardial injury in patients presenting as unstable angina. patients with positive evidence of troponins represent a high-risk group who should be hospitalized and further evaluated, because the risk for myocardial infarction and death in 30 days is approximately 20%. timely recognition of acute coronary syndrome remains a challenge as many biomarkers, including troponin, remain negative in the first hours following the onset of chest pain. prospective monocentre diagnostic accuracy study of h-fabp bedside point of care (cardiodetect®) and elisa tests in acute coronary syndrome suspected patients presenting within 24 hours of symptom onset to the emergency department, in addition to clinical findings, electrocardiography and the currently recommended biomarker high sensitivity troponin-t (hs-ctnt). the reliability of initial high-sensitivity cardiac troponin t (hs-ctnt) under limit-of-detection in ruling-out short- and long-term acute coronary events in subjects for suspected non-st-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (nste-acs) is not definitely settled. cardiac troponins, ck-mb and myoglobin, which are used routinely in the diagnosis of acute coronary syndrome (acs), are not elevated in the initial hours of acs--precluding their usefulness in the early diagnosis. an early diagnosis is crucial for effective triage and management of patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction (ami). an elevated troponin alone cannot establish a diagnosis of myocardial infarction (mi), yet the optimal methods for diagnosing mi in the intensive care unit (icu) are not established. cardiac troponin i (ctni) has low sensitivity in the early hours of acute coronary syndrome (acs). troponin elevation in the absence of myocardial infarction is a challenging diagnostic problem in the emergency department (ed). 
Histone demethylase recruitment and a transient decrease in histone methylation is necessary for ligand-dependent induction of transcription by nuclear receptors. [SEP] the synergistic activation of er occurs concomitantly with markedly reduced soluble dnmt1 expression and activity, partial demethylation of the er cpg island, and increased acetylation of histones h(3) and h(4). (2007) show that spurious transcriptional activation by unliganded nuclear receptors is inhibited by histone lysine methylation. this inhibitory histone modification code is efficiently countered by the ligand-dependent recruitment of histone lysine demethylases, including lysine-specific demethylase 1 (lsd1), which appear to be used for this purpose by a number of signal-regulated transcriptional activators. we have previously shown that induction of histone acetylation by trichostatin a promotes demethylation of ectopically methylated dna (cervoni, n., and szyf, m. (2001) j. biol. taken together, these results are consistent with a novel regulatory role for set/taf-ibeta, integrating epigenetic states of histones and dna in gene regulation and provide a new mechanism that can explain how hypermethylation of specific regions might come about by inhibition of demethylation in cancer cells. demethylation at distinct lysine residues in histone h3 by lysine-specific demethylase 1 (lsd1) causes either gene repression or activation. recent findings have revealed that hormone stimulation of certain nuclear receptors induces rapid, dynamic changes in dna methylation patterns alongside transcriptional responses at a subset of target loci, over time. time-resolved chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments on the sgk1 locus reveals dynamic recruitment of ar and rna polymerase ii, as well as the recruitment of proteins involved in the dna demethylation process, tet1 and tdg. our data substantiate the mechanistic link between dna methylation, histone deacetylation and transcriptional silencing. chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments revealed sumo-dependent recruitment of the chromatin remodeller mi-2, mbt-domain proteins, heterochromatic protein 1, and the histone methyltransferases setdb1 and suv4-20h, concomitant with the establishment of histone modifications associated with repressed genes, including h3k9 and h4k20 trimethylation. 
Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. [SEP] deletion of sox2 from mouse embryonic stem cells (escs) causes trophectodermal differentiation. in mammals, sod2 homozygous knockout mice die shortly after birth, and alterations of mnsod levels are correlated with changes in oxidative damage and in the generation of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species. our data show that an approximately twofold overexpression of mnsod throughout life in mice resulted in decreased lipid peroxidation, increased resistance against paraquat-induced oxidative stress, and decreased age-related decline in mitochondrial atp production. the sod2 gene for mn-superoxide dismutase (mnsod), an intramitochondrial free radical scavenging enzyme that is the first line of defense against superoxide produced as a byproduct of oxidative phosphorylation, was inactivated by homologous recombination. these findings indicate that mnsod is required for normal biological function of tissues by maintaining the integrity of mitochondrial enzymes susceptible to direct inactivation by superoxide. here we show that deletion of the pro-apoptotic genes bak and bax in osterix (osx, also known as sp7 transcription factor 7)-expressing cells in mice promotes hsc regeneration and hematopoietic radioprotection following total body irradiation. conversely, inducible deletion of one allele of dkk1 in osx-expressing cells in adult mice inhibited the recovery of bm stem and progenitor cells and of complete blood counts following irradiation. to understand the in vivo function of smad5, we generated mice deficient in smad5 using embryonic stem (es) cell technology. manganese superoxide dismutase 2 (sod2) is a critical component of the mitochondrial pathway for detoxification of o2(-), and targeted disruption of this locus leads to embryonic or neonatal lethality in mice. loss of sod2 in erythroid progenitor cells results in enhanced protein oxidative damage, altered membrane deformation, and reduced survival of red cells. 
Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. [SEP] human t lymphotropic virus type i (htlv-i)-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp) is associated with immunoreactivity to htlv-i tax. antibodies isolated from patients with ham/tsp and monoclonal antibodies (mabs) to htlv-i tax stained neurons. human t cell leukemia virus type 1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp) is characterized by the generation of an intense ctl cell response directed against the viral transactivator protein tax. the presence of anti-tax antibody responses in human t cell leukemia virus type i (htlv-i)-infected individuals has been correlated with increased proviral load, increased risk of transmitting infection, and increased risk of developing tropical spastic paraparesis/htlv-i-associated myelopathy (tsp/ham). human t lymphotropic virus type i (htlv-i)-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp) is a chronic inflammatory disease of the spinal cord in which htlv-i tax-specific cytotoxic t lymphocytes (ctl) have been suggested to be immunopathogenic. human t lymphotropic virus type i (htlv-i)-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp) is an inflammatory neurological disease. tropical spastic paraparesis/htlv-i associated myelopathy (tsp/ham), is characterized by infiltration of human t cell leukaemia virus type-i (htlv-i)-infected t-cells, anti-htlv-i cytotoxic t cells and macrophages into the patients' cerebrospinal fluid and by intrathecally formed anti-htlv-i antibodies. human t-cell leukemia virus type i (htlv-i) gives rise to a neurologic disease known as htlv-i-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp). htlv-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp) is a neurological inflammatory disease associated with a predominant infiltration of cd4+ t lymphocytes, which are the main subset of htlv-1-infected cells. circulating, activated tax-specific ctl can be found in a majority of healthy carriers and patients with the htlv-1-associated disease tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp). 
Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. [SEP] the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of pre-operative clopidrogel exposure in haemorrhage-related re-exploration rates, peri-operative transfusion requirements, morbidity, and mortality in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg) surgery. in platelets activated with 1 microm adp, clinically relevant concentrations of tirofiban caused inhibition of fibrinogen binding ranging from 17% to 88%. thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor (tafi) is a recently identified independent risk factor of thrombosis. our findings of decreased tafi levels may reflect the beneficial effect of simvastatin treatment on fibrinolysis, and improved endothelial function may suggest the improved future cardiovascular events in hyperlipidemic patients. in this review we discuss the association of overall hypofibrinolysis and individual fibrinolytic protein levels with venous and arterial thrombosis. decreased overall fibrinolytic potential and high plasma levels of thrombin-activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor have been consistently associated with risk of venous thrombosis, whereas little evidence exists for a role of plasminogen, alpha2-antiplasmin, tissue plasminogen activator, and plasminogen activator inhibitor 1. decrease of fibrinolytic potential is considered to be a risk factor for arterial thrombosis. the recently described thrombin-activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor (tafi) attenuates fibrinolysis by cleaving of the c-terminal lysine residues from fibrin, thereby inhibiting tpa mediated plasminogen activation. thrombocyte glycoprotein iib/iiia inhibitors prevent fibrinogen binding and thereby thrombocyte aggregation. the risk of bleeding is higher with this form of thrombocytopenia not only due to the low thrombocyte count but also to the impaired function of the remaining thrombocytes. 
Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. [SEP] increasing plasma levels of fibrinogen are associated with increased risks of coronary heart disease, stroke and peripheral arterial disease, and with vascular and nonvascular mortality. high baseline levels of plasma fibrinogen have been correlated with increased risk for cardiovascular disease. high plasma fibrinogen level is an independent risk factor for vascular access failure in haemodialysis patients. there is also considerable epidemiological evidence that elevated plasma fibrinogen levels are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disorders, including ischaemic heart disease, stroke and other thromboembolic events. this increase in plasma fibrinogen levels may promote a prothrombotic or hypercoagulable state, and may in part explain the risk of stroke and thromboembolism in conditions such as atrial fibrillation and cardiac dysfunction. this review examines the close association between plasma fibrinogen and various cardiovascular disorders. epidemiological observations indicate that high plasma fibrinogen levels are strongly correlated with the frequency of two major thrombotic complications of atherosclerosis, stroke and myocardial infarction. thrombosis is increasingly recognized as a central mechanism in stroke and myocardial infarction, and fibrinogen is involved in events thought to play a major role in thrombosis. epidemiological observations indicate that high plasma fibrinogen levels are strongly correlated to the frequency of two major thrombotic complications of atherosclerosis: stroke and myocardial infarction. thrombosis is increasingly recognized as a central mechanism in stroke and myocardial infarction, and fibrinogen is involved in events thought to play a major role in thrombosis. 
Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. [SEP] arterial hypertension is more common in diabetes mellitus than in nondiabetic subjects, and many metabolic and hemodynamic features of diabetes mellitus contribute to the etiology of hypertension. arterial hypertension is more common in diabetes mellitus than in nondiabetic subjects, and many metabolic and hemodynamic features of diabetes mellitus contribute to the etiology of hypertension. the incidence of hypertension is increased in individuals with diabetes mellitus. hypertension is extremely common disease found in patients with diabetes mellitus. hypertension is a common co-morbidity among diabetic patients. the association of arterial hypertension and diabetes mellitus is frequent: one third of patients attending a diabetic clinic. in type i, insulin-dependent diabetes, hypertension is often linked to diabetic nephropathy. hypertension in diabetes is a common and important problem, which aggravates diabetic macro- and microvascular complications. since both diabetes and hypertension are common diseases, their follow up in primary health care centers should emphasize the early detection of hypertension in diabetes. this study aims at studying the magnitude of hypertension in diabetic subjects registered in primary health care centers. 
Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. [SEP] since impairing gamma-aminobutyric acida (gabaa) receptor-mediated inhibition in the dorsomedial hypothalamus (dmh) of rats elicits a panic-like response, experiments were conducted to test if rats with gaba dysfunction in the dmh would be vulnerable to precipitation of a panic-like response after intravenous sodium lactate infusions. panic disorder (pd) is a severe anxiety disorder characterized by susceptibility to induction of panic attacks by subthreshold interoceptive stimuli such as sodium lactate infusions or hypercapnia induction. here we review a model of panic vulnerability in rats involving chronic inhibition of gabaergic tone in the dorsomedial/perifornical hypothalamic (dmh/pef) region that produces enhanced anxiety and freezing responses in fearful situations, as well as a vulnerability to displaying acute panic-like increases in cardioexcitation, respiration activity and "flight" associated behavior following subthreshold interoceptive stimuli that do not elicit panic responses in control rats. the construct validity is supported by several key findings; dmh/pef neurons regulate behavioral and autonomic components of a normal adaptive panic response, as well as being implicated in eliciting panic-like responses in humans. rats with chronic inhibition of gaba synthesis and consequently enhanced glutamatergic excitation in the dorsomedial hypothalamus (dmh) develop panic-like responses, defined as tachycardia, tachypnea, hypertension, and increased anxiety as measured by a social interaction (si) test, after intravenous sodium lactate infusions, a phenomenon similar to patients with panic disorder. using double immunocytochemistry, we found that rats exhibiting panic-like responses (e.g., l-ag plus lactate) had increased c-fos immunoreactivity in dmh neurons expressing the nmda receptor 1 (nr1) subunit, but not those expressing the glutamate receptor 2 and 3 subunits of the ampa receptors. it has been reported that in panic disorder (pd), tryptophan depletion enhances the vulnerability to experimentally induced panic, while the administration of serotonin precursors blunts the response to challenges. the results suggest that sensitization of both 5-ht(1a) and 5-ht(2) receptors within the dpag may be involved in the beneficial effect of imipramine in panic disorder (pd). the defensive responses induced by electrical stimulation of the dorsal periaqueductal gray matter (dpag) of the rat have been proposed as a model of panic attacks in humans. panic attacks, a major feature of panic disorder, can be modelled in rats by exposing animals to stimuli that induce escape reactions, such as the elevated t-maze or the activation of the dorsolateral periaqueductal grey. 
Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. [SEP] hypoglycemia commonly occurs in patients with diabetes mellitus (dm) and may negatively influence cognitive performance. to prospectively evaluate the association between hypoglycemia and dementia in a biracial cohort of older adults with dm. those who experienced a hypoglycemic event had a 2-fold increased risk for developing dementia compared with those who did not have a hypoglycemic event (34.4% vs 17.6%, p < .001; multivariate-adjusted hazard ratio, 2.1; 95% ci, 1.0-4.4). similarly, older adults with dm who developed dementia had a greater risk for having a subsequent hypoglycemic event compared with participants who did not develop dementia (14.2% vs 6.3%, p < .001; multivariate-adjusted hazard ratio, 3.1; 95% ci, 1.5-6.6). among older adults with dm, there seems to be a bidirectional association between hypoglycemia and dementia. we aimed to test the association between hypoglycaemia and serious adverse events in older patients with diabetes and dementia, and whether the consequences of hypoglycaemia were affected by the presence of dementia. in target trial 2, the presence of dementia was associated with increased risk of adverse events, following hypoglycaemia, during a 12-month follow-up period for falls and factures (ahr, 1.72 [95% ci, 1.51-1.96]) and for mortality (ahr, 1.27 [95% ci, 1.15-1.41]), but dementia had no effect on cardiovascular events (ahr, 1.14 [95% ci, 0.95 to 1.36]). hypoglycaemia is associated with early increased risk of serious adverse events in older individuals with diabetes and dementia. hypoglycemia, a common consequence of diabetes treatment, is considered an independent risk factor for dementia in patients with t2dm. acute, severe hypoglycemic episodes induce chronic subclinical brain damage, cognitive decline, and subsequent dementia. 
Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. [SEP] hypothalamic agouti-related peptide (agrp) and pro-opiomelanocortin (pomc) expressing neurons play critical roles in control of energy balance. understanding the role of hypothalamic neuropeptides and hormones in energy balance is paramount in the search for approaches to mitigate the obese state. the hypothalamus plays a major part in regulating energy homeostasis by integrating hormonal and nutritional signals. glucose sensing by specialized neurons of the hypothalamus is vital for normal energy balance. the hypothalamus is a crucial integrative center in the central nervous system, responsible for the regulation of homeostatic activities, including systemic energy balance. the hypothalamus is a key brain region in the regulation of energy balance as it controls food intake and both energy storage and expenditure through integration of humoral, neural, and nutrient-related signals and cues. hypothalamic pomc neurons are required for glucose and energy homeostasis. growing health problems related to obesity have focused considerable attention on a number of neurotransmitters, particularly hypothalamic neuropeptides, involved in regulating energy homeostasis and food intake. as the fast-acting transmitters gaba and glutamate underlie the majority of fast synaptic activity in the hypothalamus, understanding neuropeptide modulation of amino acid transmitter actions may be key to a full appreciation of how the brain controls caloric balances. energy status information triggered by glucose is transmitted via hypothalamic signaling intermediaries, i.e. 
IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. [SEP] the presence of ifit1 imposes a requirement on viruses that replicate in the cytoplasm to maintain mechanisms to avoid its restrictive effects. ifit1 (ifn-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats-1) is an effector of the host innate immune antiviral response that prevents propagation of virus infection by selectively inhibiting translation of viral mrna. our structural and biochemical analysis sheds new light on the molecular basis for ifit1 translational inhibition of capped viral rna. ifit1 binds tightly to non-self rna, particularly capped transcripts lacking methylation on the first cap-proximal nucleotide, and inhibits their translation by out-competing the cellular translation initiation apparatus. the interferon-inducible protein with tetratricopeptide (ifit) family proteins inhibit replication of some viruses by recognizing several types of rnas, including 5'-triphosphate rna and 5' capped 2'-o unmethylated mrna. however, it remains unclear how ifits inhibit replication of some viruses through recognition of rna. here, we analyzed the mechanisms by which ifit1 exerts antiviral responses. ifit1 inhibited the translation of mrna and thereby restricted the replication of jev mutated in 2'-o mtase. thus, ifit1 inhibits replication of mtase-defective jev by inhibiting mrna translation through direct binding to mrna 5' structures. type i interferon (ifn)-stimulated genes (isgs) have critical roles in inhibiting virus replication and dissemination. 
IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. [SEP] the ns1 gene of influenza a virus encodes a multi-functional protein that plays an important role in counteracting cellular antiviral mechanisms such as the interferon (ifn), protein kinase r and retinoic acid-inducible gene product i pathways. type i interferons (ifn1s; eg, interferon-alpha and interferon-beta) are potent cytokines that inhibit the replication of human immunodeficiency virus-1 (hiv-1) and other viruses. the antiviral and immunoregulatory activities of ifn1 are mediated through ligand-receptor interactions with the ifn1 receptor complex (ifnar). during the virus life cycle, ns1 can act as an antagonist of host type i and iii interferon production and signaling, inhibit apoptosis, suppress dendritic cell maturation, control protein stability, and regulate transcription of host cell mrnas, among other functions. therefore, blocking ns1 activity can be a potential strategy in the development of antiviral agents against iav infection. type-i interferons (ifn-i) are used as common antiviral drugs for a range of viral diseases in clinic. therefore, identification of intracellular inhibitors of ifn-i signaling is important for developing novel targets to improve ifn-i antiviral therapy. our findings identify a novel regulator of ifn-i antiviral activity and reveal that usp7 inhibitors could be potential enhancement agents for improving ifn-i antiviral therapy. relative to the wild-type tx/91-induced gene expression, the ns1 mutant virus induced enhanced expression of innate immune genes, specifically nf-κb signalling-pathway genes and ifn-α and -β target genes. we show that the c-terminally truncated ns1 mutant virus is less efficient at suppressing ifn-regulated gene expression associated with activation of antigen-presentation and immune-proteasome pathways. 
ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). [SEP] the mechanism by which this interaction triggers intracellular phosphorylation of the tcr, which lacks a kinase domain, remains poorly understood. intrinsically disordered cytoplasmic domains of t cell receptor (tcr) signaling subunits including zeta(cyt) and cd3epsilon(cyt) all contain one or more copies of an immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (itam), tyrosine residues of which are phosphorylated upon receptor triggering. engagement of the t-cell receptor (tcr) in human primary t cells activates a cyclic amp (camp)-protein kinase a (pka)-csk inhibitory pathway that prevents full t-cell activation in the absence of a coreceptor stimulus. t cell activation requires the cross-talk between the cd3-signaling complex and the t cell receptor (tcr). a synthetic peptide coding for the tcralpha transmembrane domain (cp) binds cd3 molecules, interferes with the cd3/tcr cross-talk, and inhibits t cell activation. engagement of tcr by its ligand, the mhc/peptide complex, causes t cell activation. tcr endocytosis is required for t cell activation, but the mechanisms supporting removal of tcr from the cell surface remain incompletely understood. the immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibitory motif (itim) of fc gamma riib becomes tyrosyl phosphorylated (p-itim) upon co-clustering with bcr then p-itim interacts with several signalling molecules, some of which negatively regulate the cell activation process. we report here that several tyrosyl phosphorylated proteins bind to the p-itim peptide from both resting and activated b-cell lysates, the 53-56 kda being the most prominent one. ship and shp2 phosphatases selectively bind to the phosphorylated itim. 
IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. [SEP] in coeliac disease, ingestion of gluten induces the production of transglutaminase 2 (tg2)-targeted autoantibodies by tg2-specific plasma cells present at high frequency in the small intestinal mucosa in untreated disease. a hallmark of celiac disease is autoantibodies to transglutaminase 2 (tg2). in coeliac disease, autoantibodies directed against transglutaminase 2 are produced in small-bowel mucosa, and they have been found to be deposited extracellularly. clinically and histologically verified gluten dependency was compared with existence of small-bowel mucosal transglutaminase 2-specific extracellular iga deposits and (coeliac disease-type) hla dq2 and dq8; 34 non-coeliac subjects and 18 patients with classical coeliac disease served as controls. ten of these 11 patients showed transglutaminase 2-targeted mucosal iga deposits, which were dependent on gluten consumption. mucosal transglutaminase 2-specific iga deposits can be utilized in detecting such patients with genetic gluten intolerance. in coeliac disease, immunoglobulin (ig)a-class autoantibodies against transglutaminase-2 are produced in the small intestinal mucosa, where they are deposited extracellularly. the response of small bowel mucosal transglutaminase-2-specific iga deposits for dietary intervention was similar in overt and mild enteropathy coeliac disease. celiac disease is characterized by the presence of specific autoantibodies targeted against transglutaminase 2 (tg2) in untreated patients' serum and at their production site in the small-bowel mucosa below the basement membrane and around the blood vessels. autoantibodies specific for the enzyme transglutaminase 2 (tg2) are a hallmark of the gluten-sensitive enteropathy celiac disease. 
Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. [SEP] during necrosis and following some instances of apoptosis (in particular in the absence of a proficient phagocytic system), the nonhistone chromatin component high-mobility group box 1 (hmgb1) is released in the extracellular space. recent results indicate that the release of hmgb1 is one of the key features for cell death to be perceived as immunogenic, i.e., to be capable of triggering a cognate immune response in vivo. these data suggest that parp-dependent nuclear-to-cytosolic translocation of hmgb1 serves to establish the ability of cells to release this potent inflammatory mediator upon subsequent necrotic death. high mobility group box chromosomal protein 1 (hmgb1) is a nuclear dna-binding protein acting as a proinflammatory cytokine when released in the extracellular space from necrotic cells,activated macrophages and dendritic cells. high mobility group box-1 (hmgb1) is extracellularly released from mononuclear phagocytes by lipopolysaccharide (lps)-stimulation accompanied with cell death, and plays an important role in septic/endotoxin shock as a late phase mediator. high-mobility group box 1 (hmgb1) is released extracellularly upon cell necrosis acting as a mediator in tissue injury and inflammation. the hmgb1 functions as a potent proinflammatory cytokine in the extracellular spaces. following injury, immunocompetent cells secrete hmgb1 to the extracellular milieu under the stimulation of proinflammatory cytokines. extracellular hmgb1 acts a danger signal that instigates the innate immunity and tissue repair. high-mobility group box-1 (hmgb1) is a nuclear protein that acts as a cytokine when released into the extracellular milieu by necrotic and inflammatory cells, and is involved in inflammatory responses and tissue repair. 
Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. [SEP] type 17 helper t (th17) cells producing the proinflammatory signature cytokine interleukin (il)-17 are conterregulated by regulatory t cells (treg) producing anti-inflammatory cytokines like transforming growth factor (tgf)-β and interleukin-(il)-10. while th17 cells are a key effector in the immune response and play critical roles in the development of autoimmunity and inflammation, treg cells orchestrate the overall immune response and maintain peripheral immune tolerance by regulating the activity of the effector t cells. th cells producing il-17 play a pro-inflammatory role at mucosal surfaces. th17 cells are a highly pro-inflammatory t-helper cell subset characterised by the expression of il17. t helper (th) 17 cells are a subset of t helper cells that express interleukin (il)-17 and initiate the inflammatory response in autoimmune diseases. as th17 cells play an important role in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases, it is critical to elucidate the mechanisms regulating these cells. th17 cells are a subset of th cells, characterized by the production of the inflammatory cytokines interleukin (il)-17a (il-17a) and il-17f, which bind to a receptor complex comprised of il-17ra and il-17rc subunits. th17 cells constitute a proinflammatory cd4(+) t cell subset that is important for microbial clearance, but also are implicated as propagators of various autoimmune pathologies. interleukin 17 (il-17)-producing t helper (th17) cells and cd4(+)cd25(+) regulatory t (treg) cells are two new t-cell subsets that are thought to be critically involved in mediating and regulating autoimmune responses. t helper 17 (th17) cells, defined by rorγt-dependent production of il-17a and il-17f, exert homeostatic functions in the gut upon microbiota-directed differentiation from naive cd4+ t cells. 
In adult tissue, most T cells are memory T cells. [SEP] memory t cells can be generated and remain long-term in different tissues following infection or immunization. tissue-resident memory t (trm) cells are a unique group of memory t cells that form and persist mainly in peripheral non-lymphoid organs. in adults, the pool of mature t cells is relatively self-sufficient, and input of new t cells from the thymus declines to low levels. the memory t cell pool functions as a dynamic repository of antigen-experienced t lymphocytes that accumulate over the lifetime of the individual. recent studies indicate that memory t lymphocytes contain distinct populations of central memory (tcm) and effector memory (tem) cells characterized by distinct homing capacity and effector function. tissue-resident memory t (trm) cells are a subset of recently identified memory t cells that mainly reside and serve as sentinels in non-lymphoid peripheral tissues. over the past decade, it has become clear that there is an important subset of memory t cells that resides in tissues-tissue-resident memory t (trm) cells. the majority of t cells present in the bone marrow (bm) represent an activated/memory phenotype and most of these, if not all, are circulating t cells. the memory t cell pool serves as a relatively long-lived heterogeneous repository of antigen-experienced t cells that "remember" previous encounters with antigen. in recent years, tissue-resident memory t cells (trm) have emerged as essential components of immunological memory. 
In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. [SEP] genetic rearrangements such as deletions or duplications of dna sequences are rarely detected in the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae. natural strains of saccharomyces cerevisiae are prototrophic homothallic yeasts that sporulate poorly, are often heterozygous, and may be aneuploid. previous work from our laboratory showed that mitochondrial (mt) genomes, with tandem repeat units, from spontaneous, cytoplasmic petite mutants of saccharomyces cerevisiae do not exhibit site-specific recombination in petite x petite crosses [rayko et al., gene 63 (1988) 213-226]. in no case was site-specific recombination of the parental mt genomes observed. studies of natural populations of s. cerevisiae, not associated with human activities or industrial fermentation environments, are very few. aberrant meiotic segregations attributable to intragenic events have been analyzed in an unselected sample of 1611 tetrads from three heteroallelic diploids of saccharomyces cerevisiae. using pcr to construct disruption cassettes, null alleles of six genes have been created in saccharomyces cerevisiae. in a fy1679 background, no defects were detected in any of the haploid deletion mutants with respect to growth, gross morphology, or mating. in saccharomyces cerevisiae, aneuploidy is well tolerated and stable. most mitotic recombination and repair genes of saccharomyces cerevisiae show no specificity of action for the genome ploidy. 
In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. [SEP] striking differences in the susceptibility to p. chabaudi and b. microti infections among different strains of mice are described. low numbers of parasites from cloned lines of the rodent malaria parasites, plasmodium chabaudi chabaudi as and p. yoelii yoelii a, injected into cba/ca mice produce acute but usually self-limiting infections. p. c. chabaudi as pre-immune mice controlled an as challenge with essentially the same kinetics as the background infection. reinfection of as pre-immune mice with the heterologous (cb and ip-pci) p. c. chabaudi strains or p. chabaudi adami ds had little effect on the initial growth of these parasites, although eventually the parasitaemia was controlled. the rodent parasite plasmodium chabaudi is an important in vivo model of malaria. the rodent parasite plasmodium chabaudi is an important in vivo model of malaria. here we show that mice with low-grade chronic primary infections of plasmodium chabaudi or infections very recently eliminated have reduced second infections when compared with the second infection of parasite-free mice. we also show that parasite-specific antibody responses induced by infection of mice with plasmodium chabaudi contain both short- and long-lived components as well as memory b cells responsible for a faster antibody response during re-infection. during the early stages of the primary plasmodium chabaudi chabaudi as parasitaemia in cba/ca mice this parasite invaded normocytes, but as the parasitaemia developed increasing numbers of parasites were seen within reticulocytes. in the rodent malaria model plasmodium chabaudi in laboratory mice, parasites that are more virulent can competitively suppress less virulent parasites in mixed infections. 
In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. [SEP] mantle cell lymphoma (mcl) is a malignant lymphoproliferative b-cell disorder that does not occur spontaneously in mice but experimental mice model have been developed. recently two different mice models prone to develop mcl-like lymphomas were generated: c-myc-3'rr/cdk4(r24c) mice and c-myc-3'rr/p53+/- mice. to investigate the cellular origin of lmo2-induced leukemia, we used cell fate mapping to study mice in which the lmo2 gene was constitutively expressed in the thymus. the use of inbred mouse strains that develop leukemia has greatly facilitated the identification of genes that contribute to the neoplastic transformation of hematopoietic cells. concerning mll-af4 leukemogenesis, previous mouse models suggest that the tumorigenesis capacity of mll-af4 alone is insufficient for causing leukemia. in a mouse interleukin-3 (il-3)-dependent cell line, 32dc, expression of mll-af4 and mutant flt3 was induced using a lentiviral vector. we conclude that their synergistic enhancement of s100a6 expression plays an important role in mll-af4-associated leukemogenesis. to investigate the role(s) of colony-stimulating factor 1 (csf-1) on the development of early endometriosis in a murine model by comparing rate of lesion formation in mice [1] homozygous for a csf-1 mutation versus syngeneic controls and [2] after treatment with imatinib, a commercially available tyrosine kinase inhibitor that alters interaction(s) between csf-1 and its receptor, c-fms. in some experiments, mice homozygous for a csf-1 mutation (csf-1 op/op) were donors or recipients. the csf-1 op/op mice developed significantly fewer (mean 0.9 +/- 0.3) endometriotic lesions versus syngeneic controls. 
In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. [SEP] we generated transgenic mice that express an enhanced green fluorescent protein (egfp) under the control of the mouse glial fibrillary acidic protein (gfap) promoter. in one of the transgenic lines, the green fluorescence of egfp was undetectable in almost all of the brain regions, including the neocortex, in untreated animals. green fluorescent protein (gfp) transgenic (gfp+) mice express gfp in most tissues except erythrocytes and hair. a laser scanning cytometry-based method was developed for identification of transgenic mice expressing green fluorescent protein (gfp) using minute amounts of peripheral blood. sox2-gfp cells in the subgranular zone (sgz) express markers specific for progenitors, but they represent two morphologically distinct populations that differ in proliferation levels. however, few suitable markers for living cells were known until a green fluorescent protein (gfp) was discovered. the green fluorescent protein (gfp) gene was incorporated into a non-essential chromosome so that cells containing the chromosome fluoresced green, while those lacking it did not. green fluorescence protein (gfp) has been utilized as a marker of gene expression due to the great advantage in its simple and quick detectability. these results suggested that the glowing green fluorescence would be a useful in vivo marker of podocyte in these transgenic lines in the physiological and pathophysiological state, and that the cx promoter could allow a podocyte-specific expression of a molecule of interest in kidney. however, several investigators have reported very low in vivo peripheral blood marking levels in nonhuman primates after transplantation of hscs transduced with the gfp gene. 
In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. [SEP] short-term trials involving adults with adhd have shown significant improvements in symptoms with stimulants and atomoxetine; however, data on long-term benefits and risks of these medications, particularly among older persons, have been insufficient. prescription stimulant medications are considered a safe and long-term effective treatment for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd). studies support that stimulants enhance attention, memory, self-regulation and executive function in individuals with adhd. research shows that stimulant treatment does not increase the risk of sud in adolescents or adults with adhd but rather that stimulant treatments may have a protective effect. pediatric studies have suggested that a mixed amphetamine salt product (adderall) is safe and effective in the treatment of childhood forms of adhd. adderall may be an effective agent for the treatment of adult forms of adhd, with positive responses occurring at relatively low doses, at least for some individuals. multicenter studies have shown that cardiovascular risks of adhd medication are extremely low. adolescents and young adults without childhood attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd) often present to clinics seeking stimulant medication for late-onset adhd symptoms. this review examines the evidence regarding the efficacy and tolerability of long- and short-acting stimulant medications, as well as the non-stimulant medications atomoxetine and bupropion in the treatment of adult attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd). there are adequate data demonstrating short-term efficacy and safety of medication in adhd during adulthood but long-term studies are lacking, particularly in view of concerns regarding cardiovascular adverse events. 
Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. [SEP] studies conducted in different areas of north america and europe showed a 5-10% decline in the incidence of breast cancer following reductions up to 70% in menopause hormone therapy (ht) use after 2002. alcohol-related traffic crash fatalities have decreased 10% over the 12 years studied, from 20,245 in 1979 to 18,279 in 1990. the incidence of invasive female breast cancer declined 6.7% in the united states from 2002 to 2003 following a nationwide decrease in the use of hormone replacement therapy that began in 2002. there was a 9.3% decline in the incidence of invasive female breast cancer in arkansas in 2003, and the decline continued through 2005. recent u.s. national statistics indicate a slowing of the rate of decline in coronary heart disease (chd) deaths among women. to examine recent sex-specific rates of mortality decline in the minnesota heart survey, we computed the average annual percentage change in age-adjusted chd death rate for the periods 1970-1978 and 1979-1988. the average annual percentage decline in age-adjusted chd death rate among men was slightly greater in the period 1979-1988 [4.8%; 95% confidence interval (ci) = 5.2-4.3] than in the period 1970-1978 (3.9%; 95% ci = 4.6-3.1). in contrast, among women, the rate of decline was less in the period 1979-1988 (3.6%; 95% ci = 4.8-2.3) than in 1970-1978 (4.8%; 95% ci = 5.6-4.0). this increase did not occur among women (4.1%; 95% ci = 5.7-2.5 in 1970-1980 vs 3.8%; 95% ci = 4.9-2.7 in 1970-1978); this difference is a major factor in the steeper recent decline in overall chd mortality among men compared with women. in the united states there has been a dramatic decrease in age-adjusted coronary heart disease (chd) mortality during the last 20 years. 
Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. [SEP] there has been a dramatic decline in the age adjusted death rate from cervical cancer in the united states, where cervical cancer has declined from the leading cause of cancer mortality in women prior to 1940 to a point where it is a relatively uncommon cause of cancer mortality today. analysis of data from the cancer surveillance system, a population-based cancer registry in western washington, shows a decreasing incidence of cervical cancer in women of all ages. although cervical carcinoma incidence and mortality rates have declined in the u.s. greatly since the introduction of the papanicolaou smear, this decline has not been uniform for all histologic subtypes. in many developed countries, the incidence of cervical cancer has decreased. in ontario, opportunistic cervical cancer screening has been accompanied by significantly decreased rates of scc since at least 1981. cervical cancer morbidity and mortality rates have been significantly reduced due to recent decades of cervical cytology screening leading to the early detection and treatment of cervical cancer and precancerous lesions. ovarian cancer incidence and mortality rates have declined among u.s. women age 35-59 years during the period 1970-1995. incidence and mortality related to cervical cancer both have declining in developed countries because of effective screening programs through papanicolaou smear. substantial decreases in both incidence of and mortality from cancer of the uterine cervix have occurred during the past 30 years. the performance of cervical cancer screening will decline as a function of lower disease prevalence-a consequence of successful human papillomavirus (hpv) vaccination. 
Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. [SEP] cervical cancer continues to be a major epidemiologic problem in developed and underdeveloped nations alike. current screening practices rely on cervical cytology for the early detection of cervical neoplasms. ([1]) the introduction of cervical cytology in screening programs is an effective way for early detection and treatment of cervical precancerous lesions. in recent years, the implementation of cervical cancer screening has resulted in the effective control of cervical cancer incidence. cytology screening is an important diagnostic tool to detect precancerous and cancerous lesions of the uterine cervix. cytological screening and follow-up are potentially effective procedures for preventing the development of - and mortality from - cervical cancer. the purpose of this study was to investigate the screening history of women diagnosed with cervical cancer with the aim of improving the screening programme. on the basis of the results obtained we hope to make further progress in preventing cervical cancer by intensifying cytological mass-screening in the whole country. because infection with high-risk human papillomavirus types (hrhpvs) is a necessary cause of cervical cancer, it has been postulated that screening might become more efficient when it is based on combined cytology and hrhpv testing. in this review we will discuss the advantages of added hpv tests in cervical cancer screening, as a quality control for false-negative smears, in triage of women with equivocal smears, in follow-up of women treated for cin3 or cervical cancer and for the detection of cervical adenocarcinoma. 
Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. [SEP] destabilization of microtubules causes a rapid decrease in cellular lrrk2(s935) phosphorylation indicating a decreased lrrk2 kinase activity. these findings suggest that lrrk2 and microtubules mutually interact both in non-neuronal cells and in neurons, which might contribute to our understanding of its pathogenic effects in parkinson's disease. lrrk2 is a multifunctional protein affecting many cellular processes and has been described to bind microtubules. defective microtubule-based axonal transport is hypothesized to contribute to parkinson's disease, but whether lrrk2 mutations affect this process to mediate pathogenesis is not known. here we find that lrrk2 containing pathogenic roc-cor domain mutations (r1441c, y1699c) preferentially associates with deacetylated microtubules, and inhibits axonal transport in primary neurons and in drosophila, causing locomotor deficits in vivo. in vitro, increasing microtubule acetylation using deacetylase inhibitors or the tubulin acetylase αtat1 prevents association of mutant lrrk2 with microtubules, and the deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin a (tsa) restores axonal transport. previous studies indicate that lrrk2 interacts with microtubules (mts) and alters mt-mediated vesicular transport processes. lrrk2 selectively interacts with three β-tubulin isoforms: tubb, tubb4, and tubb6, one of which (tubb4) is mutated in the movement disorder dystonia type 4 (dyt4). this interaction is functionally relevant to microtubule dynamics, as mouse embryonic fibroblasts derived from lrrk2 knock-out mice display increased microtubule acetylation. taken together, our data shed light on the nature of the lrrk2-tubulin interaction, and indicate that alterations in microtubule stability caused by changes in lrrk2 might contribute to the pathogenesis of parkinson disease. 
Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. [SEP] vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) inhibition is known to decrease capillary density. decreased capillary density may be the basis for vegf inhibitor-related side-effects. capillary density significantly decreased after 6 weeks of bevacizumab treatment and was reversible after discontinuation of bevacizumab (p = 0.00001 using a general linear model repeated measures test). bevacizumab-induced decrease in capillary density is reversible. we investigated whether sunitinib caused impairment of microvascular function and/or reduction of capillary density in patients with metastatic renal cell cancer (mrcc). capillary density had decreased from 69 to 61 capillaries/mm (p<0.01). abnormal tumor vessels impede the transport and distribution of chemotherapeutics, resulting in low drug concentration at tumor sites and compromised drug efficacy. normalizing tumor vessels can modulate tumor vascular permeability, alleviate tumor hypoxia, increase blood perfusion, attenuate interstitial fluid pressure, and improve drug delivery. therefore, most anti-angiogenic therapies are generally inefficient and result in acquired resistance to increased hypoxia due to elimination of the vasculature. tumor blood vessels exhibit abnormal structure and function that cause disturbed blood flow and high interstitial pressure, which impair delivery of anti-cancer agents. 
Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. [SEP] low 25-hydroxyvitamin d levels have been associated with a higher risk of developing multiple sclerosis and increased relapse rates in patients with multiple sclerosis. vitamin d (vd), an important factor for bone health immobilization and immune regulation, has been shown to have low serum concentration in multiple sclerosis (ms) patients. vitamin d deficiency is a recognized risk factor for multiple sclerosis (ms) and is associated with increased disease activity. data support previous work suggesting that vitamin d deficiency is associated with higher risk of disability in ms. vitamin d levels also correlated with the degree of disability in fully ambulatory patients with relapsing-remitting ms. low serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d (25[oh]d) levels are associated with an increased risk of multiple sclerosis (ms) as well as with increased disease activity and rate of progression in clinically isolated syndromes and early ms. to assess the association between 25(oh)d and disease course and prognosis in patients with relapsing-remitting ms treated with interferon beta-1b. several studies have reported that low vitamin d levels are associated with an increased risk of developing multiple sclerosis (ms). we sought to identify low-frequency genetic variants that strongly increase the risk of vitamin d insufficiency and tested their effect on risk of multiple sclerosis, a disease influenced by low vitamin d concentrations. populations with insufficient ultraviolet exposure and who consume diets low in vitamin d have low vitamin d status (plasma 25-hydroxyvitamin d (25(oh)d) concentrations) and a reported higher incidence of multiple sclerosis (ms). low vitamin d during childhood is associated with an increased risk of developing multiple sclerosis (ms) as an adult. given that vitamin d has anti-inflammatory properties, it has been postulated that the relationship between ms and low vitamin d is due to immune dysregulation. 
Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. [SEP] human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 (htlv-1), the causative agent of adult t-cell leukaemia/lymphoma (atl) and htlv-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp), is endemic in sub-saharan africa (ssa) and poses a high morbidity and mortality risk. human t-lymphotropic virus type 1 (htlv-1) is a human oncoretrovirus that infects at least 5 to 10 million people worldwide and is associated with severe diseases. africa appears as the largest htlv-1 endemic area. human t-cell lymphotrophic/leukemia virus (htlv-1) is a retrovirus implicated in transfusion-transmitted infection. human t cell lymphotrophic virus type 1 (htlv-1) causes myelopathy and adult t cell leukaemia. human t-cell lymphotrophic virus type 1 is a rna retrovirus that primarily affects cd4+ t-cells. human t-cell lymphotrophic virus type 1 infection is the established cause of adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma, an aggressive malignancy of cd4+ t-cells, and two nonneoplastic conditions: human t-cell lymphotrophic virus type 1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis and human t-cell lymphotrophic virus type 1 uveitis. whereas in europe and in most of the americas transmission of hiv-1 has occurred predominantly among homosexual men and intravenous drug abusers, in africa a distinct epidemiologic pattern has emerged that indicates that hiv-1 infection is mainly heterosexually acquired. in west and central africa areas of endemic loa loa infections overlap with regions of high prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1) infections. the oncogenic retrovirus human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 (htlv-1) is endemic in some countries although its prevalence and relationship with other sexually transmitted infections in sub-saharan africa is largely unknown. 
Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. [SEP] the tumor suppressor phosphatase and tensin homologue (pten) has phosphatase activity, with phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate (pip3), a product of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (pi3k), as one of the principal substrates. pten, mutated in a variety of human cancers, is a dual specificity protein phosphatase and also possesses d3-phosphoinositide phosphatase activity on phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-tris-phosphate (pip(3)), a product of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase. the tumor suppressor function of pten is attributed to its phospholipid phosphatase activity that dephosphorylates the plasma membrane phosphatidylinositol-(3,4,5)-triphosphate [ptdins(3,4,5)p3]. phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 (pten) is known to act as a lipid phosphatase hydrolyzing phosphatidylinositol (pi)(3,4,5)p(3) to pi(4,5)p(2). pten is a lipid phosphatase that converts phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-phosphate (pip3) to phosphatidylinositol 4,5-phosphate (pip2) and plays a critical role in the regulation of tumor growth. this chapter describes an indirect approach to measure pten's lipid phosphatase activity in vivo. pten counteracts phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase action in dephosphorylating 3-phosphorylated phosphoinositides. tpip (tpte and pten homologous inositol lipid phosphatase) is a novel phosphatase that occurs in several differentially spliced forms of which two, tpip alpha and tpip beta, appear to be functionally distinct. tpip alpha displays similar phosphoinositide 3-phosphatase activity compared with pten against ptdins(3,4,5)p(3), ptdins(3,5)p(2), ptdins(3,4)p(2) and ptdins(3)p, has n-terminal transmembrane domains and appears to be localized on the endoplasmic reticulum. the major substrate of pten is pip(3) (phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate) generated by the action of pi3ks (phosphoinositide 3-kinases). 
Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. [SEP] results point not only to decreased medical utilization following mental health intervention, but also to more appropriate treatment. homelessness among veterans has dropped dramatically since the expansion of services for homeless veterans in 2009, and now engaging homeless veterans in existing programs will be important to continuing to make progress. while one promising approach for engaging homeless veterans in care is involving peer mentors in integrated services, posttraumatic stress disorder (ptsd) may diminish the effects of peer mentorship. previous studies have found that timely mental health treatment can result in savings in both mental health and general medical care expenditures. this study examined whether reducing racial-ethnic disparities in mental health care offsets costs of care. reducing racial-ethnic disparities in mental health care and in psychotropic drug use led to savings in acute medical care expenditures. specialized intervention programs for people with concurrent severe mental illness and substance abuse reduce the total costs of care. clinical interventions can only partially mitigate homelessness and housing insecurity, which are threats to health and well-being. clinicians have several opportunities to address these problems: they can refer patients who are homeless or housing insecure to support services, advocate for their employer or care group to commit resources to end homelessness and housing insecurity, and/or work with government and private sector community organizations to address and eliminate these problems. citing examples from around the us, we will illustrate how clinics, hospitals, health plans, and public health organizations work to engage in initiatives to end homelessness and housing insecurity. 
Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. [SEP] cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (cbt-i) is a safe and efficacious treatment for insomnia in the context of various comorbid conditions. this report reviews the state of the art of pharmacotherapy with a reference to cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (cbt-i) as well. currently, treatment for insomnia involves a combination of cognitive behavioral therapy (cbti) and pharmacological therapy. recent clinical guidelines pointed out that cognitive-behavior therapy for insomnia (cbt-i) should be considered as first-line intervention. insomnia is effectively treated with online cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (cbt-i). after outlining a conceptual model of insomnia, which emphasizes the mediating role of dysfunctional cognitions in the development and maintenance of chronic insomnia, the rationale and general principles of cognitive therapy for insomnia are presented, followed by a description of the treatment procedures, clinical case illustrations, and practical implementation issues. cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia is the recommended treatment for chronic insomnia. the current study sought to evaluate the efficacy of a remotely delivered programme combining the main components of cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia (sleep restriction and stimulus control) with the third-wave cognitive behavioural therapy acceptance and commitment therapy in adults with chronic insomnia and hypnotic dependence on insomnia symptoms and quality of life. although psychopharmacological interventions have traditionally been taught as first-line treatment in medical education, cognitive behavioral therapy (cbt) for insomnia has emerged as the recommended treatment to address the multimodal precipitants and reinforcing factors of insomnia symptoms. as an evidence-based psychotherapy for treating insomnia, cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (cbt-i), which helps people with sleep problems to change their unhelpful sleep-related beliefs and habits, has been well-established in older adults. 
Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. [SEP] impaired kidney function increases the risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. coexistence of hypertension and type 2 diabetes increases the risk of kidney damage, hypertension being an independent risk factor for kidney disease progression. nephropathy is the major life-threatening complication of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (iddm). insulin resistance is a common risk factor in chronic kidney disease patients contributing to the high cardiovascular burden, even in the absence of diabetes. glucose and insulin metabolism in patients with diabetes are profoundly altered by advanced chronic kidney disease (ckd). risk of hypoglycemia is increased by failure of kidney gluconeogenesis, impaired insulin clearance by the kidney, defective insulin degradation due to uremia, increased erythrocyte glucose uptake during hemodialysis, impaired counterregulatory hormone responses (cortisol, growth hormone), nutritional deprivation, and variability of exposure to oral antihyperglycemic agents and exogenous insulin. diabetic nephropathy is the major cause of illness and premature death in people with diabetes, largely through accompanying cardiovascular disease and end-stage renal failure. insulin resistance increases renal oxidant production by upregulating nadph oxidase 4 (nox4) expression contributing to oxidative damage and ultimately albuminuria. insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia induce glomerular hypertension and hyperfiltration, which may result in glomerulosclerosis. to elucidate whether hyperinsulinemia plays a significant part in the initiation and development of renal dysfunction, we examined in 1988 the relationship between serum insulin and renal function on data from a cross-sectional community survey conducted among residents from hisayama town, japan, who were aged 40 to 79 years old. 
Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance [SEP] to overcome the teacher bandwidth problem in supporting large groups of students, both automated process support (cueing) and face-to-face feedback by peers during small group work (collaboration) can be provided to students. the study examined the effects of cueing and collaboration on training outcomes and transfer pleas, and on cognitive activity during collaboration, by combining the multimedia practical and small group collaboration to support the complex task of preparing a plea in court. the purpose of this experiment was to determine whether performance on a subsequent exam was affected when two lessons were as similar as possible except that one was presented in class and the other was presented online. in a hybrid course, half of the lessons were presented in the classroom as narrated power point presentations and half of the lessons were presented online as narrated power point presentations. online student-teacher interaction took place in a chatroom. students performed better on post-lesson questions asked in class than post-lesson questions asked online. they also performed better on exam questions on classroom lessons than exam questions on online lessons. this study evaluates the effectiveness of delivering the core curriculum of an introductory neuroscience course using a software application referred to as a virtual learning interface (vli). the performance of students in a virtual learning environment (vle) is compared with that of students in a conventional lecture hall in which the same lecturer presented the same material. in this study, we investigated whether collaborative testing could improve both performance and content retention in a large, introductory biology course. 
Ivermectin is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. [SEP] the macrocyclic lactone ivermectin (mectizan(r)) is widely used for the control of human filarial infections, particularly as a donated product for onchocerciasis and lymphatic filariasis. repeated doses of ivermectin is reported to lower the incidence of microfilardermia, while a single dose will markedly reduce skin microfilarial loads for up to 12 months with a transient fall in microfilarial level. ivermectin, a derivative of avermectin b, is an orally effective microfilaricidal agent. ivermectin, a new antifilarial drug and currently the drug of choice for the treatment of onchocerciasis, has been shown to be effective in bancroftian filariasis. sixty male, asymptomatic microfilaraemics of alleppey district, kerala, south india, received single oral doses of ivermectin in a double blind study. ivermectin and albendazole are used in annual mass drug administration (mda) for the lymphatic filariasis elimination programmes in african countries co-endemic for onchocerciasis, but have additional impact on soil transmitted helminths and the ectoparasitic mite which causes scabies. ivermectin (ivm) is a robust antiparasitic drug with an excellent tolerance and safety profile. ivermectin and diethylcarbamazine (dec) are used in mass treatment programs for the elimination of lymphatic filariasis because of their strong effects on microfilaremia. ivermectin is a promising drug for the treatment of lymphatic filariasis. ivermectin (mectizan, merck and co. inc.) is being widely used in the control of human onchocerciasis (onchoverca volvulus) because of its potent effect on microfilariae. 
Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. [SEP] thus, ivermectin is suitable for inclusion in mass treatment programmes and is the best therapeutic option presently available to combat onchocerciasis. ivermectin is a safe and effective drug for the mass treatment of onchocerciasis and when used on an individual basis, it reduces the ability of the treated person to transmit onchocerca volvulus infection. these findings suggest that ivermectin can be important in reducing the transmission of onchocerciasis. ivermectin (mectizan) is an effective and well-tolerated microfilaricidal drug that has emerged as the drug of choice for large-scale treatment of onchocerciasis. ivermectin (mectizan, merck and co. inc.) is being widely used in the control of human onchocerciasis (onchoverca volvulus) because of its potent effect on microfilariae. ivermectin is an effective drug for the treatment of human onchocerciasis, a disease caused by the parasitic filarial nematode onchocerca volvulus. ivermectin (or mectizan trade mark ) is widely used by onchocerciasis and lymphatic filariasis control programs worldwide. ivermectin is the only one of the avermectins that has been widely used in humans, since it is recommended as the treatment of choice for onchocerciasis, a filariasis that produces "river blindness," a parasitic endemic infestation in countries of west equatorial africa and in some areas of central and south america. ivermectin is a pivotal drug for the control of onchocerciasis and lymphatic filariasis, which is increasingly identified as a useful drug for the control of other neglected tropical diseases. ivermectin is the drug of choice for many parasitic infections, with more than one billion doses being distributed in onchocerciasis programs. 
LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. [SEP] its status as a risk factor for coronary artery disease (cad), either through a causal relation with ldl cholesterol level or independently, is less clearly established. there was no relation between changes in ldl cholesterol over time during the trial and apolipoprotein e phenotypes. epidemiologic evidence links high levels of low density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol and low levels of high density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol to increased risk of coronary heart disease. there is no evidence--yet--that lowering ldl and raising hdl alleviate that risk. on the basis of studies with limited statistical power, lipoprotein(a) [lp(a)] is not considered a risk factor for cardiovascular disease (cvd) in blacks. low density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl) and apolipoprotein b-100 (1 to 15 micrograms/ml) had no significant influence on the inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate (insp3) formation in vascular smooth muscle cells and fibroblasts. studies have found that most dyslipidemic coronary artery disease and postsurgical cardiac patients are not monitored for serum lipids, especially high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (hdl-c). the results revealed no differences in cholesterol and ldl-c levels and body mass index, but significant differences in the ratios of cholesterol/hdl-c and ldl-c/hdl-c (atherogenic index) among groups. statin-induced changes in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (hdl-c) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c) are unrelated. no evidence of premature vascular disease is found in apolipoprotein a-i(milano) (apoa-i(m)) human carriers, despite very low high density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol levels. 
Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. [SEP] inactivation of the bacillus subtilis sspf gene had no effect on sporulation, spore resistance, or germination in a wild-type strain or one lacking dna protective alpha/beta-type small, acid-soluble proteins (sasp). a mutation near cysb on the bacillus subtilis chromosome marks a new sporulation locus, spovic. we have found that sporulation in bacillus subtilis crsa47 mutants does not require the sigma(h)-dependent promoter of the spo0a gene. to determine effects of inner membrane lipid composition on bacillus subtilis sporulation and spore properties. the absence of genes encoding lipid biosynthetic enzymes had no effect on b. subtilis sporulation, although the expected lipids were absent from spores' inner membrane. changing the lipid composition of the b. subtilis inner membrane did not affect sporulation, although modest effects on spore germination and wet heat and oxidizing agent sensitivity were observed, especially when multiple lipids were absent. a bacillus subtilis mutant with a deletion in the citc gene, encoding isocitrate dehydrogenase, the third enzyme of the tricarboxylic acid branch of the krebs cycle, exhibited reduced growth yield in broth medium and had greatly reduced ability to sporulate compared to the wild type due to a block at stage i, i.e., a failure to form the polar division septum. the lack of any proteinaceous beta-lactamase-inhibitory activity in the bli and bli/clar mutants also indicates that blp, the blip-like protein, encoded by s. clavuligerus does not possess beta-lactamase-inhibitory activity despite its similarity to blip. the bli mutant and the bli/clar double mutant did not show any aberrant growth morphology, sporulation defects, or alterations in cephamycin c production or penicillin g resistance when compared to wild-type s. clavuligerus or to the clar single mutant. bacillus subtilis strains containing defects in the sporulation gene spoiif (kina), spoiij (kina), or spoiin (ftsa) cannot transcribe the sigma e-dependent gene spoiid. 
Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. [SEP] until 10 years ago genetic defects that cause a child to be born small for gestational age (sga) were poorly defined. we diagnosed the carbohydrate-deficient glycoprotein syndrome in five children who were seen during their first year of life with failure to thrive, feeding difficulties, psychomotor retardation, hypotonia, esotropia, inverted nipples, lipodystrophy, pericardial effusion, and hepatic dysfunction. metabolic complications arising from excessive fructose consumption are increasing dramatically even in young children, but little is known about ontogenetic mechanisms regulating glut5 [glucose transporter 5; encoded by the slc2a5 (solute carrier family 2 member 5) gene]. we show here that tissues from five infants that had died of this syndrome contain less than 10% of the normal levels of phosphatidylethanolamine plasmalogen (ppe), a major phospholipid component of cellular membranes. hypereosinophilic syndromes are rare in children. low cho levels could be indicative of the dysmyelinating disorder in the disease. these findings on spectroscopy and diffusion mri likely represented deficient myelination in the disease. we identified 5 of 44 consecutive children (11%) with guillain-barré syndrome who had electrophysiologic evidence of severe reduction of the mean amplitude of the compound motor action potentials (mean cmap amplitude < 10% of lower limit of normal). in a study of plasma somatomedin activity in childhood scoliosis a group of five patients with congenital scoliosis was found to have significantly lower plasma somatomedin levels compared with a group of 20 normal children. however, due to the rare nature of csbs, only a small number of patients have been reported to date with variants in this gene. 
Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. [SEP] rhoa, in its active gtp-bound form, stimulates transcription through activation of the serum-response factor (srf). g-kinase activation inhibited srf-dependent transcription induced by upstream rhoa activators including galpha(13) and p115rhogef, with galpha(13)-induced rho.gtp loading inhibited by g-kinase. constitutively active forms of the rho effectors rho kinase (rok), pkn, and prk-2 induced srf-dependent transcription in a cell type-specific fashion with rok being the most efficient; g-kinase inhibited transcription induced by all three effectors without affecting rok catalytic activity. we conclude that g-kinase inhibits srf-dependent transcription by interfering with rhoa signaling; g-kinase acts both upstream of rhoa, inhibiting serum- or galpha(13)-induced rho activation, and downstream of rhoa, inhibiting steps distal to the rho targets rok, pkn, and prk-2. rac1 is activated by guanine nucleotide exchange factors and inactivated by gtpase-activating proteins. the regulation of both rac1 and rac1b activities is dependent on guanine nucleotide exchange factors and gtpase-activating proteins, but the difference in their activation is mainly determined by the inability of rac1b to interact with rho-gdi. rho guanine-nucleotide exchange factors (rhogefs) activate rho gtpases, and thereby regulate cytoskeletal structure, gene transcription, and cell migration. previous pharmacologic and genetic studies have demonstrated a critical role for the low molecular weight gtp-binding protein rhoa in the regulation of cell-mediated killing by cytotoxic lymphocytes. rhoh, a hematopoietic-specific and constitutively active member of the rho guanosine triphosphatase (gtpase) family, has been implicated in the negative regulation of rac gtpase-mediated signaling in hematopoietic cells. here we show that deletion of rhoh in hematopoietic progenitor cells (hpcs) leads to increased stromal-derived factor-1alpha (sdf-1alpha)-induced chemotaxis and chemokinesis (random migration). 
Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. [SEP] the transfusion of red blood cells (rbcs), although necessary for treatment of anemia and blood loss, has also been linked to increased morbidity and mortality. the possible mechanisms by which each might perturb the innate immune response are reviewed in a search for potential novel pathways through which transfusion can lead to an altered inflammatory response. in recent years it became increasingly clear that allogeneic red blood cell (rbc) transfusions result in increased mortality and major adverse clinical outcomes. studies have shown that red blood cell transfusion is associated with a dose-dependent increase in patient morbidity and mortality. allogeneic transfusions of red blood cell (rbc) concentrates have been related to an increase in postoperative infections. however, rbc transfusions may also promote thrombosis because of raised hematocrit and viscosity, storage-related rbc damage, and exposure to thrombogenic mediators from obsolescent rbcs. transfusion of red blood cells (rbc) is beneficial for the patient but can also be harmful, as randomized trials have demonstrated increased infection rates, bleeding and mortality. however, cases of unregulated blood transfusion are shown to carry a high risk of alloimmunization to red blood cells (rbcs), which can lead to a hemolytic transfusion reaction and be fatal to patients. these antibodies ultimately increase the need for blood and intensify transfusion complications. recent data have raised the concern that rbc transfusions may be associated with worse clinical outcomes in some patients. 
Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. [SEP] the negative effects of red cell transfusion are associated with the presence of contaminating leukocytes, leukocyte products, and probably also with effects of nonviable and poorly functioning red cells. many of the risks and discomforts associated with blood transfusion may be avoided by removing the contaminating leukocytes from cellular blood components. leukocyte reduction prevents many febrile reactions that occasionally occur following red cell transfusion and prevents some febrile reactions following platelet transfusion. prophylactic use of leukocyte-reduced components may prevent primary hla alloimmunization, which is a principle cause of the refractoriness to platelet transfusion seen in many multiply transfused, thrombocytopenic patients. leukocyte-reduced components are equally effective in the prevention of cmv as seronegative blood. reduction of white cells (wbcs) in blood components may reduce the risk of virus transmission and hla alloimmunization. wbc reduction of blood components may reduce the incidence of transfusion reactions. the importance of transfusing wbc-reduced blood components is widely recognized, as it reduces the risk of alloimmunization and transfusion-transmitted cmv infections. leukocyte reduction of donated blood products substantially reduces the risk of a number of transfusion-related complications. removal of leucocytes from various blood products has been shown to minimize febrile nonhemolytic transfusion reactions, hla alloimmunization, platelet refractoriness in multitransfused patients and prevention of transmission of leukotropic viruses such as ebv and cmv. 
Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a [SEP] in arabidopsis, development during flowering is coordinated by transport of the hormone auxin mediated by polar-localized pin-formed1 (atpin1). however arabidopsis has lost a pin clade sister to atpin1, sister-of-pin1 (sopin1), which is conserved in flowering plants. here we show that in the grass brachypodium sopin1 mutants have organ initiation defects similar to arabidopsis atpin1, while loss of pin1 function in brachypodium has little effect on organ initiation but alters stem growth. heterologous expression of brachypodium sopin1 and pin1b in arabidopsis provides further evidence of functional specificity. sopin1 but not pin1b can mediate flower formation in null atpin1 mutants, although both can complement a missense allele. the behavior of sopin1 and pin1b in arabidopsis illustrates how membrane and tissue-level accumulation, transport activity, and interaction contribute to pin functional specificity. the maize vp1 protein is a seed-specific regulator of gene expression that effects the expression of a subset of abscisic acid (aba)-regulated genes that are expressed during the maturation program of the seed. during arabidopsis embryo development, cotyledon primordia are generated at transition stage from precursor cells that are not derived from the embryonic shoot apical meristem (sam). in pinoid embryos, reversal of polarity of the pin1 auxin transport facilitator in the apex is only occasional, explaining irregular auxin maxima in the cotyledon tips. in arabidopsis, the basic leucine zipper transcription factor abi5 activates several late embryogenesis-abundant genes, including atem1 and atem6. 
Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a [SEP] we here demonstrate that asymmetric auxin distribution is not required to establish root phototropism in arabidopsis. in this study, t-dna insertion mutants of the single-copy sppa1 gene in arabidopsis thaliana (at1g73990) were examined. in arabidopsis, development during flowering is coordinated by transport of the hormone auxin mediated by polar-localized pin-formed1 (atpin1). however arabidopsis has lost a pin clade sister to atpin1, sister-of-pin1 (sopin1), which is conserved in flowering plants. we previously proposed that the atpin1 organ initiation and vein patterning functions are split between the sopin1 and pin1 clades in grasses. here we show that in the grass brachypodium sopin1 mutants have organ initiation defects similar to arabidopsis atpin1, while loss of pin1 function in brachypodium has little effect on organ initiation but alters stem growth. heterologous expression of brachypodium sopin1 and pin1b in arabidopsis provides further evidence of functional specificity. sopin1 but not pin1b can mediate flower formation in null atpin1 mutants, although both can complement a missense allele. the behavior of sopin1 and pin1b in arabidopsis illustrates how membrane and tissue-level accumulation, transport activity, and interaction contribute to pin functional specificity. we have characterized developmental, environmental, and genetic regulation of abscisic acid-insensitive (abi)4 gene expression in arabidopsis. 
Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. [SEP] in this study, we investigated whether mirna was involved in down-regulation of the luteinizing hormone receptor (lhr) in rat ovaries. an mirna microarray was used to analyze the overall mirna expression profile of rat ovaries in association with the down-regulation of lhr mrna. here we investigated the potential tumor suppressive function of mir-450a, one of the most significantly downregulated mirnas in ovarian cancer. several members of the let-7 microrna family are downregulated in ovarian and other cancers. we have previously shown that hsa-mir-423-5p expression in ovarian granulosa cells is decreased in high ovarian response populations. the objective of the present study was to find the target gene and mechanism for mir-423-5p involved in ovarian response regulation. many mirnas are expressed in ovarian cancer (oc). our recent studies showed that mirnas exhibit genomic alterations at a high frequency and their expression is remarkably deregulated in ovarian cancer, strongly suggesting that mirnas are involved in the initiation and progression of this disease. in the present study, we performed mirna microarray to identify the mirnas associated with chemotherapy response in ovarian cancer and found that let-7i expression was significantly reduced in chemotherapy-resistant patients (n = 69, p = 0.003). finally, using mirna microarray, we found that decreased let-7i expression was significantly associated with the shorter progression-free survival of patients with late-stage ovarian cancer (n = 72, p = 0.042). 
Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. [SEP] the dysregulation of micrornas (mirnas) has been linked with male infertility. mir-509-5p is highly expressed in testis and exerts suppressive effects on multiple types of human cancers. the tumor suppressor mirna let-7a has been reported to be inhibited posttranscriptionally in embryonic stem cells and in human cancers. altered mirna expressions have been implicated in various cancers. microrna (mirna) is small endogenous, single strand rna molecules that regulate gene expression at post-transcriptional level through several mechanisms to affect key cellular event including male germ cells differentiation, proliferation, development and apoptosis. our study showed that mir-21 and mir-22 are indirectly involved in spermatogenesis by regulating of the estrogen receptor and might have a diagnostic and prognostic value in men infertility. micrornas (mirnas), a class of small non-coding rna molecules, are indicated to play essential roles in spermatogenesis. however, little is known about the expression patterns or function of mirnas in human testes involved in infertility. in this study, the mirna expression profiles of testes of patients with non-obstructive azoospermia (noa) and normal controls were performed by using microarray technologies. this is the first report that the expression of mirnas is altered in testicular tissues of patients with noa, suggesting a role of mirnas in regulating spermatogenesis in human males. 
Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. [SEP] this is commonly thought to be due to the methylation of cytosine residues in this dinucleotide and the corresponding high rate of deamination of 5-methycytosine, which lowers the frequency of this dinucleotide in dna. the finding is a transition of nucleotide preference of 5' t to 5' a at the invertebrate-vertebrate boundary, indicating that a large number of cpg sites with 5' ts were depleted because of global dna methylation developed in vertebrates. genome-wide nucleosome occupancy is negatively related to the average level of transcription factor motif binding based on studies in yeast and several other model organisms. in addition, conserved cell cycle regulatory motifs across these two species are more nucleosome-depleted compared to those that are not conserved, suggesting that the degree of conservation of regulatory sites varies, and is reflected by nucleosome occupancy patterns. our observations suggest that alteration of nucleosome occupancy is a previously uncharacterized feature related to the divergence of cell cycle expression between species. methylation of cytosines in the dinucleotide cpg has been shown to suppress transcription of a number of tissue-specific genes, yet the precise mechanism is not fully understood. while specific genes are hypermethylated in the genome of cancer cells, overall methylcytosine content is often decreased as a consequence of hypomethylation affecting many repetitive sequences. we have examined the role of methylated cpg as a factor in cpg suppression by comparing cpg distributions in coding regions of 121 genes from six species, three with methylated dna and three with nonmethylated dna. dna methylation is a key epigenetic modification which, in mammals, occurs mainly at cpg dinucleotides. methylation of cpg dinucleotides is generally associated with epigenetic silencing of transcription and is maintained through cellular division. 
Lupus-prone mice infected with curliproducing bacteria have higher autoantibody titers compared to controls. [SEP] mrl-lpr/lpr mice develop an autoimmune disease similar to human systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). understanding the genetic basis of this complex autoantigen-autoantibody system will provide insight into the pathogenesis of lupus in mice, which may have implications for human disease. b6.nba2 mice spontaneously develop a lupus-like disease characterized by elevated levels of serum anti-nuclear autoantibody (ana) immune complexes and constitutive type i interferon (ifnα) production. autoimmune mrl-lpr/lpr and nzb/w mice spontaneously secrete large quantities of pathogenic igg1 and igg2a autoantibodies. this work examines whether differences in the isotype of autoantibody produced by lupus-prone mice reflects differences in the sensitivity of autoreactive b cells to lymphokine-mediated igg secretion. these results suggest that this mutant mouse strain may provide a new animal model for autoimmunity. mrl-lpr/lpr mice spontaneously develop massive t cell lymphadenopathy, autoantibodies, and immune-mediated pathology. anti-chromatin autoantibodies are spontaneously produced by autoimmune but not by normal mice. these studies indicate that individual autoantibodies may arise through distinct cellular mechanisms in systemic lupus erythematosus mice. mrl/lpr mice develop global t lymphocyte deficiency along with their autoimmunity. 
Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil migration to inflammation sites by regulating membrane raft functions. [SEP] here, we show that an inhibitory mhc i receptor, ly49q, was crucial for the swift polarization of and tissue infiltration by neutrophils. during the steady state, ly49q inhibited neutrophil adhesion by preventing focal-complex formation, likely by inhibiting src and pi3 kinases. however, in the presence of inflammatory stimuli, ly49q mediated rapid neutrophil polarization and tissue infiltration in an itim-domain-dependent manner. ly49q-dependent polarization and migration were affected by ly49q regulation of membrane raft functions. we propose that ly49q is pivotal in switching neutrophils to their polarized morphology and rapid migration upon inflammation, through its spatiotemporal regulation of membrane rafts and raft-associated signaling molecules. ly49q, an itim domain-bearing receptor expressed on different leukocytes, has been recently reported to impact neutrophil migration and polarization. utilizing a murine model of klebsiella pneumoniae-induced pulmonary infection in combination with additional in vivo and in vitro assays, we show that ly49q is critically involved in different steps of the leukocyte adhesion cascade. structure function analysis in vitro and in vivo demonstrated that different domains of ly49q are important for its function. in summary, ly49q regulates integrin activation and neutrophil recruitment and is required for an adequate immune response in pulmonary infection. the recruitment and migration of neutrophils are critical for innate immunity and acute inflammatory responses. 
Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity compared to their Ly6C lo counterparts. [SEP] in mice, different subsets of monocytes can be distinguished by the expression of ly6c that is highly expressed on inflammatory monocytes (ly6chigh) and to a lesser extent on patrolling monocytes (ly6clow). monocytes exist in two major populations, termed ly6chi and ly6clow monocytes. compared to ly6chi monocytes, less is known about ly6clow monocyte recruitment and mechanisms involved in the recruitment of this subset. furthermore, the role of ly6clow monocytes during infections is largely unknown. following recruitment to injured tissue, ly6c+ monocytes respond to local cues and can critically contribute to the initiation and resolution of inflammatory reactions. recently it was shown that circulating ly6c(+) monocytes traffic from tissue to the draining lymph nodes (lns) with minimal alteration in their overall phenotype. furthermore, in the steady state, ly6c(+) monocytes are as abundant as classical dendritic cells (dcs) within the draining lns, and even more abundant during inflammation. we demonstrated that ly6c(+) monocytes intrinsically efferocytose and cross-present cell-associated antigen to cd8(+) t cells. overall, this study outlines two functional roles, among others, that ly6c(+) monocytes have during an adaptive immune response. furthermore, the intensity of tnf and il-6 production was much weaker for lps-activated aged monocytes than for lps-activated young monocytes. 
Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. [SEP] monocytes exist in two major populations, termed ly6chi and ly6clow monocytes. compared to ly6chi monocytes, less is known about ly6clow monocyte recruitment and mechanisms involved in the recruitment of this subset. furthermore, the role of ly6clow monocytes during infections is largely unknown. in mice, different subsets of monocytes can be distinguished by the expression of ly6c that is highly expressed on inflammatory monocytes (ly6chigh) and to a lesser extent on patrolling monocytes (ly6clow). following recruitment to injured tissue, ly6c+ monocytes respond to local cues and can critically contribute to the initiation and resolution of inflammatory reactions. furthermore, in the steady state, ly6c(+) monocytes are as abundant as classical dendritic cells (dcs) within the draining lns, and even more abundant during inflammation. we demonstrated that ly6c(+) monocytes intrinsically efferocytose and cross-present cell-associated antigen to cd8(+) t cells. overall, this study outlines two functional roles, among others, that ly6c(+) monocytes have during an adaptive immune response. the lps concentration required to obtain il-6 and tnf production is much higher for aged monocytes than for young monocytes. furthermore, the intensity of tnf and il-6 production was much weaker for lps-activated aged monocytes than for lps-activated young monocytes. 
Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. [SEP] lyn kinase-deficient (lyn-/-) mice show several abnormalities such as reduced numbers of circulating b cells, hyper-igm, and low proliferative responses induced by cd40 ligand. viable motheaten mutant mice (abbreviated allele symbol me(v)) are deficient in src-homology 2-domain phosphatase (shp)-1, a critical negative regulator of signal transduction in hematopoietic cells. these mice exhibit immune dysfunction, hyperproliferation of myeloid cells, and regenerative anemia. mice in which the lyn, cd22, or shp-1 gene has been disrupted have hyperactive b cells and autoantibodies. alymphoplasia (aly) mice, which carry a point mutation in the nuclear factor kappab-inducing kinase (nik) gene, are characterized by the systemic absence of lymph nodes and peyer's patches, disorganized splenic and thymic architectures, and immunodeficiency. transfer experiments of peritoneal lymphocytes from aly/aly mice into recombination activating gene (rag)-2(-/-) mice revealed that b and t cells fail to migrate to other lymphoid tissues, particularly to the gut-associated lymphatic tissue system. mice with alymphoplasia (aly/aly) mutation characterized by a lack of lymph nodes, peyer's patches, and well-defined lymphoid follicles in the spleen were found. lymphocyte anomalies have been observed in ship-null mice, but it is unclear whether they are due to an intrinsic requirement of ship in these cells or a consequence of the severe myeloid pathology. mice homozygous for either the gld or lpr mutation develop autoimmune diseases and progressive lymphadenopathy. the spontaneous mutant mouse strain, plt/plt, lacks the secondary lymphoid organ chemokine (slc)-ser gene and has disrupted trafficking of t cells and dendritic cells (dcs) to lymphoid tissues. 
Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. [SEP] the authors' experience with anticoagulant therapy in both the acute phase and the long-term management of myocardial infarction has proved disappointing. a review of the literature has failed to establish benefit when all patients with coronary artery disease are treated with anticoagulant drugs. it is concluded that dipyridamole has no benefit in acute myocardial infarction. qtc has not achieved clinical importance in predicting arrhythmic events in patients after mi. there are no studies of mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist (mra) treatment examining outcome in unselected real-life patients with myocardial infarction (mi) and heart failure (hf). current evidence does not support the prophylactic use of amiodarone in myocardial infarction (mi) survivors with a depressed left ventricular function and/or frequent or complex ventricular ectopy. pharmacological intervention for infarct size reduction is unavailable. no antithrombotic or newer antiplatelet drug has been shown to reduce mortality in acute mi. however, there are no data regarding the impact of c-reactive protein on mid-term mortality in patients with unprotected left main coronary artery stenosis treated with coronary artery bypass graft. at present, the use of calcium antagonists for the secondary prevention of cardiac events following an acute myocardial infarction (mi) is not recommended. 
Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. [SEP] statins reduce death and morbidity of acute myocardial infarction in part through immunosuppressive mechanisms, suggesting glucocorticoids could produce similar benefits. glucocorticoids inhibit proliferation of smooth muscle cells and activation of macrophages within atherosclerotic plaques and protect ischemic myocardium through inhibition of a heat shock protein. some studies from the 1970's and 1980's showed that steroids improve survival in myocardial infarction, but no conclusive large-scale randomized well-powered trials have been conducted. postinfarction treatment trials have demonstrated that beta-blockers are beneficial after myocardial infarction (mi), significantly reducing postinfarction cardiac mortality and nonfatal reinfarction, aside from bringing about an improved quality of life. angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors have been used clinically to prevent myocardial infarction (mi). new treatments are needed to protect the myocardium against the detrimental effects of acute ischaemia/reperfusion (ir) injury following an acute myocardial infarction (ami), in order to limit myocardial infarct (mi) size, preserve cardiac function and prevent the onset of heart failure (hf). thrombolytic therapy has been shown to limit infarct size, improve ventricular function, and decrease mortality in suspected evolving myocardial infarction (mi). a growing body of evidence shows that altering the inflammatory response by alternative macrophage polarization is protective against complications related to acute myocardial infarction (mi). we demonstrate that the liposomal formulation of azm enhances the drug's efficacy and safety in an animal model of acute myocardial injury. beta-adrenoceptor antagonists (beta-blockers) reduce mortality and recurrent myocardial infarction (mi) in older patients after both q-wave mi and non-q-wave mi. 
Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. [SEP] in tumour cells, macropinocytosis functions as an amino acid supply route and supports cancer cell survival and proliferation. in this way, macropinocytosis represents a novel amino acid supply route that tumour cells use to survive the nutrient-poor conditions of the tumour microenvironment. in this review, we focus on the role of this important uptake mechanism in a variety of cancers and highlight the main molecular drivers of macropinocytosis in these malignancies. macropinocytosis has emerged as an important nutrient supply pathway that sustains cell growth of cancer cells within the nutrient-poor tumor microenvironment. amino acids are imported as monomers, but an alternative route induced by oncogenic kras involves uptake of extracellular proteins via macropinocytosis and subsequent lysosomal degradation of these proteins as a source of amino acids. we find that regional depletion of amino acids coincides with increased levels of macropinocytosis and that the scarcity of glutamine uniquely drives this process. macropinocytosis is a normal cellular process by which cells internalize extracellular fluids and nutrients from their environment and is one strategy that ras-transformed pancreatic cancer cells use to increase uptake of amino acids to meet the needs of rapid growth. macropinocytosis is a regulated form of endocytosis that mediates the nonselective uptake of nutrients to support growth under nutrient-deprived conditions. macropinocytosis is an ancient mechanism that allows cells to harvest nutrients from extracellular media, which also allows immune cells to sample antigens from their surroundings. here, we demonstrate that protein macropinocytosis can also serve as an essential amino acid source. 
Many proteins in human cells can be post-translationally modified at lysine residues via acetylation. [SEP] the protein acetylation of either the α-amino groups of amino-terminal residues or of internal lysine or cysteine residues is one of the major posttranslational protein modifications that occur in the cell with repercussions at the protein as well as at the metabolome level. protein acetylation is one of the most important posttranslational modifications catalyzed by acetyltransferases and deacetylases, through the addition and removal of acetyl groups to lysine residues. lysine acetylation has emerged as a key post-translational modification found at many sites throughout the cell. acetylation of proteins, either on various amino-terminal residues or on the epsilon-amino group of lysine residues, is catalyzed by a wide range of acetyltransferases. acetylation of the epsilon-amino group of lysine residues, or n(epsilon)-lysine acetylation, is an important post-translational modification known to occur in histones, transcription factors and other proteins. acetylation of proteins with the addition of an acetyl group on the lysine residue is one of the vital posttranslational modifications that regulate protein stability, function and intracellular compartmentalization. lysine acetylation is a critical post-translation modification that can impact a protein's localization, stability, and function. lysine acetylation is a posttranslational modification that occurs on thousands of human proteins, most of which are cytoplasmic. the acetylation of proteins at specific lysine residues by acetyltransferase enzymes has emerged as a posttranslational modification of high biological impact. the side-chain acetylation of lysine residues in histones and non-histone proteins catalyzed by lysine acetyltransferases (kats) represents a widespread posttranslational modification (ptm) in the eukaryotic cells. 
Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. [SEP] artemisinin derivatives used in recently introduced combination therapies (acts) for plasmodium falciparum malaria significantly lower patient infectiousness and have the potential to reduce population-level transmission of the parasite. artemisinin derivatives and their partner drugs in artemisinin combination therapies (acts) have played a pivotal role in global malaria mortality reduction during the last two decades. the wide use of gametocytocidal artemisinin-based combination therapy (act) lead to a reduction of plasmodium falciparum transmission in several african endemic settings. an increased impact on malaria burden may be achieved through the development of improved transmission-blocking formulations, including molecules complementing the gametocytocidal effects of artemisinin derivatives and/or acting on plasmodium stages developing in the vector. the widespread introduction of artemisinin-based combination therapy has contributed to recent reductions in malaria mortality. artemisinin-based combination therapies (acts) are the best anti-malarial drugs available now. artemisinin enhances efficacy and has the potential of lowering the rate at which resistance emerges and spreads. artemisinin and its derivatives are of special interest because they represent the most effective group of compounds against multidrug-resistant malaria with a rapid onset of action and a short half-life. the combination of artemisinin with amodiaquine represents an important option for the treatment of falciparum malaria. until the attainment of new pharmaceuticals, artemisinin-based combination therapy (act) is the way to forestall artemisinin resistance and optimize uncomplicated malaria treatment. 
Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). [SEP] thiopurine s-methyltransferase (tpmt) is a key enzyme that deactivates thiopurines, into their inactive metabolite, 6-methylmercaptopurine. thiopurine s-methyltransferase (tpmt) is a cytosolic enzyme that catalyzes the s-methylation of mercaptopurine, azathioprine, thioguanine and most of their nucleotide metabolites. thiopurine methyltransferase (tpmt) catalyzes thiopurine s-methylation, an important metabolic pathway for drugs such as 6-mercaptopurine. thiopurine s-methyltransferase (tpmt) is a cytosolic enzyme that catalyzes the inactivation of mercaptopurine, azathioprine, and thioguanine. thiopurine s-methyltransferase (tpmt) methylates purine analogues, showing tpmt activity in inverse relation to concentrations of active metabolites such as 6-thioguanine nucleotide (6-tgn). thiopurine methyltransferase (tpmt) catalyzes the s-methylation of heterocyclic and aromatic sulfhydryl compounds such as the thiopurine drug 6-mercaptopurine (6-mp). thiopurine s-methyltransferase (tpmt) is a cytosolic enzyme that catalyses the s-methylation of 6-mercaptopurine and azathioprine. background thiopurine s-methyltransferase (tpmt) is a cytosolic enzyme that catalyses the s-methylation of 6-mercaptopurine and azathioprine. thiopurine methyltransferase (tpmt) is a cytoplasmic enzyme that preferentially catalyzes the s-methylation of aromatic and heterocyclic sulfhydryl compounds, including 6-mercaptopurine. tpmt activity is inversely correlated with formation of active 6-mercaptopurine metabolites (thioguanine nucleotides), thereby influencing 6-mercaptopurine toxicity and efficacy. 
Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. [SEP] 5-fluorouracil (5-fu) and oxaliplatin (oxapt) are the main chemotherapeutics for colorectal cancer (crc). the relative survival of elderly patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mcrc) is generally worse than that of younger patients because of more advanced stage at presentation, comorbidity and reduced use of optimal therapy. although 5-fluorouracil (5-fu) or 5-fu plus oxaliplatin (folfox) is the standard therapy for colorectal cancer, it has met with limited success. although 5-fluorouracil (5-fu)-based chemotherapy is commonly used in patients with advanced colorectal cancer (crc), little data exist on the tolerability and benefit of therapy in elderly patients. there are few therapeutic options in patients with colorectal cancer that have progressed or recurred following 5-fluorouracil (5-fu) based therapy. we evaluated the efficacy and toxicity of oxaliplatin, 5-fu, leucovorin (mayo clinic regimen) in 5-fu pretreated advanced colorectal cancer patients. the anticancer agents fluorouracil, raltitrexed, irinotecan and oxaliplatin show limited efficacy in the treatment of colorectal cancer and may be associated with substantial toxicity. therapeutic drug monitoring of fluorouracil and chronomodulation of fluorouracil and oxaliplatin, have been effective in reducing the incidence and gravity of adverse effects in several clinical trials. chemotherapeutic regimens for elderly patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mcrc), such as bevacizumab combined with 5-fluorouracil (5-fu) and leucovorin, often exclude oxaliplatin and irinotecan owing to the risk of toxicity. few data are available regarding the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer elderly patients with anti-egfr agents in combination with chemotherapy. 
Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). [SEP] parp-1-deficient mice are hypersensitive to genotoxic agents and display genomic instability due to a dna repair defect in the base excision repair pathway. these experiments indicated that in a strain carrying a proofreading-exonuclease-defective form of pol i (polaexo mutant) the frequency of rpob mutations increased by about 2-fold, consistent with a model that the fidelity of dna polymerase i is important in controlling the overall fidelity of chromosomal dna replication. dna sequencing of rpob mutants revealed that the pol i exonuclease deficiency lead to an increase in a variety of base-substitution mutations. taking advantage of 129x1/svj mice naturally deficient in pol iota due to a nonsense mutation within the coding region of the gene, we here analyzed urethane-treated (a/j x 129x1/svj)f(1) x a/j backcross and (a/j x 129x1/svj)f(2) intercross mice and observed the defective 129x1/svj pol iota allele to be genetically linked with an increased susceptibility to lung tumors relative to the a/j allele. severe combined immune deficiency (scid) mice exhibit limited repair of dna double-strand breaks and are sensitive to ionizing radiation due to a mutation of the dna-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit gene. to elucidate the effects of deficient dna double-strand break repair on radiation-induced carcinogenesis, the dose-response relationship for the induction of all tumor types was examined in wild-type and scid mice. scid mice were extremely susceptible to the induction of spontaneous and radiation-induced thymic lymphomas. dna-dependent protein kinase (dna-pk)-defective severe combined immunodeficient (scid) mice have a greater sensitivity to ionizing radiation compared with wild-type mice due to deficient repair of dna double-strand break. dna-pk is an important target for the development of novel radiation-sensitizing drugs that have little intrinsic cytotoxicity. thus, scid cells and tissues display increased sensitivity to radiation-induced postmitotic (clonogenic) cell death. 
Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. [SEP] we here show that interleukin (il)-1 receptor type 1-deficient (il-1r1(-/-)) mice are protected from development of autoimmune myocarditis after immunization with alpha-myosin-peptide(614-629). we have previously reported that b10.a (h-2a) mice, which are resistant to the induction of postcoxsackievirus autoimmune myocarditis, become susceptible upon treatment with lps, il-1, or tnf. in this study, we show that the development of autoimmune myocarditis is associated with infiltration of the heart by inflammatory cells that secrete the cytokines il-1 and tnf. autoimmune myocarditis induced by immunization with cardiac myosin can be seen as a virus-free system to analyze the immunopathological mechanisms of certain forms of postinfectious heart disease. immunodepletion studies have shown that in a.sw mice myosin-induced myocarditis is mediated by both cd4+ and cd8+ cells. furthermore, recent serologic and immunohistologic studies indirectly suggest that the cardiac myocyte is not the target for the anti-myosin response. mice deficient for classical complement pathway (ccp) factor c4 are resistant to antibody and complement mediated experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (eamg). experimental autoimmune myocarditis (eam) represents a cd4(+) t helper (th) cell-mediated mouse model of inflammatory heart disease. interferon (ifn)-γ, typically produced by th1 cells, reduces eam severity in myosin heavy-chain-(myhc)-α peptide/complete freund adjuvant-immunized mice. mice lacking the receptor for type i interferon (ifn-alpha beta, a129 mice), for type ii interferon (ifn-gamma, g129 mice) or for both receptors (ag129 mice) have been generated by embryonic stem cell mediated gene targeting and inter-crossing a129 x g129, respectively. 
Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. [SEP] mice lacking il-6 are resistant to autoimmune diseases, such as experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (eae), which is driven by cns-reactive cd4(+) t cells. mice deficient in interferon (ifn)-gamma or ifn-gamma receptor develop progressive and fatal experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (eae). we demonstrate that cd4 t cells lacking ifn-gamma production were required to passively transfer eae, indicating that they were disease-mediating cells in ifn-gamma knockout (ko) mice. we thus present novel in vivo and in vitro evidence that ifn-gamma may limit the extent of eae by suppressing expansion of activated cd4 t cells. mice deficient for classical complement pathway (ccp) factor c4 are resistant to antibody and complement mediated experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (eamg). mice deficient for complement factors c3, c4, or c5 are resistant to experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (eamg). when the immunized-mice were induced to develop eae, these cells secreted significantly higher levels of il-10 and produced lower levels of il-6, leading to decreased secretion of il-17 and ifn-γ from mog-specific cd4(+) t cells. class ii mhc mutant bm12 mice have an increased resistance to experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (eamg) compared to c57bl/6 mice. to analyze the role of immune complex receptors in eamg, fcgammariii knockout (ko) mice were immunized with achr and were found out to be resistant to eamg induction. plp-sufficient mice did not respond against two of these, whereas tolerance was "leaky" for an epitope with weak predicted mhcii binding, and only this epitope was encephalitogenic. 
MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis [SEP] micrornas manifest significant functions in brain neural stem cell (nsc) self-renewal and differentiation through the post-transcriptional regulation of neurogenesis genes. therefore, due to the importance of better comprehending the regulation of mirnas in nscs differentiation and the lack of studies that show the panorama of mirnas and their signaling pathways studied until now we aimed to systematically review the literature to identify which mirnas are currently being associated with neuronal differentiation and using bioinformatics analysis to identify their related pathways. micrornas are of vital importance in neural development. in this study, we investigated the role of mir-132 in regulating nscs proliferation, differentiation and neuronal maturation. micrornas, small non-coding rnas that regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level, are emerging as important regulatory molecules involved in the fine-tuning of gene expression during neuronal development and function. micrornas have roles during neuronal stem cell commitment and early differentiation as well as in later stages of neuronal development, such as dendritogenesis and synaptic plasticity. this review summarizes the current knowledge of the function of micrornas in the developing and adult nervous system and their potential contribution to the etiology of neurological diseases. indeed, small non-coding rnas such as micrornas (mirnas) are able to regulate neural stem cell fate by targeting chromatin-remodeling pathways. it has been shown that mirnas regulate multiple steps of neurogenesis, from neural stem cell proliferation to neuronal differentiation and maturation. this review summarizes our current state of knowledge on the dynamic roles that mirnas play in neural stem cells and neurogenesis. 
Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. [SEP] background: profiling the microbiome of low-biomass samples is challenging for metagenomics since these samples often contain dna from other sources, such as the host or the environment. the fuel industry relies on phenotypic cultivation-based contaminant identification, which may lack accuracy and neglect difficult-to-culture taxa. background: profiling the microbiome of low-biomass samples is challenging for metagenomics since these samples are prone to contain dna from other sources (e.g. standard culture methods may fail to detect the causative agents of bacterial infection for various reasons including specimen collection after antibiotic administration, or when standard techniques or environmental conditions are not appropriate for growth of the microorganisms. high sensitivity methods such as next generation sequencing and polymerase chain reaction (pcr) are adversely impacted by organismal and dna contaminants. current methods for detecting contaminants in microbial materials (genomic dna and cultures) are not sensitive enough and require either a known or culturable contaminant. for the individual genomes the false positive contaminants reported depended on the genus, with staphylococcus, escherichia, and shigella having the highest proportion of false positives. we validated imglad by analyzing metagenomic datasets derived from spinach leaves inoculated with the enteric pathogen escherichia coli o157:h7 and showed that its limit of detection can be comparable to that of pcr-based approaches for these samples (∼1 cell/gram). the latter, however, suffers from a number of limitations, with the most significant being the inability to resolve mixed amplicons when closely related species are coamplified from a mixed culture. by developing and analyzing 720 listeria monocytogenes, salmonella enterica, and escherichia coli short-read datasets, we demonstrate that within-species contamination causes errors that confound clustering analyses, while between-species contamination generally does not. 
Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. [SEP] mitochondrion is one of the master players in both apoptosis and necrosis. however, most previous articles report that mitochondrial dna-depleted cells without oxidative phosphorylation underwent apoptosis by several apoptotic effectors as efficiently as their parental cells, suggesting that intact mitochondrial function is dispensable for the progression of apoptosis. we studied the role of mitochondrial function in several apoptosis models. our results indicate that apoptosis of sk-hep1 hepatoma cells is dependent on intact mitochondrial function. mitochondrial depolarization promotes apoptotic and necrotic cell death and possibly other cellular events. thus, tmrm does not label depolarized mitochondria. the inhibitors of oxidative phosphorylation induced fragmentation of mitochondria without any signs of apoptosis in cv-1 and hela cells. in quiescent thymocytes, mitochondrial de-energization was not correlated to apoptotic death. in conclusion, the reported data indicate that atp may act as a cellular modulator of some forms of apoptosis, depending on the death trigger, and that in quiescent cells the de-energization of mitochondria is not necessarily linked to apoptosis. no morphologic abnormalities or quantitative changes in endothelial mitochondria are reported. 
Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. [SEP] normal aging alters expression of numerous genes within the brain. alterations to cellular and molecular programs with brain aging result in cognitive impairment and susceptibility to neurodegenerative disease. changes in dna methylation patterns, an epigenetic modification required for various cns functions are observed with brain aging and can be prevented by anti-aging interventions, but the relationship of altered methylation to gene expression is poorly understood. paired analysis of the hippocampal methylome and transcriptome with aging of male and female mice demonstrates that age-related differences in methylation and gene expression are anti-correlated within gene bodies and enhancers. changes to the epigenome with aging, and dna modifications in particular, have been proposed as a central regulator of the aging process, a predictor of mortality, and a contributor to the pathogenesis of age-related diseases. here we review neuroepigenetic research as it relates to cognitive aging, focusing specifically on memory function mediated by the hippocampal system. we will firstly discuss recent progress that supports a key role of epigenetic regulation during healthy ageing with an emphasis on the role of epigenetic regulation in adult neurogenesis. then, we will focus on epigenetic alterations associated with ageing-related human disorders of the central nervous system. a widespread modulation of gene expression occurs in the aging brain, but little is known as to the upstream drivers of these changes. epigenetic modifications suggest an intriguing mechanism to account for the range of cognitive outcomes in aging as they are responsive to environmental influences and affect gene transcription in cognitively relevant brain regions. 
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. [SEP] furthermore, ndrg-1 reduced the protein levels of cathepsin c which plays a role in invasion, indicating a potential mechanism of its anti-metastatic role in pancreatic cancer cells. in this investigation, ndrg1 inhibited the oncogenic effects of transforming growth factor-β (tgf-β) in panc-1 pancreatic cancer cells, promoting expression and co-localization of e-cadherin and β-catenin at the cell membrane. a similar effect of ndrg1 at supporting e-cadherin and β-catenin co-localization at the cell membrane was also demonstrated for ht-29 colon and cfpac-1 pancreatic cancer cells. e-cadherin has been demonstrated to induce growth suppression and decrease the invasiveness of cancer cells and thus has been proposed to be a tumor suppressor gene. the ability of e-cadherin to mediate cell-cell contact and contact inhibition presumably accounts for its antitumor effects, which are attributed to the extracellular domain of the protein. transfection of the e-cadherin gene into the human prostate cancer cell line tsu.pr-1 induced cell-cell contact formation, growth suppression, and redistribution of beta-catenin to the cell membrane. n-cadherin is a cell-cell adhesion molecule that plays a role in breast cancer metastasis. here, we show that in vivo expression of n-cadherin in the pymt mouse model, which enhances mammary tumor metastasis, results in selective inhibition of akt3 expression and phosphorylation. similarly, exogenous expression of n-cadherin in pymt or mcf-7 mammary tumor cells enhanced cell motility and caused a dramatic reduction in akt3 expression and phosphorylation. taken altogether, these findings demonstrate that n-cadherin suppresses akt3 to promote cell motility and highlight the intricate regulation of akt isoforms by n-cadherin during metastasis. 
Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. [SEP] during dna replication in eukaryotic cells, short single-stranded dna segments known as okazaki fragments are first synthesized on the lagging strand. the okazaki fragments originate from ∼35-nucleotide-long rna-dna primers. taken together, our observations suggest a dual mechanism for okazaki fragment maturation in lagging strand synthesis and establish a new strategy for interrogation of this fascinating process. efficient processing of okazaki fragments generated during discontinuous lagging-strand dna replication is critical for the maintenance of genome integrity. the correct processing of okazaki fragments during lagging-strand dna replication has a vital role in maintaining genome integrity. recent findings suggest that, in eukaryotes, the processing of okazaki fragments occurs by a two-step mechanism governed by the single-stranded dna binding factor rpa. fifty per cent of the genome is discontinuously replicated on the lagging strand as okazaki fragments. disrupting chromatin assembly or lagging-strand polymerase processivity affects both the size and the distribution of okazaki fragments, suggesting a role for nascent chromatin, assembled immediately after the passage of the replication fork, in the termination of okazaki fragment synthesis. during replication, okazaki fragment maturation is a fundamental process that joins discontinuously synthesized dna fragments into a contiguous lagging strand. the similarities to both bacterial and eukaryotic systems and evolutionary implications of archaeal okazaki fragment maturation are discussed. 
Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. [SEP] mutant mice lacking the plasma membrane ascorbic acid transporter (svct2) have severely reduced tissue levels of ascorbic acid and die after birth. levels of catecholamines in brain were unaffected by svct2 deficiency. the svct2-tg mouse shows increased svct2 mrna levels in all organs tested and correspondingly increased ascorbic acid (asc) levels in all organs except liver. the increased asc levels did not have any adverse effects on behavior in the svct2-tg mice, which did not differ from wild-type mice on tests of locomotor activity, anxiety, sensorimotor or cognitive ability. high levels of svct2 and asc were found in the kidneys of svct2-tg mice and urinary albumin excretion was lower in these mice than in wild-types. we evaluated the hypothesis that sodium-dependent vitamin c (ascorbate) transporters svct1 and svct2 (encoded by genes slc23a1 and slc23a2) regulate ascorbate concentrations in tissues of adult mice. ascorbate concentrations were lower in slc23a2+/- than slc23a2+/+ mice in tissues where svct2 was the main isoform. svct2 contributed to a gender effect in spleen because males had higher spleen ascorbate concentration than females in wild-type but not in slc23a2+/- mice. we concluded that svct2 is a major determinant of ascorbate accumulation in tissues lacking svct1. effects of deficiency in ascorbic acid on in vivo production of corticosterone and testosterone were examined using a mutant strain of rats unable to synthesize ascorbic acid. 
Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. [SEP] akt signaling is constitutively activated in various cancers, due in large part to loss-of-function in the pten and phlpp phosphatases that act as tumor suppressor genes. the pi3k-akt pathway is activated in a variety of human cancers, resulting in disturbance of cell growth, proliferation and survival. activating mutations in genes encoding g protein α (gα) subunits occur in 4-5% of all human cancers, but oncogenic alterations in gβ subunits have not been defined. here we demonstrate that recurrent mutations in the gβ proteins gnb1 and gnb2 confer cytokine-independent growth and activate canonical g protein signaling. multiple mutations in gnb1 affect the protein interface that binds gα subunits as well as downstream effectors and disrupt gα interactions with the gβγ dimer. different mutations in gβ proteins clustered partly on the basis of lineage; for example, all 11 gnb1 k57 mutations were in myeloid neoplasms, and seven of eight gnb1 i80 mutations were in b cell neoplasms. in vivo treatment with the dual pi3k-mtor inhibitor bez235 suppressed gnb1-induced signaling and markedly increased survival. in several human tumors, mutations in the gene encoding gnb1 co-occurred with oncogenic kinase alterations, including the bcr-abl fusion protein, the v617f substitution in jak2 and the v600k substitution in braf. coexpression of patient-derived gnb1 variants with these mutant kinases resulted in inhibitor resistance in each context. thus, gnb1 and gnb2 alterations confer transformed and resistance phenotypes across a range of human tumors and may be targetable with inhibitors of g protein signaling. 
N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. [SEP] identification of protein translation start sites is largely a bioinformatics exercise, with relatively few confirmed by n-terminal sequencing. translation start site determination is critical for defining both the protein sequence and the upstream dna which may contain regulatory motifs. it is demonstrated here that translation start sites can be determined during routine protein identification, using maldi-ms and ms/ms data to select the correct n-terminal sequence from a list of alternatives generated in silico. in this paper we present npest, a novel tool for the analysis of expressed sequence tags (est) distributions and transcription start site (tss) prediction. while methods for annotation of genes are increasingly reliable, the exact identification of translation initiation sites remains a challenging problem. since the n-termini of proteins often contain regulatory and targeting information, developing a robust method for start site identification is crucial. utilising these signatures in combination with nucleotide sequence information, we build a model capable of predicting translation initiation sites and demonstrate its high accuracy using n-terminal proteomics. applying this to prokaryotic translatomes, we re-annotate translation initiation sites and provide evidence of n-terminal truncations and extensions of previously annotated coding sequences. signatures within ribosome profiling read length distributions can be used in combination with nucleotide sequence information to provide accurate genome-wide identification of translation initiation sites. novel unannotated transcripts and transcriptional start sites can be identified. 
N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. [SEP] accurate prediction of the position of translation initiation (n-terminal prediction) is a difficult problem. n-terminal prediction from dna sequence alone is ambiguous is several candidate start sites are close to each other. protein similarity search is usually unable to indicate the true start of a gene as it would require a strong protein sequence similarity at the n-terminal portion of a protein where conservative regions are rarely situated. n-terminal prediction is then performed by using the rbs model in conjunction with the genemark start codon prediction to aid in determining the true n-terminal site. although the polyadenylation site of a gene can be easily identified, it has been difficult to determine the site of transcription termination in vivo because of the rapid processing of pre-mrnas. using an in vitro approach, we have shown that sequences from the 3' ends of two different saccharomyces cerevisiae genes, adh2 and gal7, direct transcription termination and/or polymerase pausing in yeast nuclear extracts. our data support the hypothesis that the coupling of this pause site to a functional polyadenylation signal results in transcription termination. while rna-seq reads cover most regions of an mrna sequence, they are often depleted in the 3' end region, making them less amenable for mapping the cleavage and polyadenylation site (pa). replication initiation events are suppressed over the sv40 core origin in vitro; they are also greatly reduced over sequences flanking the origin which contain binding sites for several transcription factors. herein, it is demonstrated that previously functional initiation sites are nearly inactive when moved to positions that are proximal to the core origin. 
N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). [SEP] n348i in hiv-1 reverse transcriptase (rt) confers resistance to zidovudine (azt) and nevirapine. this study demonstrates that n348i-mediated azt and nevirapine resistance is due to the mutation in the p51 subunit of rt. we recently reported that zidovudine (azt) selected for the q509l mutation in the ribonuclease h (rnase h) domain of hiv-1 reverse transcriptase (rt), which increases resistance to azt in combination with the thymidine analogue mutations d67n, k70r, and t215f. resistance to zidovudine (3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine, azt) by the human immunodeficiency virus, type 1, requires multiple amino acid substitutions such as d67n/k70r/t215f/k219q in the viral reverse transcriptase (rt). the majority of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1)-infected patients treated with zidovudine (azt) plus zalcitabine (ddc) and didanosine (ddi) develop azt resistance mediated by mutations such as t215y and m41l. the connection domain mutation n348i confers resistance to zidovudine (azt) and is associated with the lamivudine (3tc) mutation m184v. furthermore, virological analyses demonstrate that n348i confers low-level resistance to azt and partly restores the reduced rt activity of the m184v variant. hiv-1 resistance to zidovudine [azt (azidothymidine)] is associated with selection of the mutations m41l, d67n, k70r, l210w, t215f/y and k219q/e in rt (reverse transcriptase). the zidovudine-resistance mutations persisted in seven timepoints from four patients for 5 to 22 months despite cessation of zidovudine therapy (and while patients underwent ddi therapy). the zidovudine resistance mutations persisted at seven time points from 4 patients for 5-22 months despite cessation of zidovudine therapy (and while patients underwent dideoxyinosine therapy). 
NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. [SEP] merlin, the drosophila homologue of the human tumor suppressor gene neurofibromatosis 2 (nf2), is required for the regulation of cell proliferation and differentiation. to better understand the cellular functions of the nf2 gene product, merlin, recent work has concentrated on identifying proteins with which it interacts either physically or functionally. the tumor suppressor merlin/nf2 functions upstream of the core hippo pathway kinases lats1/2 and mst1/2, as well as the nuclear e3 ubiquitin ligase crl4(dcaf1). merlin, the protein product of the nf2 gene, has been shown to negatively regulate rac1 signaling by inhibiting its downstream effector kinases, the p21-activated kinases (pak). recent studies in drosophila revealed a potential link between merlin and the hippo pathway by placing merlin genetically upstream of the kinase hpo/mst. in contrast to the commonly depicted linear model of merlin functioning through hpo/mst, here we show that in both drosophila and mammals, merlin promotes downstream hippo signaling without activating the intrinsic kinase activity of hpo/mst. the nf2 tumor suppressor gene codes for merlin, a protein whose function has been elusive. we report that the phosphorylation of merlin at serine 518 is induced by the p21-activated kinase pak2. drosophila merlin, the homolog of the human neurofibromatosis 2 (nf2) gene, is important for the regulation of cell proliferation and receptor endocytosis. merlin encoded by the nf2 gene is a bona fide tumor suppressor that has been implicated in regulation of both the hippo-yap and rac1-pak1 pathways. 
NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. [SEP] merlin, encoded by the nf2 gene, is a tumor suppressor that acts by inhibiting mitogenic signaling and is mutated in neurofibromatosis type ii (nf2) disease, although its molecular mechanism is not fully understood. merlin, the protein product of the nf2 gene, has been shown to negatively regulate rac1 signaling by inhibiting its downstream effector kinases, the p21-activated kinases (pak). we tested whether nf2/merlin is expressed and exerts similar control on proliferation of colorectal cancer cells and modulates the rate of their apoptosis. current models imply that the ferm domain protein merlin, encoded by the tumor suppressor nf2, inhibits mitogenic signaling at or near the plasma membrane. merlin, encoded by the nf2 gene, is a tumor suppressor that exerts its function via inhibiting mitogenic receptors at the plasma membrane. merlin encoded by the nf2 gene is a bona fide tumor suppressor that has been implicated in regulation of both the hippo-yap and rac1-pak1 pathways. merlin, the drosophila homologue of the human tumor suppressor gene neurofibromatosis 2 (nf2), is required for the regulation of cell proliferation and differentiation. to better understand the cellular functions of the nf2 gene product, merlin, recent work has concentrated on identifying proteins with which it interacts either physically or functionally. the mechanism by which the ferm domain protein merlin, encoded by the tumor suppressor nf2, restrains cell proliferation is poorly understood. the nf2 gene encodes the tumor and metastasis suppressor protein merlin. 
NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. [SEP] an ip3r is thought to play a role in mobilizing calcium required for activation of t lymphocytes. comparing the concentration-response relationship for binding and ca(2+)release suggested that ip3rs are maximally occupied by ip3before substantial ca(2+)release occurs. exquisite modulation of intracellular ca2+ release via ip3rs is achieved by the ability of ip3r to integrate signals from numerous small molecules and proteins including nucleotides, kinases, and phosphatases, as well as nonenzyme proteins. we review the unique properties of the ip3r that facilitate cell-type and stimulus-dependent control of function, with special emphasis on protein-binding partners. complex regulation of ca(2+) signaling is required for the cell to live and function, and this difficult task can only be managed when the ip(3)r teams up and acts properly with its numerous binding partners. this review aims to highlight how protein kinases and protein phosphatases can interact with the ip3r or with associated proteins and so provide a large potential for fine tuning the ca2+-release activity and for creating efficient ca2+ signals in subcellular microdomains. inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (ip3r) is an intracellular ca2+ channel involved in various cellular signaling. type 3 ip3r (ip3r3) retains ligand-gated ca2+ channel properties differing from other subtypes in terms of ip3-binding affinity and regulation of its channel activity by effector molecules. the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (ip(3)) receptor (ip(3)r) is an intracellular ip(3)-gated calcium (ca(2+)) release channel and plays important roles in regulation of numerous ca(2+)-dependent cellular responses. thus, ca2+ appeared to regulate ip3 gating activity through the rearrangement of functional domains. 
NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. [SEP] peroxynitrite (onoo(-)), a reactive nitrogen species, is capable of nitrating tyrosine residue of proteins. in the presence of nano(2), h(2)o(2), and horseradish peroxidase (hrp), monophenolic p-coumaric acid (p-ca, 4-hydroxycinnamic acid) was nitrated to form 4-hydroxy-3-nitrocinnamic acid. we conclude that nitrogen dioxide radical (no(2)(radical)), but not onoo(-), produced by a guaiacol peroxidase is the intermediate for phytophenolic nitration. the oxidation of n-hydroxylated compounds may result in production of nitrogen oxides, including nitric oxide (no). within the body, no is produced by nitric oxide synthases via converting l-arginine to citrulline. additionally, no is also produced via the nos-independent nitrate-nitrite-no pathway. unlike the classical pathway, the nitrate-nitrite-no pathway is oxygen independent and viewed as a back-up function to ensure no generation during ischaemia/hypoxia. nitric oxide (no) synthesis by no synthases (nos) requires oxygen. the contribution of nos-independent pathways to no synthesis was studied using nos blockade. nitric oxide synthases (nos) independent of the isozyme, produce nitric oxide (.no), superoxide (o2.-), and hydrogen peroxide (h2o2). 
NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. [SEP] nr5a2 is an orphan nuclear receptor involved in cholesterol metabolism and embryogenesis. the high level of expression of nr5a2 in the ovary and its involvement in the regulation of steroidogenic gene expression also suggest a role for this transcription factor in female reproductive function. in vivo evidence for a role for nr5a2 in fertility, however, is still lacking. in order to address this possibility, we used nr5a2+/- mice to demonstrate that heterozygosity for a null mutation of nr5a2 leads to a decreased fertility in females. our results indicate that although nr5a2+/- mice display normal follicular development, ovulation, and estrogen production, they exhibit altered luteal function. more specifically, we show that the reduced reproductive ability of nr5a2+/- females arises from a reduction in circulating progesterone concentrations and can be rescued by exogenous progesterone supplementation. this study therefore provides the first in vivo evidence for a role of nr5a2 in reproductive function and steroidogenesis. in the present study, we studied the possible implication of gnrh ii in endometriosis. the mrna levels of gnrh ii were lower in endometrial and endometriotic tissues of women with endometriosis than in endometrial tissues of women without endometriosis, both in the proliferative phase and the secretory phase. these results suggest that hand2 may contribute to endometrial vascular maturation by regulating fgf9 during decidualization. 
Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. [SEP] aptamers selected against cell surface receptors represent a unique set of ligands that can be used to target nanoparticles and other therapeutics to specific cell types. here, we describe a method for using aptamers to deliver stable nucleic acid lipid particles (snalps) encapsulating small interfering rna (sirna) to cells in vitro. nanoparticles (nps) conjugated with aptamers have been extensively in recent years, which can efficiently target cancer cells that improve the therapeutic effect. since aptamers have been selected against a broad range of target structures of medical interest and nanoparticles are available with diverse properties, aptamer-modified nanoparticles can be used in various diagnostic and therapeutic applications. within this chapter different medical applications of aptamer-modified nanoparticles will be summarized and underlying principles will be described. taking advantage of such binding properties, several aptamers have been selected to bind tumor biomarkers and have been used as targeting ligands for the functionalization of nanomedicines. this review describes the current advances in the use of aptamers as targeting moieties for the delivery of therapeutic and imaging agents to tumors by conjugation to organic and inorganic nanocarriers. aptamer-based approaches are very promising tools in nanomedicine. the use of aptamers as targeting molecules has revolutionized nanomedicine. to our knowledge, this represents the first report of targeted drug delivery with nanoparticle-aptamer bioconjugates. 
Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. [SEP] neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) are peculiar structures composed of the externalized chromatin with intracellular proteins and formed by activated neutrophils in a reactive oxygen species (ros)-dependent manner. the release of "neutrophil extracellular traps" (nets) has been identified as a novel immune response in innate immunity. neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) are chromatin filaments decorated with enzymes from neutrophil cytoplasmic granules. neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) are chromatin ﬁlaments released by activated polymorphonuclear neutrophils (pmns) and decorated with granule proteins with various properties. neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) are formed by activated neutrophils during the process of netosis in which the nuclear material is released into extracellular space, including dna molecules, citrullinated histones, and neutrophil granule enzymes, such as elastase. neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) are auto-antigenic strands of extracellular dna covered with myeloperoxidase (mpo) and proteinase3 (pr3) that can be a source for the formation of anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibodies (ancas). the release of "neutrophil extracellular traps" (nets) has been identified as a novel immune response in innate immunity. activated neutrophils release neutrophil extracellular traps (nets), resulting in a form of cell death called netosis. neutrophil extracellular traps (net), consisting of a filamentous dna/chromatin-histone scaffold originating from neutrophils are part of the innate immune response, may be released under a variety of inflammatory conditions and are associated with an increased risk for thrombosis. the release of neutrophil extracellular traps (nets), a mesh of dna, histones and neutrophil proteases from neutrophils, was first demonstrated as a host defence against pathogens. 
New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. [SEP] for the successful treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis, drugs need to penetrate complex lung lesions and permeate the mycobacterial cell wall in order to reach their intracellular targets. however, most currently used anti-tuberculosis drugs were introduced into clinical use without considering the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties that influence drug distribution, and this has contributed to the long duration and limited success of current therapies. pericardial concentrations of the key sterilizing drugs for tb were below mic, which could contribute to poor outcomes. the clinical management of tuberculosis and other mycobacterial diseases with antimycobacterial chemotherapy remains a difficult task. factors that are inimical to the success of inhaled therapies for tuberculosis (tb) include: (i) lack of access of inhaled therapies to poorly-aerated areas of the tubercular lung; (ii) limited ability to penetrate biofilms formed by extracellular bacilli; (iii) selection for resistant bacilli on account of administration of low doses of anti-tb agents; (iv) induction of inflammation and/or immunopathology in the airways and lungs; and (v) anomalies in antigen processing and presentation of vaccines delivered to the lungs. the necrotising immunopathology, which is accompanied by very little mycobactericidal activity, is probably the key to the pathogenesis of tuberculosis. although dramatic improvements in chemotherapy for tuberculosis have been achieved through careful studies of drug regimens, there is still a need for new agents that are highly active. persistent, high blood levels of antitubercular drugs resulting from prolonged oral administration of anti-tb drugs may be neither necessary nor sufficient to kill mycobacteria residing in macrophages (m4). herein, we discuss the challenges to developing drugs to treat tuberculosis and how the field has adapted to these difficulties, with an emphasis on drug discovery approaches that might produce more effective agents and treatment regimens. the key anti-tubercular rifamycin, rifampicin, suffers from low potency against m. abscessus and is not used clinically. 
Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. [SEP] non-invasive ventilation has been used increasingly in recent years to reduce the duration of endotracheal ventilation and its complications, especially bronchopulmonary dysplasia. over the last two decades, the increasing use of noninvasive ventilation (niv) has diminished the need for endotracheal ventilation, thus decreasing the rate of ventilation-induced complications. non-invasive ventilation (niv) reduces the need for intubation and the mortality associated with an exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd). the use of mechanical ventilation is associated with lung injury in preterm infants and therefore the goal is to avoid or minimize its use. noninvasive ventilation (niv) decreases mechanical ventilation indication in the early period of acute hypercapnic respiratory failure (ahcrf) and factors for success have been studied well. low v(t) ventilation in supine patients, without the use of intermittent hyperinflations, may cause small airway closure, progressive atelectasis, and secretion retention. rationale: noninvasive ventilation decreases the need for invasive mechanical ventilation and mortality among patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease but has not been well studied in asthma.objectives: to assess the association between noninvasive ventilation and subsequent need for invasive mechanical ventilation and in-hospital mortality among patients admitted with asthma exacerbation to the icu.methods: we performed a retrospective cohort study using administrative data collected during 2010-2017 from 682 hospitals in the united states. among those receiving noninvasive ventilation, 3,013 patients (22.3%; 95% ci, 21.6-23.0%) required invasive mechanical ventilation after first receiving noninvasive ventilation, 136 of whom died (4.5%; 95% ci, 3.8-5.3%). across all models, the use of noninvasive ventilation was associated with a lower odds of receiving invasive mechanical ventilation (adjusted generalized estimating equation odds ratio, 0.36; 95% ci, 0.32-0.40) and in-hospital mortality (odds ratio, 0.48; 95% ci 0.40-0.58). those who received noninvasive ventilation before invasive mechanical ventilation were more likely to have comorbid pneumonia and severe sepsis.conclusions: noninvasive ventilation use during asthma exacerbation was associated with improved outcomes but should be used cautiously with acute comorbid conditions. 
Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. [SEP] runx gene over-expression inhibits growth of primary cells but transforms cells with tumor suppressor defects, consistent with reported associations with tumor progression. importantly, accumulating data demonstrated that runx3 functions in control of immunity and inflammation, thereby indirectly influencing epithelial tumor development. consistent evidence indicates that runx2 expression is aberrantly reactivated in cancer and supports tumor progression. the mechanisms leading to runx2 expression in cancer has only recently began to emerge. this "prospect" focuses on our current understanding of the tumor suppressive functions of runx3 in the context of gastrointestinal cancer initiation and progression. runt-related transcription factors (runx1, runx2, and runx3) are key lineage-specific regulators of progenitor cell growth and differentiation but also function pathologically as cancer genes that contribute to tumorigenesis. runx2 attenuates growth and stimulates maturation of osteoblasts during bone formation but is also robustly expressed in a subset of osteosarcomas, as well as in metastatic breast and prostate tumors. runx3 (runt-related transcription factor-3) is a known tumor suppressor gene which exhibits potent antitumor activity in several carcinomas. the runx3 expression was significantly correlated with tumor size (p<0.001), depth of invasion (p<0.001), and of tnm stage (p<0.001). runt-related transcription factor 1 (runx1) is a heterodimeric transcription factor that binds to the core element of many enhancers and promoters and can accelerate apoptosis in various tumors. 
Obesity decreases life quality. [SEP] it can be expected that the quality of life in obesity is impaired since obesity is severely stigmatized in affluent societies and also increases the risk of disability, mortality and morbidity. in addition, the fact that obesity in inversely related to socioeconomic status in women and is associated with both downward social mobility and lower levels of socioeconomic attainment may further impair the quality of life in obesity. obesity is a chronic, progressive, relapsing disease that impairs health and quality of life and shortens lifespan. owing to the cardiovascular and metabolic disorders associated with obesity, and the epidemic of obesity facing most countries today, life expectancy in the developed world may start to decrease for the first time in recent history. obese individuals have decreased quality of life and life expectancy. humans are on average getting fatter with age, and obesity and aging interact each other to shorten lifetime and decrease life quality. obesity also causes several aging related-disorders such as cancer, strokes, cardiovascular disease, high blood pressure and type 2 diabetes. obesity and its major comorbidities, including type 2 diabetes mellitus, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (nafld), obesity cardiomyopathy, and certain cancers, have caused life expectancy in the united states to decline in recent years. sustained obesity has profound consequences on one's life, which can span from superficial psychological symptoms to serious co-morbidities that may dramatically diminish both the quality and length of life. obesity is the result of a complex interplay among several factors leading to medical, functional and psychosocial consequences that markedly reduce life expectancy and impair quality of life. 
Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. [SEP] this understanding has led to the view that the obesity epidemic is entirely environmental and that obesity should be treated primarily by behavioural (particularly dietary) therapy. that is, a prominent view is that common human obesity is an environmental disease and is not, like hypertension and hypercholesterolaemia, a complex, multifactorial disease resulting from the interaction of genetic and environmental variance. obesity, a major global public health concern, is no exception. in rare cases of severe obesity with childhood onset, a single gene has a major effect in determining the occurrence of obesity, with the environment having only a permissive role in the severity of the phenotype. entirely in the absence of genetic influences, obesity was significantly associated with systolic and diastolic blood pressures; one-hour, post-load glucose; total, ldl-, and hdl-cholesterol; and triglycerides among these 42-55 year old men. obesity is an environmental issue. the primary environmental determinants of obesity are high calorie intake and low levels of activity. these factors together comprise an obesogenic or 'toxic' environment where the development of obesity is the expected course for humans leading lifestyles incompatible with their evolutionary development. only by addressing and modifying the toxic environment will we be able to stem the obesity epidemic. results are consistent in suggesting that environmental experiences are important for weight and obesity, although they account for much less variation than do the effects of genes. 
Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. [SEP] in the absence of initiation factors and initiator trna, mitochondrial ribosomes do not bind triplet codons (aug and uuu) or homopolymers (oligo(u] shorter than about 10 nucleotides. moreover, u snrna promoters are unable to direct the synthesis of functional polyadenylated mrnas. protein synthesis (translation) stops at stop codons, codons not complemented by trna anticodons. genomes avoid trnas with anticodons whose complement (the anticodon of the 'antisense' trna) matches stops. non-coding ribonucleic acids (rnas) do not contain a peptide-encoding open reading frame and are therefore not translated into proteins. translation of f2am3 rna and ms2 rna in a system containing purified ribosomes and precharged aminoacyl-trna, does not occur in the presence of the "known" initiation (if-1, if-2 and if-3), elongation (ef-tu, ef-ts and ef-g) and termination (rf-1, rf-2) factors. only a small fraction of the mammalian genome codes for messenger rnas destined to be translated into proteins, and it is generally assumed that a large portion of transcribed sequences--including introns and several classes of noncoding rnas (ncrnas)--do not give rise to peptide products. a systematic examination of translation and physiological regulation of ncrnas has not been conducted. this study supports the existence of non-canonical translation products from both intragenic and extragenic genomic regions, including peptides derived from antisense transcripts and introns. ribosome-inactivating proteins, such as the pokeweed antiviral protein (pap), inhibit translation by depurinating the conserved sarcin/ricin loop of the large ribosomal rna. 
Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs [SEP] it is becoming apparent, however, that the mrnas of many genes contain iress (internal ribosome entry segments) within the 5'-utr (5'-untranslated region) that allow ribosomes to initiate translation independently of the 5'-cap. we have identified recently a unique ptb (polypyrimidine tract-binding protein) motif (ccu)n that is present in a large subset of cellular iress, and the results suggest that ptb itself is involved either directly or indirectly in ribosome recruitment. ribosome profiling (rp) studies suggest that translating ribosomes are pervasive within 5' leaders across model systems. the 5' (r and u5) and 3' (dr and u3) domains of the genomic rna together with the nucleic acid binding protein (nbp) would control the balance between the open state of the viral genomic rna, correlated with an efficient rna translation and the closed state, with the circular viral rna efficiently packaged into virions. u3 and u8 small nucleolar rnas (snrnas) participate in pre-rrna processing. when u3 and u8 rnas containing a m7g cap were microinjected they became extensively localized in nucleoli. the nucleolar localization of m7g-capped u3 rna was competed by co-microinjection into the nucleus of a 100-fold molar excess of dinucleotide m7gpppg but not by a 100-fold excess of apppg dinucleotide. although it was obviously not possible to assess formation of di- and trimethylguanosine caps on the microinjected u3 and u8 rnas in these single cell experiments, these results indicate that the initial presence of a m7g cap on u3 and u8 rnas, most likely together with internal sequence elements, commits these transcripts to the nucleolar localization pathway and point to diverse roles of the m7g cap in the intracellular traffic of various rnas transcribed by rna polymerase ii. ribosomal rna genes in the nuclear genomes of eukaryotes are generally found in tandemly repeated units encoding 18 s, 5.8 s and 28 s rrna (in that order). the 18s, 5.8s and 25s rrnas, which result from the 45s precursor, together with 5s rrnas, are central components of the ribosome. 
Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. [SEP] vegetarians ingest less carnitine and carnitine precursors and have lower plasma carnitine concentrations than omnivores. principle aims of the current study were to assess the plasma and skeletal muscle carnitine content and physical performance of male vegetarians and matched omnivores under basal conditions and after l-carnitine supplementation. sixteen vegetarians and eight omnivores participated in this interventional study with oral supplementation of 2 g l-carnitine for 12 weeks. before carnitine supplementation, vegetarians had a 10% lower plasma carnitine concentration, but maintained skeletal muscle carnitine stores compared to omnivores. maximal oxygen uptake (vo2max) and workload (p max) per bodyweight (bicycle spiroergometry) were not significantly different between vegetarians and omnivores. supplementation with l-carnitine significantly increased the total plasma carnitine concentration (24% in omnivores, 31% in vegetarians) and the muscle carnitine content in vegetarians (13%). vegetarians have lower plasma carnitine concentrations, but maintained muscle carnitine stores compared to omnivores. plasma concentrations of long-chain n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids are lower in vegetarians and in vegans than in omnivores. vegetarians have a lower intake of vitamin b12 than omnivores do. accordingly, carnivores, who encounter these toxic substances less often, should have fewer genes associated with bitter taste reception compared with herbivores and omnivores. 
Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. [SEP] because germinating spores become more susceptible to killing by stressors, induction of germination has been proposed as a spore control strategy. however, this strategy is limited by superdormant spores that remain unaffected by germinants. as spores matured, resistance to both stresses increased. to survive adverse conditions, some bacterial species are capable of developing into a cell type, the "spore," which exhibits minimal metabolic activity and remains viable in the presence of multiple environmental challenges. this developmental process is bistable, and only a subpopulation of cells actually differentiates into endospores. little is known about the mechanisms involved in differentiation in part because sporulation is normally initiated at the culmination of a complex starvation-induced developmental program and only inside multicellular fruiting bodies. in contrast, most genes that are required to build starvation-induced multicellular fruiting bodies, but which are not required for sporulation per se, were not significantly regulated in our analysis. we used the microarray data to identify a novel operon of eight genes that, when mutated, rendered cells unable to produce viable chemical- or starvation-induced spores. despite being relatively insensitive to environmental insult, the spore is responsive to low concentrations of chemical germinants, which induce germination. spores are also more resistant than vegetative cells to treatments such as ether vapor, glucanases, heat shock, high salt concentrations, and exposure to high or low ph, but the relevance of these treatments to natural environmental stresses remains unclear. 
PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. [SEP] programmed cell death-1 (pd-1) is a cell surface receptor that dampens adaptive immune responses. finally, we explore how pd-1 based immunotherapies may be beneficial in boosting ilc responses in cancer, infections, and other immune-related disorders. programmed cell death-1 (pd-1) is a newly characterized negative regulator of immune responses. increased pd-1 expression has been described during chronic infections, inducing chronic activation of the immune system to control it. as aging is associated with chronic immune activation, pd-1 may contribute to age-associated t-cell dysfunction. as new members of the cd28/b7 costimulatory superfamily, pd-1 (programmed cell death 1) and its ligand pd-l1 (programmed cell death ligand 1) mediate a negative costimulatory signal, which inhibits functioning and proliferation of t and b cells, and reduce interleukin-2, interleukin-10, and interferon-γ secretion. pd-1 renders potent inhibitory effects on t and b lymphocytes as well as monocyte responses. in this study, we found that immature monocyte-derived dcs released low but sizeable amounts of il-10. in some conditions, pd-1/pd-l1 inhibits t and b cell activation, induces anergy, and reduces cytotoxicity in cd8(+) t cells. we find that pd-l1 is highly expressed on inflammatory macrophages as compared with resident peritoneal macrophages but can be induced on resident macrophages by classical activation stimuli such as lipopolysaccharide, ifn-gamma, and polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid. 
PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. [SEP] here, we describe a new signaling cascade linking pdgf receptor stimulation to actin rearrangements and cell migration. phagocytosis, macropinocytosis and antigen presentation by dendritic cells (dc) requires reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton. taken together, these findings now reveal that dbn1 plays a major role in coordinating the actin cytoskeletal activities responsible for antigen presentation in dc. dendritic cells (dcs) flexibly adapt to different microenvironments by using diverse migration strategies that are ultimately dependent on the dynamics and structural organization of the actin cytoskeleton. to initiate adaptive immunity, dendritic cells (dcs) move from parenchymal tissues to lymphoid organs by migrating along stromal scaffolds that display the glycoprotein podoplanin (pdpn). pdpn is expressed by lymphatic endothelial and fibroblastic reticular cells and promotes blood-lymph separation during development by activating the c-type lectin receptor, clec-2, on platelets. clec-2 engagement of pdpn was necessary for dcs to spread and migrate along stromal surfaces and sufficient to induce membrane protrusions. thus, activation of clec-2 by pdpn rearranges the actin cytoskeleton in dcs to promote efficient motility along stromal surfaces. proteins involved in cytoskeletal rearrangement play an important role in regulating the adherence and motility of dcs. dendritic cell (dc) migration to lymph nodes is dependent on the interaction of c-type lectin-like receptor 2 (clec-2; encoded by the gene clec1b), expressed by dcs, with podoplanin, expressed by lymph node stromal cells, although the underlying molecular mechanisms remain elusive. 
PGE 2 promotes intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. [SEP] we tested the hypothesis that abnormal expression of prostaglandin h synthase 2 (phs-2), which can be induced by oncogenes and tumor promoters, occurs during colon carcinogenesis by examining its level in colon tumors. human colon cancers were found to have an increased expression of phs-2 mrna compared with normal colon specimens from the same patient (n = 5). to study the basis for this increased gene expression, we transfected a colon cancer cell line, hct-116, with a reporter gene containing 2.0 kb of the 5' regulatory sequence of the phs-2 gene. we conclude that phs-2 is transcribed abnormally in human colon cancers and that this may be one mechanism by which prostaglandins or related compounds that support carcinogenesis are generated. aberrant promoter methylation and subsequent silencing of cancer-related genes has been recognized as an important pathway involved in gastric carcinogenesis. we provide evidence that during intestinal tumorigenesis, myeloid cell-derived h2o2 triggers genome-wide dna mutations in intestinal epithelial cells to stimulate invasive growth. esophageal cancer-related gene 2 (ecrg2) is a newer tumor suppressor whose function in the regulation of cell growth and apoptosis remains to be elucidated. here we show that ecrg2 expression was upregulated in response to dna damage, and increased ecrg2 expression induced growth suppression in cancer cells but not in non-cancerous epithelial cells. e2f plays crucial roles not only in cell proliferation by activating growth-related genes but also in tumor suppression by activating pro-apoptotic and growth-suppressive genes. the development and progression of gastric cancer involves a number of genetic and epigenetic alterations of tumor suppressor and tumor-related genes. 
PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. [SEP] the tyrosine kinase receptor c-kit is critically involved in the modulation of nociceptive sensitivity in mice. in this study, we investigated the role of c-kit signaling in human pain perception. in addition, mice lacking the lpa1 receptor gene (lpa1-/- mice) lost these nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain behaviors and phenomena. protein kinase c (pkc) is thought to have a role in sensitization of dorsal horn neurons in certain pain states, and a recent study has reported that mice which lack the gamma isoform (pkcgamma) show reduced neuropathic pain after peripheral nerve injury. mice lacking the preproenkephalin (ppenk) gene are hyperalgesic and show more anxiety and aggression than wild-type (wt) mice. the marked behavioral changes in ppenk knock-out (ko) mice appeared to occur in supraspinal response to painful stimuli. to address the neurochemistry of the mechanisms that underlie the development of acute and persistent pain, our laboratory has been studying mice with deletions of gene products that have been implicated in nociceptive processing. we have recently implicated the gamma isoform of protein kinase c (pkcgamma) in the development of nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain. mice with sciatic nerve ligation exhibited a spinal protein kinase c (pkc)-dependent neuropathic pain-like state. these findings suggest that the substantial activation of spinal pkc and pka may differentially contribute to the development of respective chronic pain-like state in mice. 
PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. [SEP] there is evidence that activation of ppars by specific ligands is able to suppress the growth of different types of human cancer by mechanisms including the growth arrest, apoptosis and induction of differentiation, although the detailed signalling pathways have not been completely elucidated to date. ligands for pparγ and its heterodimeric partner, retinoid-x receptor (rxr), have exhibited anticancer effects both in vitro and in vivo. these findings elucidate a novel mechanism of the signaling by natural ligands of ppars, which involves modulating the interaction between ppar-b/d and ppar-g. peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (pparγ) forms a heterodimeric dna-binding complex with retinoid x receptors (rxrs). it has been reported that the effect of the ppar agonist is reduced in hepatocyte rxr-deficient mice. therefore, it is suggested that the endogenous rxr ligand is involved in the pparγ agonist-induced anti-inflammatory effect. the rxr antagonist suppressed the antiedema effect of pparγ agonist. in addition, the anti-inflammatory effect of rxr agonist was suppressed by pparγ antagonist. pparγ agonist-induced anti-inflammatory effects were reversed by the rxr antagonist. thus, we showed that the endogenous rxr ligand might contribute to the pparγ agonist-induced anti-inflammatory effect. 
PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. [SEP] these receptors after heterodimerization with retinoid x receptor (rxr) bind in promotor of target genes to ppar response elements (ppres) and act as a potent transcription factors. peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (ppars) and retinoid x receptors (rxrs) are members of the intracellular receptor superfamily. ppars bind to peroxisome proliferator-response elements (ppres) as heterodimers with rxr and as such activate gene transcription in response to activators. ppars heterodimerize with the retinoid x receptor (rxr) and then act as transcription factors to modulate the function of many target genes. they form heterodimers with retinoid x receptor (rxr) and bind to specific ppar-response elements. ppars bind to cognate response elements through heterodimerization with retinoid x receptors (rxrs). in an effort to elucidate the requirements for ppar function and the pathways of its activation, we expressed mouse ppar alpha and human rxr alpha in the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae. peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (ppar) are nuclear receptors acting as transcription factors on numerous target genes after heterodimerization with the retinoid x receptor. for transcriptional activation of their target genes, ppars heterodimerize with the retinoid-x receptor (rxr). ppar and rxr ligands have been used in experimental breast cancer therapy. 
Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. [SEP] this study examined the combined effect of physical exercise and cognitive training on memory and neurotrophic factors in healthy, young adults. ninety-five participants completed 6 weeks of exercise training, combined exercise and cognitive training, or no training (control). a few months of physical exercise have been shown to increase cognition and to modulate brain functions in previously sedentary, mainly older adults. the aim of the present study was to test whether cardiovascular fitness one year after an exercise intervention was linked to cognitive variables. recent developments suggest that a multi-modal exercise intervention that includes motor as well as physical training and requires sustained attention and concentration, may better elicit the actual potency of exercise to enhance cognitive performance. if this randomised controlled trial demonstrates that multimodal exercise (that includes motor fitness training) can improve cognitive performance in later life, the benefits will be two-fold. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of twelve weeks of designed physical-cognitive training on executive cognitive function and gait performance in older adults. to test the hypothesis that aerobic exercise is associated with improvements in cognition and cerebrovascular regulation, we enrolled 206 healthy low-active middle-aged and older adults (mean ± sd age 65.9 ± 6.4 years) in a supervised 6-month aerobic exercise intervention and assessed them before and after the intervention. the 6-month aerobic exercise intervention was associated with improvements in some cognitive domains and cerebrovascular regulation. the purpose of this study was to investigate whether six-month exercise training for older adults can increase and maintain their physical activity in daily life. 
Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. [SEP] studies have shown that couple hiv counseling and testing (chct) increased rates of sero-status disclosure and adoption of safer sexual behaviors with better linkage to treatment and care. an estimated one- to two-thirds of new human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infections among us men who have sex with men (msm) occur within the context of primary partnerships. thus, hiv interventions that recognize and harness the power of relationships are needed. studies of hiv-serodiscordant couples in stable sexual relationships have provided convincing evidence that antiretroviral therapy can prevent the transmission of hiv. patients infected with hiv are best categorized along a continuum from rapid progressors to hiv long-term nonprogressors. to explore the comparative importance of hiv infections among key populations and their intimate partners as hiv epidemics evolve, and to review implications for guiding responses. despite the varying disease progression rates, the majority of hiv-infected individuals eventually progress to aids. the role of concurrent sexual partnerships is increasingly recognized as important for the transmission of sexually transmitted infections, particularly of heterosexual hiv transmission in africa. modeling and empirical evidence suggest that concurrent partnerships-compared to serial partnerships-can increase the size of an hiv epidemic, the speed at which it infects a population, and its persistence within a population. we investigated the impact of hiv serostatus on clinical and biological factors influencing hiv disease progression in 337 hiv-infected heterosexual individuals in stable long-term hiv-seroconcordant or hiv-serodiscordant relationships. 
Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. [SEP] peroxynitrite readily nitrates tyrosine residues in proteins, producing a permanent modification that can be immunologically detected. peroxynitrite (onoo(-)), the product of nitric oxide (no(radical)) and superoxide (o(2)(-radical)), is believed to be a major contributor to immunotoxicity when produced by activated cells expressing inducible nitric oxide synthase (inos). peroxynitrite is a potent oxidizing and nitrating species formed in a diffusion-limited reaction between nitrogen monoxide and superoxide. in the literature, biological tyrosine nitrations have been reported to depend not only on peroxynitrite but also on nitrite/hydrogen peroxide linked to catalysis by myeloperoxidase. peroxynitrite is a strong oxidant formed by reaction of nitric oxide with superoxide in inflamed tissues. we have demonstrated that 8-nitroguanine is formed dose-dependently in calf thymus dna incubated with low concentrations of peroxynitrite in vitro. only peroxynitrite, but not nitrite, tetranitromethane nor no-releasing compounds, formed 8-nitroguanine. peroxynitrite did not increase 8-oxoguanine levels in dna. peroxynitrite is a reactive oxidant produced from nitric oxide (no) and superoxide. on the other hand, pretreatment of t. cruzi with diamide, which leads to a significant depletion (>70%) of dihydrotrypanothione, largely increases the extent of cellular nitration and inhibition of cell growth caused by peroxynitrite. 
Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. [SEP] ligand-specific differences in membrane trafficking of the glp-1r influence its signalling properties and therapeutic potential in type 2 diabetes. these observations provide insights into how ligand- and genotype-specific factors can influence glp-1r trafficking. the glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (glp-1r) is a class b gpcr and a key drug target for managing metabolic disorders; however, its peptide agonists display biased signaling that affects their relative efficacies. activation and transduction of glp-1r require complex interactions of largely unknown accessory proteins, and these processes are crucial to the response to endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress. glp-1r and serp1 were co-expressed in hek-293 cells, and their interaction was confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation. the glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (glp-1r) is a therapeutically important family b g protein-coupled receptor (gpcr) that is pleiotropically coupled to multiple signaling effectors and, with actions including regulation of insulin biosynthesis and secretion, is one of the key targets in the management of type ii diabetes mellitus. these data suggest a critical role of ecl2 of the glp-1r in the activation transition(s) of the receptor and the importance of this region in the determination of both glp-1 peptide- and pathway-specific effects. in conclusion, we have generated a novel glp-1r-protein interactome, identifying several interactors that suppress glp-1r signaling. we suggest that the inhibition of these interactors may serve as a novel strategy to enhance glp-1r activity. biased glp-1r agonists and small molecule allosteric modulation both influence glp-1r palmitoylation, clustering, nanodomain signaling, and internalization. 
Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. [SEP] podocytes (highly specialized and terminally differentiated epithelial cells) are integral components of the glomerular filtration barrier that are vulnerable to a variety of injuries and, as a result, they undergo a series of changes ranging from hypertrophy to detachment and apoptosis. podocytes are vulnerable to a variety of injuries and in response they undergo a series of changes ranging from hypertrophy, autophagy, dedifferentiation, mesenchymal transition and detachment to apoptosis, depending on the nature and extent of the insult. podocytes are considered terminally differentiated cells in the mature kidney under normal conditions. in the face of injury, podocytes may proceed along several possible pathways, including dedifferentiation and proliferation, persistent cell cycle arrest, hypertrophy, apoptosis, or necrosis. podosomes are ventral adhesion structures prominent in cells of the myeloid lineage. recently podosomes have gathered attention from researchers as important cellular structures that can influence cell adhesion, motility and matrix remodeling. podosomes degrade extracellular matrix and are proposed to be involved in cell migration. podocytes are well-differentiated postmitotic cells whose function is largely based on their complex cytoskeletal architecture. podocytes react to an injurious stimulus by a reorganization of their foot process architecture that is independent of the primary injury and the cause of the proteinuria. 2) what is the pathomechanism underlying podocyte dysregulation? 
Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. [SEP] the regulation of blood pressure by dietary means represents an important approach toward the reduction of morbidity and mortality of heart disease. the results of our dietary intervention studies demonstrated that a lowered saturated fat, higher polyunsaturated fat diet had a lowering effect on both systolic and diastolic blood pressure, and a lowering effect on blood lipids. a successful dietary strategy should reduce coronary heart disease (chd) endpoints, improve correctable risk factors for chd, and provide for an overall healthful lifestyle. there is growing evidence that consumption of a vegetarian diet as well as specific components of a vegetarian diet lower the incidence of cardiovascular disease (cvd) and death. vegetarian diets lower the probability of developing cvd, are effective in altering serum lipids, are beneficial in reducing blood pressure, improve glycemic control and insulin sensitivity, reduce weight, and lower mortality. heart disease is the leading cause of death in the u.s. one way to reduce the risk of developing the disease is to lower serum cholesterol levels by making dietary changes. usually, several servings of these products are required to meet the food and drug administration's claim of reducing the risk of heart disease. a diet that includes 5 to 10 g/d of viscous soluble fiber reduces cardiovascular disease (cvd) events and death independent of baseline risk. routinely counsel adults at risk of cvd to promote a healthy diet: assess dietary fiber consumption; recommend specific foods rich in viscous soluble fiber; monitor ldl-c levels and encourage increased dietary fiber intake at follow-up visits; motivate patients to comply with recommendations. the mediterranean diet, which is characterized by food containing phenols, was correlated with a reduced incidence of cardiovascular diseases and delayed progression toward end stage chronic renal failure. 
Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. [SEP] here we extend these studies via pharmacological inhibition of the arp2/3 complex in sea urchin coelomocytes, cells that possess an unusually broad lp region and display correspondingly exaggerated centripetal flow. using light and electron microscopy, we demonstrate that arp2/3 complex inhibition via the drug ck666 dramatically altered lp actin architecture, slowed centripetal flow, drove a lamellipodial-to-filopodial shape change in suspended cells, and induced a novel actin structural organization during cell spreading. two types of arp2/3 complex inhibitors, ck-666/636 and ck-548/869, are commonly used to study arp2/3 complex-dependent actin assembly both in vitro and in vivo. small molecule inhibitors ck-666 and ck-869 bind to arp2/3 complex and inhibit nucleation, but their modes of action are unknown. our data indicate that ck-666 stabilizes the inactive state of the complex, blocking movement of the arp2 and arp3 subunits into the activated filament-like (short pitch) conformation, while ck-869 binds to a serendipitous pocket on arp3 and allosterically destabilizes the short pitch arp3-arp2 interface. these results provide key insights into the relationship between conformation and activity in arp2/3 complex and will be critical for interpreting the influence of the inhibitors on actin filament networks in vivo. cdc42 induces lamellipodia in a rac-dependent manner in n1e-115 neuroblastoma cells. disruption of cdc42-par-6 or par-3-stef binding inhibited cdc42-induced lamellipodia but not filopodia. the isolated stef-binding par-3 fragment was sufficient to induce lamellipodia independently of cdc42 and par-6. par-3 is required for cdc42-induced rac activation, but is not essential for lamellipodia formation itself. 
Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. [SEP] testing for high-risk human papillomavirus (hpv) in primary screening for cervical cancer is considered more sensitive, but less specific, in comparison with pap-smear cytology. screening for cervical cancer based on testing for human papillomavirus (hpv) increases the sensitivity of detection of high-grade (grade 2 or 3) cervical intraepithelial neoplasia, but whether this gain represents overdiagnosis or protection against future high-grade cervical epithelial neoplasia or cervical cancer is unknown. background: high-risk human papillomavirus (hr-hpv) testing has become a preferred cervical cancer screening strategy in some countries due to its superior sensitivity over cytology-based methods for identifying cervical intraepithelial neoplasia of grade 2 or worse (cin2+). to describe the methods of a study aimed at evaluating high risk-hpv (hrhpv)-based screening and cervical cytology as triage compared to conventional cervical cytology as primary screening in the detection of grade 2+ cervical intraepithelial neoplasia in the national cancer screening program (ncsp) of mexico. to evaluate the sensitivity and efficiency of hpv dna testing in comparison with conventional cytology for detection of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) and cancer. depending on the patient's age and the grade of the cervical lesion, hpv dna testing proved to be significantly more sensitive than cytology for the primary detection of cervical abnormalities (p <.001). to assess whether the increased sensitivity of screening for human papillomavirus (hpv) may represent overdiagnosis and to compare the long term duration of protective effect against cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2 or worse (cin2+) in hpv based and cytology based screening. in clinic-based settings, vaginal hpv testing is at least as sensitive as cytology for detecting cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) grade 2 or worse; however, effectiveness in home settings is unknown. cervicography and oncogenic human papillomavirus (hpv) testing have been proposed for improving the accuracy of cervical cancer screening. to examine whether cervicography and hpv testing can improve beyond chance the detection of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) 2 or 3 in women with atypical cells of undetermined significance or low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions on cytology. 
Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. [SEP] the development and resolution of an inflammatory process are regulated by a complex interplay among cytokines that have pro- and anti-inflammatory effects. the pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines create a network of interactions between cells that lead to both stimulatory and inhibitory responses that maintain an effective homeostatic regulation. the initiation and promulgation of chronic inflammation are controlled in part by the various pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines present at the site of injury. the pro-inflammatory signalling pathways and cellular mechanisms that initiate the inflammatory response have become increasingly well characterized. recent data indicate that the resolution of inflammation is an active process controlled by endogenous mediators that suppress pro-inflammatory gene expression and cell trafficking, as well as induce inflammatory-cell apoptosis and phagocytosis, which are crucial determinants of successful resolution. this review focuses on this emerging area of inflammation research and describes the mediators and mechanisms that are currently stealing the headlines. there is an emerging concept that the net biological response of pro and anti-inflammatory cytokines affects the outcome of certain diseases. in inflammatory diseases, interleukin-1 (il-1) and tumor necrosis factor (tnf) are produced and function primarily as pro-inflammatory cytokines. these latter data therefore implicate il-1 and tnf as primary cytokines involved with inflammation. cytokines serve as key mediators of inflammation and tissue damage in a variety of immune-mediated disorders. 
Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. [SEP] ubiquitinated-protein aggregates form when an increase in protein misfolding exceeds the degradation capacity of the cell. many cellular stresses can cause an increase in the amount of ubiquitinated misfolded protein and failure to eliminate these proteins can disrupt cellular homeostasis and cause cellular toxicity. using a diabetic rat model, we have shown that ubiquitinated-protein aggregates form in pancreatic beta cells during diabetes-induced oxidative stress. the ability to visualize ubiquitinated-protein aggregates in tissue sections can provide further understanding of the pathobiology of diseases associated with misfolded protein. neurite outgrowth is accompanied by increased levels of high molecular weight ubiquitin conjugates and decreased levels of free ubiquitin. protein ubiquitination, a major post-translational modification in eukaryotes, requires an adequate pool of free ubiquitin. here we provide data suggesting that two of the four mammalian ubiquitin precursors, uba52 and uba80, are processed mostly post-translationally whereas the other two, ubb and ubc, probably undergo a combination of co- and post-translational processing. the ubiquitin pathway functions in the process of protein turnover in eukaryotic cells. covalent modification of proteins with ubiquitin is a common regulatory mechanism in eukaryotic cells. frequently ubiquitinated proteins are targeted to the proteasome for degradation in the cytosol. 
Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. [SEP] transcripts derived from the pten pseudogene (ptenp1) function as decoys to adsorb mirnas targeting the pten tumor suppressor for degradation, and ptenp1 upregulation is known to inhibit growth in preclinical cancer models. pten is a tumor-suppressor gene that has been shown to be under the regulatory control of a pten pseudogene expressed noncoding rna, ptenpg1. pten pseudogene (ptenp) acts as an endogenous rna, which regulates its parental gene by competitively binding to the 3' utr of pten gene in the human. up-regulation of ptenp1 and down-regulation of mir-106b contributed to increased expressions of pten and e-cadherin. mir-106b inhibited the expression of pten. ptenp1 is the pseudogene of pten. mechanistically, rna pull-down assay and a series of luciferase reporter assays using mir-21 mimics or inhibitors identified ptenp1 as a molecular sponge for mir-21 to endogenously compete for the binding between mir-21 and the pten transcript, releasing pten expression. pten expression was inversely correlated with mir-21 expression (p<.001). long non-coding rna ptenp1, the pseudogene of pten tumor suppressor, has been reported to exert its tumor suppressive function via modulation of pten expression in many malignancies, including breast cancer (bc). our data indicate that mir-205 down-regulates the expression of pten through direct interaction with the putative binding site in the 3'-untranslated region (3'-utr) of pten. 
Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. [SEP] agents stabilizing g-quadruplexes have the potential to destroy the functional structure of telomere and could therefore act as antitumor agents. the formation and stabilization of telomeric quadruplexes has been shown to inhibit the activity of telomerase, thus establishing telomeric dna quadruplex as an attractive target for cancer therapeutic intervention. in this context, telomestatin, a g-quadruplex-specific ligand known to bind and stabilize g-quadruplex, is of great interest. in vitro, g-quadruplex formation inhibits telomere extension, and pot1 binding to the single-stranded telomeric dna enhances telomerase activity by disrupting the g-quadruplex structure, highlighting the potential importance of the g-quadruplex structure in regulating telomere length in vivo. formation of the g-quadruplex in the human telomeric sequence can inhibit the activity of telomerase, thus the intramolecular telomeric g-quadruplexes have been considered as an attractive anticancer target. here, we report the first structure of the major intramolecular g-quadruplex formed in a native, non-modified human telomeric sequence in k(+) solution. compounds that can stabilize the intramolecular dna g-quadruplexes formed in the human telomeric sequence have been shown to inhibit the activity of telomerase and telomere maintenance, thus the telomeric dna g-quadruplex has been considered as an attractive target for cancer therapeutic intervention. knowledge of intramolecular human telomeric g-quadruplex structure(s) formed under physiological conditions is important for structure-based rational drug design and thus has been the subject of intense investigation. the formation and stabilization of dna g-quadruplexes in the human telomeric sequence have been shown to inhibit the activity of telomerase, thus the telomeric dna g-quadruplex has been considered as an attractive target for cancer therapeutic intervention. our results explain all the reported experimental data on the human telomeric g-quadruplexes formed in the presence of k+, and provide important insights for understanding the polymorphism and interconversion of various g-quadruplex structures formed within the human telomeric sequence, as well as the effects of sequence and cations. 
Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. [SEP] when treating nodular non-toxic goitre with 131i treatment a reduction in thyroid volume to about 50% has been observed. retrospective study of patients treated for a diffuse non-toxic goitre and followed by evaluation of thyroid volume measured by ultrasound. 131i treatment of diffuse non-toxic goitre reduces thyroid volume by approximately 50% within 12-18 months. radioiodine treatment is effective in reducing the size of sporadic nontoxic goitre, albeit at the expense of a high incidence of postradiation hypothyroidism. radioiodine (131i) is increasingly used as treatment for volume reduction of nontoxic, nodular goiter. in multinodular goitre (mng), low radioiodine (rai) activity after recombinant human (rh) tsh is able to reduce thyroid volume (tv) and improve symptoms. radioactive iodine therapy is often successful in the treatment of toxic or non-toxic multinodular goiter. radioiodine (131i) therapy is widely used for treatment of non-toxic goiters. we evaluated fixed-dose radioiodine therapy outcomes in patients with nontoxic multinodular goiter who did not accept thyroidectomy as a therapeutic option. radioiodine ((131)i) is an alternative to surgery for the treatment of multinodular goiter (mng). 
Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. [SEP] here, we demonstrated that inhibition of mtor with rapamycin has negative effects on adipocyte differentiation and insulin signaling. rapamycin significantly reduced expression of most adipocyte marker genes including ppargamma, adipsin, ap2, add1/srebp1c, and fas, and decreased intracellular lipid accumulation in 3t3-l1 and 3t3-f442a cells, suggesting that rapamycin would affect both lipogenesis and adipogenesis. in differentiated 3t3-l1 adipocytes, chronic treatment of rapamycin blunted the phosphorylation of akt and gsk, which is stimulated by insulin, and reduced insulin-dependent glucose uptake activity. taken together, these results suggest that rapamycin not only prevents adipocyte differentiation by decrease of adipogenesis and lipogenesis but also downregulates insulin action in adipocytes, implying that mtor would play important roles in adipogenesis and insulin action. everolimus inhibits mammalian target of rapamycin (mtor) and leads to decreased protein synthesis and decreased cancer cell proliferation in many experimental systems. rapamycin (sirolimus) is a fungal fermentation product that inhibits the proper functioning of a serine/threonine protein kinase in mammalian cells eponymously named mammalian target of rapamycin, or mtor. rapamycin is a novel class of anticancer and immunosuppressant drugs targeting the proteins at molecular level. in recent years, rapamycin was found to be efficacious in managing the symptom complex of tuberous sclerosis, i.e. recently, it was shown that rapamycin decreases hepatic ldl receptor (ldl-r) expression, which likely contributes to hypercholesterolemia. however, rapamycin reduced hdl-induced activation of enos and stimulation of endothelial cell migration. 
Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems [SEP] we consider here a kinase-phosphatase-substrate system with two sites, under mass-action kinetics, with no restrictions on the order of phosphorylation or dephosphorylation. we show that the concentrations of the four phosphoforms at steady state satisfy an algebraic formula-an invariant-that is independent of the other chemical species, such as free enzymes or enzyme-substrate complexes, and holds irrespective of the starting conditions and the total amounts of enzymes and substrate. we conclude that the pentacoordinated phosphorus formed in this enzyme is not a stable species but a ts, which gives an activation energy for phosphorylation in agreement with kinetic results. tyrosine site-specific recombinases, which promote one class of biologically important phosphoryl transfer reactions in dna, exemplify active site mechanisms for stabilizing the phosphate transition state. coupled interrelations occurring between a phosphatase/kinase reaction sequence acting in unstirred layers and on both sides of a charged biomembrane pore structure are presented as a plausible kinetic model for the primary active transport of phosphorylated molecules. two-component regulatory systems that utilize a multistep phosphorelay mechanism often involve a histidine-containing phosphotransfer (hpt) domain. however, we demonstrate herein that relatively modest changes in the substitution patterns on the phosphorylated aromatic nucleus generates dramatic, and differential, swings in substrate selectivity for vhr and ptp1. dynamic protein phosphorylation, a major cellular regulatory system, is tightly controlled by coordinating the reversible action of protein kinases and phosphatases. two types of reactivities of thiophosphates have been demonstrated: one being nucleophilic displacement by the p-s moiety of nucleoside phosphorothioates and the other, phosphorylation via p-s cleavage as the driving force. this is possibly due to hydrogen bonding between the 2'-oh and the neighboring p-o.--koh hydrolysis of the cyclic phosphorothioate yielded 2'(3') phosphorothioates in a 1:1 ratio. 
Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. [SEP] west nile virus (wnv) is a neurotropic flavivirus that has emerged globally as a significant cause of viral encephalitis in humans, especially in immunocompromised individuals. induced expression of neuroprotective genes is essential for maintaining neuronal integrity after stressful insults to the brain. west nile virus is an emerging virus whose virulence is dependent upon viral evasion of ifn and innate immune defenses. the actions of ifn-stimulated genes (isgs) impart control of virus infection, but the specific isgs and regulatory pathways that restrict west nile virus (wnv) are not defined. our results define an ifn-induced ikkε signaling pathway of specific stat1 phosphorylation and ifit2 expression that imparts innate antiviral immunity to restrict wnv infection and control viral pathogenesis. production of alpha/beta interferons (ifn-alpha/beta) in response to viral infection is one of the main defense mechanisms of the innate immune system. rapid upregulation of interferon beta (ifn-β) expression following virus infection is essential to set up an efficient innate antiviral response. enhancement of the constitutive level of ifn-β per se was able to confer an efficient antiviral state to naive cells and acted in synergy with virus infection to stimulate virus-induced ifn-β expression. interferons (ifns) contribute to cell-intrinsic antiviral immunity by inducing hundreds of interferon-stimulated genes (isgs). expression of the antiviral cytokines ifn-alpha/beta is among the most potent innate defenses of higher vertebrates to virus infections, which is controlled by the inducible transcription factor ifn regulatory factor (irf)3. 
Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. [SEP] west nile virus (wnv), a human pathogen that can cause symptomatic infections associated with meningitis and encephalitis, inhibits the interferon (ifn) signal transduction pathway by preventing phosphorylation of janus kinases and stat transcription factors. west nile virus is an emerging virus whose virulence is dependent upon viral evasion of ifn and innate immune defenses. the actions of ifn-stimulated genes (isgs) impart control of virus infection, but the specific isgs and regulatory pathways that restrict west nile virus (wnv) are not defined. inflammatory immune responses triggered initially to clear west nile virus (wnv) infection later become detrimental and contribute to the pathological processes such as blood-brain barrier (bbb) disruption and neuronal death, thus complicating wnv-associated encephalitis (wnve). west nile virus (wnv) infection causes severe meningitis and encephalitis in a subset of patients. west nile virus (wnv) is an emerging flavivirus capable of infecting the central nervous system (cns) and mediating neuronal cell death and tissue destruction. furthermore, we found that il-1β signaling synergizes with type i ifn to suppress wnv replication in neurons, thus implicating antiviral activity of il-1β within neurons and control of virus replication within the cns. west nile virus (wnv) infection can cause severe meningitis and encephalitis in humans. west nile virus (wnv) infection is usually asymptomatic but can cause severe neurological disease and death, particularly in older patients, and how individual variations in immunity contribute to disease severity is not yet defined. west nile virus (wnv) can cause severe human neurological diseases including encephalitis and meningitis. 
Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. [SEP] we identified a mutational hotspot, p.t204fs, in the insulator-binding protein (ctcf) in msi-positive endometrial cancers. reanalysis of tcga data using pindel revealed frequent t204fs mutations, confirming ctcf is an msi target gene and revealed the same frameshifts in tumors with intact mismatch repair. the spectrum and pattern of mutations observed is consistent with ctcf acting as a haploinsufficient tumor suppressor. this approach enabled the identification of numerous recurrently mutated regions that were frequently positioned in the proximity of genes involved in immune and oncogenic pathways. sequencing of whole cancer genomes has revealed an abundance of recurrent mutations in gene-regulatory promoter regions, in particular in melanoma where strong mutation hotspots are observed adjacent to ets-family transcription factor (tf) binding sites. ctcf binding sites are frequently mutated in cancer, but how these mutations accumulate and whether they broadly perturb ctcf binding are not well understood. here, we report that skin cancers exhibit a highly specific asymmetric mutation pattern within ctcf motifs attributable to ultraviolet irradiation and differential nucleotide excision repair (ner). ctcf binding site mutations form independently of replication timing and are enriched at sites of ctcf/cohesin complex binding, suggesting a role for cohesin in stabilizing ctcf-dna binding and impairing ner. performing ctcf chip-seq in a melanoma cell line, we show ctcf binding site mutations to be functional by demonstrating allele-specific reduction of ctcf binding to mutant alleles. while topologically associating domains with mutated ctcf anchors in melanoma contain differentially expressed cancer-associated genes, ctcf motif mutations appear generally under neutral selection. 
Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. [SEP] t-regulatory cells (tregs) are essential for immune tolerance, and animal studies implicate their dysfunction in type 1 diabetes (t1d) pathogenesis. reduced expression of il-2 is linked to t-cell-mediated autoimmune diseases such as type 1 diabetes (t1d), in which an imbalance between foxp3(+) tregs and pathogenic t effectors exists. defective immune homeostasis in the balance between foxp3+ regulatory t cells (tregs) and effector t cells is a likely contributing factor in the loss of self-tolerance observed in type 1 diabetes (t1d). here, we have examined il-2 sensitivity in cd4+ t-cell subsets in 70 individuals with long-standing t1d, allowing us to investigate the effect of low il-2 sensitivity on treg frequency and function. the association between type 2 diabetes (t2d) pathogenesis and immune-mediated tissue damage and insulin resistance suggests that t2d patients might benefit from the suppression of pathogenic inflammation. dysregulation of regulatory t cell (treg)-mediated suppression and, in particular, resistance of cd4+ effector t cells (teffs) to suppression have been implicated in the pathogenesis of human type 1 diabetes (t1d). the role of regulatory t cells (tregs) in maintaining self tolerance has been intensively researched and there is a growing consensus that a decline in treg function is an important step towards the development of autoimmune diseases, including diabetes. cd4 t regulatory cells (tregs) are crucial for the maintenance of self-tolerance and are deficient in many common autoimmune diseases such as type 1 diabetes (t1d). an improper balance of regulatory/effector t (treg/teff) cells is central to the development of autoimmune diseases, including type 1 diabetes. we aimed to establish which low doses of il2 would be safe and induce treg cells in patients with type 1 diabetes, considering that: (1) type 1 diabetes might be linked to alteration of the il2/il2r activation pathway; (2) activation of pathogenic teff cells by il2 could exacerbate disease; and (3) the safety of low-dose il2 is not known in type 1 diabetes. 
Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z slows gene activation in yeasts by stabilizing +1 nucleosomes. [SEP] the swr1 complex replaces the canonical histone h2a with the variant h2a.z (htz1 in yeast) at specific chromatin regions. our results support a stepwise mechanism for the replacement of h2a with htz1 and demonstrate that a tight control of this mechanism is essential to regulate chromatin dynamics but also to prevent the deleterious consequences of an incomplete nucleosome remodelling. the histone variant h2az marks nucleosomes flanking the promoters of most genes of budding yeast. bacterially expressed chz1 forms a heterotrimer with h2az-h2b, stabilizing the association of the histone dimer. in yeast cells, h2a.z regulates transcription and is globally associated within a few nucleosomes of the initiator regions of numerous promoters. here we show that the acidic histone chaperone nucleosome assembly protein 1 (nap-1) from yeast reversibly removes and replaces histone protein dimer h2a-h2b or histone variant dimers from assembled nucleosomes, resulting in active histone exchange. evolutionarily conserved variant histone h2a.z has been recently shown to regulate gene transcription in saccharomyces cerevisiae. importantly, fusion of the h2a.z c-terminal region to s phase h2a without its corresponding c-terminal region can mediate the variant histone's specialized function in gal1-10 gene induction, and it restores the slow-growth phenotype of cells with a deletion of htz1. h2a.z is a histone h2a variant that contributes to transcriptional regulation, dna damage response and limits heterochromatin spreading. histone variant h2a.z (htz1 in yeast) replaces conventional h2a in many nucleosomes. 
Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. [SEP] the histological findings showed diffuse histiocytosis, suggesting lysosomal storage disease. mutations in sod1 is one of the known causes of als but occur only in a very small number of cases of als. the alteration of ncrna levels is well established in several human diseases such as cancer and auto-immune disorders; however, there is a lack of information focused on the role of ncrna in rare diseases. inherited metabolic diseases (imds) belong to the group of rare diseases due to their low individual prevalence. most of them are inherited in autosomal recessive fashion and represent good candidates for novel therapeutical strategies aimed at recovering partial enzyme function as they lack an effective treatment, and small levels of enzymatic activity have been shown to be associated with improved outcome and milder phenotypes. overall, the positive results obtained indicate the feasibility of the approach for different diseases and although the levels of protein function reached are low, they may be enough to alleviate the consequences of the pathology. the results identify several als-provoking mutations whose only effect on aposod1 is the elimination or introduction of a single charge, i.e. however, significant cardiac disease necessitating cardiac intervention is rare during a short follow-up. to date, the rate of detection of autoinflammatory gene mutations in patients suspected of having an autoinflammatory disorder is very low. the relative rarity and lack of information on adult-onset autoinflammatory diseases make it likely that mutations will be found in an even smaller percentage of cases. 
S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. [SEP] protein s-nitrosylation is thought to be mediated primarily by nitric oxide synthases. s-nitrosylated gapdh is now shown to function within signal transduction cascades as a nuclear nitrosylase. histone deacetylases (hdacs) are enzymes that catalyze the removal of acetyl groups from a range of nuclear and cytoplasmic proteins. s-nitrosoglutathione reductase (gsnor) represents the best-documented denitrosylase implicated in regulating the levels of proteins posttranslationally modified by nitric oxide on cysteine residues by s-nitrosylation. chromosomal deletion of gsnor results in pathologic protein s-nitrosylation that is implicated in human hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc). s-nitrosylation, a prototypic redox-based posttranslational modification, is frequently dysregulated in disease. s-nitrosoglutathione reductase (gsnor) regulates protein s-nitrosylation by functioning as a protein denitrosylase. it has been reported that s-nitrosylation of hdac2 is involved in the regulation of deacetylase activity. these findings suggest that s-nitrosylation of hdac6 plays a pivotal role in the regulation of protein acetylation. s-nitrosoglutathione reductase (gsnor), member of class iii alcohol dehydrogenase family (ec 1.1.1.1), is considered the key enzyme in the catabolism of major low molecular s-nitrosothiol, s-nitrosoglutathione, and hence to control the level of protein s-nitrosylation. 
Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. [SEP] clinical study and practice data have shown sildenafil improves sexual function in men with erectile dysfunction (ed). various agents have been used in the treatment of antidepressant-induced erectile dysfunction; however, there are no reports on the use of sildenafil for this indication. a possible mechanism of action of sildenafil in this type of erectile dysfunction is discussed. sildenafil citrate is effective for erectile dysfunction and appears to be safe at doses up to 200 mg. we enrolled men who were in remission from depression according to dsm-iv criteria and who reported that they had developed new-onset ejaculatory delay in the setting of ssri treatment. in this open clinical trial with men who had ssri-induced ejaculatory delay, high-dose sildenafil appeared to be effective in reducing ejaculatory latency. sildenafil is indicated for the treatment of male erectile dysfunction. sildenafil is used for treatment of erectile dysfunction caused by diverse factors. sildenafil is a useful agent for the treatment of erectile dysfunction in risperidone-treated male schizophrenia patients. in the present study, we examined the efficacy of sildenafil, a potent phosphodiesterase inhibitor, in the treatment of elderly men (n = 10; 70-81 years) with erectile dysfunction induced by antidepressant treatment for major depressive disorder. it appears that sildenafil coadministration improves erectile dysfunction associated with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ongoing treatment in elderly patients. 
Silencing of Bcl2 is important for the maintenance and progression of tumors. [SEP] b cell leukemia-2 (bcl-2) plays important roles in the development of tumor and drug resistance. the growth of tumor cells can be inhibited by downregulating the abnormal expression of bcl-2 protein. the bcl-2 oncoprotein inhibits apoptosis induced by antitumor agents at a point downstream of drug-target interactions. bcl-2 appears to contribute to neoplasia primarily by promoting cell survival, rather than by stimulating cellular proliferation. aberrant expression of bcl-2, the most notable inhibitor of apoptosis, has been well characterized in several human malignancies. the bcl-2 gene product plays a role as an inhibitor of apoptosis; it contributes to oncogenesis by suppressing signals that induce apoptotic cell death. the proto-oncogene bcl-2 is demonstrated to block a final common pathway leading to apoptosis and is expressed in more than half of human breast cancers. as an inhibitor of apoptosis, bcl-2 should correlate with highly aggressive tumor biology and resistance to hormonal/cytotoxic therapy. unexpectedly, numerous studies have shown that tumors with high bcl-2 expression are more responsive to hormone therapy and have more favorable disease-free and overall survival. the clinical significance of bcl-2 in tumorigenesis and prognosis of breast carcinomas from the data recently published are reviewed. 
Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. [SEP] the smc5/6 complex is an evolutionarily conserved chromosomal atpase required for cell growth and dna repair. its mms21 subunit supports both functions by docking to the arm region of smc5 and providing sumo ligase activity. our structure revealed two distinct structural and functional domains of the smc5-bound mms21: its n-terminal half is dedicated to smc5 binding by forming a helix bundle with a coiled-coil structure of smc5; its c-terminal half includes the sumo ligase domain, which adopts a new type of ring e3 structure. mutagenesis and structural analyses showed that the mms21-smc5 interface is required for cell growth and resistance to dna damage, while the unique mms21 ring domain confers specificity to the sumo e2-e3 interaction. through structure-based dissection of mms21 functions, our studies establish a framework for understanding its roles in the smc5/6 complex. mms21, a subunit of the smc5/6 complex, possesses an e3 ligase activity for the small ubiquitin-like modifier (sumo). purified smc5/6 exhibits dna-dependent atp hydrolysis and sumo e3 ligase activity. the sumo ligase mms21, which is a subunit of the smc5/6 complex, is required for dna repair. we propose that one function of s260 s261 phosphorylation is to positively regulate the sumo ligase activity of mms21 and thereby promote genomic stability. the activity of mms21 is important for regulation of smc5/6 in the response to dna damage. 
Statins decrease blood cholesterol. [SEP] statins inhibit cholesterol synthesis and are effective in lowering total cholesterol levels in plasma or serum due to reductions in low-density lipoprotein and very low-density lipoproteins, as well as reducing progression of coronary atherosclerosis, coronary heart disease, and stroke morbidity and mortality. statins reduce cholesterol biosynthesis by inhibiting hmg-coa reductase and thereby lower total cholesterol and ldl cholesterol levels in serum, which in turn lower the incidence of cardiovascular disease (cvd). statins are lipid-modifying drugs which dramatically lower the total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels and have been shown in large clinical trials to reduce the rate of vascular events, including heart attacks, strokes, and death. statins inhibit cholesterol biosynthesis. statins have been shown to effectively reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol via inhibition of the hydroxymethyl-coenzyme a (hmg-coa) reductase. statins are the principal agents for managing hyperlipidemia because of their ability to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl) and triglyceride levels, increase high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (hdl) levels slightly, and decrease clinical events. statins effectively lower low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (ldl-c) and reduce cardiovascular risk in people with dyslipidemia and cardiometabolic diseases such as metabolic syndrome (mets) or type 2 diabetes (t2d). statins are hypolipemic drugs that are effective in the reduction of cholesterol serum levels, attenuating cholesterol synthesis in liver by competitive inhibition regarding the substrate or molecular target hmg-coa reductase. statins reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c) and are currently the mainstay in the treatment of hyperlipidaemia and subsequently the prevention of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (cvd). statins, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme a reductase inhibitors, are currently the most effective lipid-lowering drugs, effectively reducing the plasma total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein, while also decreasing three triacylglycerols and increasing plasma high-density lipoprotein to a certain extent. 
Statins increase blood cholesterol. [SEP] statins are the most widely used drugs to treat hypercholesterolemia, and they interact with blood pressure control in different populations of hypertensive patients. a significant reduction in blood pressure associated with the use of statins has been described in patients with untreated hypertension and in patients treated with antihypertensive drugs, particularly angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and calcium channel blockers. the capacity of statins to improve blood pressure control could be a useful consideration for an integrated approach to better prevention of cardiovascular diseases. statins produce large, clinically important beneficial effects on total low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol and triglycerides while raising high-density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol--each of which increases the risks for cardiovascular disease (cvd). statins are the first line of pharmacologic treatment for the management of hypercholesterolemia in patients at risk for atherosclerotic cardiovascular (cv) disease. in recent years, several randomized, controlled trials (rcts) and observational studies have reported increased risk for new-onset type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2d) with statin treatment, particularly with use of high-intensity statins that reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c) by 50% or more. statins are the most widely used drugs for the treatment of plasma lipid abnormalities and have been reported to interact with elevated blood pressure. the capacity of statins to improve blood pressure control may represent a useful tool for improvement in the prevention of cardiovascular diseases. increased levels of blood cholesterol are considered as a major factor in the development of atherosclerosis. simvastatin, a drug which blocks hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme a reductase (hmgcoar), reduces plasma cholesterol and increases hdl-cholesterol in rats fed a hypercholesterolemic diet. 
Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. [SEP] is treatment with factor xa inhibitors associated with better efficacy and safety compared with the vitamin k antagonist warfarin for preventing strokes or other systemic embolic events in patients with atrial fibrillation? compared with warfarin, factor xa inhibitors are associated with a lower risk of stroke and other systemic embolic events in patients with atrial fibrillation. novel oral anticoagulants, as compared with warfarin, are associated with a lower or similar rate of stroke and systemic embolism and a lower rate of hemorrhagic stroke. in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, warfarin prevents ischemic stroke, but dose adjustment, coagulation monitoring, and bleeding limit its use. to compare the efficacy of the oral direct thrombin inhibitor ximelagatran with warfarin for prevention of stroke and systemic embolism. randomized clinical trials have proved that warfarin therapy decreases the risk of stroke in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation and in those who have had a myocardial infarction. in patients who are not candidates for long-term anticoagulant therapy, aspirin is beneficial, but the reduction in risk is smaller with aspirin than with warfarin. non-vitamin k antagonist oral anticoagulant (noac) drugs are at least equivalent to warfarin for ischemic stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation and have a lower risk of intracranial hemorrhage. direct oral anticoagulants (doacs) are increasingly used for secondary prevention of cardioembolic stroke. as a group, noacs significantly reduce stroke, intracranial hemorrhage, and mortality, with lower to similar major bleeding rates compared with warfarin. 
Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. [SEP] in the mammalian adipose organ cold exposure not only activates typical brown adipose tissue, but also induces browning, that is the formation of thermogenic multilocular adipocytes in white, or predominantly white, adipose depots such as subcutaneous fat. cold-exposure promotes energy expenditure by inducing brown adipose tissue (bat) thermogenesis, which over time, is also sustained by browning, the appearance, or increase, of brown-like cells into white fat depots. cold exposure triggers systemic changes in lipid metabolism, which increases fatty acid delivery to brown adipose tissue (bat) by various routes. to characterize the temporal profile of cold-induced changes and browning of brown and white adipose tissues in mice. brown adipose tissue undergoes a dynamic, heterogeneous response to cold exposure that can include the simultaneous synthesis, uptake, and oxidation of fatty acids. browning of adipose tissue is induced by specific stimuli such as cold exposure and consists of up-regulation of thermogenesis in white adipose tissue. here, we performed a comprehensive analysis to identify genes associated with browning in murine adipose tissue. it has been well known that browning of wat can be induced by cold exposure. in mammals, cold exposure induces browning of white adipose tissue (wat) and alters wat gene expression and lipid metabolism to boost adaptive thermogenesis and maintain body temperature. we showed that short-term (3-day) cold exposure induces browning of iwat, increases energy expenditure, and results in loss of body weight and fat mass. 
Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease [SEP] inadequate nutritional intake is an important modifiable risk factor for frailty. overnutrition, undernutrition or unbalanced nutrition are the major causes of ill health in the world. crude measurements of nutritional status, such as body weight, are inadequate to assess the severity and consequence of malnutrition among inflammatory bowel disease patients. although there is an association between malnutrition and a poor clinical outcome, it does not necessarily follow that providing nutrients to such patients will improve the outcome. a variety of health problems can occur when persons have deficits of essential nutrients or have excessive or inappropriate consumption of some nutrients. while the role of nutrition in health problems is not fully understood, epidemiologic and laboratory studies offer important insights which may help people in making food choices to enhance their prospects of attaining or maintaining health. current data indicate an inappropriate nutritional status for a substantial proportion of the american public. this review provides an overview of nutrition in chronic liver disease with an emphasis on its pathogenesis as well as ways to assess nutritional status and intervene in an effort to improve nutrition. good nutrition promotes health-related quality of life (hrqol) by averting malnutrition, preventing dietary deficiency disease and promoting optimal functioning. this article explores connections between diet and nutritional status in relation to hrqol measures and overall well-being among older adults. 
Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. [SEP] brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf) is emerging as a key mediator of activity-dependent modifications of synaptic strength in the cns. brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf) enhances excitatory postsynaptic currents in cultured dissociated hippocampal neurons within 2-3 min through postsynaptic, phosphorylation-dependent mechanisms. recently, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf) was shown to elicit rapid increases in synaptic activity of cultured hippocampal neurons by enhancing responsiveness to excitatory input. brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf) rapidly increases synaptic transmission in hippocampal neurons, and enhances long-term potentiation (ltp), a cellular and molecular model of learning and memory. in particular, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf) rapidly enhances synaptic transmission in hippocampal neurons through trkb receptor stimulation and postsynaptic phosphorylation mechanisms. brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf) is a potent modulator of synaptic transmission and plasticity in the cns, acting both pre- and postsynaptically. two neurotrophic factors, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf) and neurotrophin-3 (nt-3), are able to produce a long-lasting enhancement of synaptic transmission in the hippocampus. brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf) rapidly enhances synaptic transmission among the hippocampal neurons. brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf) induced rapid and persistent potentiation of evoked glutamate release when the postsynaptic neuron was glutamatergic, or excitatory (e-->e), but not when it was gabaergic, or inhibitory (e-->1). in a synaptosomal preparation, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf) increased mitogen-activated protein (map) kinase-dependent synapsin i phosphorylation and acutely facilitated evoked glutamate release. 
T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. [SEP] regulatory t (treg) cells play a pivotal role in suppressing self-harmful t cell responses, but how treg cells mediate suppression to maintain immune homeostasis and limit responses during inflammation is unclear. however, treg cells lacking expression of integrin αvβ8 were unable to suppress pathogenic t cell responses during active inflammation. thus, our results identify a mechanism by which treg cells suppress exuberant immune responses, highlighting a key role for effector treg-cell-mediated activation of latent tgf-β in suppression of self-harmful t cell responses during active inflammation. regulatory t cells (tregs) control autoreactive t cells by inhibiting activation-induced proliferation and cytokine expression. regulatory t cells (tregs) are essential regulators of immune tolerance. atra and tgf-β can inhibit the polarization of naïve t cells into inflammatory th17 cells, favoring the generation of stable itregs, however the regulatory mechanisms involved are not fully understood. regulatory t (treg) cells are considered to inhibit the development of both type 1 (th1) and type 2 helper t (th2) cells. cd4(+)cd25(+)foxp3(+) regulatory t cells (treg) that specialize in the suppression of immune responses might be critically involved in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases. the mechanisms of suppression of effector t cells by tregs remain unclear, but there are in vitro and in vivo evidences showing that these cells are able to suppress antigen-specific responses via direct cell-to-cell contact, secrete anti-inflammatory cytokines such as tgf-β and il-10, and inhibit the generation of memory t cells, among others. regulatory t cells (tregs) are critical mediators of immune tolerance to self-antigens. 
TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. [SEP] the essential function of the t cell receptor (tcr) is to translate the engagement of peptides on the major histocompatibility complex (pmhc) into appropriate intracellular signals through the associated cluster of differentiation 3 (cd3) complex. antigen recognition of peptide-major histocompatibility complexes (pmhcs) by t cells, a key step in initiating adaptive immune responses, is performed by the t cell receptor (tcr) bound to cd3 heterodimers. t cell activation and function require physical contact with antigen presenting cells at a specialized junctional structure known as the immunological synapse. t cells are activated physiologically by triggering the t-cell receptor-cd3 complex. antigen recognition through t cell receptor (tcr)-cd3 complex transduces signals into t cells, which regulate activation, function, and differentiation of t cells. activation of the t cell receptor (tcr) on the t cell through ligation with antigen-mhc complex of an antigen-presenting cell (apc) is an essential process in the activation of t cells and induction of the subsequent adaptive immune response. upon activation, the tcr, together with its associated co-receptor cd3 complex, assembles in signaling microclusters that are transported to the center of the organizational structure at the t cell-apc interface termed the immunological synapse (is). this is accomplished by the formation of a specialized signaling domain, the immunological synapse, at the t cell-antigen-presenting cell contact site. our results indicate that tcr lateral mobility per se is sufficient to ensure tcr supply to the immunological synapse in the course of sustained t cell activation. t-cell activation requires interaction of t-cell receptors (tcr) with peptide epitopes bound by major histocompatibility complex (mhc) proteins. 
TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. [SEP] foxp3 expression was higher in low-grade gliomas than in gb. these findings support the assertion that foxp3 exhibits tumor suppressor activity in glioblastomas. thus, this study was aimed to evaluate tig3 expression level in primary glioblastoma and investigate the prognostic value of tig3 for patients. compared with control group, glioblastoma showed significantly elevated tig3 expression (p < 0.001). furthermore, tig3 protein expression detected by immunohistochemistry confirmed positive correlation of tig3 expression and glioma grade and upregulation of tig3 in our cohort of 101 primary glioblastoma patients compared to 16 normal brains. together, this study indicated that increased expression of tig3 in primary glioblastoma is a novel biomarker for predicting poor outcome of patients. the present study investigated whether tat‑interacting protein (tip)30 was able to regulate tumorigenesis and predict the clinical outcome of patients with glioma. the results indicated that the expression levels of tip30 significantly decreased in glioma tissue samples. the transcriptional factor ap-2α is a tumor suppressor gene and is downregulated in various neoplasms including glioma. the ap-2α transcription factor may play an important role in suppressing glioma progression. 
Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. [SEP] we previously reported that daily supplementation with alpha-tocopherol reduced prostate cancer risk in a large, randomized trial, the alpha-tocopherol, beta-carotene cancer prevention (atbc) study. alpha-tocopherol supplementation significantly reduced risk of prostate cancer in the alpha-tocopherol beta-carotene cancer prevention (atbc) study. these results suggest that long-term alpha-tocopherol supplementation decreases serum androgen concentrations, and could have been one of the factors contributing to the observed reduction in incidence and mortality of prostate cancer in the alpha-tocopherol treatment group of the atbc study. alpha-tocopherol supplementation (50 mg daily for 5-8 years) reduced prostate cancer incidence by 32% in the alpha-tocopherol, beta-carotene cancer prevention study. higher serum alpha-tocopherol was associated with reduced risk of prostate cancer (rr, 0.80; 95% ci, 0.66-0.96 for highest versus lowest quintile; ptrend = 0.03) and was strongly and inversely related to the risk of developing advanced disease (rr, 0.56; 95% ci, 0.36-0.85; ptrend = 0.002). in summary, higher prediagnostic serum concentrations of alpha-tocopherol, but not dietary vitamin e, was associated with lower risk of developing prostate cancer, particularly advanced prostate cancer. the alpha-tocopherol, beta-carotene cancer prevention (atbc) study demonstrated a 32% reduction in prostate cancer incidence in response to daily alpha-tocopherol supplementation. further analyses indicated that the association of high serum tocopherols with low prostate cancer risk was stronger in the alpha-tocopherol-supplemented group than in those not receiving alpha-tocopherol. cancer prevention studies with tocopherols have mostly utilized α-tocopherol. supplementation with alpha-tocopherol reduced prostate cancer in the alpha-tocopherol, beta-carotene prevention study (atbc study). 
Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. [SEP] the type of insulin and monitoring method used made no difference to the glycaemic and complication status. there were no differences in total cholesterol, low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c), high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol (hdl-c), apolipoproteins a-i or b in female indians with and without diabetes. our results do not support the assertion that subjects with crohn's disease consume significantly more sugar than controls or those with ulcerative colitis. there is no indian data at present on sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (sglt2) inhibitors' role on glycated haemoglobin a1c (hba1c), weight, and blood pressure in non-diabetic individuals. there was no episode of hypoglycaemia. they are approved for use as oral glucose-lowering agents, although they have no proven impact on morbidity or mortality. comparison of the sugar intake of 1,158 men believed to be free of ischaemic heart disease failed to establish any real difference in intake when compared with 170 men with confirmed or possible ischaemic heart disease. in neither group was mere any significant correlation between sugar intake and serum cholesterol, white blood cell count, haemoglobin, e.s.r., beta-lipoprotein, or uric add; nor was there any correlation between total sugar intake and weight gain after the age of 25 years.these results suggest that considerably more confirmation is required before acceptance of yudkm's hypothesis that high sugar intake is the chief dietary factor causing ischaemic heart disease. there were no significant differences between the obese and nonobese patients with respect to their insulin and glucose responses. thus, it appears that obesity does not exert a significant modulating effect on insulin secretion in patients with fasting hyperglycemia. 
Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. [SEP] major teaching hospitals are perceived as being more expensive than other hospitals and, thus, unattractive to managed care. major teaching hospitals also cared for higher proportions of nonwhite and poorly insured patients. teaching hospitals have higher charges than nonteaching hospitals, and teaching patients within a single institution incur higher charges than do private patients. major teaching hospitals, because they treat a more complex mix of patients than do nonteaching hospitals, usually show higher costs per patient day or per case. teaching hospitals (ths) have higher costs and utilize trainees in care to a greater extent than community hospitals, and it is unknown how hospital teaching status (hts) affects outcomes. teaching hospitals (th) have been shown to have better outcomes for complex elective surgical cases when compared with nonteaching hospitals (nth). a comparative study of costs per bed per day in teaching hospitals affiliated with monash university compared with large non-teaching metropolitan hospitals (1964 to 1974) shows they are much higher in teaching hospitals. research in the teaching hospitals and the accompanying high professional standards and demands on services are major factors accounting for the difference. given the special challenges and problems of teaching hospitals,...these institutions should be treated at least no worse than hospitals with no teaching affiliations. there is a paucity of data regarding the efficiency of care provided by teaching hospitals. 
Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia [SEP] we hereby report a case of acute myeloid leukemia with translocation t(2;3) and involvement of the ectopic virus integration site-1 (evi1) gene. the reciprocal translocation t(1;3)(p36;q21) is associated with myelodysplastic syndromes (mdss) and acute myeloid leukemia (aml) characterized by trilineage dysplasia, in particular dysmegakaryocytopoiesis, and a poor prognosis. t(1;3)(p36;p21) is a recurrent reciprocal translocation found in a subset of myelodysplastic syndrome (mds)/acute myelogenous leukemia (aml) characterized by trilineage dysplasia, especially dysmegakaryopoiesis and poor prognosis. t(1;3)(p36;p21) is a recurrent reciprocal translocation found in a subset of myelodysplastic syndrome (mds)/acute myelogenous leukemia (aml) characterized by trilineage dysplasia, especially dysmegakaryopoiesis and poor prognosis. thus, aml1/evi-1 may contribute to leukemogenesis by specifically blocking growth-inhibitory signaling of tgf-beta in the t(3;21) leukemia. the reciprocal translocation t(1;3)(p36;q21) occurs in a subset of myelodysplastic syndrome (mds) and acute myeloid leukemia (aml), which is frequently characterized by trilineage dysplasia, in particular dysmegakaryocytopoiesis, and poor prognosis. we describe herein a translocation, t(1;3)(p36;q21), that was found in the bone marrow of a patient with acute myelomonocytic leukemia preceded by a long lasting myelodysplastic phase. the recurrent translocation t(1;3)(p36;q21) is associated with myelodysplastic syndrome (mds)/acute myelogenous leukemia (aml) characterized by trilineage dysplasia, especially dysmegakaryopoiesis and a poor prognosis. the class iii receptor-tyrosine kinase flt3 regulates normal hematopoiesis. an internal tandem duplication (itd) in the juxtamembrane domain of flt3 (flt3-itd) contributes to transformation and is associated with poor prognosis in acute myeloid leukemia. 
The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. [SEP] here, we investigated the in vivo role of ddrb, a radiation-induced deinococcus specific protein that was previously shown to exhibit some in vitro properties akin to those of ssb protein from escherichia coli but also to promote annealing of single stranded dna. first we report that the deletion of the c-terminal motif of the ddrb protein, which is similar to the ssb c-terminal motif involved in recruitment to dna of repair proteins, did neither affect cell radioresistance nor dna binding properties of purified ddrb protein. we show that, in spite of their different quaternary structure, ddrb and ssb occlude the same amount of ssdna in vitro. these genes include an ssb-like protein called ddrb. here, we identified a novel protein encoded by the dr1245 gene as an interacting partner of ddrb. deinococcus radiodurans single-stranded (ss) dna binding protein (drssb) originates from a radiation-resistant bacterium and participates in dna recombination, replication, and repair. these common features for ssb proteins having multiple dna binding domains enable versatility of ssb function in vivo. ddrb is one gene that is highly up-regulated after irradiation, and it has been proposed to be involved in reca-independent repair in d. radiodurans. here we cloned, expressed and characterized ddrb in order to define its roles in the radioresistance of d. radiodurans. moreover, it interacts directly with single-stranded binding protein of d. radiodurans drssb, and stimulates single-stranded dna annealing even in the presence of drssb. 
The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. [SEP] the two n-terminal pdz domains of postsynaptic density protein-95 (pds-95 pdz1 and pdz2) are closely connected in tandem by a conserved peptide linker of five amino acids. human ntpdase2 and chicken ntpdase8 are cell surface nucleotidases that contain two transmembrane domains (tmd) and five apyrase conserved regions (acrs). acr1 is located near the n-terminal tmd whereas acr5 is located near the c-terminal tmd. these characteristics are retained in the hu-ck acr1,5 chimera in which the extracellular domain is anchored to the membrane by the two tmds of the chicken ntpdase8. proteins encoded by immediate-early response (ier) family genes, ier2, ier5, and ier5l, share homology at their n-terminal regions. the ier homology regions of ier2 and ier5l are required for the interaction with pp2a. analysis of the 5' utr of drd5 and homologous regions in the pseudogenes revealed that the nucleotide identity (approx. analysis of the 3' utr of drd5 and homologous regions in the pseudogenes revealed that the identity (approx. the deduced amino acid sequences for these genes, pg-1 and pg-2, share 91% and 92% identity to drd5, respectively. ns53 (nsp1), the gene 5 product of the group a rotaviruses, is a minor nonstructural protein of 486 to 495 amino acids which binds zinc and contains an amino-terminal highly conserved cysteine-rich region that may form one or two zinc fingers. 
The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. [SEP] the cytoplasmic helicase protein mda5 (melanoma-differentiation-associated gene-5) recognizes long molecules of viral double-stranded rna (dsrna) and single-stranded rna with 5' triphosphate and mediates type i interferon secretion. rna helicase a (rha), a dexd/h box protein, plays critical roles in a wide variety of cellular or viral functions. rha contains a conserved core helicase domain that is flanked by five other domains. mda5, a viral double-stranded rna (dsrna) receptor, shares sequence similarity and signaling pathways with rig-i yet plays essential functions in antiviral immunity through distinct specificity for viral rna. revealing the molecular basis for the functional divergence, we report here the crystal structure of mda5 bound to dsrna, which shows how, using the same domain architecture, mda5 recognizes the internal duplex structure, whereas rig-i recognizes the terminus of dsrna. we further show that mda5 uses direct protein-protein contacts to stack along dsrna in a head-to-tail arrangement, and that the signaling domain (tandem card), which decorates the outside of the core mda5 filament, also has an intrinsic propensity to oligomerize into an elongated structure that activates the signaling adaptor, mavs. mda5, an rig-i-like helicase, is a conserved cytoplasmic viral rna sensor, which recognizes dsrna from a wide-range of viruses in a length-dependent manner. it has been proposed that mda5 forms higher-order structures upon viral dsrna recognition or during antiviral signaling, however the organization and nature of this proposed oligomeric state is unknown. we report here that mda5 cooperatively assembles into a filamentous oligomer composed of a repeating segmental arrangement of mda5 dimers along the length of dsrna. binding of mda5 to dsrna stimulates its atp hydrolysis activity with little coordination between neighboring molecules within a filament. 
The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. [SEP] mda5, an rig-i-like helicase, is a conserved cytoplasmic viral rna sensor, which recognizes dsrna from a wide-range of viruses in a length-dependent manner. the viral sensor mda5 distinguishes between cellular and viral dsrnas by length-dependent recognition in the range of ~0.5-7 kb. it is believed that mda-5 is crucial for sensing infections by picornaviruses, but there have been no studies on the role of this protein during infection with poliovirus, the prototypic picornavirus. mda5 is a cytoplasmic viral double-stranded rna (dsrna) sensor and triggers type i interferon (ifn) production. our data revealed a regulatory mechanism underlying the activation of the cytoplasmic viral rna sensor mda5 in both uninfected and virus-infected cells. mda5 is a rig-i-like cytoplasmic sensor of dsrna and certain rna viruses, such as encephalomyocarditis virus, for the initiation of the ifn signaling cascade in the innate antiviral response. melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5 (mda5) is a pattern recognition receptor that recognizes cytoplasmic viral double-stranded rna (dsrna) and initiates rapid innate antiviral responses. mda5 is one such sensor of virus presence and is activated by rna. mda5 is required for immunity against several classes of viruses, including picornaviruses. new data indicate that rna length and secondary structure are features sensed by mda5. 
The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. [SEP] results of renal transplantation performed at seven centers during the years 1977 and 1978 were evaluated. since then, over 7500 cadaveric kidneys have been shipped to centers in 48 states for transplantation to hla-matched patients. seventy-seven patients who underwent renal transplantation from deceased donors between january 2011 and january 2013 were included in the study. more than 7500 kidney transplants are performed in the united states each year with an average 2-year graft survival rate of 95, 85, and 75 per cent for hla-identical, living related, and cadaver donor recipients, respectively. as of spring 2008, there were 75 629 candidates on the kidney waiting list in the usa according to united network for organ sharing data. we examined all 7 million deceased-donor adult kidney offers in the united states from 2007 to 2012 that led to eventual transplantation. the study cohort consisted of 178,625 patients waitlisted for a deceased-donor kidney transplant and 31,230 deceased donors. deceased-donor kidneys were offered a median of seven times before being accepted for transplantation. assuming that it is more advisable if performed early, we aimed to show the clinical, social, and economic advantages in 70% of our patients who were dialyzed only for a short period. we conclude that preemptive renal transplantation with <6 weeks on dialysis is the best therapeutic option for end-stage renal failure, especially in developing countries such as bolivia, where until last year, full public support for renal replacement therapy was unavailable. 
The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. [SEP] yap and taz proteins are transcriptional coactivators encoded by paralogous genes, which shuttle between the cytoplasm and the nucleus in response to multiple inputs, including the hippo pathway. in the nucleus, they pair with dna-binding factors of the tead family to regulate gene expression. the transcriptional activity of yap/taz is dependent on their recruitment to the nucleus, which promotes binding to the transcription factor of tea domain family members 1-4 (tead1-4). post-transcriptional modifications and nuclear translocation of yap1 are crucial for its nuclear activity. the objective of this study was to elucidate the mechanism by which the steroid hormone androgen regulates yap1 nuclear entry and functions in several human prostate cancer cell lines. previous studies have demonstrated that the primary outcome of yap signaling in the nucleus is achieved by interaction with the transcription factor tea domain transcription factor (tead1). the yap/tead1 complex binds to dna element and regulates the expression of genes involved in cell growth. yap and taz are intracellular messengers communicating multiple interacting extracellular biophysical and biochemical cues to the transcription apparatus in the nucleus and back to the cell/tissue microenvironment interface through the regulation of cytoskeletal and extracellular matrix components. yap and taz regulate a large number of target genes, acting as co-activators of dna-binding transcription factors or as negative regulators of transcription by interacting with the nucleosome remodeling and histone deacetylase complexes. unphosphorylated yap translocates to the nucleus where it acts as a cofactor of primarily the tead transcription factors to activate target gene transcription and cell proliferation. 
The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. [SEP] there has been a rapid increase in the amount of dna sequenced, and the most recent issue of the european molecular biology laboratory (embl) nucleotide sequence data library (release 10, 1987) contains almost 10 million base pairs in almost 9000 entries compared with the first release from 1982 containing half a million base pairs in 500 entries. the sequences of the human genome compiled in dna databases are now about 10 megabase pairs (mb), and thus the size of the sequences is several times the average size of chromosome bands at high resolution. the project currently automatically annotates 10 complete genomes. since the completion of the human genome project 10 years ago, the world has witnessed an incredible progress in human genetics and genomics. it has been almost a decade since the first next generation sequencing (ngs) technologies emerged and quickly changed the way genetic research is conducted. today, full genomes are mapped and published almost weekly and with ever increasing speed and decreasing costs. the substantial $10 million purse of the archon genomics x pri ze (agxp) is being offered for the generation of rapid, accurate and complete human dna sequences. the analysis of dna has led to revolutionary advancements in the fields of medical diagnostics, genomics, prenatal screening, and forensic science, with the global dna testing market expected to reach revenues of usd 10.04 billion per year by 2020. this review commemorates the 40th anniversary of dna sequencing, a period in which we have already witnessed multiple technological revolutions and a growth in scale from a few kilobases to the first human genome, and now to millions of human and a myriad of other genomes. we predict that in the long view of history, the impact of dna sequencing will be on a par with that of the microscope. 
The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. [SEP] the tat proteins are modular, containing rna-binding and activation domains that can be exchanged between different tat proteins or replaced with heterologous protein fragments. tat undergoes multiple posttranslational modifications that regulate the dynamics and complexity of these interactions. dynamic rearrangements of the actin cytoskeleton, following t-cell antigen receptor (tcr) engagement, provide the structural matrix and flexibility to enable intracellular signal transduction, cellular and subcellular remodeling, and driving effector functions. the interaction of the hiv-1 protein transactivator of transcription (tat) and its cognate transactivation response element (tar) rna transactivates viral transcription and represents a paradigm for the widespread occurrence of conformational rearrangements in protein-rna recognition. however, the mechanisms controlling simultaneous tcr and actin dynamic rearrangement in the is are yet not fully understood. herein, we identify two novel tcr ζ-chain motifs, mediating the tcr's direct interaction with actin and inducing actin bundling. trans-activation of hiv-1 by the tat protein is mediated through a cis-acting element (tar) in the viral rna. we found that the sequence of the base-pairs flanking the bulge is critical for tat-mediated trans-activation. in addition, tat-response is reduced when the bulge is forced into a base-paired configuration through the introduction of complementary nucleotides on the opposite side of the stem. in particular, the transactivation response element (tar) of the hiv genome regulates transcriptional elongation by interacting specifically with the tat protein, initiating the recruitment of the elongation complex. 
The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. [SEP] research suggests that subsidized housing combined with mental health services may be an effective intervention for successfully placing individuals who have a mental illness and a history of homelessness into community housing. subsidized housing vouchers, combined with intensive case management, are advantageous both for facilitating the initial transition from homelessness to being housed and for reducing the risk of discontinuous housing, even among individuals with more severe substance abuse problems. there are well-established relationships between health and homelessness, and shelters can facilitate the transmission of diseases and contribute to their prevention. further investment and research into ensuring adequate hygiene and environmental health in this setting can protect and promote the health and well-being of people experiencing homelessness. homelessness is a widespread problem in the united states. for homeless people with mental illness, case management linked to other services was effective in improving psychiatric symptoms, and assertive case management was effective in decreasing psychiatric hospitalizations and increasing outpatient contacts. for homeless people with substance abuse problems, case management resulted in greater decreases in substance use than did usual care. health care for homeless people should be provided through such programs whenever possible. anticipating realistic conditions in which to conduct studies with participants who are homeless will help investigators to design efficient protocols and may improve the feasibility of conducting clinical trials involving homeless populations and the quality of the data collected by the researchers. compiled evidence of predictors for becoming homeless and exiting homelessness might be used to inform policy-makers and practitioners in their work to reduce homeless-related problems. 
The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. [SEP] discussions of research involving vulnerable populations have left the homeless comparatively ignored. nonetheless, no ethical justification exists for the categorical exclusion of homeless persons from research. chronic homelessness is a problem characterised by longstanding inability to attain or maintain secure accommodation. longitudinal research with homeless populations is challenging, and randomised controlled trials that evaluate the effectiveness of intensive, case management interventions aimed at improving housing and health-related outcomes for chronically homelessness people are scant. similarly, job training programs often fail to address the mental health issues that constitute barriers to their productive employment. because clinicians seldom receive training in the social determinants of health, they may be unprepared to account for or address these factors when developing treatment strategies for homeless individuals. this study underscores the need for greater emphasis on the social determinants of health in medical education in the context of homelessness. although extensive research on the homeless mentally ill population has been conducted, existing studies have failed to answer three important questions: the prevalence of chronic mental illness among homeless persons, whether deinstitutionalization has precipitated increased homelessness in this population, and what kinds of services should be offered. however, there is very little evidence on the effectiveness of housing first in improving substance use-related outcomes in this population. however, the lack of effect of the intervention on illicit drug problems suggests that individuals experiencing homelessness, mental illness and drug problems may need additional supports to reduce use. 
The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. [SEP] preliminary evidence demonstrating that adding 0.5 mg of colchicine per day to statin and antiplatelet therapy reduced the risk of acute coronary events in patients with stable coronary artery disease has raised the hope that it may prove effective for the long-term secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease. nonetheless, before colchicine can be recommended for the secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease, further studies are required to confirm its safety and efficacy in a broad range of patients with coronary disease, and to determine whether doses of colchicine less than 0.5 mg/day might be effective and even better tolerated. trials exploring the role of colchicine in the treatment of patients with acute coronary syndromes would also be of special interest but may require the use of doses higher than those used for long-term secondary prevention. as a result, it is now accepted practice for statins to be prescribed universally in secondary prevention unless contraindicated. for these reasons it is necessary to prove not only the financial sustainability of such a strategy but also the long-term safety of statins and the degree of benefit that might be expected. secondary prevention drugs for cardiac disease have been demonstrated by clinical trials to be effective in reducing future cardiovascular and mortality events (wamach is the western australian medication adherence and costs in heart disease study). randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled secondary prevention and primary prevention studies and observational studies have documented that statins reduce cardiovascular events in high-risk patients with hypercholesterolemia. the hps randomized over 20 000 patients, and showed beyond doubt the value of statins in reducing cardiovascular events in the high-risk patient. over the past three decades, statins have become first-line treatment for reducing ldl cholesterol (ldl-c) and cardiovascular disease (cvd). accordingly, statin therapy is appropriate for a wide range of dyslipidemic patients. 
The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. [SEP] mutant forms of raralpha, created by chromosomal translocations with either the pml (for promyelocytic leukaemia) or the plzf (for promyelocytic leukaemia zinc finger) locus, are oncogenic and result in human acute promyelocytic leukaemia (apl). pml-raralpha apl patients achieve complete remission following treatments with pharmacological doses of retinoic acids (ra); in contrast, plzf-raralpha patients respond very poorly, if at all. in vivo characterization of hmr regulatory regions was performed by targeted oncogenesis in mice using p1 or p2 directing expression of the large t antigen of sv40 (tag). these cells exhibited differentiated characteristics and maintained mr expression, thus providing useful models for further studies exploring the widespread expression and functions of mr. our results demonstrate that hmr gene expression in vivo is controlled by complex regulatory mechanisms involving distinct tissue-specific utilization of alternative promoters. crystal structures of catalytic domains of mmp-3 and mt1-mmp bound to timp-1 or timp-2, respectively, differ in the orientation of the timp in the mmp active site. the orientation in solution of n-timp-1 in the mmp-3 active site has been investigated using residual dipolar couplings (rdcs). fitting of the rdcs to the x-ray structures of the complexes suggests general agreement with the orientation of crystalline mmp-3(deltac) and timp-1 and a large disparity from the orientation of crystalline mt1-mmp(deltac) and timp-2. rigid body docking of mmp-3 and n-timp-1 x-ray coordinates using rdcs and intermolecular noes provided a time-averaged orientation in solution differing from the crystal structure by a 5 degrees rotation toward the mt1-mmp(deltac)/timp-2 orientation. some uncertainty in the n-timp-1 orientation in the mmp-3 active site, coupled with microsecond to millisecond fluctuations of the mmp-binding ridge of n-timp-1 in the complex and flexibility in mmp-3(deltac) s(1)' to s(3)' subsites, leaves open the possibility that n-timp-1 might dynamically pivot a few degrees or more in the arc toward the mt1-mmp(deltac)/timp-2 orientation. differing timp orientations in mmp active sites are more likely to result from structural differences in timp ab hairpin loops than from crystal packing artifacts. 
The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. [SEP] inflammation plays a critical role in initiation of adaptive immunity, pathogen clearance and tissue repair. interleukin (il)-1β is a potent pro-inflammatory cytokine and therefore its production is tightly regulated: its secretion requires the assembly of a macromolecular protein complex, termed the inflammasome. the primary characteristic features of any inflammatory or infectious lesions are immune cell infiltration, cellular proliferation, and the generation of proinflammatory mediators. the inflammasome is activated in response to pathogen or endogenous danger signals and acts as an initiator and mediator of inflammatory reactions. taken together, these findings document that injury induces inflammasome activation in many immune cell subsets, but primarily in macrophages, and that inflammasome activation plays a protective role in the host response to severe injury. in addition, it emphasizes the importance of communication between cells of the immune system, target cells of these diseases, and components of the extracellular matrix (ecm) in regulation of inflammasome-mediated events. inflammasomes are multiprotein complexes localized within the cytoplasm of the cell that are responsible for the maturation of proinflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-1β (il-1β) and il-18, and the activation of a highly inflammatory form of cell death, pyroptosis. the inflammasome has been mainly studied in innate immune cells in which it senses microbes and cellular damage, and induces secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines. this process induces an inflammatory response that is critical for the resolution of infections and repair of tissue damage following injury. recent studies indicate that inflammasome complex formation also participates in many other cellular and physiological processes beyond modulation of inflammation, such as autophagy, metabolism, eicosanoids production, and phagosome maturation. 
The combination of H3K4me3 and H3K79me2 is found in quiescent hair follicle stem cells. [SEP] the heterogeneity of h3k4me3 can be attributed to cyclin-dependent kinase-2 (cdk2) phosphorylation and activation of the histone methyltransferase, mll2 (kmt2b), during late-g1. this effect on h3k4me2 is clearly not linked to the transcriptional activity in the methylated dna region; however, transcriptional activity may play a role in the presence of h3k4me3. here, we present clear evidence of the impact of transcriptional activity on the overall level of h3k4me3 in the coding region and the lack of impact on h3k4me2. our data also demonstrate the influence of transcriptional activity on the distribution of h3k4me3 and h3k4me2, but not that of total h3, in the 5' end of the coding region relative to the 3' end. decreased h3k4me3 in oocytes caused global downregulation of transcription activity. it is known that dense h3k4me3 nucleosome sites are accompanied by a low density of other nucleosomes and are associated with gene activation. this observation suggests a different sequence composition of h3k4me3 from other nucleosomes. using the sequence specificities of h3 and h3k4me3 nucleosomes, we developed a model that computes the probability of h3k4me3 occupation at each base pair from the genome sequence context. although selective h3k9me is critical for maintaining genome integrity, mechanisms to exclude h3k9me from active genes remain largely unexplored. in line with previous studies, we also observed distinct h3k4me3 patterns at promoters dictated by cpg content in differentiated primary cells. 
The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. [SEP] two isoforms of nonmuscle myosin heavy chain iib (mhc-iib) are generated by alternative splicing; mhc-iib(b2) differs from mhc-iib(deltab2) by the insertion of b2 exon cassette near the actin binding region. to understand how these distinct distributions are controlled and what role they play in cell migration, myosin iia and iib were examined during wound healing by bovine aortic endothelial cells. these observations indicate that asymmetry of myosin iib, but not iia, is regulated by light-chain phosphorylation mediated by rho-dependent kinase. nonmuscle myosin ii isoforms a and b (hereafter, iia and iib) perform unique roles in cell migration, even though both isoforms share the same basic molecular functions. these data, acquired through the use of chimeras of iia and iib, suggest that the c-terminal region of the myosin heavy chain supersedes the distinct motor properties of the two isoforms as the predominant factor directing isoform-specific distribution. multiple subunit isoforms exist, allowing great diversity in myosin ii composition which likely impacts on its contractile properties. myosin ii exists as different isoforms that are involved in diverse physiological functions. one outstanding question is whether the myosin heavy chain (mhc) isoforms alone account for these distinct physiological properties. myosin isoforms help define muscle-specific contractile and structural properties. this verifies and extends previous studies with chimeric molecules and indicates that interactions of the relay and converter during the contractile cycle are key to myosin-isoform-specific kinetic and mechanical functions. 
The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. [SEP] although monocytes represent an essential part of the host defence system, their accumulation and prolonged stimulation could be detrimental and may aggravate chronic inflammatory diseases. in chronic inflammation, across a number of quite different pathological conditions, monocytes accumulate. production of proinflammatory mediators by monocytes leads to tissue damage and perpetuates the inflammatory response. excessive and prolonged activity of inflammatory monocytes is a hallmark of many diseases with an inflammatory component. monocytes are key mediators of innate immunity and comprise an important cellular defence against invading pathogens. however, exaggerated or dysregulated monocyte activation can lead to severe immune-mediated pathology such as sepsis or chronic inflammatory diseases. thus, detailed insight into the molecular mechanisms of monocyte activation is essential to understand monocyte-driven inflammatory pathologies. excessive or prolonged recruitment of inflammatory monocytes to damaged tissue can significantly worsen patient outcomes. monocytes play a central role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerotic lesions and are a major source of circulating cytokines. monocyte and macrophage dysfunction plays a critical role in a wide range of inflammatory disease processes, including obesity, impaired wound healing diabetic complications, and atherosclerosis. 
The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. [SEP] transmembrane protein 27 (tmem27) is a membrane protein cleaved and shed by pancreatic beta cells that has been proposed as a beta cell mass biomarker. we aimed to characterise the function of tmem27 in islets and its potential use as a beta cell mass biomarker. to elucidate its utility as a beta cell mass biomarker, we studied tmem27 cleavage in a beta cell line, islets and primary proximal tubular cells. tmem27 overproduction in a beta cell line and islets significantly enhanced glucose-induced insulin secretion, with modest or no effects on proliferation. finally, tmem27 is cleaved and shed by renal proximal tubular cells and pancreatic islets. the pancreatic β-cell surface protein tmem27 is promotes the preservation of functional β-cell mass. here, we report the identification and characterization of transmembrane protein 27 (tmem27, collectrin) in pancreatic beta cells. tmem27 forms dimers and its extracellular domain is glycosylated, cleaved and shed from the plasma membrane of beta cells. furthermore, transgenic mice with increased expression of tmem27 in pancreatic beta cells exhibit increased beta cell mass. transmembrane protein 27 (tmem27), which is expressed in pancreatic β-cells, plays an important role in insulin secretion and pancreatic β-cell proliferation. 
The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. [SEP] we report that the genomic landscape, including mutational profile and structural rearrangements at the smoldering stage is very similar to mm. the aims of this study were to determine whether mgas harbour genetic alterations and if any such genetic aberrations found in mgas are similar to those found in matched invasive carcinomas. the morphologically distinct components of each case (mga, amga and/or invasive carcinoma) were microdissected and subjected to microarray comparative genomic hybridization. in three cases, mga/amga displayed copy number aberrations similar to those found in matched invasive components, providing strong circumstantial evidence that mga may constitute the substrate for the invasive carcinoma development. it appears that some histopathologically similar anogenital and breast lesions develop along similar molecular pathways. pms1 (27/31) and pms2 (28/31) expression was preserved in the majority of lesions. the presence of mutations of msh2 and mlh1 in melanoma brain metastases, which has not been found in primary melanomas, indicates the high genomic instability of melanoma brain metastases. the mutations of mlh1 and msh2 have been reported to be responsible for malignant transformation and tumour progression in several sporadic tumours. in most cases, paired primary and metastatic lesions had the same braf genotype (i.e., mutations present in the primary tumors were preserved in the corresponding metastases, and mutations did not arise at the metastatic stage if they were not present in the primary lesion). the ultrastructure, melanin content, isozyme pattern and chromosome numbers of the cell lines were closely similar to those of the corresponding xenografts. 
The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. [SEP] there are many studies on the association between mir-608 rs4919510 polymorphism and susceptibility to colorectal cancer (crc). colorectal cancer (crc) is a common complex disease caused by the combination of genetic variants and environmental factors. we previously discovered that rs7911488t>c in pre-mir-1307 was closely correlated to the risk of colorectal cancer (crc). a common single nucleotide polymorphism (snp), rs6983267, at 8q24.21 has recently been shown to associate with colorectal cancer (crc). a single nucleotide polymorphism (snp), rs6983267, in the chromosome 8q24 region, has been associated with higher risk for colorectal neoplasms, but its relation to carcinogenic mechanisms is unclear. to investigate whether associations of colorectal adenoma with its major modifiable risk factors differ according to rs6983267 genotype, we performed a pooled analysis of the white participants (n = 401 cases, 518 controls) from three colonoscopy-based, case-control studies of incident, sporadic colorectal adenoma conducted between 1991 and 2002. there was a statistically significant direct association of rs6983267 with colorectal adenoma that was consistent with those in previous reports. we found that 5 snps were significantly associated with dfs or os among colorectal cancer patients at p < .05: rs10936599 at 3q26.2 (mynn), rs704017 at 10q22.3 (zmiz1-as1), rs11196172 at 10q25.2 (tcf7l2), rs3802842 at 11q23.1 (colca1-2), and rs9929218 at 16q22.1 (cdh1). a common genetic variant, rs4939827, located in smad7, was identified by two recent genome-wide association (gwa) studies to be strongly associated with the risk of colorectal cancer (crc). results from our case-control study and the meta-analysis collectively confirmed the significant association of the variant rs4939827 with increased risk of colorectal cancer. 
The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. [SEP] loss-of-function mutations in tet2 occur frequently in patients with clonal hematopoiesis, myelodysplastic syndrome (mds), and acute myeloid leukemia (aml) and are associated with a dna hypermethylation phenotype. in this issue of cancer cell, two studies show that inactivation of tet2 enhances hematopoietic stem cell self renewal and promotes the development of myeloproliferative disorders. mutations in epigenetic modifiers and signaling factors often co-occur in myeloid malignancies, including tet2 and nras mutations. tet2 is mutated/deleted with high frequencies in multiple forms of myeloid malignancies including mds, cmml, mpn, and aml. however, little is known regarding the biological function of tet2 and its role in the pathogenesis of myeloid malignancies. these data indicate that tet2-deficient mice recapitulate patients with myeloid malignancies, implying that tet2 functions as a tumor suppressor to maintain hematopoietic cell homeostasis. loss-of-function mutations affecting one or both copies of the ten-eleven-translocation (tet)2 gene have been described in various human myeloid malignancies. somatic loss-of-function mutations in the ten-eleven translocation 2 (tet2) gene occur in a significant proportion of patients with myeloid malignancies. although there are extensive genetic data implicating tet2 mutations in myeloid transformation, the consequences of tet2 loss in hematopoietic development have not been delineated. tet2 loss leads to a progressive enlargement of the hematopoietic stem cell compartment and eventual myeloproliferation in vivo, including splenomegaly, monocytosis, and extramedullary hematopoiesis. 
The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. [SEP] it has also been reported that the minor g allele from the rs12212067 polymorphism (t>g) in foxo3 is associated with milder cd. there was strong evidence that adverse effects of mustard, wasabi, and raw and cooked tomatoes were significantly associated with the g allele of foxo3 and that these foods should be avoided by people carrying this allele. neutrophil dysfunction and gm-csf auto-antibodies are observed in pediatric and adult patients with crohn's disease (cd). ulcerative colitis and crohn's disease result from an interaction between genetic and environmental factors. crohn's disease (cd) is a chronic inflammatory bowel disease with multifactorial causes including environmental and genetic factors. crohn's disease is a multifactorial inflammatory disease affecting mainly the gastrointestinal tract. crohn disease (cd) is an inflammatory bowel disease characterized by chronic transmural, segmental, and typically granulomatous inflammation of the gut. crohn's disease (cd) is a chronic inflammation affecting the gastrointestinal tract. crohn's disease (cd) is commonly classified as an immune-mediated disorder, but genetic and environmental factors seem to be important in its pathogenesis. mutations of the nod2 gene have been associated with an increased susceptibility to crohn's disease, but the pathogenetic mechanisms mediated by nod2 remain elusive. 
The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. [SEP] the fully formed heart is composed of diverse cell lineages including myocytes, endothelial cells, vascular smooth muscle cells, and fibroblasts that derive from distinct subsets of mesoderm during embryonic development. during embryonic development, the heart arises from various sources of undifferentiated mesodermal progenitors, with an additional contribution from ectodermal neural crest cells. mesodermal cardiac progenitors are plastic and multipotent, but are nevertheless specified to a precise heart region and cell type very early during development. during embryonic development the heart muscle tissue differentiates from mesoderm that has heart-forming potential. cardiac mesoangioblasts (cmabs) are multipotent progenitor cells resident in the myocardium. the functional heart is comprised of distinct mesoderm-derived lineages including cardiomyocytes, endothelial cells and vascular smooth muscle cells. to determine whether a comparable progenitor is present during human cardiogenesis, we analysed the development of the cardiovascular lineages in human embryonic stem cell differentiation cultures. during mouse cardiogenesis, the major lineages of the mature heart, cardiomyocytes, smooth muscle, endothelial cells, and cardiac mesenchyme, arise from multipotent cardiovascular progenitors expressing the transcription factors mesp1, isl1, nkx2-5, and tbx18. recent identification of stem/progenitor cells of embryonic origin with intrinsic competence to differentiate into multiple lineages of the heart offers exciting new possibilities for cardiac regeneration. directed differentiation of embryonic stem cells indicates that mesodermal lineages in the mammalian heart (cardiac, endothelial, and smooth muscle cells) develop from a common, multipotent cardiovascular precursor. 
The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. [SEP] after decades of increases, the prevalence of childhood obesity has declined in the past decade in new york city, as measured in children participating in the special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children (wic) and public school students, with the greatest reductions occurring in the youngest children. implementation of the rubella immunization policy in the united states has resulted in marked decreases in the number of reported cases of both rubella and crs. emphasis on immunization of one- to 12-year-old children has resulted in a dramatic reduction in reported rubella in this age group. this joint strategy should result in a further decrease in the incidence of rubella and crs. covid-19 epidemic has been suppressed in hungary due to timely non-pharmaceutical interventions, prompting a considerable reduction in the number of contacts and transmission of the virus. this strategy was effective in preventing epidemic growth and reducing the incidence of covid-19 to low levels. china has had the one-child policy for more than 30 years. it reduced china's population growth within a short period of time and promoted economic development. to both sustain china's economic development and limit population growth, it is essential for the government to reform the one-child policy and provide a comprehensive support system for the families who have lost their only children, including financial relief and elderly care, and work to reduce stigma against these families. the incidence of injury among school-aged children in central harlem declined during the intervention. 
The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. [SEP] genetic factors of the host that affect the metabolism of tamoxifen, a widely used drug for the adjuvant treatment of breast cancer, have received particular attention. inter-individual variation in tamoxifen metabolism in breast cancer patients is caused by various genetic and clinical factors. our study showed that genetic polymorphisms can in part determine the baseline concentrations of tamoxifen and its metabolites. genetic factors that affect the metabolism, efficacy and safety of tamoxifen, one of the most common drugs used for the treatment and prevention of breast cancer, have received particular attention. this article reviews the pharmacology of tamoxifen, the genetics and physiology of the cyp2d6 enzyme system that has important effects on tamoxifen metabolism, and subset data analyses from large controlled, clinical trials that cast new light on previously held beliefs about the utility of cyp2d6 genotyping for predicting tamoxifen effectiveness and improved breast cancer outcomes in women with early-stage, hormone receptor-positive breast cancer. in this descriptive study, correlations were examined between concentrations of tamoxifen metabolites and genotypes for cyp2d6, cyp3a4, cyp3a5, sult1a1, sult1a2 and sult1e1 in 135 patients with estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer. we sought to determine if genetic variability in the tamoxifen metabolic pathway influenced overall survival in breast cancer patients treated with tamoxifen. these studies indicate that genetic variation in phase ii conjugating enzymes can influence the efficacy of tamoxifen therapy for breast cancer. in breast and colorectal cancer, polymorphisms in metabolic enzymes involved in tamoxifen and irinotecan therapies has led the u.s. food and drug administration to address genetic factors relevant to patient consideration of treatment with these compounds. the effect of cyp2c19 polymorphisms on tamoxifen sensitivity may therefore not only be mediated by a variation in tamoxifen metabolite levels but also by an effect on breast cancer risk and molecular subtype due to variation in lifelong exposure to estrogens. 
The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. [SEP] homology-directed repair (hdr) of double-strand dna breaks is a promising method for genome editing, but is thought to be less efficient than error-prone nonhomologous end joining in most cell types. the repair outcomes at site-specific dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) generated by the rna-guided dna endonuclease cas9 determine how gene function is altered. here, the dna repair profiles of 223 sites in the human genome demonstrate that the pattern of dna repair following cas9 cutting at each site is nonrandom and consistent across experimental replicates, cell lines, and reagent delivery methods. however, with directly ligatable ends, cas9-induced dna double strand breaks may be repaired preferentially by accurate nhej. in the repair of two adjacent double strand breaks induced by paired cas9-grnas at 71 genome sites, accurate nhej accounts for about 50% of nhej events. nhej is inherently accurate in repair of cas9-induced dna double strand breaks and can be harnessed to improve crispr/cas9 genome editing requiring precise deletion of a defined length. crispr/cas9, which generates dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) at target loci, is a powerful tool for editing genomes when codelivered with a donor dna template. errors associated with the repair of dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) include point mutations caused by misincorporation during repair dna synthesis or novel junctions made by nonhomologous end joining (nhej). crispr/cas9-induced site-specific dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) can be repaired by homology-directed repair (hdr) or non-homologous end joining (nhej) pathways. in this issue of cell, zuccaro and colleagues show that on-target cas9-mediated double-strand breaks cause chromosome loss or mis-repair of the disease allele in > 90% of human embryos. 
The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. [SEP] results of two previous studies suggested that placental weight may be positively associated with breast cancer risk. in a cohort of 338,051 women followed from 1999 to 2008, on the basis of data linkage between the medical birth registry of norway and the cancer registry of norway, we assessed whether placental weight in a woman's most recent pregnancy was related to breast cancer risk during the first years following pregnancy. placental weight in the most recent pregnancy was not associated with breast cancer risk: the hazard ratio per 100-gram increase in placental weight was 1.03 [95% confidence interval, 0.96-1.10]. results: mothers in the upper tertile of pregnancy weight gain (>15 kg) had a 1.62-fold (95% ci 1.03-2.53) higher breast cancer risk than mothers who gained the recommended amount (the middle tertile, mean: 12.9 kg, range 11-15 kg), after adjusting for mother's age at menarche, age at first birth, age at index pregnancy, parity at the index birth, and body mass index (bmi) before the index pregnancy. there is epidemiological evidence that breast cancer mortality in premenopausal women increases with placental weight in the most recent pregnancy. using cox regression models, we estimated hazard ratios for the association between placental weight and risk of premenopausal breast cancer mortality. compared with women with placental weight less than 600 g, women with a placental weight between 600 and 699 g were at a 50 % increased risk of mortality, however, not significant change in risk was observed for women with placental weight ≥ 700 g. mortality risks associated with higher placental weight were more pronounced among er(-) and pr(-) breast cancer tumors, where both a placental weight 600-699 g and ≥ 700 g were associated with a more than doubled mortality risks compared with tumors among women with placental weight less than 600 g. moreover, stratified analyses for joint receptor status revealed that a consistent increased mortality risk by placental weight was only apparent in women with er(-)/pr(-) breast cancer. the increased mortality risk in premenopausal breast cancer associated with higher placental weight was most pronounced among er(-) and pr(-) tumors. we hypothesized that increasing placental weight, as an indirect marker of exposure to elevated hormone levels during pregnancy, would be associated with reduced survival in breast cancer. increasing placental weight is associated with reduced breast cancer survival. 
The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. [SEP] prison inmates face a ten times increased risk of experiencing a fatal drug overdose during their first 2 weeks upon release than their non-incarcerated counterparts. more than 10 million people are imprisoned worldwide, and the prevalence of all investigated mental disorders is higher in prisoners than in the general population. prisoners are also at increased risk of all-cause mortality, suicide, self-harm, violence, and victimisation, and research has outlined some modifiable risk factors. by gender, estimate the effective number of individuals (in terms of community-equivalent suicide risk) for whom prisons have a duty of care as 10 times the number of opioid-dependent inmates plus the number of non-opioid user inmates. the results showed that male homicide offenders are at least 10 times more likely to commit a homicide when compared with general male population. there are more than 10 million people imprisoned worldwide. the prevalence of psychosis among prisoners in england and wales is ten times that in the household population and uk government policy is that prisoners should receive equivalent care to those in the community. people who inject drugs (pwid) comprise 10-48% of male and 30-60% of female prisoners. space statistics on suicides in prison reveal a rate above 10 per 10,000 in 10 european countries, 4 of which have a rate above 20. studies put forward figures for male practitioner sex abuse of around ten per cent. 
The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. [SEP] cardiac involvement is common in amyloidosis and associated with a variably adverse outcome. in this study we assessed the prognostic value of late gadolinium enhancement (lge) and gadolinium kinetics in cardiac amyloidosis in a prospective longitudinal study. the objective of our study was to describe a combination of features on mri specific to cardiac amyloidosis. cardiovascular magnetic resonance with late gadolinium enhancement (lge) is a reference standard for the diagnosis of cardiac amyloidosis, but its potential for stratifying risk is unknown. we describe the results of tissue characterization of the myocardium by t1 quantification and mri findings in a patient with cardiac amyloidosis. late gadolinium enhancement imaging by cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (cmr) is the most reliable method for identifying cardiac involvement in patients with amyloidosis, and myocardial t1 mapping is a novel cmr technique that enables the noninvasive detection and quantification of myocardial amyloid burden. cardiac mri is known to be diagnostically valuable in cardiac amyloidosis. this study sought to determine the prognostic value of cardiac magnetic resonance (cmr) late gadolinium enhancement (lge) in amyloid light chain (al) cardiac amyloidosis. although the presence of abnormal late gadolinium enhancement (lge) in cardiac amyloidosis has been well established, its prognostic implication and utility to identify cardiac involvement in patients with systemic amyloidosis is unknown. the aim of this study was to assess the diagnostic and prognostic significance of cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging in patients with amyloid light-chain amyloidosis but unknown cardiac involvement. 
The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. [SEP] the b-wave of the electroretinogram (erg) is believed to result largely from the light responses of on bipolar neurons. however, when selective glutamate agonists or antagonists were used to isolate the b-wave, it was found to be tonic and resemble the light response waveform of the on bipolar cell. the largest component in the fully dark-adapted erg is a corneal-positive response, known as the b-wave, and believed to originate from depolarizing (on-type) bipolar cells. the goal of these experiments was to find whether these gaba receptors participate in the generation of the b-wave of electroretinogram (erg). under cone-mediated (photopic) conditions, an "instantaneous" flash of light, including both stimulus onset and offset, will simultaneously activate both "on" and "off" bipolar cells, which either depolarize (on) or hyperpolarize (off) in response and, respectively, produce positive-going and negative-going deflections in the electroretinogram (erg). furthermore, both on and off stimuli elicit activity in both on and off bipolar cells. the pii component of the electroretinogram (erg) is comprised of the b-wave and the dc component and is thought to reflect bipolar cell activity. the electroretinogram b-wave is generally believed to reflect mainly light-induced activity of on-center bipolar cells and muller cells. these results demonstrate that feedback to bipolar cells is an important mechanism through which amacrine cells contribute to b-wave generation. existing models of the primate photopic electroretinogram (erg) attribute the light-adapted b-wave to activity of depolarizing bipolar cells (dbcs), mediated through a release of potassium that is monitored by müller cells. 
The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. [SEP] kip3 is a kinesin-8 motor protein in budding yeast that acts as a microtubule depolymerase. now kip3 is shown to also crosslink and slide antiparallel microtubules, providing additional insights into how kinesin-8 motors control spindle integrity. the budding yeast protein kip3p is a member of the conserved kinesin-8 family of microtubule motors, which are required for microtubule-cortical interactions, normal spindle assembly and kinetochore dynamics. these findings explain the role of kip3p in positioning the mitotic spindle in budding yeast and potentially other processes controlled by kinesin-8 family members. the budding yeast kinesin-8 kip3 is a highly processive motor protein that walks to the ends of cytoskeletal microtubules and shortens them in a collective manner. at kinetochore-microtubule plus ends, the kinesin-8 family member kif18a is essential to align mitotic chromosomes at the spindle equator during cell division, but how it accomplishes this function is unclear. the bi-directionality and plus-end tracking activity of kip1, properties revealed here for the first time, allow kip1 to perform its multiple functions in mitotic spindle dynamics and to partition the 2-micron plasmid. using a novel cell line wherein kif15 usurps kinesin-5 function, we further show that kif15 can assume a commanding role in spindle pole separation as a consequence of its mislocalization to nonkinetochore mts. bipolar spindle assembly is a critical control point for initiation of mitosis through nucleation and organization of spindle microtubules and is regulated by kinesin-like proteins. the bipolar kinesin-5 motors are one of the major players that govern mitotic spindle dynamics. 
The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. [SEP] the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is a widespread machine used by bacteria to control their environment and kill or disable bacterial species or eukaryotes through toxin injection. the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is a multiprotein and mosaic apparatus that delivers protein effectors into prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells. the type vi secretion system (t6ss), commonly found in gram-negative bacteria, is responsible for exporting effector proteins. the bacterial type 6 secretion system (t6ss) functions as a virulence factor capable of attacking both eukaryotic and prokaryotic target cells by a process that involves protein transport through a contractile bacteriophage tail-like structure. the bacterial type 6 secretion system (t6ss) translocates protein toxins (also called effectors) from the cytosol of a t6ss-carrying cell to a target cell by a syringe-like supramolecular complex resembling a contractile tail of bacteriophages. the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is widely distributed in pathogenic proteobacteria. the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is widespread among bacterial pathogens and acts as an effective weapon against competitor bacteria and eukaryotic hosts by delivering toxic effector proteins directly into target cells. the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is a versatile machine that delivers toxins into either eukaryotic or bacterial cells. the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is a multi-protein complex that injects bacterial effector proteins into target cells. the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is a versatile machine that delivers toxins into either eukaryotic or bacterial cells. 
The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. [SEP] in phase ii trials, the anti-epidermal growth factor receptor antibody imc-c225 did not appear to significantly exacerbate the common toxicities associated with cytotoxic chemotherapy when combined with standard anticancer treatments in patients with colorectal cancer, squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, or pancreatic cancer. cerebrovascular events are not recognized as expected adverse effects of such therapy. prospective data about the prognostic value of immune-related adverse events (iraes) in non-melanoma solid tumours are rare. the prospective non-interventional st-ici trial investigates treatment response of tumour patients to anti-programmed cell death-ligand 1 (pd-l1) immune checkpoint inhibitors alone and in combination with radiotherapy and possible predictive markers. the rate of iraes did not differ in patients with and without radiotherapy (p = 0.668). immune checkpoint inhibitors (icis) have improved the overall survival of many patients with advanced cancers. immune checkpoint inhibitors (icis) are a promising class of anticancer drugs associated with immune-related adverse events (iraes). its pharmacokinetics are not influenced by hepatic status and there are no specific warnings concerning its indication in patients with impaired hepatic function. preclinical data suggest that radiotherapy (rt) is beneficial in combination with immune checkpoint blockade. there were no grade ≥3 adverse events attributed to rt. 
The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. [SEP] immune checkpoint inhibitors (ici) are now routinely used in multiple cancers but may induce autoimmune-like side effects known as immune-related adverse events (irae). immune-related adverse events (iraes) are a new class of side effects caused by icis and tend to be more prevalent in patients with preexisting autoantibodies and autoimmune diseases. patients treated for cancer with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ici) may develop autoimmune adverse events, including ici-induced inflammatory arthritis (ia). ici-induced ia treatment requires balancing immune activation to fight cancer and immune modulation to control autoimmunity. immune-related adverse events (iraes) are autoimmune-toxic effects associated with immune checkpoint inhibitors (icis) used for the treatment of advanced solid tumors. the rapid introduction of immunotherapies for cancer-targeting immunological checkpoints has led to a new class of toxicities that appear to be of autoimmune and or autoinflammatory origin. immune checkpoint inhibitors, including antiprogrammed death cell protein 1 (anti-pd-1) and anti cytotoxic t-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (anti-ctla-4), have been associated with a range of autoimmune-related side effects since their introduction in cancer treatment. because immune checkpoint inhibitors are increasingly used for many types of cancer, it is important for oncologists and rheumatologists to recognize and manage toxicities early. in this review, we discuss currently approved immune checkpoint inhibitors and their mechanisms of action and systemic toxicities, with a focus on the management and effect on further cancer therapy of rheumatic irae. however, these promising therapies may also cause immune-related adverse events (iraes) in a substantial proportion of patients. 
The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. [SEP] the corynebacterium glutamicum genes encoding urease were isolated and sequenced. while urea, ureb and urec are encoding structural subunits of urease, uree, uref, ureg and ured are encoding accessory proteins. as deduced from dna sequence analyses, the ure genes are transcriptionally coupled, this was proven by rt-pcr at least for ureabc. gene disruption experiments revealed that both structural (urec) and accessory proteins (ured) are indispensable for urease activity and growth on urea. in addition to its role in urease activation, ureb enhances the stability of urec against proteolytic cleavage. the plasmid-encoded urease locus contains seven tandem urease structural and accessory genes (uredabcefg). previously we showed that transcription of the first gene in this cluster, ured, is initiated at a urea-dependent promoter (uredp). mass spectrometry of intact protein species revealed a pathway for synthesis of the urease pre-activation complex in which individual hetero-trimer units of the (mbp-ured:uref:ureg)2 complex bind to urease. escherichia coli containing cloned structural genes urea, ureb, and urec and accessory genes ured, uree, uref, and ureg displays urease activity when cultured in m9 minimal medium. the predicted amino acid sequence of uree, which concludes with seven histidine residues among the last eight c-terminal residues (his-his-his-his-asp-his-his-his), suggested that uree may act as a ni2+ chelator for the urease operon. 
The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. [SEP] enhancement of urease activity by adding nickel was regulated at the posttranslational level. the transition metal nickel is an essential cofactor for a number of bacterial enzymes, one of which is urease. nevertheless, rates of nickel transport were significantly altered in both ynt and ureh mutants. this is the first reported identification of genes coding for both kinds of nickel-specific permeases situated adjacent to the urease gene cluster in the genome of a microorganism. higher urease activities were observed in an hp0868 mutant (than in the wild type) in cells supplemented with nickel, suggesting that the hp0868 protein (herein named mua for modulator of urease activity) represses urease activity when nickel concentrations are ample. taken together, our results suggest the hp0868 gene product represses urease transcription when nickel levels are high through an as-yet-uncharacterized mechanism, thus counterbalancing the well-described nikr-mediated activation. our results suggest that the mua protein represses urease transcription when nickel levels are high. in human pathogenic bacteria, nickel is required for the activation of two enzymes, urease and [nife]-hydrogenase, necessary for host infection. the expression of ndrg1 gene is induced by nickel, a transition metal sharing similar physical properties to cobalt. hypoxia is an inducer of the ndrg1 gene, and nickel probably causes the induction of the gene by interacting with the oxygen sensory pathway. 
Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. [SEP] dapsone (diaminodiphenylsulfone) has been used therapeutically for a variety of disorders in which mast cell participation has been demonstrated, including bullous pemphigoid and some form of necrotizing vasculitis. dapsone (4,4'-diaminodiphenyl sulphone) is a powerful therapeutic tool in many skin diseases including neutrophilic dermatoses. dapsone is increasingly used in the treatment of rheumatic diseases. dapsone, a potent anti-inflammatory compound, is mainly used in the treatment of leprosy, dermatitis herpetiformis, erythema elevatum diutinum and other dermatoses. the utility of dapsone as a non-immunosuppressive treatment for pg has been reported in case reports and series. in addition, there have been individual case reports on the efficacy of topical dapsone preparations in the treatment of various neutrophilic dermatoses. dapsone (4,4-diaminodiphenylsulfone) is a sulfone antibiotic used in the treatment of leprosy, but dermatologists more commonly utilize its anti-inflammatory properties particularly directed against leukocytes to treat various bullous disorders, erythema nodosum, pyoderma gangrenosum, sweet's syndrome, cutaneous vasculitis, and cutaneous forms of lupus erythematosus. the ancient drug dapsone has antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory features. -objectives: to determine the efficacy and safety of dapsone in patients with inflammatory skin diseases treated at the department of dermatology of the university hospital zurich. our data show that dapsone is a valid treatment option in various dermatological diseases, leading to a favorable response in the vast majority of patients. 
There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. [SEP] statin therapy significantly reduces cardiovascular events. statin therapy should be offered to older patients at high risk of atherosclerotic disease events. epidemiologic and interventional studies have clearly established an inverse association between plasma levels of high-density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol and incidence of atherosclerosis. in this cohort study, statin therapy was not associated with a decreased risk of dementia. clinical trials demonstrate that cardiovascular event rates diminish as low-density lipoprotein (ldl)-cholesterol and apolipoprotein b-containing particles are lowered with statin treatment. recently, there has been conflicting epidemiologic data indicating that statins decrease the incidence of certain types of cancer, including breast cancer. in a few case studies, analysis of clinical data has revealed a decreased risk of fracture in patients on statin therapy. however, this reduction in the incidence of fracture is not always observed nor is it supported by an increase in bone density, which further complicates our understanding of the role of statins in bone metabolism. in this study, we examined the effect of statin treatment on osteoclastogenesis. in conclusion, our data indicate that lovastatin inhibits osteoclast development through inhibition of geranylgeranylation of key prenylated proteins and that the bone effects of statins are at least partially due to their effects on osteoclast numbers. 
There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. [SEP] we found no clear correlations between the fgfr4 genotype and risk of bladder cancer or pathological parameters. there are no data regarding the possible role of the single nucleotide polymorphism (snp) of class i histone deacetylases (hdacs) in type 2 diabetes mellitus (dm). whereas a recent study reported an increased risk of colorectal cancer associated with any hfe germ line mutation (c282y or h63d), other investigators have concluded there is no increased risk, or that any increase is dependent on polymorphisms in hfe-interacting genes such as the transferrin receptor (tfr). using pcr, restriction enzyme mapping, sequencing followed by data analysis with fisher's exact test and logistic regression, we show that the presence of any hfe mutation (y282 or d63) was not associated with colorectal cancer risk (p = 0.57). overall, our data indicate that individuals with a single hfe mutation, c282y or h63d, are unlikely predisposed to develop colorectal cancer. tfr gene polymorphism was not an independent risk factor and did not modify the disease risk associated with hfe mutation. a prospective study of 149 unselected incident cases of pancreatic adenocarcinoma and 146 ethnically-matched controls found no associations between gstm1 (adjusted odds ratio (aor) 1.14), gstt1 (aor: 1.19) and cyp1a1 (aor: 1.08) polymorphisms and pancreatic cancer susceptibility. these polymorphisms do not appear to be important gene modifiers in pancreatic cancer. the variant alleles of the functional polymorphisms vegf -2578 c > a, -1498 t > c and +936 c > t snps were not associated with esophageal cancer risk. none of the high frequency variants of the incretin-related genes has been found by genome-wide association study (gwas) for association with occurrence of type 2 diabetes in japanese. 
Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. [SEP] graded compression stockings are commonly used to prevent deep-vein thrombosis (dvt) after stroke, but their efficacy in this setting has not been evaluated. background: the thromboprophylactic efficacy of graduated compression stockings (gcs) has not yet been demonstrated in acutely ill medical patients, and guidelines vary considerably. in small trials of patients undergoing surgery, graduated compression stockings (gcs) reduce the risk of dvt. we assessed the effectiveness of thigh-length gcs to reduce dvt after stroke. these data do not lend support to the use of thigh-length gcs in patients admitted to hospital with acute stroke. graduated compression stockings (gcs) are often used for deep vein thrombosis prophylaxis in nonsurgical patients, although evidence on their effectiveness is lacking in this setting. graduated elastic compression stockings are a simple alternative but are not widely used in stroke patients, perhaps because of perceived contraindications and problems with tolerability. to establish the feasibility and tolerability of graduated compression stockings on a stroke unit. we assessed 112 consecutive stroke patients for contraindications to and tolerability of graduated compression stockings. the evidence base supporting the use of graduated compression stockings (gcs) for venous thromboembolism (vte) prevention has been challenged, and there appears to be a lack of evidence for the additional benefit of gcs to pharmacologic thromboprophylaxis. 
Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. [SEP] it has essentially no effect on the reuptake of norepinephrine or other neurotransmitters. nomifensine is nonsedating and impairs neither psychomotor nor cognitive performance. mianserin seems to have little effect on peripheral noradrenaline (na) re-uptake mechanisms as shown by its lack of effects on the tyramine dose and na dose/pressor response. mianserin has no effect on the hypotensive action of bethanidine. ramelteon had no effect on the number of central, obstructive, or mixed apnea episodes. ramelteon did not meaningfully affect sleep when evaluated by polysomnography and post-sleep questionnaire. compared with placebo, ramelteon had no significant effect on next-day residual effects. no adverse events were reported with placebo. iprindole, an active antidepressant in clinical use, has no effect on norepinephrine reuptake and does not bind to receptors of the noradrenergic system. this effect is antagonized by propranolol but not by atenolol or metoprolol. 
Transferred UCB T cells acquire a memory-like phenotype in recipients. [SEP] human cd8+ effector t cells derived from cd45ro+cd62l+ precursors enriched for central memory (tcm) precursors retain the capacity to engraft and reconstitute functional memory upon adoptive transfer, whereas effectors derived from cd45ro+cd62l- precursors enriched for effector memory precursors do not. while several studies have so far shown that b cell depletion reduces the persistence of memory cd4 t cells in the spleen, we here show that b cell depletion enhances the establishment of memory cd4 t cells in the bm and that b cell transfer conversely suppresses it. the bone marrow maintains memory cd4 t cells, which provide memory to systemic antigens. to examine the functional characteristics of memory cd4+ t cells, we used an adoptive transfer system to generate a stable population of ag-specific memory cells in vivo and compared their responses to ag with those of a similar population of ag-specific naive cells. the t cells in the bone marrow (bm) have recently been shown to be enriched with memory t cells. the possible role of these bm-resident memory t cells in the development of graft-versus-host disease (gvhd) is also discussed. accumulating evidence suggests that alloreactive memory t cells (tm) may be generated in transplant recipients that have not previously been exposed to alloantigen through mechanisms such as cross-reactivity and homeostatic proliferation. various populations of memory phenotype cd8(+) t cells have been described over the last 15-20 y, all of which possess elevated effector functions relative to naive phenotype cells. memory cd4(+) t cells promote protective humoral immunity; however, how memory t cells acquire this activity remains unclear. this study demonstrates that cd4(+) t cells develop into antigen-specific memory t cells that can promote the terminal differentiation of memory b cells far more effectively than their naive t-cell counterparts. 
Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. [SEP] in the current study embryonic rat-derived astrocytes were cultured and transduced with a lentiviral vector expressing the reporter gene green fluorescent protein (gfp) and subsequently grafted into the adult rat brain. the transplantation of genetically modified cells represents one potential means of delivering trophic factors to the brain to support the survival of host neurons and to increase the survival of co-grafted cells. a new technology called in vivo glia-to-neuron conversion has emerged in recent years as a promising next generation therapy for neural regeneration and repair. after transplantation into the adult cns the immortalized neural stem cell lines st14a and hib5 differentiate preferentially into glia-like cells. after lesions of the host brain, which activate resting glial populations, the grafted cells responded with up-regulation of glial markers and a change in morphology towards a reactive state. the results show that the astrocytes formed by the grafted neural stem cells become functionally integrated in the host brain and that they may take an active part in the reactive gliosis caused by brain damage. direct grafts of human cells into immunocompromised or cortisone-treated animals, either alone or within carrier materials, have been used with some success to assess the developmental capability of the grafted cells. glial progenitor cells are widely distributed in brain parenchyma and represent a suitable target for future therapeutic interventions that generate new neurons via in situ reprogramming. previous studies have shown successful reprogramming of mouse glia into neurons whereas the conversion of human glial cells remains challenging due to the limited accessibility of human brain tissue. converting resident glia into functional and subtype-specific neurons in vivo by delivering reprogramming genes directly to the brain provides a step forward toward the possibility of treating brain injuries or diseases. 
Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. [SEP] fibroblasts genetically modified with retroviral vectors fail to demonstrate long-term transgene expression upon implantation into the body. glial cell transplantation is a potential therapy for human demyelinating disease, though obtaining large numbers of human myelinating cells for transplantation remains a major stumbling block. autologous transplantation is currently not possible, since the adult human cns is not a good source of oligodendrocyte precursors, and long-term immunosuppression of engrafted allogeneic or xenogeneic cells is therefore likely to be necessary. the neurogenesis amount in central nervous system (cns) stimulated by the injury or diseases is so small that neural stem cells (nscs) cannot specifically differentiate into the ideal phenotypes to repair the injured cns. the transplanted exogenous nscs also have such problems as poor survival and insufficient neuronal differentiation. attempts to repopulate the retina with grafted neurons have been unsuccessful, in large part because donor cells prefer not to integrate with those of the host. here we describe the first use of neural progenitor cells in the diseased adult retina. adult rat hippocampal progenitor cells were injected into the eyes of rats with a genetic retinal degeneration. transplantation of embryonic neural tissue is a potential treatment for parkinson's disease. the poor regenerative capability of stem cell transplantation in the central nervous system limits their therapeutic efficacy in brain injuries. 
Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. [SEP] interleukin-10 (il-10) counteracts the effects of the proinflammatory cytokines interleukin-1 (il-1), interleukin-6 (il-6), and tumor necrosis factor (tnf). the pro-inflammatory peptide tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf) stimulates production of the anti-inflammatory cytokine-interleukin-10 by monocytes which in turn inhibits the synthesis of tnf. interleukin (il)-10 suppresses synthesis of the pro-inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor (tnf)alpha, il-1beta, and interferon (ifn)gamma. interleukin 1 (il-1), either il-1 alpha or il-1 beta, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-alpha) are primarily inflammatory cytokines. il-4, il-10, and il-3 suppress gene expression and synthesis of il-1 and tnf. unlike tgf-beta, il-10 markedly suppressed tnf, il-1 alpha, and il-1 beta mrna levels. interleukin-1 (il-1) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-alpha) have been reported to inhibit the synthesis of erythropoietin (epo) in vitro. il-10 inhibits the production of proinflammatory cytokines such as il-1, tumour necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-a), interferon-gamma (ifn-gamma) and il-6 through inhibitory action on th1 cells and macrophages, and it is thought to be a suppressor type cytokine. interleukin-10 (il-10), also known as cytokine synthesis inhibitory factor, is capable of inhibiting synthesis of pro-inflammatory cytokines like ifngamma, il-2, il-3, tnfalpha and gm-csf made by cells such as macrophages and t helper type 1 cells. tumour necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-alpha) and interleukin-1 beta (il-1 beta) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that play an important role in severe infections, whereas il-1 receptor antagonist (il-1ra) and il-10 are anti-inflammatory cytokines that counteract their effects. 
UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. [SEP] among the large numbers of t cells in the periphery, t cells exhibit structural diversity, i.e., the expression of a diverse repertoire of t cell receptors (tcrs), and functional diversity, i.e., the presence of t cells at naive, effector, and memory developmental stages. immunoglobulin and specific antibody levels are well maintained in the recipients of t-cell-depleted allogeneic bone marrow transplants (bmt), even though up to 99% of mature t cells are removed from the donor graft. normalization of restricted t-cell-receptor (tcr) repertoire is critical following t-cell-depleted (tcd) stem cell transplantation. we present a prospective study analyzing respective contributions of naive and memory t-cell subsets within the cd4(+) and cd8(+) compartments to the evolution of overall tcr-repertoire complexity following transplantation of cd34-selected peripheral blood progenitor cells from unrelated donors. during the first year after transplantation, sorted cd4/45ra, cd4/45r0, cd8/45ra, and cd8/45r0 subsets were analyzed at 3-month intervals for tcr-repertoire complexity by cdr3 size spectratyping. our data provide direct evidence for an important role of de novo maturation of naive t cells in normalization of an initially restricted tcr-repertoire following transplantation of cd34-selected, tcd-depleted peripheral blood progenitors from unrelated donors. we have previously reported that there exists a highly conserved tcr pattern among intestinal cd8+ t cells in the majority of ulcerative colitis (uc) patients undergoing colectomy that was not present in normal control individuals. the previously described uc-associated tcrbv cdr3 region motif located in the intestinal cd8+ t-cell subset is found in a significant proportion of uc subjects. the persistent and diffuse nature of this tcr-associated motif in uc suggests that an ongoing t-cell response to a particular antigen(s) is occuring in this disorder. homeostatic maintenance of t cells with broad clonal diversity is influenced by both continuing output of young t cells from the thymus and ongoing turnover of preexisting clones in the periphery. 
UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. [SEP] t cell diversity posttransplantation is thought to be severely restricted, based on t cell receptor beta-chain immunophenotyping or spectratyping. using beta-chain sequencing, we studied cd4 t cell diversity in 2 adult patients undergoing "lymphoablative" conditioning with cyclophosphamide (cy), total body irradiation (tbi), and antithymocyte globulin (atg) and autologous transplantation of hematopoietic cells depleted of t cells by enrichment for cd34 cells. in conclusion, the number of t cells early after lymphoablative conditioning and autologous cd34 cell transplantation may be more diverse than previously appreciated, possibly because many t cell clones survive the conditioning or are reinfused with the graft. donor-reactive memory t cells undermine the survival of transplanted organs through multiple pathways. the presence of cd28(-) memory cd8 t cells in the peripheral blood of renal transplant patients is a risk factor for graft rejection and resistance to ctla-4ig induction therapy. we also demonstrated in hla-matched donor-patient pairs that leukemia-reactive cd8 cytotoxic t-lymphocytes were mainly derived from subsets enriched for naïve t cells compared to memory t cells. the frequency of cd4+cxcr5+ t cells was decreased in atb patients. cd8+ t cell clonal expansions (tce) are the most drastic manifestation of, and possible contributors to, this reduced diversity. we show that the presence of tce results in reduced cd8+, but not cd4+, t cell diversity, and in functional inability to mobilize parts of the cd8+ t cell repertoire affected by tce. thymic central tolerance eliminates most immature t cells with autoreactive t cell receptors (tcr) that recognize self mhc/peptide complexes. 
Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. [SEP] the ubiquitin (ub)-conjugating enzyme, ubc13, has been known to be involved in error-free dna damage tolerance (or post-replication repair) via catalyzing lys63-linked polyubiquitin chains formation together with a ubc variant. the e2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme ubc13 plays pivotal roles in diverse biological processes. uev1a encodes a ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme variant (ubc13), which is required for ubc13-catalyzed lys63-linked polyubiquitination of target proteins and nuclear factor κb (nf-кb) activation. thus far, ubc13 is the only known ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (e2) specialized in k63-linked polyubiquitination. previous identification of arabidopsis genes encoding ubc13 as well as its interacting partner uev1 indicates that the ubc13-mediated ubiquitination pathway is conserved in plants; however, little is known about functions and signaling mediated through k63-linked polyubiquitination in plants. polyubiquitination can mediate several different biochemical functions, determined in part by which lysine of ubiquitin is used to link the polyubiquitin chain. among the hect domain ubiquitin ligases, some, such as human e6ap, preferentially catalyze the formation of k48-linked polyubiquitin chains, while others, including saccharomyces cerevisiae rsp5 and human itch, preferentially catalyze the formation of k63-linked chains. pcna can be monoubiquitylated at lysine 164 by the rad6-rad18 ubiquitin ligase complex. monoubiquitylated pcna can be polyubiquitylated on lysine 63 of ubiquitin by a further ubiquitin-conjugating complex. ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme variant uev1a is required for ubc13-catalyzed k63-linked poly-ubiquitination that regulates several signaling pathways including nf-κb, mapk and pi3k/akt. 
Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. [SEP] ultrasound-guided procedures are increasingly common in a variety of acute care settings, such as the operating room, critical care unit and emergency room. however, accurate judgment of needle tip position using traditional ultrasound technology is frequently difficult, and serious injury can result from inadvertently advancing beyond or through the target. ultrasound-guided percutaneous needle insertions are widely used techniques in current clinical practice. difficulties with ultrasound guidance in these areas often result from steep needle insertion angles and spatial offsets between the imaging plane and the needle. overshooting trocar insertion in iaparoscopic surgery has been extensively cited as a major cause of surgical injury. ultrasound guidance is becoming standard practice for needle-based interventions in anaesthetic practice, such as vascular access and peripheral nerve blocks. needle prick injury is a well known hazard for surgeons and their assistants. in this study the high incidence of sharp needle injury was confirmed (18.9%), with more than one third (8.7%) resulting in skin puncture. the method presented in this paper has strong potential to improve the safety and efficiency of ultrasound-guided needle insertions. most studies to date confirm that any increase in the needle insertion force increases the damage to the tissue. 
Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. [SEP] senescence resistance in p53-mutant cells has been attributed mostly to inhibition of the checkpoint function of p53 in response to senescence-inducing stress signals. senescence in cultured cells is associated with augmented p53 activity and abrogation of p53 activity may delay in vitro senescence. increasing evidence suggests that p53 may also influence aspects of organismal aging. these p53 mutants exhibit increased cancer resistance, yet have a shortened longevity and display a number of early aging-associated phenotypes, suggesting a role for p53 in the aging process. here, we examine senescence, apoptosis, and dna damage responses in a mouse accelerated aging model that exhibits increased p53 activity, the p53(+/m) mouse. however, besides inducing cell growth arrest and apoptosis, p53 activation also modulates cellular senescence and organismal aging. therefore, via the regulation of senescence, p53 contributes to tumor growth suppression, in a manner strictly dependent by its expression and cellular context. in this review, we focus on the recent advances on the contribution of p53 to cellular senescence and its implication for cancer therapy, and we will discuss p53's impact on animal lifespan. moreover, we describe p53-mediated regulation of several physiological pathways that could mediate its role in both senescence and aging. resistance to oxidative stress correlates with delayed aging in mammals, in the absence of accelerated tumorigenesis, suggesting inactivation of selected p53-downstream pathways. 
Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. [SEP] west nile virus (wnv) is a flavivirus that has disseminated globally as a significant cause of viral encephalitis in humans. the flavivirus west nile virus (wnv) is an emerging pathogen that causes life-threatening encephalitis in susceptible individuals. west nile virus (wnv) is a neurotropic, mosquito-borne flavivirus that can cause lethal meningoencephalitis. infection by the flavivirus west nile (wnv) is associated with a virus-specific increase of major histocompatibility complex class i (mhc-i) molecules on the cell surface of diploid vertebrate cells. west nile virus (wnv) is a neurotropic flavivirus that can cause significant neurological disease. west nile virus (wnv), the leading cause of viral encephalitis in the united states, is an arthropod-transmitted member of the family flaviviridae. infection with mosquito-borne west nile virus (wnv) is usually asymptomatic but can lead to severe wnv encephalitis. west nile virus is a mosquito-borne, neurotropic flavivirus that causes encephalitis in humans and animals. west nile virus (wnv) is a neurotropic flavivirus that has emerged globally as a significant cause of viral encephalitis in humans. west nile virus (wnv) is a re-emerging pathogen and the leading cause of epidemic encephalitis in the united states. 
Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. [SEP] varenicline, a new treatment for smoking cessation, has demonstrated significantly greater efficacy over placebo and sustained release bupropion (bupropion sr). `varenicline use has been shown to produce greater long-term smoking cessation rates than bupropion but has no clear differences compared to the transdermal nicotine patch. we performed this study to compare the effectiveness of varenicline with the nicotine patch at 3 and 6 months of follow-up of patients in an outpatient smoking cessation program provided by a hospital in southern taiwan. varenicline use in a sample of treatment-seeking-dependent smokers was associated with significantly higher abstinence rates than the nicotine patch. varenicline tartrate is superior for smoking cessation to other tobacco cessation therapies by 52 weeks, in the outpatient setting. the aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of varenicline in monotherapy or in combined therapy with bupropion and/or serotonin reuptake inhibitors (sris) in a specific cardiovascular smoking cessation service. bupropion was combined in patients that did not achieve complete tobacco abstinence in 2 or 3 weeks after starting varenicline use or if the patient presented uncomfortable abstinent symptoms. varenicline in combination with nrt was more effective than varenicline alone at achieving tobacco abstinence at 12 weeks (end of treatment) and at 6 months. varenicline is known to have greater efficacy than other pharmacotherapy for treating nicotine dependence and has gained popularity since its introduction in 2006. varenicline is a relatively new drug developed especially for this purpose, and it has been shown to achieve better quit rates than nicotine replacement therapies and the non-nicotine-based drug, bupropion, which has been in use for some years. 
Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. [SEP] arteriovenous malformations (avms) of the orbit are progressively enlarging communications between arteries and veins that bypass normal capillary beds. the density of native (preexisting) collaterals and their capacity to enlarge into large conduit arteries in ischemia (arteriogenesis) are major determinants of the severity of tissue injury in occlusive disease. compared to wild-type mice, vegf(lo/+) had 2-fold lower perfusion immediately after ligation (suggesting fewer native collaterals which was confirmed by angiography) and blunted recovery of perfusion. these differences were confirmed in the cerebral pial cortical circulation where, compared to vegf(hi/+) mice, vegf(lo/+) formed fewer collaterals during the perinatal period when adult density was established, and had 2-fold larger infarctions after middle cerebral artery ligation. our findings indicate vegf and vegfr-1 are determinants of arteriogenesis. the fine structure of blood vessels with a diameter of less than 50 micrometers, i.e. small arterioles, capillaries and postcapillary venules were studied. the number of pinocytotic vesicles was greater in capillary endothelium than in arterioles and venules. there was regional variation in vesicle frequency in capillary endothelial cells (arteriolar and venule cells not studied). nerve fibres in the vicinity of blood vessels contained granular and clear vesicles. 
Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. [SEP] in arterioles of the lung the intravascular blood pressures are lower than in comparable vessels in the systemic circulation and the arteriole walls are thinner. therefore, it is very difficult to distinguish between arterioles and venules of the same size using scanning electron microscopy. this study describes a novel application of latex microsphere perfusion and scanning electron microscopy which distinguishes between pulmonary arterioles and venules on the basis of endothelial cell morphology. in contrast, the endothelial cells of equal diameter venules are polygonal. furthermore, the nuclei of the arteriolar endothelial cells were significantly (p = 0.019) narrower than those of endothelial cells in venules of equal diameter. finally, it was observed that the differences between arteriole and venule endothelial cells persisted distally to the capillaries. varicose veins are not generally used as arterial bypass grafts despite their physiological endothelial flow surface. in general, dilated and varicose veins are not used as arterial bypass grafts despite their physiological endothelial lining. the endothelial cells of the venules (collecting venules) of the thyroid gland of the dog are very thin and show fenestrations. the endothelial cells in the lymphatic vessels are also thin, but continuous. 
Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. [SEP] vitamin d deficiency during pregnancy has important health implications for the mother and infant. of particular concern is the high incidence of vitamin d deficiency in women during pregnancy and lactation, leading to the exposure of the growing fetus/infant to inadequate levels of vitamin d, which is essential for normal development. more than half of pregnant women are affected by vitamin d insufficiency/deficiency. studies suggest an association between low vitamin d concentrations during pregnancy with intrauterine growth restriction and prematurity. maternal vitamin d level in pregnancy may have implications for both the mother and fetus. deficiency of vitamin d has been linked to several pregnancy complications and fetal skeletal health. vitamin d deficiency among pregnant women is frequent in many populations over the world. vitamin d deficiency during pregnancy is the origin for a host of future perils for the child, especially effect on neurodevelopment and immune system. vitamin d nutrition has a profound effect on the development of an infant. this review explores the recent advances in the understanding of vitamin d and the pivotal role it plays in human reproduction, with an emphasis on pregnancy and its outcomes. 
Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. [SEP] although data from basic research indicate that vitamin d deficiency may have an effect on steroidogenesis and follicular development, our study, by prospectively recruiting a large number of infertile women, clearly demonstrates that vitamin d deficiency is highly unlikely to have a detrimental effect on ovarian reserve. vitamin d deficiency in pregnancy has been associated with decreased fetal growth, but previous studies have found no direct relation between the weight of the new-born child and the maternal serum level of 25-hydroxyvitamin d3 (calcidiol). no confounding effect of gestational age, sex of the infant, maternal height and body mass index (bmi) was found. the study indicates that vitamin d deficiency affects fetal growth through an effect on maternal calcium homeostasis. no studies have explored the relationship with maternal vitamin d (25(oh)d) in pregnancy and offspring trabecular bone score (tbs). previously, we demonstrated that maternal serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d (25(oh)d) during pregnancy is associated with offspring bone mineral content at age 11 years. this recommendation is irrelevant with respect to maintaining the nutritional vitamin d status of mothers and nursing infants, especially among darkly pigmented individuals. our objective was to examine the effect of high-dose maternal vitamin d2 supplementation on the nutritional vitamin d status of mothers and nursing infants. to investigate the role of the fetus in vitamin d metabolism concentrations of vitamin d metabolites, 25(oh)d, 24,25(oh)2d and 1,25(oh)2d, were measured in human umbilical artery and vein. rats were raised in the absence of vitamin d in utero and throughout post-fetal life and neither 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 nor related metabolites were detected in serums. 
Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. [SEP] high birth weight has been proposed to increase the risk of breast cancer. the risk of breast cancer increased with birth weight. compared with women with birth weight of less than 2,000 g, women with birth weight of at least 3,000 g had a nonsignificant increase in risk of developing breast cancer (or = 3.5; 95% ci 0.7-18.5). breast cancer incidence is increased in women with both high and low birth weight. previous studies have established that higher birthweight is associated with increased risk of breast cancer. we explored whether maternal pregnancy weight gain and pre-pregnancy body mass index (bmi), which influence birthweight, are associated with risk of breast cancer in offspring. the association between birthweight and breast cancer risk is likely due to factors independent of mothers' weight gain during pregnancy or pre-pregnancy bmi. rapid weight gain and height in infancy predict breast cancer risk in later life. compared with lean women, obese women are more likely to be diagnosed with a larger, higher grade tumor, an increased incidence of lymph node metastases, and elevated risk of distant recurrence. high body mass index (bmi) and adult weight gain are risk factors for a number of chronic diseases, including postmenopausal breast cancer. 
aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. [SEP] tumourigenic cells modify metabolic pathways in order to facilitate increased proliferation and cell survival resulting in glucose- and glutamine addiction. this is ascribed to tumourigenic cells utilising increased glutamine quantities for enhanced glycolysis- and glutaminolysis. cancer cells often require glutamine for growth, thereby distinguishing them from most normal cells. here we show that pik3ca mutations reprogram glutamine metabolism by upregulating glutamate pyruvate transaminase 2 (gpt2) in colorectal cancer (crc) cells, making them more dependent on glutamine. here we report the identification of a non-canonical pathway of glutamine use in human pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (pdac) cells that is required for tumour growth. recent studies highlight the importance of glutamine metabolism in metabolic reprogramming, which underlies cancer cell addiction to glutamine. in this perspective, we assess the possibility of targeting glutamine metabolism as a therapeutic modality for cancer. many cancer cells exhibit an altered metabolic phenotype, in which glutamine consumption is upregulated relative to healthy cells. cancer cells sustain growth by altering their metabolism to accelerated aerobic glycolysis accompanied by increased glucose demand and employ glutamine as additional nutrient source. the growth and development of non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) primarily depends on glutamine. 
cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. [SEP] the c-myc oncogene encodes a transcription factor, which is sufficient and necessary for the induction of cellular proliferation. however, the c-myc protein is a relatively weak transactivator suggesting that it may have other functions. to identify protein interactors which may reveal new functions or represent regulators of c-myc we systematically identified proteins associated with c-myc in vivo using a proteomic approach. furthermore, sucrose gradient analysis demonstrated that c-myc is present in numerous complexes with varying size and composition, which may accommodate the large number of new c-myc-associated proteins identified here and mediate the diverse functions of c-myc. our results suggest that c-myc, besides acting as a mitogenic transcription factor, regulates cellular proliferation by direct association with protein complexes involved in multiple synthetic processes required for cell division, as for example dna-replication/repair and rna-processing. furthermore, this first comprehensive description of the c-myc-associated sub-proteome will facilitate further studies aimed to elucidate the biology of c-myc. cell-cell interactions that result from membrane proteins binding weakly in trans can cause accumulations in cis that suggest cooperativity and thereby an acute sensitivity to environmental factors. biomolecular recognition is often characterised by low affinity where many weak interactions work either alone or in concert, resulting in an inherent dynamic situation. for example the well-studied weak binding of cell-cell interactions is predominantly based on a range of carbohydrates that interact with numerous (protein) ligands. it is also reported to be a putative calmodulin (cam) target, able to bind cam in its calcium-free state, but little is known about the structural features and the biological relevance of this interaction. 
mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. [SEP] previous studies have reported that mtorc2 promotes cell survival through phosphorylating akt and enhancing its activity. we reveal another mechanism by which mtorc2 controls apoptosis. inactivation of mtorc2 promotes binding of cip2a to pp2a, leading to reduced pp2a activity toward c-myc serine 62 and, consequently, enhancement of c-myc phosphorylation and expression. in vivo experiments using b cell-specific mtorc2 (rapamycin-insensitive companion of mtor) deletion mice and a xenograft tumor model confirmed that inactivation of mtorc2 causes up-regulation of c-myc and mir-9-3p, down-regulation of e2f1, and consequent reduction in cell survival. our in vitro and in vivo findings collectively demonstrate that mtorc2 promotes cell survival by stimulating e2f1 expression through a c-myc- and mir-9-3p-dependent mechanism. oxidative stress affects mtorc1 via inhibitory and stimulatory inputs. whereas downregulation of tsc1-tsc2 activates mtorc1 upon oxidative stress, the molecular mechanism of mtorc1 inhibition remains unknown. in turn, balanced mtorc1 activity enables expression of stress factors. mtorc1 regulates cell proliferation, survival, and metabolism and is often dysregulated in cancers, indicating that cancer cells may regulate castor1 and castor2 to control mtorc1 signaling and promote tumorigenesis. our results have implications for the use of mtorc2-inhibiting pharmaceuticals in the treatment of brain cancer and diseases of aging. 
p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). [SEP] altered pattern of p16 serves as a biomarker for oral mucosal dysplasia and malignant growth. these results suggest that inactivation of p16 is an early detectable event in oral tumorigenesis. p16 expression could also be connected with tumor grading and may be useful marker in oral tumor progression. total p16 methylation (p16m), including p16 hydroxymethylation (p16h) and true-p16m, correlates with malignant transformation of oral epithelial dysplasia (oed). the purpose of this review is to elucidate the relationship between p16(ink4a) expression and the different clinical and pathological aspects of oscc, analyze the variation in results between studies, detailing the described genetic/epigenetic alterations that result in gene silencing and the relationship between p16(ink4a) and hpv infection. the number and size of blood vessels increased from normal oral epithelium through dysplastic epithelium to reach a maximum in invasive carcinoma. angiogenesis and p53 protein immunoreactivity increased with progression from normal mucosa to invasive carcinoma, and both factors were directly correlated to each other suggesting that they may play a critical role in oral carcinogenesis. p16ink4 protein negative expression correlated significantly with tumor progression features such as advanced tumor stages (p=0.0291), lymph node metastasis (p=0.005), pancreas invasion (p=0.0002) and duodenum invasion (p=0.0101). the objective of this study was to use immunohistochemistry to analyze the patterns of expression of the cell-cycle regulatory proteins p53 and p16(ink4a) in potentially malignant disorders (pmd) of the oral mucosa (with varying degrees of dysplasia) and in oral squamous cell carcinomas (oscc) to correlate them with the expression of telomerase (htert). p16(ink4a) expression was observed in 26.7% of pmd, in 43.3% of oscc and in 2 cases of oeh. 
