0-dimensional biomaterials lack inductive properties. [SEP] It does not represent a magnetic field here. A current-controlled memristor can thus not exist as a solid-state device in physical reality. It has been proven that some types of non-crossing pinched hysteresis curves (denoted Type-II) cannot be described by memristors. In particular, the feasibility of using a collagen‐based biomemristor as an artificial synaptic device has been investigated, whereas a synaptic device based on lignin demonstrated rising or lowering current with consecutive voltage sweeps depending on the sign of the voltage furthermore a natural silk fibroin demonstrated memristive properties; spin-memristive systems based on biomolecules are also being studied.In 2012, Sandro Carrara and co-authors have proposed the first biomolecular memristor with aims to realize highly sensitive biosensors. Wavelength- and subwavelength-scale particles, metamaterials, and other nanostructures are not subject to ray-optical limits and may be designed to exceed the Stefan–Boltzmann law. They are virtually incompressible solids with high electron density and high bond covalency. Electrical energy can be transferred between separate coils without a metallic (conductive) connection between the two circuits. David C. Watts (born 1945): British biophysicist who is a Professor of Biomaterials Science at the University of Manchester: co-discoverer of the KWW stretched-exponential function for relaxation phenomena in condensed media and expert on photopolymerised composite biomaterials. 
1 in 5 million in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. [SEP] The significance of this finding is not clear, but it is presumed to relate to PrP structure or function. PrP and long-term memory
A review of evidence in 2005 suggested that PrP may have a normal function in maintenance of long-term memory. In 2013, a study revealed that 1 in 2,000 people in the United Kingdom might harbour the infectious prion protein that causes vCJD.Until 2015 all known mammalian prion diseases were considered to be caused by the prion protein, PrP; in 2015 multiple system atrophy was found to be transmissible and was hypothesized to be caused by a new prion, the misfolded form of a protein called alpha-synuclein. Of these, 16 samples were positive for abnormal prion protein, indicating an overall prevalence of 493 per million population, or one in 2,000 people are likely to be carriers. Genetic testing of the 16 positive samples revealed a higher proportion of valine homozygous (VV) genotype on the codon 129 of the gene encoding the prion protein (PRNP) compared with the general UK population. In the familial form, a mutation has occurred in the gene for PrP, PRNP, in that family. Approximately 85% of CJD cases are sporadic and 10-15% of CJD cases are due to inherited mutations of the prion protein gene. In the United Kingdom, the disease is the reason for 5% of emergency hospital admissions. 
1-1% of colorectal cancer patients are diagnosed with regional or distant metastases. [SEP] Globally, colorectal cancer is the third most common type of cancer, making up about 10% of all cases. A gene that appears to contribute to the potential for metastatic disease, metastasis associated in colon cancer 1 (MACC1), has been isolated. 15 to 18 percent of colorectal cancer tumours have MMR deficiencies, with 3 percent developing due to Lynch syndrome. Even small localized tumors are increasingly recognized as possessing metastatic potential. In 26% of presumably early-stage cancers, intraoperative staging revealed pelvic and distant metastases, making comprehensive surgical staging necessary. However, over 10% of patients presenting to oncology units will have metastases without a primary tumor found. About 5-30% of ovarian cancers are due to metastases, while the rest are primary cancers. It is estimated that among the cells that have detached from the primary tumor, only 0.01% can form metastases.Circulating tumor cells are found in frequencies on the order of 1-10 CTC per mL of whole blood in patients with metastatic disease. 
10% of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) deaths happen in newborns aged less than 6 months. [SEP] Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) is the sudden unexplained death of a child of less than one year of age. SIDS makes up about 80% of sudden and unexpected infant deaths (SUIDs). SIDS was the third leading cause of death in children less than one year old in the United States in 2011. By definition, SIDS deaths occur under the age of one year, with the peak incidence occurring when the infant is two to four months old. The estimate of the percentage of SIDS deaths that are actually infanticide varies from less than 1% to up to 5% of cases.Some have underestimated the risk of two SIDS deaths occurring in the same family; the Royal Statistical Society issued a media release refuting expert testimony in one UK case, in which the conviction was subsequently overturned. Rates vary significantly by population from 0.05 per 1000 in Hong Kong to 6.7 per 1000 in Native Americans.SIDS was responsible for 0.54 deaths per 1,000 live births in the US in 2005. Crib death – Sudden infant Death Syndrome (SIDS). The age of the most occurring rates of death by SIDS in a child safety device was found to be under one month, having six of the 17 deaths happen in this age group. 
32% of liver transplantation programs required patients to discontinue methadone treatment in 2001. [SEP] In these cases the mortality without liver transplantation (LTx) ranges between 40-80%. Also, due to an increased demand for liver transplantation together with an augmented risk of liver failure following large resections, development of detoxifying extrahepatic systems are necessary. Bridging to liver transplant
Pre-transplant optimization of the patient.MARS Therapy Indication

King's College or Clichy criteria for liver transplantation
Hepatic encephalopathy ≥ II
Increased intracraneal pressure
Acute hypoxic hepatitis with bilirubin > 8 mg/dl (100 μmol/L)
Renal dysfunction or hepatorenal syndrome
Progressive intrahepatic cholestasis
Fulminant Wilson disease
Acute liver dysfunction following paracetamol overdoseTreatment Schedule:

3 to 5 eight-hour treatment sessions in consecutives days
Hypoxic hepatitis. 3 eight-hour treatment sessions in consecutives days
Paracetamol overdose: 3 to 5 twenty four-hour treatment sessions
Mushroom poisoning: 3 to 5 twenty four-hour treatment sessions
Fulminant Wilson: minimum 5 twenty four-hour treatment sessions owing to copper saturation of the treatment kit
Drug overdose: 3 to 5 eight-hour treatment sessions in consecutives days

MARS in Graft Dysfucntion After Liver Transplant
Etiology:

Graft damage during preparation and transportation
Infection
Hepatotoxic drugs
Graft rejection
Technical complications (vascular, biliary)
Recurrence of primary diseaseGoals of MARS Therapy

Recovery and prevention of re-transplantation
• Prolong survival time and stabilize the patient to receive a re-transplant if the above goal is not achievedMARS Therapy Indication

Primary graft dysfunction
Hepatic encephalopathy ≥ II
Increased intracranial pressure
Renal dysfunction or hepatorenal syndrome. Serious liver toxicity was first reported with nefazodone in 1998, and it was withdrawn from most markets by 2004. Nefazodone is contraindicated in patients who were withdrawn from nefazodone because of evident liver injury as well as those that have shown hypersensitivity to the drug, its inactive ingredients, or other phenylpiperazine antidepressants. By the time that it started to be withdrawn from the market in 2003, nefazodone had been associated with at least 53 cases of liver injury, with 11 deaths, in the United States, and 51 cases of liver toxicity, with 2 cases of liver transplantation, in Canada. Fentanyl and methadone are preferred analgesics over morphine, since morphine breakdown produces active metabolites that accumulate in the body of patients with kidney failure. 
4-PBA treatment decreases endoplasmic reticulum stress in response to general endoplasmic reticulum stress markers. [SEP] The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is, in essence, the transportation system of the eukaryotic cell, and has many other important functions such as protein folding. Disturbances in redox regulation, calcium regulation, glucose deprivation, and viral infection or the over-expression of proteins can lead to endoplasmic reticulum stress response (ER stress), a state in which the folding of proteins slows, leading to an increase in unfolded proteins. While they are membraneless organelles, stress granules have been proposed to be associated with the endoplasmatic reticulum. The unfolded protein response (UPR) is a cellular stress response related to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Diseases
Diseases amenable to UPR inhibition include Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and Huntington's disease.Endoplasmic reticulum stress was reported to play a major role in non‐alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) induction and progression. ER stress is known to activate hepatic de novo lipogenesis, inhibit VLDL secretion, promote insulin resistance and inflammatory process, and promote cell apoptosis. See also
Endoplasmic reticulum stress response (ER stress)
Mitochondrial unfolded protein response
Aggresome
PERK inhibitors


== References == Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress
Misfolded and unfolded proteins accumulate in the endoplasmic reticulum. 
4-PBA treatment raises endoplasmic reticulum stress in response to general endoplasmic reticulum stress markers. [SEP] Disturbances in redox regulation, calcium regulation, glucose deprivation, and viral infection or the over-expression of proteins can lead to endoplasmic reticulum stress response (ER stress), a state in which the folding of proteins slows, leading to an increase in unfolded proteins. While they are membraneless organelles, stress granules have been proposed to be associated with the endoplasmatic reticulum. In vitro, these stressors can include heat, cold, oxidative stress (sodium arsenite), endoplasmic reticulum stress (thapsigargin), proteasome inhibition (MG132), hyperosmotic stress, ultraviolet radiation, inhibition of eIF4A (pateamine A, hippuristanol, or RocA), nitric oxide accumulation after treatment with 3-morpholinosydnonimine (SIN-1), perturbation of pre-mRNA splicing, and other stressors, like puromycin, which result in disassembled polysomes. The unfolded protein response (UPR) is a cellular stress response related to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Diseases
Diseases amenable to UPR inhibition include Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and Huntington's disease.Endoplasmic reticulum stress was reported to play a major role in non‐alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) induction and progression. ER stress is known to activate hepatic de novo lipogenesis, inhibit VLDL secretion, promote insulin resistance and inflammatory process, and promote cell apoptosis. See also
Endoplasmic reticulum stress response (ER stress)
Mitochondrial unfolded protein response
Aggresome
PERK inhibitors


== References == Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress
Misfolded and unfolded proteins accumulate in the endoplasmic reticulum. 
40mg/day dosage of folic acid and 2mg/day dosage of vitamin B12 does not affect chronic kidney disease (CKD) progression. [SEP] Vitamin C administration may also acidify the urine and could promote the precipitation of kidney stones or drugs in the urine.Although vitamin C can be well tolerated at doses well above what government organizations recommend, adverse effects can occur at doses above 3 grams per day. Daily doses of 10 mg to 50 mg are recommended for patients undergoing hemodialysis.Outside of rare medical conditions, placebo-controlled studies have generally failed to show benefits of high doses of vitamin B6. Side effects such as nausea, vomiting or abdominal pain can be reduced by taking folic acid.A 2015 Cochrane review found rituximab with methotrexate to be effective in improving symptoms compared to methotrexate alone. We see that folate supplementation can reduce the mucosal and gastrointestinal side effects of low dose Methotrexate in patients with RA. Patients on high dose sulfasalazine require folic supplementation (1 mg/day) (1000 µg/day) to maintain normal cell division. Patients on high dose sulfasalazine require folic supplementation (1 mg/day) because it inhibits folate absorption. Additionally, iron supplements and folic acid are recommended to be taken by pregnant women daily. Folic acid can aid neural tube formation in a fetus, which happens early in gestation and therefore should be recommended as soon as possible. 
5'-nucleotidase metabolizes 6MP. [SEP] Cytosolic 5'-nucleotidase 3 (NTC53), also known as cytosolic 5'-nucleotidase 3A, pyrimidine 5’-nucleotidase (PN-I or  P5'NI), and p56, is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the NT5C3, or NT5C3A, gene on chromosome 7.This gene encodes a member of the 5'-nucleotidase family of enzymes that catalyze the dephosphorylation of nucleoside 5'-monophosphates. The encoded protein is the type 1 isozyme of pyrimidine 5' nucleotidase and catalyzes the dephosphorylation of pyrimidine 5' monophosphates. Motif I is responsible for the 5′-nucleotidase activity: the first Asp makes a nucleophilic attack on the phosphate of the nucleoside monophosphate substrate, while the second Asp donates a proton to the leaving nucleoside. Function
NT5C3 is a member of the 5'-nucleotidase family and one of the five cytosolic members identified in humans. NTC53 catalyzes the dephosphorylation of the pyrimidine 5′ monophosphates UMP and CMP to the corresponding nucleosides. Clinical Significance
The loss of NT5C3 in pyrimidine 5' nucleotidase deficiency, an autosomal recessive condition, leads to the accumulation of high concentrations of pyrimidine nucleotides within erythrocytes. These enzymes metabolize nucleotides to nucleosides. In persons with a defective enzyme, 5'-nucleotidase removes the ribose and phosphorus from AMP, increasing levels of adenosine measured in muscle cells by ~16–25×, after exercise. 
50% of patients exposed to radiation have activated markers of mesenchymal stem cells. [SEP] They noted that neither leukemia nor tumors were observed in recipients after intravenous injection of iPSC-derived hematopoietic stem cells into irradiated recipients. These authors state that "Unlike primary mesenchymal stem cells, which are used with little objective evidence in clinical practice to promote tissue repair, iMS cells contribute directly to in vivo tissue regeneration in a context-dependent manner without forming tumors" and thus "has significant scope for application in tissue regeneration". CD47 knockdown acutely increases mRNA levels of c-Myc and other stem cell transcription factors in cells in vitro and in vivo. In vivo blockade of CD47 using an antisense morpholino increases survival of mice exposed to lethal total body irradiation due to increased proliferative capacity of bone marrow-derived cells and radioprotection of radiosensitive gastrointestinal tissues. Mesenchymal stem cells
Induction
Mesenchymal stem/stromal cells (MSCs) are under investigation for applications in cardiac, renal, neural, joint and bone repair, as well as in inflammatory conditions and hemopoietic cotransplantation. Prognosis
Overall the 5-year survival rate is around 54% in the United States. In healthy bone these cells are constantly replaced by differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSC). TGF-β was rapidly activated after in vivo radiation exposure ROS. 
53% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. [SEP] In the United States, a primary determinant of infant mortality risk is infant birth weight, with lower birth weights increasing the risk of infant mortality. The determinants of low birth weight include socioeconomic, psychological, behavioral, and environmental factors. Medicine and biology
Causes of infant mortality and deaths that are related to medical conditions include: low birth weight, sudden infant death syndrome, malnutrition, congenital malformations, infectious diseases, and low income for health care, including neglected tropical diseases. Low birth weight
Low birth weight makes up 60–80% of the infant mortality rate in developing countries. As compared with normal-birth-weight infants, those with low weight at birth are almost 40 times more likely to die in the neonatal period; for infants with very low weight at birth the relative risk of neonatal death is almost 200 times greater." Infant mortality due to low birth weight is usually a direct cause stemming from other medical complications such as preterm birth, poor maternal nutritional status, a lack of prenatal care, maternal sickness during pregnancy, and unhygienic home environments. It is estimated that one third of these low birth weight deliveries are due to preterm delivery. Low birth weight is a significant risk factor. 
61% of colorectal cancer patients are diagnosed with regional or distant metastases. [SEP] Globally, colorectal cancer is the third most common type of cancer, making up about 10% of all cases. A gene that appears to contribute to the potential for metastatic disease, metastasis associated in colon cancer 1 (MACC1), has been isolated. 15 to 18 percent of colorectal cancer tumours have MMR deficiencies, with 3 percent developing due to Lynch syndrome. In addition, 11 hypermethylations and 96 hypomethylations of miRNAs were also associated with colorectal cancers. It is estimated that at least 8 in 100,000 of the people are most likely to developed colorectal cancer every year, which is unlike lung or breast cancer, where for the latter alone is 24 in 100,000 of the women folks alone. About 5-30% of ovarian cancers are due to metastases, while the rest are primary cancers. Around 57% cases have metastasized at the time of diagnosis.In 2014, over 220,000 diagnoses of epithelial ovarian cancer were made yearly. In 26% of presumably early-stage cancers, intraoperative staging revealed pelvic and distant metastases, making comprehensive surgical staging necessary. 
7-day-old adult Caenorhabditis elegans exhibit approximately 5% of the learning capacity seen in 1-day old adults. [SEP] At 20 °C, the laboratory strain of C. elegans (N2) has an average lifespan around 2–3 weeks and a generation time of 3 to 4 days. The adult C. elegans hermaphrodite has 959 somatic cells and the male has 1033 cells, although it has been suggested that the number of their intestinal cells can increase by one to three in response to gut microbes experienced by mothers. The transparency of C. elegans facilitates the study of cellular differentiation and other developmental processes in the intact organism. Ageing
C. elegans has been a model organism for research into ageing; for example, the inhibition of an insulin-like growth factor signaling pathway has been shown to increase adult lifespan threefold; while glucose feeding promotes oxidative stress and reduce adult lifespan by a half. About 35% of C. elegans genes have human homologs. Caenorhabditis elegans at eppo.int (EPPO code CAEOEL)
Cylinder, Drew (2022). A model organism for the study of ageing is the nematode C. elegans – having a short lifespan of 2–3 weeks – enabling genetic manipulations or suppression of gene activity with RNA interference, and other factors. The first evidence comes from the study of longevity in C. elegans. 
7-day-old adult Caenorhabditis elegans exhibit approximately 75% of the learning capacity seen in 1-day old adults. [SEP] At 20 °C, the laboratory strain of C. elegans (N2) has an average lifespan around 2–3 weeks and a generation time of 3 to 4 days. The adult C. elegans hermaphrodite has 959 somatic cells and the male has 1033 cells, although it has been suggested that the number of their intestinal cells can increase by one to three in response to gut microbes experienced by mothers. The transparency of C. elegans facilitates the study of cellular differentiation and other developmental processes in the intact organism. Ageing
C. elegans has been a model organism for research into ageing; for example, the inhibition of an insulin-like growth factor signaling pathway has been shown to increase adult lifespan threefold; while glucose feeding promotes oxidative stress and reduce adult lifespan by a half. About 35% of C. elegans genes have human homologs. Caenorhabditis elegans at eppo.int (EPPO code CAEOEL)
Cylinder, Drew (2022). A model organism for the study of ageing is the nematode C. elegans – having a short lifespan of 2–3 weeks – enabling genetic manipulations or suppression of gene activity with RNA interference, and other factors. The first evidence comes from the study of longevity in C. elegans. 
70% of burn patients are admitted for hospitalization and further treatment after appearing at hospital emergency wards or outpatient clinics. [SEP] The best-known type of hospital is the general hospital, which typically has an emergency department to treat urgent health problems ranging from fire and accident victims to a sudden illness. Some hospitals have outpatient departments and some have chronic treatment units. These facilities handle many kinds of disease and injury, and normally have an emergency department (sometimes known as "accident & emergency") or trauma center to deal with immediate and urgent threats to health. It may also have acute services such as an emergency department, operating theatre, and intensive care unit, as well as a range of medical specialty departments. Similarly, freestanding emergency rooms, which transfer patients that require inpatient care to hospitals, were popularised in the 1970s and have since expanded rapidly across the United States. Around 50% needed surgical management for the burn. Harms included burns accounting for 1–7% of the complete body surface region. Four individuals were admitted to the hospital and six of them received care at an Outpatient Burn Clinic. 
76-85% of people with severe mental disorder receive no treatment in low and middle income countries. [SEP] Approximately 76% to 85% of depressed people in low- and middle-income countries do not receive treatment; barriers to treatment include: inaccurate assessment, lack of trained health-care providers, social stigma and lack of resources.The stigma comes from misguided societal views that people with mental illness are different from everyone else, and they can choose to get better only if they wanted to. Due to this more than half of the people with depression do not receive help with their disorders. Mental health by country
Africa
Mental illnesses and mental health disorders are widespread concerns among underdeveloped African countries, yet these issues are largely neglected, as mental health care in Africa is given statistically less attention than it is in other, westernized nations. Rising death tolls due to mental illness demonstrate the imperative need for improved mental health care policies and advances in treatment for Africans suffering from psychological disorders.Underdeveloped African countries are so visibly troubled by physical illnesses, disease, malnutrition, and contamination that the dilemma of lacking mental health care has not been prioritized, makes it challenging to have a recognized impact on the African population. About half of Africa's countries have some sort of mental health policy, however, these policies are highly disregarded, as Africa's government spends “less than 1% of the total health budget on mental health”. Specifically in Sierra Leone, about 98.8% of people suffering from mental disorders remain untreated, even after the building of a well below average psychiatric hospital, further demonstrating the need for intervention.Not only has there been little hands-on action taken to combat mental health issues in Africa, but there has also been little research done on the topic to spread its awareness and prevent deaths. Low and middle-income countries have a higher burden of mental health disorder as it is not considered as a health problem as other chronic diseases. Although many effective interventions for the treatment of mental disorders are known, and awareness of the need for treatment of people with mental disorders has risen, the proportion of those who need mental health care but who do not receive it remains very high. 
90% of patients with melanoma and an objective response to PD-1 blockade will experience a progression in their melanoma. [SEP] Several PD-1 and PD-L1 inhibitors are being trialled within the clinic for use in advanced melanoma, non-small cell lung cancer, renal cell carcinoma, bladder cancer and Hodgkin lymphoma, amongst other cancer types.Immunotherapy with these immune checkpoint inhibitors appears to shrink tumours in a higher number of patients across a wider range of tumour types and is associated with lower toxicity levels than other immunotherapies, with durable responses. Immune-mediated adverse reactions are usually attributed to generalised dysregulation of T cells or development of autoantibodies, although memory T cell responses against occult viral infections might also play a role in some patients with advanced melanoma following combined PD-1/CTLA-4 blockade.When compared with standard chemotherapeutic agents, PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors had a lower reported incidence of fatigue, sensory neuropathy, diarrhea, bone marrow suppression, loss of appetite, nausea, and constipation. In order to anticipate the effectiveness of gene therapy or systemic immunotherapy in blocking the PD-1 and PD-L1 checkpoints, PD-L1 might be employed as a prognostic marker and a target for anti-cancer immunity. PD-L1 positive tumors were twice as likely to respond to combination treatment. In clinical trials, patients who benefited from anti-PD1 treatment had cancers, such as melanoma, bladder cancer, and gastric cancer, that had a median higher average number of mutations than the patients who did not respond to the therapy. Pembrolizumab (Keytruda, MK-3475, Merck), which also targets PD-1 receptors, was approved by the FDA in Sept 2014 to treat metastatic melanoma. PD-L1 is expressed on 40–50% of melanomas and has limited expression otherwise in most visceral organs with the exception of respiratory epithelium and placental tissue. Melanoma
PD-L1 is expressed in 40-50% of melanomas. 
90% of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) deaths happen in newborns aged less than 6 months. [SEP] Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) is the sudden unexplained death of a child of less than one year of age. SIDS remains the leading cause of infant mortality in Western countries, contributing to half of all post-neonatal deaths.The exact cause of SIDS is unknown. SIDS makes up about 80% of sudden and unexpected infant deaths (SUIDs). SIDS was the third leading cause of death in children less than one year old in the United States in 2011. By definition, SIDS deaths occur under the age of one year, with the peak incidence occurring when the infant is two to four months old. The estimate of the percentage of SIDS deaths that are actually infanticide varies from less than 1% to up to 5% of cases.Some have underestimated the risk of two SIDS deaths occurring in the same family; the Royal Statistical Society issued a media release refuting expert testimony in one UK case, in which the conviction was subsequently overturned. It is responsible for far fewer deaths than congenital disorders and disorders related to short gestation, though it is the leading cause of death in healthy infants after one month of age. Crib death – Sudden infant Death Syndrome (SIDS). 
A 100g dose of chloroquine chemoprophylactic regimen results in retinal toxicity after 1 year of weekly intake. [SEP] There is very low quality evidence indicating that doxycycline use may be associated with an increased risk of indigestion, photosensitivity, vomiting, and yeast infections, when compared with mefloquine and atovaquone-proguanil. Can also be used for therapy in some cases.In areas where chloroquine remains effective:

chloroquine 300 mg once weekly, and proguanil 200 mg once daily (started one week before travel, and continued for four weeks after returning);
hydroxychloroquine 400 mg once weekly (started one to two weeks before travel and continued for four weeks after returning)What regimen is appropriate depends on the person who is to take the medication as well as the country or region travelled to. Other chemoprophylactic regimens that have been used on occasion:

Dapsone 100 mg and pyrimethamine 12.5 mg once weekly (available as a combination tablet called Maloprim or Deltaprim): this combination is not routinely recommended because of the risk of agranulocytosis;
Primaquine 30 mg once daily (started the day before travel, and continuing for seven days after returning): this regimen is not routinely recommended because of the need for G-6-PD testing prior to starting primaquine (see the article on primaquine for more information). Quinine sulfate 300 to 325 mg once daily: this regimen is effective but not routinely used because of the unpleasant side effects of quinine.Prophylaxis against Plasmodium vivax requires a different approach given the long liver stage of this parasite. Toxicity is the degree to which a chemical substance or a particular mixture of substances can damage an organism. Radiation can have a toxic effect on organisms.Behavioral toxicity refers to the undesirable effects of essentially therapeutic levels of medication clinically indicated for a given disorder (DiMascio, Soltys and Shader, 1970). The preclinical toxicity testing on various biological systems reveals the species-, organ- and dose-specific toxic effects of an investigational product. Chronic exposure
Continuous exposure to a toxicant over an extended period of time, often measured in months or years; it can cause irreversible side effects. 
A 100g dose of chloroquine chemoprophylactic regimen results in retinal toxicity after 5-6 years of weekly intake. [SEP] Because resistance varies from one individual to another, the "lethal dose" represents a dose (usually recorded as dose per kilogram of subject body weight) at which a given percentage of subjects will die. The related quantities LD50/30 or LD50/60 are used to refer to a dose that without treatment will be lethal to 50% of the population within (respectively) 30 or 60 days. So, in these cases, the lethal concentration may be given simply as LC50 and qualified by a duration of exposure (e.g., 10 minutes). Can also be used for therapy in some cases.In areas where chloroquine remains effective:

chloroquine 300 mg once weekly, and proguanil 200 mg once daily (started one week before travel, and continued for four weeks after returning);
hydroxychloroquine 400 mg once weekly (started one to two weeks before travel and continued for four weeks after returning)What regimen is appropriate depends on the person who is to take the medication as well as the country or region travelled to. Other chemoprophylactic regimens that have been used on occasion:

Dapsone 100 mg and pyrimethamine 12.5 mg once weekly (available as a combination tablet called Maloprim or Deltaprim): this combination is not routinely recommended because of the risk of agranulocytosis;
Primaquine 30 mg once daily (started the day before travel, and continuing for seven days after returning): this regimen is not routinely recommended because of the need for G-6-PD testing prior to starting primaquine (see the article on primaquine for more information). Quinine sulfate 300 to 325 mg once daily: this regimen is effective but not routinely used because of the unpleasant side effects of quinine.Prophylaxis against Plasmodium vivax requires a different approach given the long liver stage of this parasite. Toxicity is the degree to which a chemical substance or a particular mixture of substances can damage an organism. Chronic exposure
Continuous exposure to a toxicant over an extended period of time, often measured in months or years; it can cause irreversible side effects. 
A T helper 2 cell (Th2) environment impedes disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). [SEP] The T helper cells (Th cells), also known as CD4+ cells or CD4-positive cells, are a type of T cell that play an important role in the adaptive immune system. Understanding exactly how helper T cells respond to immune challenges is currently of major interest in immunology, because such knowledge may be very useful in the treatment of disease and in increasing the effectiveness of vaccination. Th1/Th2 model
Proliferating helper T cells that develop into effector T cells differentiate into two major subtypes of cells known as Th1 and Th2 cells (also known as Type 1 and Type 2 helper T cells, respectively). As such, hIL-10 is not believed to truly promote the Th2 response in humans, but acts to prevent over-stimulation of helper T cells while still maximising the production of antibodies.There are also other types of T cells that can influence the expression and activation of helper T cells, such as natural regulatory T cells, along with less common cytokine profiles such as the Th3 subset of helper T cells. Role in disease
Considering the diverse and important role helper T cells play in the immune system, it is not surprising that these cells often influence the immune response against disease. The understanding of the role of helper T cells in these responses is limited but it is generally thought that Th2 cytokines would promote such disorders. For example, studies have suggested that lupus (SLE) and other auto-immune diseases of similar nature can be linked to the production of Th2 cytokines. Helper T cells are required to fuel the development of these diseases. 
A breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen influences treatment outcome. [SEP] Breast cancer
High-dose estrogen therapy with potent synthetic estrogens such as diethylstilbestrol and ethinylestradiol was used in the past in the palliation treatment of breast cancer. High-dose estrogen therapy was the standard of care for the palliative treatment of breast cancer in women up to the late 1970s or early 1980s. In contrast to oral synthetic estrogens, high-dosage polyestradiol phosphate and transdermal estradiol have not been found to increase the risk of cardiovascular mortality or thromboembolism in men with prostate cancer, although significantly increased cardiovascular morbidity (due mainly to an increase in non-fatal ischemic heart events and heart decompensation) has been observed with polyestradiol phosphate.Sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) levels indicate hepatic estrogenic exposure and may be a surrogate marker for coagulation and VTE risk with estrogen therapy, although this topic has been debated. Breast cancer
Estrogens are responsible for breast development and, in relation to this, are strongly implicated in the development of breast cancer. In addition, estrogens stimulate the growth and accelerate the progression of ER-positive breast cancer. Paradoxically, high-dose estrogen therapy is effective in the treatment of breast cancer as well and has about the same degree of effectiveness as antiestrogen therapy, although it is far less commonly used due to adverse effects. The usefulness of high-dose estrogen therapy in the treatment of ER-positive breast cancer is attributed to a bimodal effect in which high concentrations of estrogens signal breast cancer cells to undergo apoptosis, in contrast to lower concentrations of estrogens which stimulate their growth.A 2017 systematic review and meta-analysis of 14 studies assessed the risk of breast cancer in perimenopausal and postmenopausal women treated with estrogens for menopausal symptoms. It is significantly inferior to aromatase inhibitors in both clinical effectiveness and tolerability as a second-line therapy for breast cancer after tamoxifen failure. 
A country's Vaccine Alliance (GAVI) eligibility is not indictivate of accelerated adoption of the Hub vaccine. [SEP] GAVI, officially Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance (previously the GAVI Alliance, and before that the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization) is a public–private global health partnership with the goal of increasing access to immunization in poor countries. Gavi has helped immunize over 760 million children, preventing over 13 million deaths worldwide, helping increase diphtheria vaccine coverage in supported countries from 59% in 2000 to 81% in 2019, contributing to reducing child mortality by half. History and programs
Gavi was created in 2000 as a successor to the Children's Vaccine Initiative, which was launched in 1990. GAVI seeks to design its AMCs in a way that encourages a competitive market.GAVI has been particularly successful at promoting the uptake of newer vaccines. Vaccination programs
GAVI's main objective is vaccination programs. They said that GSK and Pfizer were being paid $21 per child if GAVI subsidies were included, and the change would not greatly increase affordability for mid-wealth countries, those too rich for GAVI help but too poor to afford the vaccine. At GAVI, some argued that vaccination could not be effectively carried out and sustained without strengthening healthcare, citing experiences in Gavi's vaccination programmes, where availability of staff, training, transport, and funds had hindered vaccination and reporting of vaccination coverage and stocks. Gavi's funding for this platform was conditional on the platform meeting vaccine coverage goals.As of the mid-2010s, few in Gavi were working on HSS, most of the former pro-HSS people had left, and some at Gavi dismissed HSS as PR to gain support from pro-HSS donors and counter criticisms that Gavi was harming healthcare systems. 
A deficiency of folate increases blood levels of homocysteine. [SEP] Deficiency of vitamin B12 can impair the remethylation of homocysteine in the methionine cycle, and result in raised homocysteine levels. Because B12 and folate are involved in the metabolism of homocysteine, hyperhomocysteinuria is a non-specific marker of deficiency. Elevated plasma homocysteine and low folate are associated with cognitive impairment, dementia and Alzheimer's disease. Supplementing the diet with folic acid and vitamin B12 lowers plasma homocysteine. Both adults and children need folate to make normal red and white blood cells and prevent anemia, which causes fatigue, weakness, and inability to concentrate.Increased homocysteine levels suggest tissue folate deficiency, but homocysteine is also affected by vitamin B12 and vitamin B6, renal function, and genetics. Cobalamin (vitamin B12) deficiency may lead to folate deficiency, which, in turn, increases homocysteine levels and may result in the development of cardiovascular disease or birth defects. Vitamin B12 deficiency, when coupled with high serum folate levels, has been found to increase overall homocysteine concentrations as well.Typically, hyperhomocysteinemia is managed with vitamin B6, vitamin B9, and vitamin B12 supplementation. Symptoms of homocystinuria can also be caused by a deficiency of vitamins B6, B12, or folate. 
A deficiency of vitamin B12 decreases blood levels of homocysteine. [SEP] Deficiency of vitamin B12 can impair the remethylation of homocysteine in the methionine cycle, and result in raised homocysteine levels. In adults with metabolic syndrome, individuals with low levels of vitamin B12 had higher levels of homocysteine compared to healthy subjects. In addition, low vitamin B12 and folate intakes have shown associations with hyperhomocysteinemia, which is associated with cerebrovascular disease, cognitive decline and an increased risk of dementia in prospective studies.There are limited intervention studies which have investigated the effect of supplementation of vitamin B12 and cognitive function. Pathophysiology
Vitamin B12 deficiency causes particular changes to the metabolism of two clinically relevant substances in humans:

Homocysteine (homocysteine to methionine, catalysed by methionine synthase) leading to hyperhomocysteinemia
Methylmalonic acid (methylmalonyl-CoA to succinyl-CoA, of which methylmalonyl-CoA is made from methylmalonic acid in a preceding reaction)Methionine is activated to S-adenosyl methionine, which aids in purine and thymidine synthesis, myelin production, protein/neurotransmitters/fatty acid/phospholipid production and DNA methylation. Because B12 and folate are involved in the metabolism of homocysteine, hyperhomocysteinuria is a non-specific marker of deficiency. This functionality is lost in vitamin B12 deficiency, resulting in an increased homocysteine level and the trapping of folate as 5-methyl-tetrahydrofolate, from which THF (the active form of folate) cannot be recovered. In the body, homocysteine can be recycled into methionine or converted into cysteine with the aid of vitamin B6, B9, and B12.High levels of homocysteine in the blood (hyperhomocysteinemia) is regarded as a marker of cardiovascular disease, likely working through atherogenesis, which can result in ischemic injury. Vitamin B12 deficiency, when coupled with high serum folate levels, has been found to increase overall homocysteine concentrations as well.Typically, hyperhomocysteinemia is managed with vitamin B6, vitamin B9, and vitamin B12 supplementation. 
A deficiency of vitamin B6 decreases blood levels of homocysteine. [SEP] Deficiency of vitamin B12 can impair the remethylation of homocysteine in the methionine cycle, and result in raised homocysteine levels. In adults with metabolic syndrome, individuals with low levels of vitamin B12 had higher levels of homocysteine compared to healthy subjects. In addition, low vitamin B12 and folate intakes have shown associations with hyperhomocysteinemia, which is associated with cerebrovascular disease, cognitive decline and an increased risk of dementia in prospective studies.There are limited intervention studies which have investigated the effect of supplementation of vitamin B12 and cognitive function. The proposed mechanism, is that low levels of folate or vitamin B12 can disrupt transmethylation reaction, leading to an accumulation of homocysteine (hyperhomocysteinemia) and to impaired metabolism of neurotransmitters (especially the hydroxylation of dopamine and serotonin from tyrosine and tryptophan), phospholipids, myelin, and receptors. This functionality is lost in vitamin B12 deficiency, resulting in an increased homocysteine level and the trapping of folate as 5-methyl-tetrahydrofolate, from which THF (the active form of folate) cannot be recovered. Riboflavin is involved in maintaining normal circulating levels of homocysteine; in riboflavin deficiency, homocysteine levels increase, elevating the risk of cardiovascular diseases. In the body, homocysteine can be recycled into methionine or converted into cysteine with the aid of vitamin B6, B9, and B12.High levels of homocysteine in the blood (hyperhomocysteinemia) is regarded as a marker of cardiovascular disease, likely working through atherogenesis, which can result in ischemic injury. Vitamin B12 deficiency, when coupled with high serum folate levels, has been found to increase overall homocysteine concentrations as well.Typically, hyperhomocysteinemia is managed with vitamin B6, vitamin B9, and vitamin B12 supplementation. 
A diminished ovarian reserve does not solely indicate infertility in an a priori non-infertile population. [SEP] The most common cause of female infertility is age, which generally manifests in sparse or absent menstrual periods. The most common cause of female infertility is the are ovulation problems, usually manifested by scanty or absent menstrual periods. Ovulatory disorders make up 25% of the known causes of female infertility. Some women are infertile because their ovaries do not mature and release eggs. Common causes of infertility of females include:

ovulation problems (e.g. Anti-Müllerian hormone to estimate ovarian reserve. Rates decreased (although not prevalence) of female infertility in high-income, Central/Eastern Europe, and Central Asia regions. The term is less commonly used for infertility without hormone deficiency. 
A diminished ovarian reserve is a very strong indicator of infertility, even in an a priori non-infertile population. [SEP] This decline is tied to a reduction in the number of ovarian follicles. The decline in ovarian reserve appears to occur at a constantly increasing rate with age, and leads to nearly complete exhaustion of the reserve by about age 52. As ovarian reserve and fertility decline with age, there is also a parallel increase in pregnancy failure and meiotic errors, resulting in chromosomally abnormal conceptions.Women with a germ-line BRCA1 mutation appear to have a diminished oocyte reserve and decreased fertility compared to normally aging women. A lack of fecundity in adults can be described as infecundity or infertility. Ovarian aging
Ovarian aging is characterized by the gradual decline of the ovarian follicles number and decreasing quality of oocytes. The biology of menopause is associated with the depletion of the ovarian follicular pool. The quality of ovarian follicles declines with age due to the increase meiotic non-disjunction. In addition to that, the deletion at mtDNA 4977-bp in the granulosa cells is associated with fertility in older aged women. 
A high microerythrocyte count protects against severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. [SEP] If the cells are small, it is called microcytic anemia; if they are large, it is called macrocytic anemia; and if they are normal sized, it is called normocytic anemia. If the cells are smaller than normal (under 80 fl), the anemia is said to be microcytic; if they are normal size (80–100 fl), normocytic; and if they are larger than normal (over 100 fl), the anemia is classified as macrocytic. This scheme quickly exposes some of the most common causes of anemia; for instance, a microcytic anemia is often the result of iron deficiency. Microcytic
Microcytic anemia is primarily a result of hemoglobin synthesis failure/insufficiency, which could be caused by several etiologies:

Iron deficiency anemia is the most common type of anemia overall and it has many causes. The nonmegaloblastic macrocytic anemias have different etiologies (i.e. Hyperanemia
Hyperanemia is a severe form of anemia, in which the hematocrit is below 10%. Daily iron supplements have been shown to be effective in reducing anemia in women of childbearing age. References
External links

Anemia, U.S. National Library of Medicine

[About Anemia] 
A low percentage of hematopoietic progenitor cells are susceptible to HIV-1 infection ex vivo. [SEP] Hematopoietic stem cells constitute 1:10,000 of cells in myeloid tissue. Expansion potential of hematopoietic progenitor cells is also reduced. Using a human induced pluripotent stem cell model of NHEJ1 deficiency, it was shown that NHEJ1 has an important role in promoting survival of the primitive hematopoietic progenitors. Recent studies have shown that haematopoietic progenitor cells contribute to immune responses in the body. HIV infection leads to low levels of CD4+ T cells through a number of mechanisms, including pyroptosis of abortively infected T cells, apoptosis of uninfected bystander cells, direct viral killing of infected cells, and killing of infected CD4+ T cells by CD8+ cytotoxic lymphocytes that recognize infected cells. The lower infectivity of HIV-2, compared to HIV-1, implies that fewer of those exposed to HIV-2 will be infected per exposure. They appear to be the first cells infected by HIV and perhaps the source of HIV production when CD4+ cells become depleted in the patient. A small percentage of HIV-1 infected individuals retain high levels of CD4+ T-cells without antiretroviral therapy. 
A mutation in HNF4A leads to an increased risk of developing diabetes by the age of 14 years. [SEP] Mutations in the HNF1A gene have been known to cause diabetes. The HNF1A gene also contains one of 27 SNPs associated with increased risk of coronary artery disease. Clinical significance
HNF1A mutations can cause maturity onset diabetes of the young type 3, one of the forms of "monogenic diabetes", as well as hepatocellular adenoma. HNF-1 protein is present in ovarian clear-cell carcinoma.In humans, mutations in HNF1A cause diabetes that responds to low dose sulfonylurea agents. For example, patients with maturity onset diabetes of the young owing to mutations in HNF1A (which accounts for ~3% of all diabetes mellitus cases diagnosed under the age of 30 years) are extremely sensitive to sulfonylurea treatment and can successfully transition off insulin treatment. Likewise, patients with diabetes caused by mutations in the HNF1A gene have been described as sensitive to the hypoglycemic effects of sulphonylureas. This pharmacogenetic effect is consistent with models of HNF-1α deficiency, and the genetic basis of hyperglycemia may have implications for patient management. Common genetic variation within HNF1A is also associated with risk of developing type 2 diabetes and increased penetrance of early-onset diabetes

Clinical marker
A multi-locus genetic risk score study based on a combination of 27 loci, including the HNF1A gene, identified individuals at increased risk for both incident and recurrent coronary artery disease events, as well as an enhanced clinical benefit from statin therapy. 
A mutation in HNF4A leads to an increased risk of diabetes by the age of 14 years. [SEP] Mutations in the HNF1A gene have been known to cause diabetes. The HNF1A gene also contains one of 27 SNPs associated with increased risk of coronary artery disease. Clinical significance
HNF1A mutations can cause maturity onset diabetes of the young type 3, one of the forms of "monogenic diabetes", as well as hepatocellular adenoma. The identification of extreme sulfonylurea sensitivity in patients with diabetes mellitus owing to heterozygous mutations in HNF1A presents a clear example of the relevance of HNF1A in diabetes patients and how pharmacogenetics can contribute in patient care. For example, patients with maturity onset diabetes of the young owing to mutations in HNF1A (which accounts for ~3% of all diabetes mellitus cases diagnosed under the age of 30 years) are extremely sensitive to sulfonylurea treatment and can successfully transition off insulin treatment. Likewise, patients with diabetes caused by mutations in the HNF1A gene have been described as sensitive to the hypoglycemic effects of sulphonylureas. This pharmacogenetic effect is consistent with models of HNF-1α deficiency, and the genetic basis of hyperglycemia may have implications for patient management. Common genetic variation within HNF1A is also associated with risk of developing type 2 diabetes and increased penetrance of early-onset diabetes

Clinical marker
A multi-locus genetic risk score study based on a combination of 27 loci, including the HNF1A gene, identified individuals at increased risk for both incident and recurrent coronary artery disease events, as well as an enhanced clinical benefit from statin therapy. 
A single nucleotide variant the gene DGKK is strongly associated with increased risk of hypospadias. [SEP] The two possible nucleotide variations of this SNP – G or A – are called alleles.SNPs can help explain differences in susceptibility to a wide range of diseases across a population. Homozygosity mapping in disease
Genome-wide SNP data can be used for homozygosity mapping. Homozygosity mapping is a method used to identify homozygous autosomal recessive loci, which can be a powerful tool to map genomic regions or genes that are involved in disease pathogenesis. Disease
Only small amount of SNPs in the human genome may have impact on human diseases. Most of the SNPs with relatively large effects on these diseases have been identified. An intronic SNP in DNA mismatch repair gene PMS2 (rs1059060, Ser775Asn) is associated with increased sperm DNA damage and risk of male infertility. See also
References
Further reading
External links

NCBI resources Archived 2013-09-02 at the Wayback Machine – Introduction to SNPs from NCBI
The SNP Consortium LTD – SNP search
NCBI dbSNP database – "a central repository for both single base nucleotide substitutions and short deletion and insertion polymorphisms"
HGMD – the Human Gene Mutation Database, includes rare mutations and functional SNPs
GWAS Central – a central database of summary-level genetic association findings
1000 Genomes Project – A Deep Catalog of Human Genetic Variation
WatCut Archived 2007-06-18 at the Wayback Machine – an online tool for the design of SNP-RFLP assays
SNPStats Archived 2008-10-13 at the Wayback Machine – SNPStats, a web tool for analysis of genetic association studies
Restriction HomePage – a set of tools for DNA restriction and SNP detection, including design of mutagenic primers
American Association for Cancer Research Cancer Concepts Factsheet on SNPs
PharmGKB – The Pharmacogenetics and Pharmacogenomics Knowledge Base, a resource for SNPs associated with drug response and disease outcomes. Rules for Nomenclature of Genes, Genetic Markers, Alleles, and Mutations in Mouse and Rat
HGNC Guidelines for Human Gene Nomenclature
SNP effect predictor with galaxy integration
Open SNP – a portal for sharing own SNP test results
dbSAP Archived 2016-12-20 at the Wayback Machine – SNP database for protein variation detection 
A strong bias in the phage genome locations where the spacers were derived has been observed in many CRISPR subtypes that confer the immunity to phage. [SEP] On the other hand, phages of Inoviridae have been shown to complicate biofilms involved in pneumonia and cystic fibrosis and to shelter the bacteria from drugs meant to eradicate disease, thus promoting persistent infection.Meanwhile, bacteriophage researchers have been developing engineered viruses to overcome antibiotic resistance, and engineering the phage genes responsible for coding enzymes that degrade the biofilm matrix, phage structural proteins, and the enzymes responsible for lysis of the bacterial cell wall. This specificity means a bacteriophage can infect only certain bacteria bearing receptors to which they can bind, which in turn, determines the phage's host range. the genome of many phage species appear to be composed of numerous individual modules. These modules may be found in other phage species in different arrangements. There is some evidence that this unusual component is a mechanism to evade bacterial defense mechanisms such as restriction endonucleases and CRISPR/Cas systems which evolved to recognize and cleave sequences within invading phages, thereby inactivating them. Some temperate phages can confer fitness advantages to their host in numerous ways, including giving antibiotic resistance through the transfer or introduction of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs), protecting hosts from phagocytosis, protecting hosts from secondary infection through superinfection exclusion, enhancing host pathogenicity, or enhancing bacterial metabolism or growth. The phage DNA is now part of the host's genome. CRISPR
CRISPRs (Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats) are genetic elements that bacteria use as a kind of acquired immunity to protect against viruses. 
ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis for breast cancer primary tumors. [SEP] Further studies have linked HSP60 to diabetes, stress response, cancer and certain types of immunological disorders. Relationship to cancer
Human Hsp60, the product of the HSPD1 gene, is a Group I mitochondrial chaperonin, phylogenetically related to bacterial GroEL. This chaperone was also classically regarded as an intracellular protein like Hsp60, but in the last few years considerable evidences showed its pericellular and extracellular residence
HSP60 has been shown to influence apoptosis in tumor cells which seems to be associated with a change in expression levels. There is some inconsistency in that some research shows a positive expression while other research shows a negative expression, and it seems to depend on the type of cancer. Positive expression seems to inhibit “apoptotic and necrotic cell death” while negative expression is thought to play a part “in activation of apoptosis”.As well as influencing apoptosis, HSP60 changes in expression level have been shown to be “useful new biomarkers for diagnostic and prognostic purposes.”   According to Lebret et al., a loss of HSP60 expression “indicates a poor prognosis and the risk of developing tumor infiltration” specifically with bladder carcinomas, but that does not necessarily hold true for other types of cancers. For example, ovarian tumors research has shown that  over expression is correlated with a better prognosis while a decreased expression is correlated with an aggressive tumor. All this research indicates that it may be possible for HSP60 expression to be used in predicting survival for certain types of cancer and therefore may be able to identify patients who could benefit from certain treatments. Furthermore, in postmortem examinations, the immunoreactivity of PZP in the cortex of AD patients was specifically seen in the microglial cells associated with senile plaques, and in some neurons.While PZP has been shown to be non-specific enough for use in HIV-1 diagnosis, it has been suggested as having potential value as a marker of prognosis if changes in PZP levels over time in HIV-1 patients are found to correspond to response to therapy and disease course.In a 2018 study, a novel observation was made that in the serum of patients with Diabetes mellitus 1 (DM1) PZP was found to be downregulated.A significant correlation has also been shown between the severity of bronchiectasis and levels of PZP detected in sputum.A study using mice serum to observe the role of proteins including PZP in identification of inflammatory bowel disease deduced that PZP may be used as one of a panel of six proteins proposed as a combined biomarker signature.PZP levels were found to not differ significantly in breast cancer patients, thus deeming this protein ineligible as a biomarker of this disease. 
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation reduces inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. [SEP] 5' AMP-activated protein kinase or AMPK or 5' adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase is an enzyme (EC 2.7.11.31) that plays a role in cellular energy homeostasis, largely to activate glucose and fatty acid uptake and oxidation when cellular energy is low. AMPK also appears to stimulate mitochondrial biogenesis by regulating PGC-1α which in turn promotes gene transcription in mitochondria. AMPK also activates anti-oxidant defenses. Additionally, recent discoveries can conceivably suggest a direct AMPK role in increasing blood supply to exercised/trained muscle cells by stimulating and stabilizing both vasculogenesis and angiogenesis. AMPK may refer to:

AMP-activated protein kinase, an enzyme
(acetyl-CoA carboxylase) kinase, an enzyme 5' AMP-activated protein kinase or AMPK or 5' adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase is an enzyme (EC 2.7.11.31) that plays a role in cellular energy homeostasis, largely to activate glucose and fatty acid uptake and oxidation when cellular energy is low. AMPK also appears to stimulate mitochondrial biogenesis by regulating PGC-1α which in turn promotes gene transcription in mitochondria. AMPK also activates anti-oxidant defenses. 
APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons results in decreased tau phosphorylation. [SEP] In the central nervous system, Apo-E is mainly produced by astrocytes and transports cholesterol to neurons via APOE receptors, which are members of the low density lipoprotein receptor gene family. Apo-E is the principal cholesterol carrier in the brain. Apo-E is required for cholesterol transportation from astrocytes to neurons. Indeed, the apolipoprotein ε4 isoform is more protective against cognitive decline than other isoforms in some cases, so caution is advised before making determinant statements about the influence of APOE polymorphisms on cognition, development of Alzheimer's disease, cardiovascular disease, telomere shortening, etc. As of 2007, there was no evidence that APOE polymorphisms influence cognition in younger age groups (other than possible increased episodic memory ability and neural efficiency in younger APOE4 age groups), nor that the APOE4 isoform places individuals at increased risk for any infectious disease.However, the association between the APOE4 allele and Alzheimer's disease has been shown to be weaker in minority groups differently compared to their caucasian counterparts. The role that the E4 variant carries can still be fully explained even in the absence of a valid amyloid hypothesis given the fact that reelin signaling emerges to be one of the key processes involved in Alzheimer's disease and the E4 variant is shown to interact with ApoER2, one of the neuronal reelin receptors, thereby obstructing reelin signaling.Although 40–65% of AD patients have at least one copy of the ε4 allele, APOE4 is not a determinant of the disease. Thus, the genotype most at risk for Alzheimer's disease and at an earlier age is APOE4,4. Using genotype APOE3,3 as a benchmark (with the persons who have this genotype regarded as having a risk level of 1.0) and for white populations only, individuals with genotype APOE4,4 have an odds ratio of 14.9 of developing Alzheimer's disease. 
ART has no effect on the infectiveness of HIV-positive people. [SEP] It is not possible for mosquitoes or other insects to transmit HIV. The chemical "methamphetamine", in and of itself, cannot infect someone with HIV. ART reduces the amount of virus in the blood and genital secretions. ART also is recommended for HIV-infected individuals for the prevention of transmission of HIV. The SPARTAC trial compared 48 weeks of ART vs 12 weeks vs no treatment in acute HIV infection and found that 48 weeks of treatment delayed the time to decline in CD4 count below 350 cells per ml by 65 weeks and kept viral loads significantly lower even after treatment was stopped.Since viral loads are usually very high during acute infection, this period carries an estimated 26 times higher risk of transmission. : 15  Between 2000 and 2018, new HIV infections fell by 37%, and HIV-related deaths fell by 45% with 13.6 million lives saved due to ART in the same period. It has been extensively discussed that antiretroviral drugs (ART) are crucial for preventing the acquiring of AIDS. While there is no cure for HIV/AIDS, ART and other medication prevent the virus from worsening and spreading which allows for PLHIV to live longer and still establish a life or family with people. 
ART substantially reduces infectiveness of HIV-positive people. [SEP] ART reduces the amount of virus in the blood and genital secretions. However, there remain a range of views on this subject and the decision of whether to commence treatment ultimately rests with the patient and his or her doctor.The US DHHS guidelines (published April 8, 2015) state:
Antiretroviral therapy (ART) is recommended for all HIV-infected individuals to reduce the risk of disease progression. ART also is recommended for HIV-infected individuals for the prevention of transmission of HIV. The SPARTAC trial compared 48 weeks of ART vs 12 weeks vs no treatment in acute HIV infection and found that 48 weeks of treatment delayed the time to decline in CD4 count below 350 cells per ml by 65 weeks and kept viral loads significantly lower even after treatment was stopped.Since viral loads are usually very high during acute infection, this period carries an estimated 26 times higher risk of transmission. By treating acutely infected patients, it is presumed that it could have a significant impact on decreasing overall HIV transmission rates since lower viral loads are associated with lower risk of transmission (See section on treatment as prevention). ART for mothers both before and during delivery and to mothers and infants after delivery are recommended to substantially reduce the risk of transmission. One 2013 study estimated an overall cost savings to ART therapy in South Africa given reduced transmission. Findings show delivery of an HIV prevention strategy that includes offering in-home HIV testing to everyone, with immediate referral to HIV care, and treatment for people living with HIV based on prevailing in-country guidelines, can substantially reduce new HIV infections. 
ATF4 is a general endoplasmic reticulum stress marker. [SEP] The unfolded protein response (UPR) is a cellular stress response related to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. An important example is that the proapoptotic protein CHOP (CCAAT/-enhancer-binding protein homologous protein), is upregulated downstream of the bZIP transcription factor ATF4 (activating transcription factor 4) and uniquely responsive to ER stress. ER stress is known to activate hepatic de novo lipogenesis, inhibit VLDL secretion, promote insulin resistance and inflammatory process, and promote cell apoptosis. See also
Endoplasmic reticulum stress response (ER stress)
Mitochondrial unfolded protein response
Aggresome
PERK inhibitors


== References == Clinical significance
ATF-3 is induced upon physiological stress in various tissues. Those processes are mainly regulated by three factors: protein kinase RNA-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK), activating transcription factor 6 (ATF6), and inositol requiring protein 1 (IRE1α)

Upstream regulatory pathways
During ER stress, CHOP is mainly induced via activation of the integrated stress response pathways through the subsequent downstream phosphorylation of a translation initiation factor, eukaryotic initiation factor 2α (eIF2α), and induction of a transcription factor, activation transcription factor 4 (ATF4), which converges on the promoters of target genes, including CHOP. Integrated stress response, and thus CHOP expression, can be induced by

amino acid starvation through general control non-derepressible-2 (GCN2)
viral infection through the vertebrate-specific kinases - double-stranded RNA-activated protein kinase (PKR)
iron deficiency through heme-regulated inhibitor kinase (HRI)
stress from accumulation of unfolded or misfolded proteins in the ER activates the integrated stress response through protein kinase RNA-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK).Under ER stress, activated transmembrane protein ATF6 translocates to the nucleus and interacts with ATF/cAMP response elements and ER stress-response elements, binding the promoters and inducing transcription of several genes involved in unfolded protein response (including CHOP, XBP1 and others). Thus, ATF6 activates the transcription of both CHOP and XBP-1, while XBP-1 can also upregulate the expression of CHOP.ER stress also stimulates transmembrane protein IRE1α activity. 
ATM and Rad3 related protein are critical for sensing DNA damage. [SEP] With moderate levels of DNA damage, these proteins initiate or contribute to DNA repair. In all eukaryotic cells, ATR and ATM are protein kinases that detect DNA damage. Together, these proteins make up the DNA damage response system. RAD genes and the cell cycle response to DNA damage in Saccharomyces cerevisiae
When DNA is damaged, the cell responds in various ways to fix the damage and minimize the effects on the cell. Specifically, the RAD9 gene plays a crucial role in detecting DNA damage and arresting the cell in G2 until the damage is repaired. Thus, the role of RAD9 in repairing DNA damage remains unclear.Regardless, it is clear that RAD9 is necessary to sense DNA damage and halt cell division. RAD9 has been suggested to possess 3’ to 5’ exonuclease activity, which is perhaps why it plays a role in detecting DNA damage. Thus, we can conclude that RAD9 likely plays a critical role in the DNA damage response in humans as well. 
ATM and Rad3 related protein have no role in sensing DNA damage. [SEP] In all eukaryotic cells, ATR and ATM are protein kinases that detect DNA damage. RAD genes and the cell cycle response to DNA damage in Saccharomyces cerevisiae
When DNA is damaged, the cell responds in various ways to fix the damage and minimize the effects on the cell. However, rad strains, which are deficient in DNA repair, exhibit a markedly different response. This suggests that even if DNA damage cannot be repaired, if RAD9 is not present, the cell cycle will not delay. However, there is evidence that although the RAD9 gene is necessary to induce G2 arrest in response to DNA damage, giving the cell time to repair the damage, it does not actually play a direct role in repairing DNA. Thus, the RAD9 gene plays no role in actually repairing damaged DNA—it simply senses damaged DNA and responds by delaying cell division. Unlike proteins and RNA, DNA usually lacks tertiary structure and therefore damage or disturbance does not occur at that level. DNA damage protection and repair does not influence the rate of adaptation by gene regulation and by recombination and selection of alleles. 
AZT given with ribavirin increases anemia. [SEP] Allergic reactions are rare.Early long-term higher-dose therapy with AZT was initially associated with side effects that sometimes limited therapy, including anemia, neutropenia, hepatotoxicity, cardiomyopathy, and myopathy. Anemia due to AZT was successfully treated using erythropoetin to stimulate red blood cell production. Prolonged AZT treatment can lead to HIV developing resistance to AZT by mutation of its reverse transcriptase. AZT (azidothymidine) or zidovudine is an antiretroviral drug used to treat HIV/AIDS. Adverse effects
The medication has two FDA "black box" warnings: One raises concerns that use before or during pregnancy by either sex may result in birth defects in the baby, and the other is regarding the risk of red blood cell breakdown.Ribavirin should not be given with zidovudine because of the increased risk of anemia; concurrent use with didanosine should likewise be avoided because of an increased risk of mitochondrial toxicity. A patient with anemia may report feeling tired, weak, decreased ability to concentrate, and sometimes shortness of breath on exertion. Several of these may interplay to cause anemia. The most common cause of anemia is blood loss, but this usually does not cause any lasting symptoms unless a relatively impaired RBC production develops, in turn, most commonly by iron deficiency. 
Activated Cdk5 phosphorylates the ATM protein in response to DNA damage. [SEP] In all eukaryotic cells, ATR and ATM are protein kinases that detect DNA damage. When there is DNA damage, Mdm2 is phosphorylated, most likely caused by ATM. In 1998, the Shiloh and Kastan laboratories independently showed that ATM is a protein kinase whose activity is enhanced by DNA damage. The ATM-mediated DNA damage response consists of a rapid and a delayed response. Upon DNA damage, ATM autophosphorylates on residue Ser1981. ATM/ATR are kinases activated by DNA damage. DNA-PK also cooperates with ATR and ATM to phosphorylate proteins involved in the DNA damage checkpoint. DNA damage is detected by the kinases ATM and ATR, which activate Chk1, an inhibitory kinase of Cdc25. 
Activated Cdk5 regulates DNA damage-induced neuronal death. [SEP] Cdk5 is not only implicated in neuronal migration. It is also worth noting that Cdk5 also regulates the process of apoptosis, which is necessary in order to assure that the neural connections that are formed are correct. Neurodegenerative diseases
Cdk5 plays an essential role in the central nervous system. Nevertheless, if Cdk5 activity is deregulated, it can lead to really severe neurological diseases, including Alzheimer's, Parkinson, Multiple sclerosis and Huntington’s disease. On top of that, Cdk5 can have an influence on the alteration of the mitochondrial morphology or its transmembrane potential, which can lead to cell death and neurodegeneration. Cdk5 inhibitors impede the remyelination and disrupt the neural cells activity. Moreover, Cdk5 phosphorylates Apoptosis-associated tyrosine kinase (AATK). When Cdk5/p25 derregulates HDAC1, abnormal cell-cycle activity appears and double-strand DNA breaks, causing neurotoxicity. 
Activation of PPM1D enhances p53 function. [SEP] PGC-1α is a transcriptional regulator for genes involved in fatty acid oxidation, gluconeogenesis, and is considered the master regulator for mitochondrial biogenesis.To do this, it enhances the activity of transcription factors like nuclear respiratory factor 1 (NRF-1), myocyte enhancer factor 2 (MEF2), host cell factor (HCF), and others. For example, CDK6 plays a role in the accumulation of the apoptosis proteins p53 and p130, this accumulation keeps cells from entering cell division if there is DNA damage, activating pro- apoptotic pathways. The overexpression of these proteins provides the cancer cells with a new hallmark capability of cancer; the deregulation of the cell metabolism. 30 to 70% of persons who experience CIS, later develop MS.PPMS occurs in roughly 10–20% of individuals with the disease, with no remission after the initial symptoms. According to a 2021 Cochrane review, ocrelizumab may reduce worsening of symptoms for primary progressive MS and probably increases unwanted effects but makes little or no difference to the number of serious unwanted effects.In 2019, siponimod and cladribine were approved in the United States for the treatment of secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (SPMS). However, "silent progression" of the disease still occurs.In addition to secondary progressive MS (SPMS), a small proportion of people with MS (10–15%) experience progressive decline from the onset, known as primary progressive MS (PPMS). Median life expectancy for RRMS patients was 77.8 years and 71.4 years for PPMS, compared to 81.8 years for the general population. p53 is a protein responsible for controlling the cell cycle, but an increase in the activity of this protein also leads to increased activation of BAX proteins in the cell. 
Activation of the Rac1 homolog CED-10 kills viable cells in SRGP-1 mutant Caenorhabditis elegans. [SEP] Overexpression of a constitutively active Rac1 V12 in mice caused a tumour that is phenotypically indistinguishable from human Kaposi's sarcoma. CED-12 (Cell Death Abnormality Protein-12) is a cytoplasmic, PH-domain containing adaptor protein found in Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila melanogaster. Its involvement in the apoptotic phagocytosis pathway was first noted when knocked-out ced-12 in C. elegans showed similar results in the apoptotic process to ced-5 and ced-2 knockouts. This lead researchers to believe, and later confirm, that the protein products of ced-12 (CED-12), ced-5 (CED-5), and ced-2 (CED-2) all functioned as part of the same pathway.Researchers also noted direct protein-protein interactions between CED-12 and CED-10 (C. elegans homolog for Rac1), a Rac-GTPase (energy-dependent protein found used for cytoskeletal rearrangements among other functions). Expression of CED-12 with CED-5 and CED-2 activated CED-10, which lead to the activation of apoptotic phagocytosis. CED-12 binds CED-2 (C. elegans homolog to CrkII in mammals), followed by CED-5 (C. elegans homolog for DOCK180 in mammals) and forms a ternary structure. Transmembrane CED-1 is an example of the cell-surface receptor on the engulfing cell. CED-10 is a RAC-GTPase protein that is directly responsible for the rearrangement of the actin cytoskeleton that initiates phagocytosis. 
Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided ventrally by Xrl-sizzled. [SEP] Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) also known as endothelial plasminogen activator inhibitor or serpin E1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the SERPINE1 gene. It is a serine protease inhibitor (serpin) protein (SERPINE1). PAI-1, however, is the main inhibitor of the plasminogen activators. Pharmacology
Tiplaxtinin (PAI-039) is a small molecule inhibitor that is being studied for use in the attenuation of remodeling of blood vessels, a result of arterial hypertension and activation of the renin–angiotensin system. Interactions
Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 has been shown to interact with ORM1. References
Further reading
External links
The MEROPS online database for peptidases and their inhibitors: I04.020
Plasminogen+Activator+Inhibitor+1 at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)
Overview of all the structural information available in the PDB for UniProt: P05121 (Plasminogen activator inhibitor 1) at the PDBe-KB. Factor XIa activates FIX, which with its co-factor FVIIIa form the tenase complex, which activates FX to FXa. The main enzyme responsible for this process (plasmin) is regulated by various activators and inhibitors. 
Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure consisting of five distinct subunits. [SEP] Genes and protein structure
The H+/K+ ATPase is a heterodimeric protein, the product of 2 genes. The gene ATP4B encodes the β subunit of the H+/K+ ATPase, which is a ~300-amino acid protein with a 36-amino acid N-terminal cytoplasmic domain, a single transmembrane domain, and a highly glycosylated extracellular domain. The E1 conformation binds a phosphate from ATP and hydronium ion on the cytoplasmic side. "Biology, structure and mechanism of P-type ATPases". The composition of the O chain varies from strain to strain; there are over 160 different O antigen structures produced by different E. coli strains. In the case of Neisseria meningitidis, the lipid A portion of the molecule has a symmetrical structure and the inner core is composed of 3-deoxy-D-manno-2-octulosonic acid (KDO) and heptose (Hep) moieties. It is generally encoded by the fliC geneThere are 53 identified H antigens, numbered from H1 to H56 (H13 and H22 were not E. coli antigens but from Citrobacter freundii, and H50 was found to be the same as H10). The organism is also lysine positive, and grows on TSI slant with a (A/A/g+/H2S-) profile. 
Active Ly49Q induces neutrophil polarization. [SEP] Ly49 is a family of membrane C-type lectin-like receptors expressed mainly on NK cells but also on other immune cells (some CD8+ and CD3+ T lymphocytes, intestinal epithelial lymphocytes (IELs), NKT cells, uterine NK cells (uNK) cells, macrophages or dendritic cells). Ly49 family is coded by Klra gene cluster and include genes for both inhibitory and activating paired receptors, but most of them are inhibitory. Inhibitory Ly49 receptors play a role in the recognition of self cells and thus maintain self-tolerance and prevent autoimmunity by suppressing NK cell activation. They express several types of inhibitory and activating receptors on their surface, including the Ly49 receptor family, which have roles in NK cell licensing, antiviral, and antitumor immunity,.NK cells are activated when signal from activating receptors outweighs inhibitory signals. Some Ly49 receptors have evolved to recognise specific viral proteins, for example Ly49H binds to murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV) glycoprotein m157. Mouse strains without Ly49H are more susceptible to MCMV infection. Inhibitory receptors include Ly49A, B, C, E, G, Q.

Activating receptors
Activating receptors are involved in antiviral and antitumor immunity. Activating receptors include Ly49D, H, L.


== References == 
Active Ly49Q prevents neutrophil polarization. [SEP] Ly49 is a family of membrane C-type lectin-like receptors expressed mainly on NK cells but also on other immune cells (some CD8+ and CD3+ T lymphocytes, intestinal epithelial lymphocytes (IELs), NKT cells, uterine NK cells (uNK) cells, macrophages or dendritic cells). Ly49 family is coded by Klra gene cluster and include genes for both inhibitory and activating paired receptors, but most of them are inhibitory. Inhibitory Ly49 receptors play a role in the recognition of self cells and thus maintain self-tolerance and prevent autoimmunity by suppressing NK cell activation. They express several types of inhibitory and activating receptors on their surface, including the Ly49 receptor family, which have roles in NK cell licensing, antiviral, and antitumor immunity,.NK cells are activated when signal from activating receptors outweighs inhibitory signals. Some Ly49 receptors have evolved to recognise specific viral proteins, for example Ly49H binds to murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV) glycoprotein m157. Mouse strains without Ly49H are more susceptible to MCMV infection. If inhibitory Ly49 receptors miss the signal from MHCI during their development, they are unlicensed (un-educated) and don't react to stimulation on activating receptors. Phosphorylated Ly49 molecule recruits the src homology 2 (SH2) domain containing protein phosphatase SHP-1, which dephosphorylates ITIM and thus prevents cell activation. 
Active caspase-11 participate in regulating phagosome-lysosome fusion. [SEP] Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Phagosomes have membrane-bound proteins to recruit and fuse with lysosomes to form mature phagolysosomes. Endosomes and lysosomes then fuse with the phagosome to contribute to the membrane, especially when the engulfed particle is very big, such as a parasite. The phagosome moves along microtubules of the cytoskeleton, fusing with endosomes and lysosomes sequentially in a dynamic "kiss-and-run" manner. The composition of the phospholipid membrane also changes as the phagosome matures.Fusion may take minutes to hours depending on the contents of the phagosome; FcR or mannose receptor-mediated fusion last less than 30 minutes, but phagosomes containing latex beads may take several hours to fuse with lysosomes. Fusion regulation
Shortly after internalisation, F-actin depolymerises from the newly formed phagosome so it becomes accessible to endosomes for fusion and delivery of proteins. Phagolysosome
The phagosome fuses with lysosomes to form a phagolysosome, which has various bactericidal properties. Under normal circumstances, this phagocytic vacuole would develop into a lysosome and its contents would be digested. 
Active caspase-11 protein promotes pyroptosis. [SEP] Caspase-1, Caspase-4 and Caspase-5 in humans, and Caspase-1 and Caspase-11 in mice play important roles in inducing cell death by pyroptosis. Pyroptosis by caspase-1
Caspase-1 activation is mediated by a repertoire of proteins, allowing detection of a range of pathogenic ligands. Caspase-3-dependent cell death pathway
An alternative pathway that links apoptosis and pyroptosis has been recently proposed. Cancer
Pyroptosis, as an inflammation-associated programmed cell death, has wide implications in various cancer types. Pyroptosis response
Following the inflammatory response, an activated Caspase-1 can induce pyroptosis, a lytic form of cell death, depending on the signal received as well as the specific inflammasome sensor domain protein that received it. Mechanism
TRIF activation is necessary for the upregulation of pro-caspase-11 (an inactive precursor to active caspase-11) expression and caspase-11-mediated pyroptosis. While caspase-11-mediated pyroptosis provides defense against pathogens, it has also been shown to cause damage to the host as well.The CARD domain of caspase-11 has been shown to associate with AIP-1 and cofilin to facilitate actin depolymerization. Identifying pyroptosis as the predominant mechanism that causes CD4 T-cell depletion and chronic inflammation, provides novel therapeutic opportunities, namely caspase-1 which controls the pyroptotic pathway. 
Acute ablation of KRAS causes severe growth impairment. [SEP] Increased bone resorption leads to hypercalcemia and causes nephrocalcinosis, thereby contributing to kidney failure. The result is a proliferation of a plasma cell clone and genomic instability that leads to further mutations and translocations. The RMF/EG fibroblast must then be irradiated to allow the expression of key proteins and growth factors. The end result of the process leads to degradation of mRNA and destroys any instructions needed to build certain proteins. Such severe truncations are known to induce an uncontrolled activity of Raf kinases: that is just exactly what a virus may need for efficient reproduction. It results in the occlusion of the catalytic site and full shutdown of kinase activity. Mutation of c-Raf is one of the possible causes of Noonan syndrome: affected individuals have congenital heart defects, short and dysmorphic stature and several other deformities. Since B-Raf can also activate itself by homodimerisation and c-Raf by heterodimerisation, this mutation has a catastrophic effect by turning the ERK1/2 pathway constitutively active, and driving an uncontrolled process of cell division. 
Acute ablation of Snail in the embryonic cortex affects the proliferation and number of embryonic cortical precursors. [SEP] Acute ablation of precursor cells
Recent studies have shown that  there is a decrease in neurogenesis in the hippocampus after irradiation therapy. This damage of the cells may prevent the precursor cells from differentiating into neurons and result in decreased neurogenesis. The cerebral ganglia of the snail form a primitive brain which is divided into four sections. This structure is very much simpler than the brains of mammals, reptiles and birds, but nonetheless, snails are capable of associative learning. The glial fibers produced in the first divisions of the progenitor cells are radially oriented, spanning the thickness of the cortex from the ventricular zone to the outer, pial surface, and provide scaffolding for the migration of neurons outwards from the ventricular zone.At birth there are very few dendrites present on the cortical neuron's cell body, and the axon is undeveloped. Disruptions during the transition from preplate to cortical plate can lead to significant malformation and disruption in function of the thalamus, inhibitory neuron activity, and maturation of cortical response. Recapitulation
Recapitulation of corticogenesis in both human and mouse embryos has been accomplished with a three dimensional culture using embryonic stem cells (ESC). By carefully using embryo body intermediates and cultured in a serum free environment cortical progenitors form in a space and time related pattern similar to in vivo corticogenesis. 
Addition of BMP4, activin A, CHIR99021, and SU504 to reprogramming fibroblasts generates, expands and maintains cardiovascular progenitor cells (CPCs) [SEP] In mice targeted inactivation of BMP4 disrupts mesoderm from forming. Tooth formation relies on BMP4 expression, which induces Msx 1 and 2. In Xenopus BMP4 has been found to aid in formation of blood and blood islands. After differentiation, BMP4 and FGF2 treated cells generally produces higher amounts of osteogenic and chondrogenic differentiation than untreated stem cells. Also in conjunction with FGF2 it can produce progenitor thyroid cells from pluripotent stem cells in mice and humans.BMP4 has been shown to induce the expression of the Msx gene family, which is believed to be part of cartilage formation from somitic mesoderm.BMP4, a paracrine growth factor, has been found in rat ovaries. Furthermore, they did a follow-up experiment that by injecting BMP4 into the BMP4 homozygous mutant embryos rescued the lens formation (12). Upregulation of Activin A drives pluripotent stem cells into a mesoendodermal fate, and thus provides a useful tool for stem cell differentiation and organoid formation. Activin A promotes the proliferation of adipocyte progenitor cells, while inhibiting their differentiation into adipocytes. 
Adult tissue-resident macrophages are seeded before birth. [SEP] Development
Macrophages that reside in adult healthy tissues either derive from circulating monocytes or are established before birth and then maintained during adult life independently of monocytes. This role is important in chronic inflammation, as the early stages of inflammation are dominated by neutrophils, which are ingested by macrophages if they come of age (see CD31 for a description of this process).The neutrophils are at first attracted to a site, where they perform their function and die, before they or their neutrophil extracellular traps are phagocytized by the macrophages. Role in innate immune response
When a pathogen invades, tissue resident macrophages are among the first cells to respond. Once they are in the wound site, monocytes mature into macrophages. Role in tissue homeostasis
Every tissue harbors its own specialized population of resident macrophages, which entertain reciprocal interconnections with the stroma and functional tissue. Some pathogens subvert this process and instead live inside the macrophage. Heart disease
Macrophages are the predominant cells involved in creating the progressive plaque lesions of atherosclerosis.Focal recruitment of macrophages occurs after the onset of acute myocardial infarction. Macrophages and intestinal macrophages have high plasticity causing their phenotype to be altered by their environments. 
Adult tissue-resident macrophages are seeded before birth. [SEP] Development
Macrophages that reside in adult healthy tissues either derive from circulating monocytes or are established before birth and then maintained during adult life independently of monocytes. This role is important in chronic inflammation, as the early stages of inflammation are dominated by neutrophils, which are ingested by macrophages if they come of age (see CD31 for a description of this process).The neutrophils are at first attracted to a site, where they perform their function and die, before they or their neutrophil extracellular traps are phagocytized by the macrophages. Role in innate immune response
When a pathogen invades, tissue resident macrophages are among the first cells to respond. Once they are in the wound site, monocytes mature into macrophages. Role in tissue homeostasis
Every tissue harbors its own specialized population of resident macrophages, which entertain reciprocal interconnections with the stroma and functional tissue. Some pathogens subvert this process and instead live inside the macrophage. Heart disease
Macrophages are the predominant cells involved in creating the progressive plaque lesions of atherosclerosis.Focal recruitment of macrophages occurs after the onset of acute myocardial infarction. Macrophages and intestinal macrophages have high plasticity causing their phenotype to be altered by their environments. 
Adult tissue-resident macrophages possess a self-renewing capacity. [SEP] In these tissues, resident stem cells continually renew lost cells. Cardiac myocyte renewal has been found to occur in normal adult humans, and at a higher rate in adults following acute heart injury such as infarction. History of human tissue
In humans with non-injured tissues, the tissue naturally regenerates over time; by default, new available cells replace expended cells. Macrophages are differentiated from circulating monocytes. Macrophages display a range of phenotypes varying from the M1, pro-inflammatory type to the M2, pro-regenerative type. Material hydrogels polarise macrophages into the key M2 regenerative phenotype in vitro. Namely monocyte-derived macrophages tend to induce inflammation while inhibiting cardiac regeneration, while tissue resident macrophages may help restoration of tissue structure and function. In the adult, microglia are largely a self-renewing population and are distinct from macrophages and monocytes, which infiltrate an injured and diseased CNS. 
Adult tissue-resident macrophages stem from the embryonal yolk sac and fetal liver. [SEP] However, this dichotomy has been recently questioned as further complexity has been discovered.Human macrophages are about 21 micrometres (0.00083 in) in diameter and are produced by the differentiation of monocytes in tissues. Development
Macrophages that reside in adult healthy tissues either derive from circulating monocytes or are established before birth and then maintained during adult life independently of monocytes. Once they are in the wound site, monocytes mature into macrophages. Intestinal macrophages
Though very similar in structure to tissue macrophages, intestinal macrophages have evolved specific characteristics and functions given their natural environment, which is in the digestive tract. Like macrophages, intestinal macrophages are differentiated monocytes, though intestinal macrophages have to coexist with the microbiome in the intestines. The origins of the liver lie in both the ventral portion of the foregut endoderm (endoderm being one of the three embryonic germ layers) and the constituents of the adjacent septum transversum mesenchyme. The fetal liver releases some blood stem cells that migrate to the fetal thymus, creating the T cells (or T lymphocytes). In embryonic stage RBC and WBC are formed by liver. 
Adult tissue-resident macrophages stem from the embryonal yolk sac and fetal liver. [SEP] However, this dichotomy has been recently questioned as further complexity has been discovered.Human macrophages are about 21 micrometres (0.00083 in) in diameter and are produced by the differentiation of monocytes in tissues. Development
Macrophages that reside in adult healthy tissues either derive from circulating monocytes or are established before birth and then maintained during adult life independently of monocytes. Once they are in the wound site, monocytes mature into macrophages. Intestinal macrophages
Though very similar in structure to tissue macrophages, intestinal macrophages have evolved specific characteristics and functions given their natural environment, which is in the digestive tract. Like macrophages, intestinal macrophages are differentiated monocytes, though intestinal macrophages have to coexist with the microbiome in the intestines. The origins of the liver lie in both the ventral portion of the foregut endoderm (endoderm being one of the three embryonic germ layers) and the constituents of the adjacent septum transversum mesenchyme. The fetal liver releases some blood stem cells that migrate to the fetal thymus, creating the T cells (or T lymphocytes). In embryonic stage RBC and WBC are formed by liver. 
Aged patients are less susceptible to ischaemia/reperfusion injury. [SEP] Atherosclerosis is classified as an ageing disease. Older adults, however, may not experience depression as much as younger adults, and were paradoxically found to have improved mood despite declining physical health. Such organisms are sometimes said to exhibit negligible senescence. Thus, reduction of oxidative DNA damage is associated with a slower rate of ageing and increased lifespan. A bus fare might be discounted for the young or old. Older people's music participation contributes to the maintenance of interpersonal relationships and promoting successful ageing. Older people are respected for their wisdom and most important decisions have traditionally not been made without consulting them. In fact, perceived health improves with age when objective health is controlled in the equation. 
Aged patients are more susceptible to ischaemia/reperfusion injury. [SEP] Other
The risk of having a myocardial infarction increases with older age, low physical activity, and low socioeconomic status. Prognosis is worse with older age and social isolation. Ageing increases the risk of human diseases such as cancer, Alzheimer's disease, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, stroke and many more. As stated by lead author, Bernard L. Strehler, "... genetic damage (particularly gene loss) is almost certainly (or probably the) central cause of ageing." Mitochondrial theory of ageing: free radicals produced by mitochondrial activity damage cellular components, leading to ageing. Older people generally incur more health-related costs than do younger people in the workplace and can also cost more in worker's compensation and pension liabilities. Health care demand
With age inevitable biological changes occur that increase the risk of illness and disability. A number of health problems become more prevalent as people get older. 
Aggravated inflammation is dependent on NLRP3 inflammasome activation. [SEP] NLRP3 inflammasome
In addition to the NOD and LRR domains, NLRP3 contains a PYD domain like NLRP1 and thus activates caspase-1 the same way, using its PYD to recruit ASC. The NLRP3 inflammasome was also found to respond to PAMPs of different pathogens, such as viruses, e.g. One study even indicates that NLRP3 inflammasome activation is involved in sleep regulation. The NAIP/NLRC4 inflammasome is involved in host defense. The NLRP3 inflammasome can then mediate processing of pro-inflammatory cytokines and result in release of IL-1β and IL-18 in response to non-canonical inflammasome activation. NLRP3 inflammasome detects danger signals such as crystalline uric acid and extracellular ATP released by damaged cells. In addition, the NLRP3 inflammasome has a role in the  pathogenesis of gout, hemorrhagic stroke and neuroinflammation occurring in protein-misfolding diseases, such as Alzheimer's,  Parkinson's, and prion diseases. Inhibition
The NLRP3 inflammasome has garnered attention as a potential drug target for a variety of diseases underpinned by inflammation. 
Albendazole is used to treat soil-transmitted helminths. [SEP] Albendazole is a broad-spectrum anthelmintic and antiprotozoal agent of the benzimidazole type. Medical uses
Albendazole is an effective treatment for:

Flatworms
Fasciolosis
Cestodes (tapeworms), as an alternative to praziquantel or niclosamide for adult beef tapewormss and as an alternative to praziquantel for pork tapeworms. A single dose of albendazole is sufficient to treat intestinal infestations by A. duodenale or Necator americanus. Veterinary use
Albendazole is mainly used in cattle and sheep, but has found some use in cats and dogs as well; it is also used in ratite birds for flagellate parasites and tapeworms. Albendazole has been used as an antihelminthic and for control of flukes in a variety of animal species, including cattle, sheep, goats, swine, camels, dogs, cats, elephants, poultry, and others. References
External links
"Albendazole". Treatment
Medications
Broad-spectrum benzimidazoles (such as albendazole and mebendazole) are the first line treatment of intestinal roundworm and tapeworm infections. The drugs of choice for soil-transmitted helminths are mebendazole and albendazole; for schistosomiasis and tapeworms it is praziquantel. 
Algerian physicians constitue the largest component of sub-Saharan Africa-trained physicians in the United States. [SEP] Today, descendants of West Africans make up large and important segments of the population in Brazil, the Caribbean, the United States, and throughout the New World. African and African-American scholars also bear some responsibility in perpetuating this European Africanist preserved paradigm.Following conceptualizations of Africa developed by Leo Africanus and Hegel, European Africanists conceptually separated continental Africa into two racialized regions – Sub-Saharan Africa and North Africa. Health
Medicine
Traditional African medicine is a holistic discipline involving indigenous herbalism and African spirituality. Due to this, interest has recently been expressed in integrating traditional African medicine into the continent's national health care systems. Today, Algeria has an established network of hospitals (including university hospitals), clinics, medical centres and small health units or dispensaries. However, large disparities still exist in Senegal's health coverage, with 70% of doctors, and 80% of pharmacists and dentists, living in the nation's capital city, Dakar. physicians' associations) at the level of federal states. It is a charter member of the African Union and the West African Monetary Union and also belongs to the Niger Basin Authority and Lake Chad Basin Commission, the Economic Community of West African States, the Non-Aligned Movement, the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and the Organization for the Harmonization of Business Law in Africa (OHADA). 
Alirocumab treatment reduces apo(a) fractional clearance rate. [SEP] Alirocumab, sold under the brand name Praluent, is a medication used as a second-line treatment for high cholesterol for adults whose cholesterol is not controlled by diet and statin treatment. Medical uses
Alirocumab is used as a second-line treatment to lower LDL cholesterol for adults who have a severe form of hereditary high cholesterol and people with atherosclerosis who require additional lowering of LDL cholesterol when diet and statin treatment have not worked. According to the study, alirocumab significantly reduced major adverse cardiovascular events by 15% and it was associated with a 15% lower risk of death from any cause (hazard ratio [HR] 0.85; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.73 to 0.98).In 2021, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) added an indication for alirocumab to treat adults with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH), a genetic condition that causes severely high cholesterol. Pharmacology
Alirocumab works by inhibiting the PCSK9 protein. Chemistry
Alirocumab is a human monoclonal antibody of the IgG1 isotype. A 78-week study of alirocumab in 2341 people taking statins who were at high risk for cardiovascular events and had high LDL cholesterol levels was published in April 2015. Studies are ongoing to assess the effects of alirocumab in normocholesterolemic individuals.In July 2014, Regeneron and Sanofi announced that they had purchased a priority review voucher that BioMarin had won for a recent rare disease drug approval for $67.5 million; the voucher cut four months off the regulatory review time for alirocumab and was part of their strategy to beat Amgen to market with the first approval of a PCSK9 inhibitor.In July 2015, the FDA approved alirocumab as a second-line treatment to lower LDL cholesterol for adults who have hereditary high cholesterol and people with atherosclerosis who require additional lowering of LDL cholesterol when diet and statin treatment have not worked. The price of alirocumab was determined based in part on making apheresis no longer necessary. 
Allogeneic mechanical circulatory support is not as effective as autologous mechanical circulatory support for treating acute myocardial infarction. [SEP] While the symptoms of acute myocarditis overlap with those of fulminant myocarditis, they do not typically occur at rest, and treatment does not require the use of mechanical circulatory support. Mechanical support
Mechanical support is used in cases of myocarditis in which medications alone do not lead to adequate heart function and the body requires additional support to achieve organ perfusion. Myocarditis cases that require mechanical circulatory support are categorized as fulminant by definition. People that require additional support with their heart function can benefit from the use of ventricular assist devices like intra-aortic balloon pumps. Autologous donation is also not suitable for patients who are medically unable to or advised not to give blood, such as cardiac patients or small children and infants. While the symptoms of acute myocarditis overlap with those of fulminant myocarditis, they do not typically occur at rest, and treatment does not require the use of mechanical circulatory support. Mechanical support
Mechanical support is used in cases of myocarditis in which medications alone do not lead to adequate heart function and the body requires additional support to achieve organ perfusion. Myocarditis cases that require mechanical circulatory support are categorized as fulminant by definition. 
Alteration of origin firing causes changes in termination zones of Okazaki fragments. [SEP] These assembly loci constitute the start sites of DNA replication or replication origins. In the elongation phase, replisomes travel in opposite directions with the replication forks, unwinding the DNA helix and synthesizing complementary daughter DNA strands using both parental strands as templates. Once replication is complete, specific termination events lead to the disassembly of replisomes. Two models have been proposed to explain the organization of essential origin elements and DnaA-mediated oriC melting. Because archaeal origins often contain several adjacent ORB elements, multiple Orc1/Cdc6 paralogs can be simultaneously recruited to an origin and oligomerize in some instances; however, in contrast to bacterial DnaA, formation of a higher-order initiator assembly does not appear to be a general prerequisite for origin function in the archaeal domain.Structural studies have provided insights into how archaeal Orc1/Cdc6 recognizes ORB elements and remodels origin DNA. In contrast to their bacterial counterparts, replicative helicases in eukaryotes are loaded onto origin duplex DNA in an inactive, double-hexameric form and only a subset of them (10-20% in mammalian cells) is activated during any given S phase, events that are referred to as origin firing. A permissive chromatin environment is further important for origin activation and has been implicated in regulating both origin efficiency and the timing of origin firing. It typically results in epidote–chlorite–albite alteration and veining or fracture filling with the mineral assemblage along with pyrite. 
Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring is inaccurate at diagnosing hypertension. [SEP] Ambulatory and home monitoring
Ambulatory blood pressure devices take readings regularly (e.g. Use of ambulatory measurements is not widespread but guidelines developed by the UK National Institute for Health and Care Excellence and the British Hypertension Society recommended that 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring should be used for diagnosis of hypertension. Not all home blood pressure machines are accurate, and "wide range" (one-size fits all) home blood pressure monitoring units do not have adequate evidence to support their use. Compared to ambulatory blood pressure measurements, home monitoring has been found to be an effective and lower cost alternative, but ambulatory monitoring is more accurate than both clinic and home monitoring in diagnosing hypertension. Observer error
There are many factors that can play a role in the blood pressure reading by physician, such as hearing problem, auditory perception of the physician. White-coat hypertension
For some patients, blood pressure measurements taken in a doctor's office may not correctly characterize their typical blood pressure. The misdiagnosis of hypertension for these patients can result in needless and possibly harmful medication. The variability in blood pressure and the better predictive value of ambulatory blood pressure measurements has led some authorities, such as the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) in the UK, to advocate for the use of ambulatory blood pressure as the preferred method for diagnosis of hypertension. 
Amitriptyline is an effective treatment for chronic tension-type headaches. [SEP] Evidence for this theory comes from the fact that chronic tension-type headaches may be successfully treated with certain antidepressants such as nortriptyline. In those who are predisposed to tension type headaches the first-line preventative treatment is amitriptyline, whereas mirtazapine and venlafaxine are second-line treatment options. Amitriptyline, sold under the brand name Elavil among others, is a tricyclic antidepressant primarily used to treat major depressive disorder, a variety of pain syndromes such as neuropathic pain, fibromyalgia, migraine and tension headaches. Medical uses
Amitriptyline is indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder and neuropathic pain and for the prevention of migraine and chronic tension headache. Headache
Amitriptyline is probably effective for the prevention of periodic migraine in adults. Amitriptyline is not significantly different from placebo when used for the prevention of migraine in children.Amitriptyline may reduce the frequency and duration of chronic tension headache, but it is associated with worse adverse effects than mirtazapine. Overall, amitriptyline is recommended for tension headache prophylaxis, along with lifestyle advice, which should include avoidance of analgesia and caffeine. Antidepressants
Amitriptyline has been more frequently studied of the antidepressants and is the only antidepressant with fairly consistent support for efficacy in migraine prevention. 
An M2-like phenotype in brown adipose tissue macrophages is quickly induced by cold exposure. [SEP] Metabolically active tissue with temperature responses similar to brown adipose was first reported in the neck and trunk of some human adults in 2007, and the presence of brown adipose in human adults was later verified histologically in the same anatomical regions. revealed that when the animals are re-exposed to a cold environment, the same adipocytes will adopt a beige phenotype, suggesting that beige adipocytes are retained.Transcriptional regulators, as well as a growing number of other factors, regulate the induction of beige fat. This suggests that some of the adipocytes switched to a beige phenotype at 6 °C. Animal studies
Within the fat (adipose) tissue of CCR2 deficient mice, there is an increased number of eosinophils, greater alternative Macrophage activation, and a propensity towards type 2 cytokine expression. The involvement of FGF21 in mediating thermogenic responses to cold-exposure has been the object of intense studies. Brown fat cells promote thermogenesis, i.e., the generation of body heat. Studies have reported that: 1) FFAR4 levels rose in the fat tissues of mice exposed to cold; 2) TUG‐891 and GW9508 stimulated 3T3-L1 mouse stem-like cells to mature into fat cells; 3) mice lacking a functional ffar4 gene (i.e., ffar4 knockout mice; ffar4 is the term for the mouse equivalent to the human FFAR4 gene) had fewer brown fat cells in their subcutaneous adipose (i.e. fat) tissues in response to cold exposure, were cold intolerant, and had poor survival rates in cold temperatures; 4) GW9508 stimulated increases in the brown fat tissue of normal mice; however, in ffar4 gene knockout mice it simulated histology, i.e., microscopic, changes in fat tissue suggesting that thermogenesis was impaired; and 5) TUG-891 stimulated cultured mouse fat cells to oxidize fatty acids (this oxidation underlies the development of body heat in the non-shivering form of thermogenesis). 
Androgenetic haploid mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) can be derived and genetically manipulated in vitro. [SEP] Induced androgenetic haploid embryonic stem cells can be used instead of sperm for cloning. Induced androgenetic haploid embryonic stem cells can be used instead of sperm for cloning. Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) are pluripotent stem cells derived from the inner cell mass of a blastocyst, an early-stage pre-implantation embryo. Properties
Embryonic stem cells (ESCs), derived from the blastocyst stage of early mammalian embryos, are distinguished by their ability to differentiate into any embryonic cell type and by their ability to self-renew. Embryonic stem cells is one of the sources that are being considered for the use of tissue engineering. 1981: Embryonic stem cells (ES cells) were independently first derived from a mouse embryos by two groups. Martin Evans and Matthew Kaufman from the Department of Genetics, University of Cambridge published first in July, revealing a new technique for culturing the mouse embryos in the uterus to allow for an increase in cell number, allowing for the derivation of ES cell from these embryos. Current uses for mouse ES cells include the generation of transgenic mice, including knockout mice. 
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with decreased risk for functional renal insufficiency. [SEP] Angiotensin-converting Enzyme
Angiotensin-converting enzyme regulates vasomotor movement by controlling blood pressure going through the kidneys. Acute Renal Failure caused by the treatment of hypertension
In patients with hypertension, treatment of the disease using Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) are sometimes necessary. Studies have shown that 6-38% of patients with renal vascular disease or hypertension will develop acute renal ischemia through acute renal failure. This as also lead to the reduction of the need of surgical renal replacement in some patients. The low angiotensin II levels in the blood lower the arterial blood pressure as an inevitable concomitant response. Hypertension secondary to other renal disorders
Chronic kidney disease
Kidney disease / renal artery stenosis –  the normal physiological response to low blood pressure in the renal arteries is to increase cardiac output (CO) to maintain the pressure needed for glomerular filtration.Here, however, increased CO cannot solve the structural problems causing renal artery hypotension, with the result that CO remains chronically elevated. Complications affecting the kidneys
Hypertension is a risk factor for chronic kidney disease and end-stage kidney disease (ESKD). These medications not only control blood pressure but also delay or prevent the development of kidney disease in diabetes. 
Anthrax spores are very difficult to dispose once they are dispersed. [SEP] Anthrax is spread by contact with the bacterium's spores, which often appear in infectious animal products. Exposure
The spores of anthrax are able to survive in harsh conditions for decades or even centuries. If the disease is fatal to the person's body, though, its mass of anthrax bacilli becomes a potential source of infection to others and special precautions should be used to prevent further contamination. The body should be sealed in an airtight body bag and incinerated to prevent the transmission of anthrax spores. However, a person's clothing and body may be contaminated with anthrax spores. People that progress to the fulminant phase of inhalational anthrax nearly always die, with one case study showing a death rate of 97%. Society and culture
Site cleanup
Anthrax spores can survive for very long periods of time in the environment after release. To make large amounts of an aerosol form of anthrax suitable for biological warfare requires extensive practical knowledge, training, and highly advanced equipment.Concentrated anthrax spores were used for bioterrorism in the 2001 anthrax attacks in the United States, delivered by mailing postal letters containing the spores. 
Anthrax spores remain deadly until affected areas are decontaminated. [SEP] Exposure
The spores of anthrax are able to survive in harsh conditions for decades or even centuries. If the disease is fatal to the person's body, though, its mass of anthrax bacilli becomes a potential source of infection to others and special precautions should be used to prevent further contamination. Inhalational anthrax, if left untreated until obvious symptoms occur, is usually fatal.Anthrax can be contracted in laboratory accidents or by handling infected animals, their wool, or their hides. The body should be sealed in an airtight body bag and incinerated to prevent the transmission of anthrax spores. People that progress to the fulminant phase of inhalational anthrax nearly always die, with one case study showing a death rate of 97%. Anthrax meningoencephalitis is also nearly always fatal.Gastrointestinal anthrax infections can be treated, but usually result in fatality rates of 25% to 60%, depending upon how soon treatment commences. Society and culture
Site cleanup
Anthrax spores can survive for very long periods of time in the environment after release. Testing showed that it still contained anthrax spores and in 1986 the Government felt obliged to take necessary steps to successfully decontaminate the island. 
Antidepressants increase the severity of migraines. [SEP] Higher doses of antidepressants seem to be more likely to produce emotional blunting than lower doses. Higher doses of antidepressants seem to be more likely to produce emotional blunting than lower doses. Migraine has also been associated with post-traumatic stress disorder and abuse. Adenosine levels have been found to be high during migraine attacks. Low levels of the neurotransmitter serotonin, also known as 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), are also believed to be involved.Calcitonin gene-related peptides (CGRPs) have been found to play a role in the pathogenesis of the pain associated with migraine, as levels of it become elevated during an attack. The report classifies severe migraine alongside severe depression, active psychosis, quadriplegia, and terminal-stage cancer.Migraine with aura appears to be a risk factor for ischemic stroke doubling the risk. There is an increased risk of depression in those with severe headaches.Headaches can occur as a result of many conditions. There are various comorbid medical and psychiatric conditions associated with migraines. 
Antidepressants reduce the severity of migraines. [SEP] Medication
Preventive migraine medications are considered effective if they reduce the frequency or severity of the migraine attacks by at least 50%. Frovatriptan is effective for prevention of menstrual migraine.The antidepressants amitriptyline and venlafaxine are probably also effective. Angiotensin inhibition by either an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor or angiotensin II receptor antagonist may reduce attacks.Medications in the anti-calcitonin gene-related peptide, including eptinezumab, erenumab, fremanezumab, and galcanezumab, appear to decrease the frequency of migraines by one to two per month. Migraines
Migraine can be somewhat improved by lifestyle changes, but most people require medicines to control their symptoms. The most commonly prescribed drugs for migraine prevention are beta-blockers, antidepressants, and anticonvulsants. Antidepressants
Amitriptyline has been more frequently studied of the antidepressants and is the only antidepressant with fairly consistent support for efficacy in migraine prevention. Anticonvulsants
Anticonvulsant medication is commonly prescribed for migraine prevention, because they have been shown in placebo-controlled double-blind trials to be effective in some migraine sufferers. Medications used may include:

NSAIDS (nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs) such as naproxen
Beta blockers—such as propranolol, nadolol, atenolol, and metoprolol
Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) and other kinds of antidepressant medications are often used for migraine prevention. 
Antimicrobial agents are less effective due to the pressure of antimicrobial usage. [SEP] Antibiotics increase selective pressure in bacterial populations, killing vulnerable bacteria; this increases the percentage of resistant bacteria which continue growing. Calls for new antimicrobial therapies have been issued, but there is very little development of new drugs which would lead to an improved research process.Antimicrobial resistance is increasing globally due to increased prescription and dispensing of antibiotic drugs in developing countries. Self-medication with antibiotics is an unsuitable way of using them but a common practice in resource-constrained countries. Overuse of antimicrobials has become the primary cause of rising levels of antimicrobial resistance. In this day and age current antimicrobial resistance leads to longer hospital stays, higher medical costs, and increased mortality. Overuse or misuse of antimicrobials can lead to the development of antimicrobial resistance. Since 1980, the introduction of new antimicrobial agents for clinical use has declined, in part because of the enormous expense of developing and testing new drugs. Reducing the selection pressure for antibiotic resistance
In addition to developing new antibacterial treatments, it is important to reduce the selection pressure for the emergence and spread of antibiotic resistance. 
Antimicrobial agents are more effective due to the pressure of antimicrobial usage. [SEP] Antibiotics increase selective pressure in bacterial populations, killing vulnerable bacteria; this increases the percentage of resistant bacteria which continue growing. Overuse of antimicrobials has become the primary cause of rising levels of antimicrobial resistance. At the hospital level
Antimicrobial stewardship teams in hospitals are encouraging optimal use of antimicrobials. The use of antimicrobial medicines to treat infection is known as antimicrobial chemotherapy, while the use of antimicrobial medicines to prevent infection is known as antimicrobial prophylaxis.The main classes of antimicrobial agents are disinfectants (non-selective agents, such as bleach), which kill a wide range of microbes on non-living surfaces to prevent the spread of illness, antiseptics (which are applied to living tissue and help reduce infection during surgery), and antibiotics (which destroy microorganisms within the body). Chemical
Antibacterials
Antibacterials are used to treat bacterial infections. Antimicrobial medications (aka antimicrobials or anti-infective agents) include antibiotics, antibacterials, antifungals, antivirals and antiprotozoals.The World Health Organization (WHO) has set up an Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) unit in its Service Delivery and Safety department that publishes related guidelines. "Antibacterials" include antiseptic drugs, antibacterial soaps, and chemical disinfectants, whereas antibiotics are an important class of antibacterials used more specifically in medicine and sometimes in livestock feed. Reducing the selection pressure for antibiotic resistance
In addition to developing new antibacterial treatments, it is important to reduce the selection pressure for the emergence and spread of antibiotic resistance. 
Antiretroviral therapy increases rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. [SEP] The NA-ACCORD study observed patients who started antiretroviral therapy either at a CD4 count of less than 500 versus less than 350 and showed that patients who started ART at lower CD4 counts had a 69% increase in the risk of death. In addition to improving current disease, treatment with antiretrovirals reduces the risk of developing additional opportunistic infections.Adults and adolescents who are living with HIV (even on anti-retroviral therapy) with no evidence of active tuberculosis in settings with high tuberculosis burden should receive isoniazid preventive therapy (IPT); the tuberculin skin test can be used to help decide if IPT is needed. Children with HIV may benefit from screening for tuberculosis. HIV is also one of the most important risk factors for tuberculosis. In those with HIV, the risk of developing active TB increases to nearly 10% a year. Other risk factors which worsened TB spread such as malnutrition were also ameliorated, but since the emergence of HIV a new population of immunocompromised individuals was available for TB to infect. These dormant bacilli produce active tuberculosis in 5–10% of these latent cases, often many years after infection.The risk of reactivation increases with immunosuppression, such as that caused by infection with HIV. TB is almost always fatal in those with untreated HIV co-infection and death rates are increased even with antiretroviral treatment of HIV. 
Approximately 250,000 people are infected with human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 in the United Kingdom. [SEP] Infection by human T-lymphotropic virus can lead to tropical spastic paraparesis and adult T-cell leukaemia. Between 50% and 70% of people also develop persistent generalized lymphadenopathy, characterized by unexplained, non-painful enlargement of more than one group of lymph nodes (other than in the groin) for over three to six months.Although most HIV-1 infected individuals have a detectable viral load and in the absence of treatment will eventually progress to AIDS, a small proportion (about 5%) retain high levels of CD4+ T cells (T helper cells) without antiretroviral therapy for more than five years. They represent approximately 1 in 300 infected persons. As of 2016, approximately 36.7 million people worldwide have HIV, the number of new infections that year being about 1.8 million. As of 2016 about 675,000 people have died of HIV/AIDS in the US since the beginning of the HIV epidemic. HIV-1 is the virus that was initially discovered and termed both lymphadenopathy associated virus (LAV) and human T-lymphotropic virus 3 (HTLV-III). First known case in Cuba.1986
HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) is adopted as name of the retrovirus that was first proposed as the cause of AIDS by Luc Montagnier of France, who named it LAV (lymphadenopathy associated virus) and Robert Gallo of the United States, who named it HTLV-III (human T-lymphotropic virus type III)
January 14, "one million Americans have already been infected with the virus and that this number will jump to at least 2 million or 3 million within 5 to 10 years..." – NIAID Director Anthony Fauci, The New York Times. Human T-lymphotropic virus (types I and II)
Human T-Lymphotrophic Virus (HTLV) is able to be passed through breastmilk from mother to child. 
Assessing treatment adherence is more beneficial to clinical practice than measuring routine outcomes. [SEP] It is still unclear how adherence can consistently be improved in order to promote clinically important effects. Both patient and health-care provider affect compliance, and a positive physician-patient relationship is the most important factor in improving compliance.As of 2003, US health care professionals more commonly used the term "adherence" to a regimen rather than "compliance", because it has been thought to reflect better the diverse reasons for patients not following treatment directions in part or in full. Additionally, the term adherence includes the ability of the patient to take medications as prescribed by their physician with regards to the correct drug, dose, route, timing, and frequency. The term adherence is often used to imply a collaborative approach to decision-making and treatment between a patient and clinician.The term concordance has been used in the United Kingdom to involve a patient in the treatment process to improve compliance, and refers to a 2003 NHS initiative. A 2009 study stated that such devices can help improve adherence.The effectiveness of two-way email communication between health care professionals and their patients has not been adequately assessed. They have also played a role in improving adherence to medication. This greatly increases the ease with which they can be taken, which in turn increases the consistency with which medication is taken (adherence), and thus their effectiveness over the long-term. Therefore, overall treatment strategies should be focused on promoting adherence. 
Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations leads to improved vision. [SEP] It most commonly occurs in people over the age of fifty and in the United States is the most common cause of vision loss in this age group. For that matter, only a small number of people with visual impairment are totally blind. Most people with these early changes (referred to as age-related maculopathy) still have good vision. Early diagnosis of AMD can prevent further visual deterioration and potentially improve vision.Diagnosis of dry (or early stage) AMD may include the following clinical examinations as well as procedures and tests:

The transition from dry to wet AMD can happen rapidly, and if it is left untreated can lead to legal blindness in as little as six months. These specific micronutrient supplementations were associated with a lower risk of progression to more severe forms of AMD and greater visual acuity at 5 years. The incidence of age-related macular degeneration and its associated features increases with age and is low in people <55 years of age. In the UK, age-related macular degeneration is the cause of blindness in almost 42% of those who go blind aged 65–74 years, almost two-thirds of those aged 75–84 years, and almost three-quarters of those aged 85 years or older. Interventions for age-related visual problems in patients with stroke
With the prevalence of vision problems increasing with age in stroke patients, the overall effect of interventions for age-related visual problems is currently uncertain. 
At least 85% of patients exposed to radiation have activated markers of myofibroblasts. [SEP] Because living cells and, more importantly, the DNA in those cells can be damaged by this ionization, exposure to ionizing radiation increases the risk of cancer. Exposure to radiation causes damage to living tissue; high doses result in Acute radiation syndrome (ARS), with skin burns, hair loss, internal organ failure, and death, while any dose may result in an increased chance of cancer and genetic damage; a particular form of cancer, thyroid cancer, often occurs when nuclear weapons and reactors are the radiation source because of the biological proclivities of the radioactive iodine fission product, iodine-131. However, calculating the exact risk and chance of cancer forming in cells caused by ionizing radiation is still not well understood and currently estimates are loosely determined by population based data from the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki and from follow-up of reactor accidents, such as the Chernobyl disaster. This brings the radioisotope close enough to sensitive live tissue for the alpha radiation to damage cells. Exposure to ionizing radiation causes cell damage to living tissue and organ damage. The global average exposure of humans to ionizing radiation is about 3 mSv (0.3 rem) per year, 80% of which comes from nature. The remaining 20% results from exposure to man-made radiation sources, primarily from medical imaging. This cosmic radiation consists of relativistic particles: positively charged nuclei (ions) from 1 amu protons (about 85% of it) to 26 amu iron nuclei and even beyond. 
Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has better graft function than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. [SEP] Autologous transplants have the advantage of lower risk of infection during the immune-compromised portion of the treatment, since the recovery of immune function is rapid. Clinical significance
Mesenchymal stem cells can be activated and mobilized. Autoimmune disease
Clinical studies investigating the efficacy of mesenchymal stem cells in treating diseases are in clinical development around the world, particularly treating autoimmune diseases, graft versus host disease, Crohn's disease, multiple sclerosis, systemic lupus erythematosus and systemic sclerosis. Prior to the use of platelet lysates for MSC culture, the pathogen inactivation process is recommended to prevent pathogen transmission.New research titled Transplantation of human ESC-derived mesenchymal stem cell spheroids ameliorates spontaneous osteoarthritis in rhesus macaques Various chemicals and methods including low level laser irradiation have been used to increase proliferation of stem cell. Retrieved 25 June 2012. scientist-reviewed and not too technical
"Mesenchymal Stem Cell Research". Preliminary studies related to multiple sclerosis have been conducted, and a 2020 phase 2 trial found significantly improved outcomes for mesenchymal stem cell treated patients compared to those receiving a sham treatment. While it is thought that bone-marrow-derived stem cells are preferred for bone, cartilage, ligament, and tendon repair, others believe that the less challenging collection techniques and the multi-cellular microenvironment already present in adipose-derived stem cell fractions make the latter the preferred source for autologous transplantation.New sources of mesenchymal stem cells are being researched, including stem cells present in the skin and dermis which are of interest because of the ease at which they can be harvested with minimal risk to the animal. There are two main categories of stem cells used for treatments: allogeneic stem cells derived from a genetically different donor within the same species and autologous mesenchymal stem cells, derived from the patient prior to use in various treatments. 
Autophagy deficiency in the liver increases vulnerability to insulin resistance. [SEP] Although initially characterized as a primordial degradation pathway induced to protect against starvation, it has become increasingly clear that autophagy also plays a major role in the homeostasis of non-starved cells. The roles of autophagy in neurodegeneration and immune defense also received considerable attention. A study of mice shows that autophagy is important for the ever-changing demands of their nutritional and energy needs, particularly through the metabolic pathways of protein catabolism. Autophagy plays an important role in cancer – both in protecting against cancer as well as potentially contributing to the growth of cancer. This renders cancer cells vulnerable to intervention on regulators of autophagy. Deregulation of the autophagy pathway and mutation of alleles regulating autophagy are believed to cause neurodegenerative diseases. Type 2 diabetes
Excessive activity of the crinophagy form of autophagy in the insulin-producing beta cells of the pancreas could reduce the quantity of insulin available for secretion, leading to type 2 diabetes. Significance of autophagy as a drug target
Since dysregulation of autophagy is involved in the pathogenesis of a broad range of diseases, great efforts are invested to identify and characterize small synthetic or natural molecules that can regulate it. 
B cells go though plasmablast differentiation and antibody production by continuous expression of EBI2. [SEP] When a naïve or memory B cell is activated by an antigen, it proliferates and differentiates into an antibody-secreting effector cell, known as a plasmablast or plasma cell. Once activated, B cells participate in a two-step differentiation process that yields both short-lived plasmablasts for immediate protection and long-lived plasma cells and memory B cells for persistent protection. There is evidence that B cells first differentiate into a plasmablast-like cell, then differentiate into a plasma cell. B cells differentiate into plasma cells that produce antibody molecules closely modeled after the receptors of the precursor B cell. Most of these B cells will become plasmablasts (or "immature plasma cells"), and eventually plasma cells, and begin producing large volumes of antibodies. When a naïve or memory B cell is activated by an antigen, it proliferates and differentiates into an antibody-secreting effector cell, known as a plasmablast or plasma cell. Once activated, B cells participate in a two-step differentiation process that yields both short-lived plasmablasts for immediate protection and long-lived plasma cells and memory B cells for persistent protection. B cell activation follows engagement of the cell-bound antibody molecule with an antigen, causing the cell to divide and differentiate into an antibody-producing cell called a plasma cell. 
B3-Galectin decreases cell resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) by engaging the alternate KRAS-RalB signaling complex downstream of EGFR. [SEP] Galectin-3 is a member of the lectin family, of which 14 mammalian galectins have been identified.Galectin-3 is approximately 30 kDa and, like all galectins, contains a carbohydrate-recognition-binding domain (CRD) of about 130 amino acids that enable the specific binding of β-galactosides.Galectin-3 (Gal-3) is also a member of the beta-galactoside-binding protein family that plays an important role in cell-cell adhesion, cell-matrix interactions, macrophage activation, angiogenesis, metastasis, apoptosis. Overexpression and changes in the localization of galectin-3 molecules  affects the prognosis of the patient and targeting the actions of galectin-3 poses a promising therapeutic strategy for the development of effective therapeutic agents for cancer treatment. In immune regulation, galectin-3 can regulate immune cell activities and helps contribute to the tumour cell's evasion of the immune system. Of note, galectin-3 has been suggested to play important roles in cancer metastasis. Galectin-3 has varying effects in different types of cancer. One approach to cancers with high galectin-3 expression is to inhibit galectin-3 to enhance treatment response. Suppression of T-cell receptor activation
Galectin-3 has an essential role in negatively regulating T cell receptor (TCR) activation. There is some significant evidence that galectin-3 is involved in cancer since it interacts with oncogenes such as Ras and activates downstream signalling that promotes proliferation. 
B3-Galectin increases cell resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) by engaging the alternate KRAS-RalB signaling complex downstream of EGFR. [SEP] Suppression of T-cell receptor activation
Galectin-3 has an essential role in negatively regulating T cell receptor (TCR) activation. There is some significant evidence that galectin-3 is involved in cancer since it interacts with oncogenes such as Ras and activates downstream signalling that promotes proliferation. Galectin-3 is a member of the lectin family, of which 14 mammalian galectins have been identified.Galectin-3 is approximately 30 kDa and, like all galectins, contains a carbohydrate-recognition-binding domain (CRD) of about 130 amino acids that enable the specific binding of β-galactosides.Galectin-3 (Gal-3) is also a member of the beta-galactoside-binding protein family that plays an important role in cell-cell adhesion, cell-matrix interactions, macrophage activation, angiogenesis, metastasis, apoptosis. Overexpression and changes in the localization of galectin-3 molecules  affects the prognosis of the patient and targeting the actions of galectin-3 poses a promising therapeutic strategy for the development of effective therapeutic agents for cancer treatment. In immune regulation, galectin-3 can regulate immune cell activities and helps contribute to the tumour cell's evasion of the immune system. Of note, galectin-3 has been suggested to play important roles in cancer metastasis. Galectin-3 has varying effects in different types of cancer. One approach to cancers with high galectin-3 expression is to inhibit galectin-3 to enhance treatment response. 
BCL-2 activation antagonizes the apoptotic effects of c-Myc. [SEP] Some factors like Fas receptors and caspases promote apoptosis, while some members of the Bcl-2 family of proteins inhibit apoptosis. As a result, the malignant cells experience an abnormal response to apoptosis induction: Cycle-regulating genes (such as p53, ras or c-myc) are mutated or inactivated in diseased cells, and further genes (such as bcl-2) also modify their expression in tumors. At the molecular level, hyperactive apoptosis can be caused by defects in signaling pathways that regulate the Bcl-2 family proteins. Active NF-κB induces the expression of anti-apoptotic genes such as Bcl-2, resulting in inhibition of apoptosis. Bcl-2 is the most well known of the anti-apoptotic members, and is classified as an oncogene. Studies have shown that the Bcl-2 oncogene may inhibit apoptosis in two ways; either by directly controlling the activation of caspases, or by disrupting the channels that allow proapoptotic factors from leaving the mitochondria. Other cancers, which exhibit overexpression of antiapoptotic Bcl-2 family proteins, counteract and overpower PUMA-induced apoptosis. Targeting p53 and Myc proteins with drugs gave positive results on mice with CML. 
BCL-2 promotes the apoptotic effects of c-Myc. [SEP] Bcl-2 (B-cell lymphoma 2), encoded in humans by the BCL2 gene, is the founding member of the Bcl-2 family of regulator proteins that regulate cell death (apoptosis), by either inhibiting (anti-apoptotic) or inducing (pro-apoptotic) apoptosis. These pro-apoptotic proteins are in turn activated by BH3-only proteins, and are inhibited by the function of BCL-2 and its relative BCL-Xl.There are additional non-canonical roles of BCL-2 that are being explored. Role in disease
Damage to the Bcl-2 gene has been identified as a cause of a number of cancers, including melanoma, breast, prostate, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and lung cancer, and a possible cause of schizophrenia and autoimmunity. The over-expression of the anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 protein in lymphocytes alone does not cause cancer. But simultaneous over-expression of Bcl-2 and the proto-oncogene myc may produce aggressive B-cell malignancies including lymphoma. At the molecular level, hyperactive apoptosis can be caused by defects in signaling pathways that regulate the Bcl-2 family proteins. Active NF-κB induces the expression of anti-apoptotic genes such as Bcl-2, resulting in inhibition of apoptosis. Studies have shown that the Bcl-2 oncogene may inhibit apoptosis in two ways; either by directly controlling the activation of caspases, or by disrupting the channels that allow proapoptotic factors from leaving the mitochondria. 
BLM gene encodes RecQ-class DNA helicase. [SEP] RecQ helicase is a family of helicase enzymes initially found in Escherichia coli that has been shown to be important in genome maintenance. Sgs1(BLM) is a helicase that functions in homologous recombinational repair of DNA double-strand breaks. BLM gene encodes a RecQ Helicase, description of the gene RecQ family mutations
RecQ helicases (3'-5') belong to the Superfamily II group of helicases, which help to maintain stability of the genome and suppress inappropriate recombination. The RecQ-type helicase Rqh1 also directs NCO meiotic recombination. BS is caused by mutations in the BLM gene which is a member of the RecQ DNA helicase family. The hyper-recombination can also be detected by molecular assays  The BLM gene is a member of the protein family referred to as RecQ helicases. "Roles of RECQ helicases in recombination based DNA repair, genomic stability and aging". 
BRCA 1 mutation carriers' risk of breast and ovarian cancer depends on where the mutation is located. [SEP] The best known of these, the BRCA mutations, confer a lifetime risk of breast cancer of between 60 and 85 percent and a lifetime risk of ovarian cancer of between 15 and 40 percent. If BRCA1 or BRCA2 itself is damaged by a BRCA mutation, damaged DNA is not repaired properly, and this increases the risk for breast cancer. Clinical significance

Certain variations of the BRCA2 gene increase risks for breast cancer as part of a hereditary breast–ovarian cancer syndrome. Women having inherited a defective BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene have risks for breast and ovarian cancer that are so high and seem so selective that many mutation carriers choose to have prophylactic surgery. Major determinants of where BRCA1- and BRCA2-associated hereditary cancers occur are related to tissue specificity of the cancer pathogen, the agent that causes chronic inflammation, or the carcinogen. A major advantage of this model is that it suggests there are some options in addition to prophylactic surgery.In addition to breast cancer in men and women, mutations in BRCA2 also lead to an increased risk of ovarian, uterine tube, prostate and pancreatic cancer. In general, strongly inherited gene mutations (including mutations in BRCA2) account for only 5-10% of breast cancer cases; the specific risk of getting breast or other cancer for anyone carrying a BRCA2 mutation depends on many factors. This is the case with BRCA1 and BRCA2, two similar tumor suppressor genes whose malfunctioning has been linked with considerably increased risk for breast and ovarian cancer. 
Bacterial meningitis can be diagnosed on the basis of positive cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cultures. [SEP] A lumbar puncture, in which a needle is inserted into the spinal canal to collect a sample of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), can diagnose or exclude meningitis.Some forms of meningitis are preventable by immunization with the meningococcal, mumps, pneumococcal, and Hib vaccines. There are no specific signs or symptoms that can indicate meningitis, and a lumbar puncture (spinal tap) to examine the cerebrospinal fluid is recommended for diagnosis. The initial appearance of the fluid may prove an indication of the nature of the infection: cloudy CSF indicates higher levels of protein, white and red blood cells and/or bacteria, and therefore may suggest bacterial meningitis.The CSF sample is examined for presence and types of white blood cells, red blood cells, protein content and glucose level. Diagnosis of cryptococcal meningitis can be made at low cost using an India ink stain of the CSF; however, testing for cryptococcal antigen in blood or CSF is more sensitive.A diagnostic and therapeutic difficulty is "partially treated meningitis", where there are meningitis symptoms after receiving antibiotics (such as for presumptive sinusitis). When this happens, CSF findings may resemble those of viral meningitis, but antibiotic treatment may need to be continued until there is definitive positive evidence of a viral cause (e.g. Diagnosis
Diagnosis of TB meningitis is made by analysing cerebrospinal fluid  collected by lumbar puncture. In meningitis cases, MuV can be isolated from CSF. Lymphocytic meningitis causes characteristic changes in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and may be accompanied for several weeks by variable headache and, less commonly, usually mild meningitis signs such as inability to flex the neck fully and intolerance to bright lights but typically no or only very low fever. 
Bacteriophagaes MS2 and Qβ are members of the Leviviridae. [SEP] Bacteriophage Qbeta (Qubevirus durum), commonly referred to as Qbeta or Qβ, is a positive-strand RNA virus which infects bacteria that have F-pili, most commonly Escherichia coli. Bacteriophage MS2 (Emesvirus zinderi), commonly called MS2, is an icosahedral, positive-sense single-stranded RNA virus that infects the bacterium Escherichia coli and other members of the Enterobacteriaceae. MS2 is a member of a family of closely related bacterial viruses that includes bacteriophage f2, bacteriophage Qβ, R17, and GA.

History
In 1961, MS2 was isolated by Alvin John Clark and recognized as an RNA-containing phage very similar to bacteriophage f2.In 1976, the MS2 genome was the first genome to be completely sequenced. MS2 replication has been much less well studied than replication of the highly related bacteriophage Qβ, partly because the MS2 replicase has been difficult to isolate, but is likely to be similar.The formation of the virion is thought to be initiated by binding of maturation protein to the MS2 RNA; in fact, the complex of maturation protein and RNA is infectious. A LS dipeptide motif on the L protein is found throughout the genus Levivirus and appears to be essential to the lysis activity, although their different locations suggest that they have evolved independently. In 2020, the family was renamed from Leviviridae to its current name. Two notable genera are Emesvirus, which contains bacteriophage MS2, and Qubevirus, which contains bacteriophage Qbeta. References
External links
Viralzone: Leviviridae
ICTV 
Bariatric surgery increases rates of colorectal cancer. [SEP] Several risk factors for the development of colorectal cancer include high intake of fat, alcohol, red and processed meats, obesity, and lack of physical exercise. Individuals who underwent bariatric surgery for weight loss have reduced cancer incidence and mortality.There is an association between obesity and colon cancer, post-menopausal breast cancer, endometrial cancer, kidney cancer, and esophageal cancer. Individuals with inflammatory bowel disease are at increased risk of developing colorectal cancers. Comparison with other bariatric surgeries
Unlike more open forms of weight loss surgery (e.g. This study was supported by Allergan Inc., which markets a gastric band system.A meta-analysis of 174772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. modifying the digestive tract in bariatric surgery for weight loss. For example, the odds of developing colorectal cancer between the ages of 20 and 40 in the absence of specific risk factors are about 1 in 1,250 (0.08%).The rate of complications varies with the practitioner and institution performing the procedure, and other variables. The extent to which screening procedures reduce the risk of gastrointestinal cancer or deaths depends on the rate of precancerous and cancerous disease in that population. 
Bariatric surgery increases rates of postmenopausal breast cancer. [SEP] A meta-analysis in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes, respectively. Reduced mortality and morbidity
A meta-analysis of 174,772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. Bariatric surgery has consistently been associated with postoperative decreases in depressive symptoms and reduced severity of symptoms. Increased risk of fracture has also been linked to bariatric surgery. A meta-analysis of 174,772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. A meta-analysis of 174772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. Drinking alcoholic beverages is among the most common modifiable risk factors.The correlation between obesity and breast cancer is anything but linear. Prevention
Lifestyle
Women can reduce their risk of breast cancer by maintaining a healthy weight, reducing alcohol use, increasing physical activity, and breast-feeding. 
Bariatric surgery leads to negative outcomes in mental health. [SEP] Some people with bipolar disorder who have obesity may also be eligible for bariatric surgery. Bariatric surgery recipients who had BED prior to receiving the surgery tend to have poorer weight-loss outcomes and are more likely to continue to exhibit eating behaviors characteristic of BED. Effects on health
Obesity increases a person's risk of developing various metabolic diseases, cardiovascular disease, osteoarthritis, Alzheimer disease, depression, and certain types of cancer. Morbidity
Obesity increases the risk of many physical and mental conditions. The risk of overweight and obesity is higher in patients with psychiatric disorders than in persons without psychiatric disorders. Obesity and depression influence each other mutually, with obesity increasing the risk of clinical depression, and also depression leading to a higher chance of developing obesity. Mental health and psychological consequences
Broadly speaking, experiencing weight stigma is associated with psychological distress. There are many negative effects connected to anti-fat bias, the most prominent being that societal bias against fat is ineffective at treating obesity, and leads to long-lasting body image issues, eating disorders, suicide, and depression.Papadopoulos's 2015 review of the literature found that across several studies, this distress can manifest in anxiety, depression, lowered self-esteem, and substance use disorders, both in weight loss treatment-seeking individuals as well as community samples. 
Bariatric surgery leads to positive outcomes in mental health. [SEP] Management of obesity
A large proportion (approximately 68%) of people who seek treatment for bipolar disorder are obese or overweight and managing obesity is important for reducing the risk of other health conditions that are associated with obesity. Some people with bipolar disorder who have obesity may also be eligible for bariatric surgery. A meta-analysis concluded that psychotherapy based on CBT not only significantly improved binge-eating symptomatology but also reduced a client's BMI significantly at posttreatment and longer than 6 and 12 months after treatment. Surgery
Bariatric surgery has also been proposed as another approach to treat BED and a recent meta-analysis showed that approximately two-thirds of individuals who seek this type of surgery for weight loss purposes have BED. Morbidity
Obesity increases the risk of many physical and mental conditions. Surgery
The most effective treatment for obesity is bariatric surgery. Surgery for severe obesity is associated with long-term weight loss, improvement in obesity-related conditions, and decreased overall mortality; however, improved metabolic health results from the weight loss, not the surgery. Bariatric surgery may reduce the risk of new-onset atrial fibrillation in people with obesity without AF and may reduce the risk of a recurrence of AF after an ablation procedure in people with coexisting obesity and atrial fibrillation. 
Bariatric surgery reduces colorectal cancer. [SEP] Bariatric surgery is done to assist weight loss when dietary and pharmaceutical methods alone have failed. modifying the digestive tract in bariatric surgery for weight loss. Based on numerous prospective randomized controlled trials, the approach has proven to be beneficial in reducing post-operative morbidities such as wound infections and incisional hernias (especially in morbidly obese patients), and is now deemed safe when applied to surgery for cancers such as cancer of colon. Bariatric surgery can be performed laparoscopically and there a benefits of doing so to reduce wound complications in obese patients. Individuals who underwent bariatric surgery for weight loss have reduced cancer incidence and mortality.There is an association between obesity and colon cancer, post-menopausal breast cancer, endometrial cancer, kidney cancer, and esophageal cancer. Clinical studies of laparoscopic (minimally invasive) bariatric surgery patients found that they felt better, spent more time doing recreational and physical activities, benefited from enhanced productivity and economic opportunities, and had more self-confidence than they did prior to surgery. Comparison with other bariatric surgeries
Unlike more open forms of weight loss surgery (e.g. This study was supported by Allergan Inc., which markets a gastric band system.A meta-analysis of 174772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. 
Bariatric surgery reduces postmenopausal breast cancer. [SEP] Bariatric surgery (or weight loss surgery) is the medical term for a variety of procedures dealing with obesity. Bariatric surgery is the most effective treatment causing weight loss and reducing complications of obesity.As of October 2022, the American Society of Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery (ASMBS) and International Federation for the Surgery of Obesity (IFSO) recommend bariatric surgery for adults with a body mass index (BMI) >35, regardless of obesity-associated conditions, and recommend considering surgery for people with BMI 30.0-34.9 who have metabolic disease. A meta-analysis in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes, respectively. Reduced mortality and morbidity
A meta-analysis of 174,772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. Bariatric surgery has consistently been associated with postoperative decreases in depressive symptoms and reduced severity of symptoms. A meta-analysis of 174,772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. A meta-analysis of 174772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. Prevention
Lifestyle
Women can reduce their risk of breast cancer by maintaining a healthy weight, reducing alcohol use, increasing physical activity, and breast-feeding. 
Basophils promote disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). [SEP] Basophils are a type of white blood cell. Function
Basophils appear in many specific kinds of inflammatory reactions, particularly those that cause allergic symptoms. Like eosinophils, basophils play a role in both parasitic infections and allergies. Recent studies in mice suggest that basophils may also regulate the behavior of T cells and mediate the magnitude of the secondary immune response. This suggests that basophils may play a role in the immune response to these viruses. Recent evidence suggests that basophils are an important source of the cytokine, interleukin-4, perhaps more important than T cells. There are other substances that can activate basophils to secrete which suggests that these cells have other roles in inflammation.The degranulation of basophils can be investigated in vitro by using flow cytometry and the so-called basophil-activation-test (BAT). Clinical significance
Immunophenotyping
Basophils of mice and humans have consistent immunophenotypes, including FcεRI+, CD123, CD49b(DX-5)+, CD69+, Thy-1.2+, 2B4+, CD11bdull, CD117(c-kit)−, CD24−, CD19−, CD80−, CD14−, CD23−, Ly49c−, CD122−, CD11c−, Gr-1−, NK1.1−, B220−, CD3−, γδTCR−, αβTCR−, α4 and β4-integrin negative.Recently, Heneberg  proposed that basophils may be defined as the cellular population positive for CD13, CD44, CD54, CD63, CD69, CD107a, CD123, CD164, CD193/ CCR3, CD203c, TLR-4, and FcεRI. 
Bcp1 is a chaperone for Rpl23. [SEP] BCP-1 cells are a clonal lymphoma cell line. BCP-1 cells are positive for KSHV, but negative for EBV. BCP-1 has been deposited to ATCC by the creators for public use in research: https://web.archive.org/web/20070929090610/http://www.atcc.org/common/catalog/numSearch/numResults.cfm?atccNum=CRL-2294. External links
Cellosaurus entry for BCP-1 BCP is a member of the Euronext 100 stock index and its current chief executive officer is Miguel Maya Dias Pinheiro. BCP is based in Porto, but its operations are headquartered in Oeiras, Greater Lisbon. Capital Consolidation
In 2012, Millennium in the middle of the European sovereign debt crisis, BCP received €3 billion in state support through the issuance of contingent convertible bonds with an interest rate of around 10%. This gene has been referred to as RPL17 because the encoded protein shares amino acid identity with ribosomal protein L17 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae; however, its official symbol is RPL23. 
Beta-band coherence is diminished for visible stimuli over invisible stimuli. [SEP] Fish such as the fairy wrasse that have developed visual sensitivity to longer wavelengths are able to display red fluorescent signals that give a high contrast to the blue environment and are conspicuous to conspecifics in short ranges, yet are relatively invisible to other common fish that have reduced sensitivities to long wavelengths. Under white light, parts of the flower containing only betaxanthins appear yellow, but in areas where both betaxanthins and betacyanins are present, the visible fluorescence of the flower is faded due to internal light-filtering mechanisms. While the role of descending corticomuscular pathways in generation of coherence are more clear, the role of ascending sensory spinocortical pathways are less certain. Corticomuscular coherence has been of special interest in alpha band (about 10 Hz), in Beta band (15–30 Hz), and in Gamma band (35–60 Hz). Computational Models
Corticomuscular coherence has been simulated in models which posit that motor commands are encoded in the spatial pattern of beta band synchronization patterns in motor cortex. These traces appear as weak levels of beta band corticomuscular coherence which are consistent with those observed in physiology. Subliminal messages produce only one-tenth of the effects of detected messages and the findings related to the effects of subliminal messaging were relatively ambiguous. Subliminal messages produce only one-tenth of the effects of detected messages and the findings related to the effects of subliminal messaging were relatively ambiguous. 
Beta-band coherence is enhanced for visible stimuli over invisible stimuli. [SEP] Fish such as the fairy wrasse that have developed visual sensitivity to longer wavelengths are able to display red fluorescent signals that give a high contrast to the blue environment and are conspicuous to conspecifics in short ranges, yet are relatively invisible to other common fish that have reduced sensitivities to long wavelengths. Under white light, parts of the flower containing only betaxanthins appear yellow, but in areas where both betaxanthins and betacyanins are present, the visible fluorescence of the flower is faded due to internal light-filtering mechanisms. Corticomuscular Coherence relates to the synchrony in the neural activity of brain's cortical areas and muscle. While the role of descending corticomuscular pathways in generation of coherence are more clear, the role of ascending sensory spinocortical pathways are less certain. Corticomuscular coherence has been of special interest in alpha band (about 10 Hz), in Beta band (15–30 Hz), and in Gamma band (35–60 Hz). Computational Models
Corticomuscular coherence has been simulated in models which posit that motor commands are encoded in the spatial pattern of beta band synchronization patterns in motor cortex. These traces appear as weak levels of beta band corticomuscular coherence which are consistent with those observed in physiology. See also
Intermuscular coherence
Corticocortical coherence

References
External links
Neurspec Toolbox for MATLAB 
BiP is a general endoplasmic reticulum stress marker. [SEP] Disturbances in redox regulation, calcium regulation, glucose deprivation, and viral infection or the over-expression of proteins can lead to endoplasmic reticulum stress response (ER stress), a state in which the folding of proteins slows, leading to an increase in unfolded proteins. In the colon, XBP1 anomalies have been linked to the inflammatory bowel diseases including Crohn's disease.The unfolded protein response (UPR) is a cellular stress response related to the endoplasmic reticulum. The unfolded protein response (UPR) is a cellular stress response related to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Molecular mechanism
Initiation
The molecular chaperone BiP/Grp78 has a range of functions within the ER. PERK dimerizes with BiP in resting cells and oligomerizes in ER-stressed cells. High fat diet fed rats showed increased ER stress markers CHOP, XBP1, and GRP78. See also
Endoplasmic reticulum stress response (ER stress)
Mitochondrial unfolded protein response
Aggresome
PERK inhibitors


== References == Regulation
p53 acts as a cellular stress sensor. 
Binding of p53 to enhancer regions (p53BERs) regulates the activity of p53 transcription and cell cycle arrest through the production of p53-dependent eRNAs. [SEP] An important downstream target of ATM and ATR is p53, as it is required for inducing apoptosis following DNA damage. The cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21 is induced by both p53-dependent and p53-independent mechanisms and can arrest the cell cycle at the G1/S and G2/M checkpoints by deactivating cyclin/cyclin-dependent kinase complexes. DNA damage response mechanisms trigger cell-cycle arrest, and attempt to repair DNA lesions or promote cell death/senescence if repair is not possible. As well as mutations to DNA damage repair genes, mutations also arise in the genes responsible for arresting the cell cycle to allow sufficient time for DNA repair to occur, and some genes are involved in both DNA damage repair and cell cycle checkpoint control, for example ATM and checkpoint kinase 2 (CHEK2) – a tumor suppressor that is often absent or downregulated in non-small cell lung cancer. p53 mutations). PARP1 is also over-expressed when its promoter region ETS site is epigenetically hypomethylated, and this contributes to progression to endometrial cancer and BRCA-mutated serous ovarian cancer. P53 regulates POLD1 transcription by indirect p21-dependent activation of a p53-p21-DREAM-CDE/CHR pathway. One study has reported that the p53 tumor suppressor protein competes with Sp1 for binding to the POLD1 promoter. 
Birth-weight is negatively associated with breast cancer. [SEP] Pregnancy
Pregnancy at an early age decreases the risk of developing breast cancer later in life. Lack of exercise has been linked to breast cancer by the American Institute for Cancer Research.Obesity has been linked to an increased risk of developing breast cancer by many scientific studies. There is evidence to suggest that excess body fat at the time of breast cancer diagnosis is associated with higher rates of cancer recurrence and death. Furthermore, studies have shown that obese women are more likely to have large tumors, greater lymph node involvement, and poorer breast cancer prognosis with 30% higher risk of mortality.Weight gain after diagnosis has also been linked to higher rates of breast cancer recurrence or mortality although this finding is not consistent. Data for both weight loss and physical activity and the effect on breast cancer prognosis is still lacking.There is debate as to whether the higher rate of breast cancer associated with obesity is due to a biological difference in the cancer itself, or differences in other factors such as health screen practices. It has been suggested that obesity may be a determinant for breast cancer screening by mammography. In the United States, excess body weight is associated with the development of many types of cancer and is a factor in 14–20% of cancer deaths. Obesity
In the United States, excess body weight is associated with the development of many types of cancer and is a factor in 14–20% of all cancer deaths. 
Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 prevents TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. [SEP] N-Terminal domain (NTD)
The NTD located between residues 1 and 76 is involved in TDP-43 polymerization. This interaction permits the conformational equilibrium cited higher to shift towards non-aggregated forms.The domain spanning from [1,80] has a solenoid-like structure which sterically impedes interactions between aggregation prone C-term regions.All of this raises the possibility that NTD and the RNA Recognition Motifs (later on defined) could cooperatively interact with nucleic acids to accomplish TDP-43's physiological functions. Mutations within the TDP-43 proteins Glycine Rich Region (GRR) have recently been identified as associates that can contribute to various neurodegenerative diseases, with the most notable and common NDD being ALS, about 10% of the mutations causing familial ALS are accredited with the TDP-43 protein This CTD is often reported to play important role in pathogenic behavior of TDP-43:
RNPs granules could have a role in stress response, and thus, aging, or persistence stress could lead the LLPs to turn into irreversible Liquid Solid Phase separation, pathological aggregates notably found in ALS neurons.CTD's disorganized structure can turn into a full fledged Amyloid-like Beta-sheet rich structure causing it to adopt prion-like properties.Moreover, CTFs are a common maker in diseased neurons and are argued to be of high toxicity. Recent work has characterized the transcriptome-wide binding sites revealing that thousands of RNAs are bound by TDP-43 in neurons.TDP-43 was originally identified as a transcriptional repressor that binds to chromosomally integrated trans-activation response element (TAR) DNA and represses HIV-1 transcription. In particular, the TDP-43 mutants M337V and Q331K are being studied for their roles in ALS. A recent study has demonstrated that cellular stress can trigger the abnormal cytoplasmic mislocalisation of TDP-43 in spinal motor neurons in vivo, providing insight into how TDP-43 pathology may develop in sporadic ALS patients. The deleterious impact(s) of TDP-43 proteinopathy may influence the brain via a number of different mechanisms. In normal brains and other tissues, the TDP-43 protein helps to ensure proper functioning of genes in the cell; the misfolded TDP-43 may thus impair normal gene expression regulation (so in LATE-NC, there is a loss-of-normal-function), and, the aberrant TDP-43 protein in LATE-NC may induce toxic gains of function also.TDP-43 proteinopathy (a disease-associated phenomenon discovered by Dr. Manuela Neumann and colleagues at UPENN in the Drs John Trojanowski/Virginia Lee CNDR Lab) is also implicated in frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and other diseases. 
Bone Marrow (BM) transplantation is used to treat acute myeloid leukemia (AML) [SEP] Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a cancer of the lymphoid line of blood cells characterized by the development of large numbers of immature lymphocytes. The WHO subtypes related to ALL are:
B-lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma
Not otherwise specified (NOS)
with recurrent genetic abnormalities
with t(9;22)(q34.1;q11.2);BCR-ABL1
with t(v;11q23.3);KMT2A rearranged
with t(12;21)(p13.2;q22.1); ETV6-RUNX1
with t(5;14)(q31.1;q32.3) IL3-IGH
with t(1;19)(q23;p13.3);TCF3-PBX1
with hyperdiploidy
with hypodiploidy
T-lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma
Acute leukemias of ambiguous lineage
Acute undifferentiated leukemia
Mixed phenotype acute leukemia (MPAL) with t(9;22)(q34.1;q11.2); BCR–ABL1
MPAL with t(v;11q23.3); KMT2A rearranged
MPAL, B/myeloid, NOS
MPAL, T/myeloid, NOS

Treatment
The aim of treatment is to induce a lasting remission, defined as the absence of detectable cancer cells in the body (usually less than 5% blast cells in the bone marrow). Possible treatments for acute leukemia include chemotherapy, steroids, radiation therapy, intensive combined treatments (including bone marrow or stem cell transplants), targeted therapy, and/or growth factors. It may be autologous (the patient's own stem cells are used), allogeneic (the stem cells come from a donor) or syngeneic (from an identical twin).It is most often performed for patients with certain cancers of the blood or bone marrow, such as multiple myeloma or leukemia. Infection
Bone-marrow transplantation usually requires that the recipient's own bone marrow be destroyed (myeloablation). Biology of Blood and Marrow Transplantation. In general, for patients presenting damaged or destroyed bone marrow, for example after chemotherapy and/or radiation for acute myeloid leukemia (AML), bone marrow derived cells can be infused into the patients blood stream. For a long time, bone marrow transplantation was the only clinically applicable method of cell transplantation, however, since the 1990s, cell therapy has been investigated for a wide scale of pathologies and disorders. 
Bone marrow cells don't contribute to adult macrophage compartments. [SEP] They lack enamel, dentin, and a vascular bone layer. Fish do not have a discrete adrenal gland with distinct cortex and medulla, similar to those found in mammals. Other chordates do not show any trends towards cephalisation. In the jawless fish (lampreys and hagfish), true lymphoid organs are absent. They resemble primitive bone marrow in hagfish. These organs house typical immune cells (granulocytes, lymphocytes and plasma cells). Stem cells may be from local cells such as the peritoneum (see coelomic metaplasia below) or cells disseminated in the blood stream (see vascular dissemination below) such as those from the bone marrow. HMOs are not digested by the infant but help to make up the intestinal flora. 
British female students are bullied more than British male students. [SEP] Traditional forms of bullying in Ireland occur more often than in Europe. There are some factors that lean towards males being more involved in cyberbullying behaviors due to males tending to have more aggressive behaviors than females. Females are involved in cyberbullying just as much as males, and females are sometimes even found more involved in cyberbullying than males are. As cyberbullying is a more indirect form, women are more likely to be involved.Also, women tend to have less face-to-face confrontations than men, and since cyberbullying occurs online, this allows women to have a greater chance to be attacked. However, British Chinese women were also more likely to experience more pay penalties than other ethnic groups in the United Kingdom despite possessing higher qualifications. Discrimination based on gender and race are less common.In one study, around 35% of medical students reported having been bullied. Women were more likely to be bullied than men.Trainee physicians who feel threatened in the clinical workplace develop less effectively and are less likely to ask for advice or help when they need it. Due to this early on prevention of females attending schools, males dominate the education field. 
British male students are bullied more than British female students. [SEP] Boys mostly said they were victims of traditional forms of bullying, and girls mostly were victims of both traditional forms of bullying and cyberbullying. Traditional forms of bullying in Ireland occur more often than in Europe. There are some factors that lean towards males being more involved in cyberbullying behaviors due to males tending to have more aggressive behaviors than females. Females are involved in cyberbullying just as much as males, and females are sometimes even found more involved in cyberbullying than males are. As cyberbullying is a more indirect form, women are more likely to be involved.Also, women tend to have less face-to-face confrontations than men, and since cyberbullying occurs online, this allows women to have a greater chance to be attacked. However, British Chinese women were also more likely to experience more pay penalties than other ethnic groups in the United Kingdom despite possessing higher qualifications. Discrimination based on gender and race are less common.In one study, around 35% of medical students reported having been bullied. Women were more likely to be bullied than men.Trainee physicians who feel threatened in the clinical workplace develop less effectively and are less likely to ask for advice or help when they need it. 
Broadly HIV-1 Neutralizing Antibodies (bnAb) 10EB have no affinity for phospholipids. [SEP] In some cases, the virus is unable to infect even after the antibody dissociates. Virus evasion of neutralizing antibodies
Viruses use a variety of mechanisms to evade neutralizing antibodies. Viruses with a low density of surface structural proteins are more difficult for antibodies to bind to. No antigen that triggers bNAb production in animal models or humans is known. Broadly neutralizing HIV-1 antibodies (bNAbs) are neutralizing antibodies which neutralize multiple HIV-1 viral strains. Unlike most other bNAbs, these antibodies do not bind to known epitopes, on Env or on Env's subunits (gp120 or gp41). Broadly neutralizing HIV-1 antibodies (bNAbs) are neutralizing antibodies which neutralize multiple HIV-1 viral strains. Unlike most other bNAbs, these antibodies do not bind to known epitopes, on Env or on Env's subunits (gp120 or gp41). 
C2 works synergistically with A-769662 to activate dephosphorylated AMPK. [SEP] C2 or a derivative (C-2, C2, etc.) AMPK is deactivated upon AMP displacement by ATP at CBS site 3, suggesting CBS3 to be the primary allosteric regulatory site. It is in this catalytic domain where AMPK becomes activated when phosphorylation takes place at threonine-172 (on α1 isoform) or Thr-174 (on α2 isoform) by an upstream AMPK kinase (AMPKK). AMPK is regulated allosterically and by post-translational modification, which work together.If residue Thr-172 of AMPK's α1-subunit (or Thr-174 of AMPK's α2-subunit) is phosphorylated, AMPK is activated around 100-fold; access to that residue by phosphatases is blocked if AMP or ADP can block access for and ATP can displace AMP and ADP. That residue is phosphorylated by at least three kinases (liver kinase B1 (LKB1), which works in a complex with STRAD and MO25, Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase kinase II-(CAMKK2), and TGFβ-activated kinase 1 (TAK1)) and is dephosphorylated by three phosphatases (protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A); protein phosphatase 2C (PP2C) and Mg2+-/Mn2+-dependent protein phosphatase 1E (PPM1E)).Regulation of AMPK by CaMKK2 requires a direct interaction of these two proteins via their kinase domains. This conformational change represents a plausible mechanism for AMPK modulation. AMPK stimulates glycolysis by activating phosphorylation of 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase 2/3 and activating phosphorylation of glycogen phosphorylase, and it inhibits glycogen synthesis through inhibitory phosphorylation of glycogen synthase. At basal conditions, the temperature-dependent Ca2+ leak also leads to increased energy demand and activation of energy sensing AMP kinase (AMPK) in skeletal muscle. 
CCL19 is a ligand for CCR7. [SEP] Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 19 (CCL19) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CCL19 gene.This gene is one of several CC cytokine genes clustered on the p-arm of chromosome 9. It specifically binds to chemokine receptor CCR7.Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 19 (CCL19) is a small cytokine belonging to the CC chemokine family that is also known as EBI1 ligand chemokine (ELC) and macrophage inflammatory protein-3-beta (MIP-3-beta). Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 7 (CCL7) is a small cytokine that was previously called monocyte-chemotactic protein 3 (MCP3). CCL7 is a small protein that belongs to the CC chemokine family and is most closely related to CCL2 (previously called MCP1). CCL7 consists of 99 amino acids, which contains 23-amino acid signal peptide. CCL21 elicits its effects by binding to a cell surface chemokine receptor known as CCR7. Protein structure
Chemokine CCL21 contains an extended C-terminus which is not found in CCL19, another ligand of CCR7. The ligands have similar affinity for the receptor, though CCL19 has been shown to induce internalisation of CCR7 and desensitisation of the cell to CCL19/CCL21 signals. 
CCL19 is predominantly present within dLNs. [SEP] CCL18 has been identified as an endogenous antagonist of the GPER. Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 19 (CCL19) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CCL19 gene.This gene is one of several CC cytokine genes clustered on the p-arm of chromosome 9. It specifically binds to chemokine receptor CCR7.Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 19 (CCL19) is a small cytokine belonging to the CC chemokine family that is also known as EBI1 ligand chemokine (ELC) and macrophage inflammatory protein-3-beta (MIP-3-beta). CCL19 is expressed abundantly in thymus and lymph nodes, with moderate levels in trachea and colon and low levels in stomach, small intestine, lung, kidney and spleen. The gene for CCL19 is located on human chromosome 9. References
Further reading
External links
Human CCL19 genome location and CCL19 gene details page  in the UCSC Genome Browser. CCL4 belongs to a cluster of genes located on 17q11-q21 of the chromosomal region. In turn, the mature CCL4 protein is 92 amino acids long. 
CD28 initiates tonic signaling in conventional T cells, which causes an exhaustion phenotype and limited efficiency. [SEP] CD28 (Cluster of Differentiation 28) is one of the proteins expressed on T cells that provide co-stimulatory signals required for T cell activation and survival. T cell stimulation through CD28 in addition to the T-cell receptor (TCR) can provide a potent signal for the production of various interleukins  (IL-6 in particular). CD28 is the only B7 receptor constitutively expressed on naive T cells. It is generally reported, that CD28 is expressed on 50% of CD8+ T cells and more than 80% CD4+ T cells in human, but during the course of activation some T cells lose this molecule. Some antigen-experienced T cells lose CD28 and subsequently can be re-activated without CD28 engagement. But these statements only suggest that loss of CD28 expression marks functional differentiation to cytotoxic memory cells within clonal expansions.In general, CD28 is a primary costimulatory molecule for T cell activation. Signaling
CD28 possesses an intracellular domain with several residues that are critical for its effective signaling. CD28 has also been found to stimulate eosinophil granulocytes where its ligation with anti-CD28 leads to the release of IL-2, IL4, IL-13 and IFN-γ.It is known that CD28 and CTL4 may be critical regulators autoimmune diseases in mouse model. 
CD28 signals regulate trafficking of murine auto-reactive T cells into target tissues. [SEP] CD4+ T cells are generally treated as having a pre-defined role as helper T cells within the immune system. Like all T cells, they express the T cell receptor-CD3 complex. If this second signal is not present during initial antigen exposure, the T cell presumes that it is auto-reactive. These cells are generally believed to circulate throughout the body with no value until they undergo apoptosis.The second signal involves an interaction between CD28 on the CD4+ T cell and the proteins CD80 (B7.1) or CD86 (B7.2) on the professional APCs. Both CD80 and CD86 activate the CD28 receptor. As naïve CD8+ T cells have no true bias towards foreign sources, these T cells must rely on the activation of CD28 for confirmation that they recognise a foreign antigen (as CD80/CD86 is only expressed by active APC's). CD28 plays an important role in decreasing the risk of T cell auto-immunity against host antigens.Once the naïve T cell has both pathways activated, the biochemical changes induced by Signal 1 are altered, allowing the cell to activate instead of undergoing anergy. Activated T cells also produce the alpha sub-unit of the IL-2 receptor (CD25 or IL-2R), enabling a fully functional receptor that can bind with IL-2, which in turn activates the T cell's proliferation pathways.The autocrine or paracrine secretion of IL-2 can bind to that same Th cell or neighboring Th's via the IL-2R thus driving proliferation and clonal expansion. 
CD44v6 is not associated with constitutive and reprogrammed cancer stem cells driving cancer metastasis. [SEP] Since EMT in cancer progression recaptures EMT in developmental programs, many of the EMT-TFs are involved in promoting metastatic events.Several signaling pathways (TGF-β, FGF, EGF, HGF, Wnt/beta-catenin and Notch) and hypoxia may induce EMT. Overexpression of the miR-655 mimic in the Panc1 cancer cell line upregulated the expression of E-cadherin and suppressed the migration and invasion of mesenchymal-like cancer cells. IL-6 was seen to have roles in tumor microenvironment regulation, production of breast cancer stem cell-like cells, metastasis through down-regulation of E-cadherin, and alteration of DNA methylation in oral cancer.Advanced/metastatic cancer patients have higher levels of IL-6 in their blood. When compared with invasive ductal carcinoma, E-cadherin expression is markedly reduced or absent in the great majority of invasive lobular carcinomas when studied by immunohistochemistry. Cancer
Metastasis
Transitions between epithelial and mesenchymal states play important roles in embryonic development and cancer metastasis. In conclusion, the results suggest that “E-cadherin transcriptional inactivation is an epi-phenomenon and part of an entire program, with much more severe effects than loss of E-cadherin expression alone”.Other studies also show that epigenetic regulation of E-cadherin expression occurs during metastasis. During metastatic progression of many cases of epithelial tumors, a transient loss of E-cadherin is seen and the heterogeneous loss of E-cadherin expression results from a heterogeneous pattern of promoter region methylation of E-cadherin. E-selectin ligands also play a role in cancer metastasis. 
CDK6 shows impaired binding to loss-of-function variants of p18 INK4C. [SEP] The name of p16 is derived from its molecular weight, and the alternative name p16INK4a refers to its role in inhibiting cyclin-dependent kinase CDK4. Function
p16 is an inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK). Inactivation of cyclin D is triggered by several cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor protein (CKIs) like the INK4 family (e.g. Hence, INK4 binds to cyclin D- dependent CDKs and inactivates the whole complex. This degradation causes release of p21 from Cdk4 complexes, which inactivates Cdk2 in a p53-independent manner. P16 functions in inactivating cyclin D/Cdk 4 complex. Due to the importance of p16INK/cyclin D/Cdk4 or 6/Rb  pathway in growth factor signaling, mutations in any of the players involved can give rise to cancer. Myc also represses p15(Ink4b) and p21(Cip1), which are inhibitors of Cdk4 and Cdk2 respectively. 
CDK6 shows improved binding to loss-of-function variants of p18 INK4C. [SEP] Therefore, CDK2 and its cyclin binding partners represent possible therapeutic targets for new cancer therapeutics. Recently, the availability of new CDK crystal structures led to the identification of a potential allosteric binding site near the C-helix. The name of p16 is derived from its molecular weight, and the alternative name p16INK4a refers to its role in inhibiting cyclin-dependent kinase CDK4. Nomenclature
p16 is also known as:

p16INK4A
p16Ink4
Cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A (CDKN2A)
CDKN2
CDK 4 Inhibitor
Multiple Tumor Suppressor 1 (MTS1)
TP16
ARF
MLM
P14

Gene
In humans, p16 is encoded by the CDKN2A gene, located on chromosome 9 (9p21.3). At least three alternatively spliced variants encoding distinct proteins have been reported, two of which encode structurally related isoforms known to function as inhibitors of CDK4. Function
p16 is an inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK). Otherwise, CDK4/6 binds cyclin D and forms an active protein complex that phosphorylates retinoblastoma protein (pRB). The CDK phosphorylation site is S579, and the PKA site is S600 in Drp1 isoform 3. 
CHOP is a general endoplasmic reticulum stress marker. [SEP] An important example is that the proapoptotic protein CHOP (CCAAT/-enhancer-binding protein homologous protein), is upregulated downstream of the bZIP transcription factor ATF4 (activating transcription factor 4) and uniquely responsive to ER stress. If the stress is too severe, the maladaptive response is activated and the C/EBP Homologous Protein pathway (CHOP) is induced. Regulation and function
Due to a variety of upstream and downstream regulatory interactions, CHOP plays an important role in ER stress-induced apoptosis caused by a variety of stimuli such as pathogenic microbial or viral infections, amino acid starvation, mitochondrial stress, neurological diseases, and neoplastic diseases. However, under overwhelming ER stress conditions, the expression of CHOP rises sharply along with the activation of apoptotic pathways in a wide variety of cells. Those processes are mainly regulated by three factors: protein kinase RNA-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK), activating transcription factor 6 (ATF6), and inositol requiring protein 1 (IRE1α)

Upstream regulatory pathways
During ER stress, CHOP is mainly induced via activation of the integrated stress response pathways through the subsequent downstream phosphorylation of a translation initiation factor, eukaryotic initiation factor 2α (eIF2α), and induction of a transcription factor, activation transcription factor 4 (ATF4), which converges on the promoters of target genes, including CHOP. Integrated stress response, and thus CHOP expression, can be induced by

amino acid starvation through general control non-derepressible-2 (GCN2)
viral infection through the vertebrate-specific kinases - double-stranded RNA-activated protein kinase (PKR)
iron deficiency through heme-regulated inhibitor kinase (HRI)
stress from accumulation of unfolded or misfolded proteins in the ER activates the integrated stress response through protein kinase RNA-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK).Under ER stress, activated transmembrane protein ATF6 translocates to the nucleus and interacts with ATF/cAMP response elements and ER stress-response elements, binding the promoters and inducing transcription of several genes involved in unfolded protein response (including CHOP, XBP1 and others). Thus, ATF6 activates the transcription of both CHOP and XBP-1, while XBP-1 can also upregulate the expression of CHOP.ER stress also stimulates transmembrane protein IRE1α activity. Identified CHOP-p21 relationship may play a role in changing the cell state from adapting to ER stress towards pre-apoptotic activity.Under most conditions, CHOP can directly bind to the promoters of downstream related genes. 
COPI coatmer is involved in lipid homeostasis. [SEP] COPI is a coatomer, a protein complex that coats vesicles transporting proteins from the cis end of the Golgi complex back to the rough endoplasmic reticulum (ER), where they were originally synthesized, and between Golgi compartments. The name "COPI" refers to the specific coat protein complex that initiates the budding process on the cis-Golgi membrane. Coat proteins
Coat protein, or COPI, is an ADP ribosylation factor (ARF)-dependent protein involved in membrane traffic. COPI was first identified in retrograde traffic from the cis-Golgi to the rough endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and is the most extensively studied of ARF-dependent adaptors. COPI consists of seven subunits which compose the heteroheptameric protein complex. The carrier then buds off of the donor membrane, in the case of COPI this membrane is the cis-Golgi, and the carrier moves to the ER where it fuses with the acceptor membrane and its content is expelled. Structure
On the surface of a vesicle COPI molecules form symmetric trimers ("triads"). It is involved in atherosclerotic initiation and progression including lipid metabolism, insulin signaling and glucose homeostatis, cell type progression and proliferation, and myeloid cell differentiation. 
COPI coatmer is involved in viral replication. [SEP] COPI is a coatomer, a protein complex that coats vesicles transporting proteins from the cis end of the Golgi complex back to the rough endoplasmic reticulum (ER), where they were originally synthesized, and between Golgi compartments. The name "COPI" refers to the specific coat protein complex that initiates the budding process on the cis-Golgi membrane. Coat proteins
Coat protein, or COPI, is an ADP ribosylation factor (ARF)-dependent protein involved in membrane traffic. COPI was first identified in retrograde traffic from the cis-Golgi to the rough endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and is the most extensively studied of ARF-dependent adaptors. COPI consists of seven subunits which compose the heteroheptameric protein complex. Cargo containing the sorting motifs KKXX and KXKXX interact with COPI to form carriers which are transported from the cis-Golgi to the ER. The carrier then buds off of the donor membrane, in the case of COPI this membrane is the cis-Golgi, and the carrier moves to the ER where it fuses with the acceptor membrane and its content is expelled. Structure
On the surface of a vesicle COPI molecules form symmetric trimers ("triads"). 
CRP is positively correlated with postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. [SEP] Others have shown that CRP can exacerbate ischemic necrosis in a complement-dependent fashion and that CRP inhibition can be a safe and effective therapy for myocardial and cerebral infarcts; so far, this has been demonstrated in animal models only.It has been hypothesized that patients with high CRP levels might benefit from use of statins. CRP is a general marker for inflammation and infection, so it can be used as a very rough proxy for heart disease risk. Nevertheless, a level above 2.4 mg/L has been associated with a doubled risk of a coronary event compared to levels below 1 mg/L; however, the study group in this case consisted of patients who had been diagnosed with unstable angina pectoris; whether elevated CRP has any predictive value of acute coronary events in the general population of all age ranges remains unclear. CRP level is an independent risk factor for atherosclerotic disease. Patients with high CRP concentrations are more likely to develop stroke, myocardial infarction, and severe peripheral vascular disease. Elevated levels of CRP appear to be associated with common comorbidities including cardiovascular disease, metabolic syndrome, diabetes and interstitial lung (pulmonary) disease. CRP may refer to:

Science and medicine
C-reactive protein, an acute phase protein produced by the liver
cAMP receptor protein (catabolite gene activator protein)
Cysteine-rich protein, a class of small proteins
Carbon-fiber-reinforced polymer
Chinese restaurant process, in probability theory
Chronic relapsing polyneuropathy, an acquired disorder of the nervous system
Confluent and reticulated papillomatosis, a skin condition

Computing
Common reuse principle, in software design
Conference room pilot, in software validation

Organizations
Calgary Regional Partnership, for planning, Alberta, Canada
OpenSecrets, Washington, D.C., US
Chicana Rights Project, to protect Mexican-American women's rights
Committee to Re-elect the President (US president Richard Nixon)
CRP-Bangladesh, Centre for the Rehabilitation of the Paralysed
Critical Role Productions, a multimedia production company based in California. Coronary artery bypass surgery, also known as coronary artery bypass graft (CABG, pronounced "cabbage") is a surgical procedure to treat coronary artery disease (CAD), the buildup of plaques in the arteries of the heart. 
Ca2+ cycling controls whole-body energy homeostasis in beige fat. [SEP] Mitochondria are capable of sequestering and storing some of that Ca2+. However, dysfunction within these Ca2+-activated pathways can lead to an increase in tone caused by unregulated smooth muscle contraction. Longer term regulation occurs through calcium absorption or loss from the gut. Beige fat is the adrenergically inducible cell type that is dispersed throughout adipose tissue. Marked component differences have been observed in comparing EAT with subcutaneous fat, suggesting a location-specific impact of stored fatty acids on adipocyte function and metabolism. The calorie-burning capacity of brown and beige fat has been extensively studied as research efforts focus on therapies targeted to treat obesity and diabetes. revealed that when the animals are re-exposed to a cold environment, the same adipocytes will adopt a beige phenotype, suggesting that beige adipocytes are retained.Transcriptional regulators, as well as a growing number of other factors, regulate the induction of beige fat. This suggests that some of the adipocytes switched to a beige phenotype at 6 °C. 
Ca2+ cycling is a UCP1-dependent thermogenic mechanism. [SEP] UCP1 is locked in a cytoplasmic-open state by guanosine triphosphate in a pH-dependent manner, preventing proton leak.In this process, substances such as free fatty acids (derived from triacylglycerols) remove purine (ADP, GDP and others) inhibition of thermogenin, which causes an influx of H+ into the matrix of the mitochondrion and bypasses the ATP synthase channel. BAT NST occurs when Uncoupling Protein 1 (UCP1) performs oxidative phosphorylation in eutherians’ bodies resulting in the generation of heat (Berg et al., 2006, p. 1178). In skeletal muscle NST, Calcium ions slip across muscle cells to generate heat. Thermogenin (called uncoupling protein by its discoverers and now known as uncoupling protein 1, or UCP1) is a mitochondrial carrier protein found in brown adipose tissue (BAT). Mechanism
UCP1 belongs to the UCP family which are transmembrane proteins that decrease the proton gradient generated in oxidative phosphorylation. UCP1-mediated heat generation in brown fat uncouples the respiratory chain, allowing for fast substrate oxidation with a low rate of ATP production. The UCP1, or thermogenin, gene likely arose in an ancestor of modern vertebrates, but did not initially allow for our vertebrate ancestor to use non-shivering thermogenesis for warmth. This further suggests that UCP1 had a different original purpose and in fact phylogenetic and sequence analyses indicate that UCP1 is likely a mutated form of a dicarboxylate carrier protein that adapted for thermogenesis in placental mammals. 
Ca2+ cycling is a UCP1-independent thermogenic mechanism. [SEP] UCP1 is locked in a cytoplasmic-open state by guanosine triphosphate in a pH-dependent manner, preventing proton leak.In this process, substances such as free fatty acids (derived from triacylglycerols) remove purine (ADP, GDP and others) inhibition of thermogenin, which causes an influx of H+ into the matrix of the mitochondrion and bypasses the ATP synthase channel. BAT NST occurs when Uncoupling Protein 1 (UCP1) performs oxidative phosphorylation in eutherians’ bodies resulting in the generation of heat (Berg et al., 2006, p. 1178). UCP1 is locked in a cytoplasmic-open state by guanosine triphosphate in a pH-dependent manner, preventing proton leak.In this process, substances such as free fatty acids (derived from triacylglycerols) remove purine (ADP, GDP and others) inhibition of thermogenin, which causes an influx of H+ into the matrix of the mitochondrion and bypasses the ATP synthase channel. BAT NST occurs when Uncoupling Protein 1 (UCP1) performs oxidative phosphorylation in eutherians’ bodies resulting in the generation of heat (Berg et al., 2006, p. 1178). This is what links UCP to thermogenesis. UCPs belong to the mitochondrial carrier (SLC25) family.Uncoupling proteins play a role in normal physiology, as in cold exposure or hibernation, because the energy is used to generate heat (see thermogenesis) instead of producing ATP. History
Scientists observed the thermogenic activity in brown adipose tissue, which eventually led to the discovery of UCP1, initially known as "Uncoupling Protein". The homologs are as follows:

UCP1, also known as thermogenin or SLC25A7
UCP2, also known as SLC25A8
UCP3, also known as SLC25A9
UCP4, also known as SLC25A27
UCP5, also known as SLC25A14

Maintaining body temperature
The first uncoupling protein discovered, UCP1, was discovered in the brown adipose tissues of hibernators and small rodents, which provide non-shivering heat to these animals. 
Cancer cells can stimulate the accumulation of intra-tumoural myeloid-derived suppressor cells by promoting granulocyte colony stimulating factor production. [SEP] This is a major reason that cancer cells can accumulate over time, creating tumors. Cancer stem cells and drug resistance
Scientists have discovered a molecule on the surface of tumors that appears to promote drug  resistance—by converting the tumor cells back into a stem cell-like state. Cancer stem cells
The cancer stem cell model asserts that within a population of tumour cells, there is only a small subset of cells that are tumourigenic (able to form tumours). These cells are termed cancer stem cells (CSCs), and are marked by the ability to both self-renew and differentiate into non-tumourigenic progeny. Granulocytes are
cells in the innate immune system characterized by the presence of specific granules in their cytoplasm. Granulocytes are produced via granulopoiesis in the bone marrow. Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), also known as colony-stimulating factor 2 (CSF2), is a monomeric glycoprotein secreted by macrophages, T cells, mast cells, natural killer cells, endothelial cells and fibroblasts that functions as a cytokine. GM-CSF stimulates stem cells to produce granulocytes (neutrophils, eosinophils, and basophils) and monocytes. 
Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are constituents of tumor microenvironments [SEP] A cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF) (also known as tumour-associated fibroblast; carcinogenic- associated fibroblast; activated fibroblast) is a cell type within the tumor microenvironment that promotes tumorigenic features by initiating the remodelling of the extracellular matrix or by secreting cytokines. CAFs are a complex and abundant cell type within the tumour microenvironment; the number cannot decrease, as they are unable to undergo apoptosis.CAFs have been found to be abundant in a tumour stroma. Myofibroblasts and fibroblasts make up CAFs.The functions of these CAFs have been known to stimulate angiogenesis, supporting the formation of tumours and thus proliferation of cancer cell and metastasis. Resident
These CAFs arise from fibroblasts within the vicinity of the tumour that have been recruited by cancer derived growth factor. This process is similar to active inflammation with the main difference between these two processes being that, in cancer, the fibroblasts can’t be deactivated which has led to tumours being referred to as “wounds that do not heal.” It is believed that most CAFs arise from differentiated resident fibroblast cells.The normal fibroblast cells receive a hormone signal from nearby cancer cells, indicating that it must become activated, and is thus classed as a CAF. Roles in cancer
Prognosis
In general, the presence and density of cancer associated fibroblasts (CAF) point towards a bad prognosis for the patient, and so, are pro-tumour. Effect on Tumour Cells
Cancer-associated fibroblasts negatively influence the outcome of oncological diseases. Carcinoma associated fibroblasts
Carcinoma associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are a heterogenous group of fibroblasts whose function is pirated by cancer cells and redirected toward carcinogenesis. 
Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) have no known interaction with cancer cells in the formation and activation of CAFs. [SEP] A cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF) (also known as tumour-associated fibroblast; carcinogenic- associated fibroblast; activated fibroblast) is a cell type within the tumor microenvironment that promotes tumorigenic features by initiating the remodelling of the extracellular matrix or by secreting cytokines. Myofibroblasts and fibroblasts make up CAFs.The functions of these CAFs have been known to stimulate angiogenesis, supporting the formation of tumours and thus proliferation of cancer cell and metastasis. Resident
These CAFs arise from fibroblasts within the vicinity of the tumour that have been recruited by cancer derived growth factor. This process is similar to active inflammation with the main difference between these two processes being that, in cancer, the fibroblasts can’t be deactivated which has led to tumours being referred to as “wounds that do not heal.” It is believed that most CAFs arise from differentiated resident fibroblast cells.The normal fibroblast cells receive a hormone signal from nearby cancer cells, indicating that it must become activated, and is thus classed as a CAF. Roles in cancer
Prognosis
In general, the presence and density of cancer associated fibroblasts (CAF) point towards a bad prognosis for the patient, and so, are pro-tumour. Effect on Tumour Cells
Cancer-associated fibroblasts negatively influence the outcome of oncological diseases. Carcinoma associated fibroblasts
Carcinoma associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are a heterogenous group of fibroblasts whose function is pirated by cancer cells and redirected toward carcinogenesis. Unlike their normal counterparts, CAFs do not retard cancer growth in vitro. 
Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) interact with cancer cells to mediate formation and activation of CAFs. [SEP] Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) have multiple TME functions, in part through extracellular matrix (ECM)–mediated T cell trapping and CXCL12-regulated T cell exclusion. Carcinoma associated fibroblasts
Carcinoma associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are a heterogenous group of fibroblasts whose function is pirated by cancer cells and redirected toward carcinogenesis. CAFs perform several functions that support tumor growth, such as secreting vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), fibroblast growth factors (FGFs), platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), and other pro-angiogenic signals to induce angiogenesis. CAFs can also secrete transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β), which is associated with EMT, a process by which cancer cells can metastasize, and is associated with inhibiting cytotoxic T cells and natural killer T cells. As fibroblasts, CAFs are able to rework the ECM to include more paracrine survival signals such as IGF-1 and IGF-2, thus promoting survival of the surrounding cancer cells. CAFs are also associated with the Reverse Warburg Effect where the CAFs perform aerobic glycolysis and feed lactate to the cancer cells.Several markers identify CAFs, including expression of α smooth muscle actin (αSMA), vimentin, platelet-derived growth factor receptor α (PDGFR-α), platelet-derived growth factor receptor β (PDGFR-β), fibroblast specific protein 1 (FSP-1) and fibroblast activation protein (FAP). In a preclinical PDA mouse model, FAP+ CAFs produced the chemokine CXCL12, which is bound by PDA cancer cells. Moreover, it can be upregulated by cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) in the tumor stroma, where it has been associated with poor prognosis.In squamous cell carcinomas, PDPN is believed to play a key role in the cancer cell invasiveness by controlling invadopodia, and thus mediating efficient ECM degradation. 
Cancers that initially benefit from epidermal growth factor receptor targeted therapies later become refractory through several mechanisms. [SEP] Cetuximab, sold under the brand name Erbitux, is an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitor medication used for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer and head and neck cancer. Medical uses
In the US, cetuximab is indicated for treatment of head and neck cancer and colorectal cancer.In the EU, cetuximab is indicated for the treatment of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-expressing, RAS wild-type metastatic colorectal cancer and for the treatment of squamous cell cancer of the head and neck.A diagnostic immunohistochemistry assay (EGFR pharmDx) can be used to detect EGFR expression in the tumor material. Approximately 75% of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer have an EGFR-expressing tumor and are therefore considered eligible for treatment with cetuximab or panitumumab, according to FDA guidelines. Cetuximab and other EGFR inhibitors only work on tumors in which KRAS is not mutated.In July 2009, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) updated the labels of two anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody drugs (panitumumab (Vectibix) and cetuximab (Erbitux)) indicated for treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer to include information about KRAS mutations.Studies have indicated that detection of KRAS gene mutations helps physicians identify patients that are unlikely to respond to treatment with targeted EGFR inhibitors, including cetuximab and panitumumab. mCRC patients with wild-type KRAS tumors have been shown to benefit from a response rate of over 60% and a decreased risk for progression of over 40% when treated with Erbitux as 1st-line therapy. Around 65% of mCRC patients have the KRAS wild-type gene.There is some evidence that colorectal tumors with the KRAS G13D mutation (glycine to aspartate at codon 13) respond to EGFR inhibition (specifically, with Cetuximab). Panitumumab was approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) in 2007, and by Health Canada in 2008, for "the treatment of refractory EGFR-expressing metastatic colorectal cancer in patients with non-mutated (wild-type) KRAS". Preclinical and clinical work suggests multiple potential mechanisms of drug resistance in ROS1 + lung cancer, including kinase domain mutations in ROS1 and bypass signaling via RAS and EGFR. 
Cardiac tissue-resident macrophages directly contribute to electrical activity. [SEP] Cardiac resident macrophages participate in electrical conduction via gap junction communication with cardiac myocytes.Macrophages can be classified on basis of the fundamental function and activation. Development
Macrophages that reside in adult healthy tissues either derive from circulating monocytes or are established before birth and then maintained during adult life independently of monocytes. Role in innate immune response
When a pathogen invades, tissue resident macrophages are among the first cells to respond. M1 macrophages promote atherosclerosis by inflammation. Role in tissue homeostasis
Every tissue harbors its own specialized population of resident macrophages, which entertain reciprocal interconnections with the stroma and functional tissue. Heart disease
Macrophages are the predominant cells involved in creating the progressive plaque lesions of atherosclerosis.Focal recruitment of macrophages occurs after the onset of acute myocardial infarction. Macrophages protect against ischemia-induced ventricular tachycardia in hypokalemic mice. Macrophages can influence treatment outcomes both positively and negatively. 
Carriers of HNF4A mutations are at reduced risk for diabetes. [SEP] However, single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) is one of many mechanisms that leads to increased risk for type 2 diabetes. To locate genes and loci that are responsible for the risk of type 2 diabetes, genome wide association studies (GWAS) was utilized to compare the genomes of diabetic patient group and the non-diabetic control group. The diabetic patients’ genome sequences differ from the controls' genome in specific loci along and around numerous genes, and these differences in the nucleotide sequences alter phenotypic traits that exhibit increased susceptibility to the diabetes. SNP rs7873784 located in the 3′-untranslated region (3′-UTR) of TLR4 gene and associated with the development of type-2 diabetes mellitus. Additionally, mice with deficiencies in TLR4 signaling were protected from insulin resistance caused by high-fat diet and from secondary complications of T2DM such as atherosclerosis.Most SNPs that increase the risk of diabetes reside in noncoding regions of the genes, making the SNP's mechanism for increasing susceptibility largely unknown. Genes such as CDKN2A, CDKN2B, and HNF1B exhibit increase the risk phenotype with SNPs in their 3' UTR miRNA binding sites. As CDKN2A and B regulate the pancreatic beta-cell replication, and HNF1B is homeodomain containing transcription factor that regulates other genes, faulty regulations of those genes increase the risk of diabetes. Population-based sequencing studies have since identified numerous other genes harbouring rare large-effect variants for type 2 diabetes, including the known MODY gene GCK (over 14-fold increased odds) and the gene GIGYF1 (4-6 fold increased odds).It is important to note that those discovered genes do not determine susceptibility to diabetes for all people or cases. 
Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Galliformes. [SEP] Sex is the trait that determines whether a sexually reproducing organism produces male or female gametes. Female gametes are egg cells. Within animals and other organisms that have genetic sex-determination systems, the determining factor may be the presence of a sex chromosome. In plants that are sexually dimorphic, such as Ginkgo biloba,: 203  the liverwort Marchantia polymorpha or the dioecious species in the flowering plant genus Silene, sex may also be determined by sex chromosomes. It is the male gamete that determines the sex of the offspring. ZW sex determination
In birds, which have a ZW sex-determination system, the W chromosome carries factors responsible for female development, and default development is male. It is the female gamete that determines the sex of the offspring. In these species, the temperature experienced by the embryos during their development determines their sex. 
Cellular clocks are associated with mitosis timing in NIH 3T3 cells. [SEP] The central events of cell reproduction are chromosome duplication, which takes place in S (Synthetic) phase, followed by chromosome segregation and nuclear division (mitosis) and cell division (cytokinesis), which are collectively called M (Mitotic) phase. Fission yeast governs mitosis by mechanisms that are similar to those in multicellular animals. A spatial gradient is thought to coordinate cell size and mitotic entry in fission yeast. For CK1δ subcellular sequestration has been described to be mediated by A-kinase anchor protein (AKAP) 450, the X-linked DEAD-box RNA helicase 3 (DDX3X), casein kinase-1 binding protein (CK1BP), and the regulatory and complex-building/-initiating molecule 14-3-3 ζ. AKAP450 recruits CK1δ and ε to the centrosome to exert centrosome-specific functions in the context of cell cycle regulation. Cellular functions
Circadian rhythm
CK1δ seems to be involved in the circadian rhythm, the internal cellular clock, which permits a rhythm of about 24 h. The circadian rhythm mainly consists of a negative feedback loop mediated by (PER) and cryptochrome (CRY) proteins, which can dimerize and shuttle into the nucleus. Cell cycle, mitosis and meiosis
CK1δ is involved in microtubule dynamics, cell cycle progression, genomic stability, mitosis and meiosis. Furthermore, it leads to a phase delay of circadian rhythm in nocturnal and diurnal animal models. An epigenetic clock is a biochemical test that can be used to measure age. 
Cellular clocks are not predictive of mitosis timing in NIH 3T3 cells. [SEP] The central events of cell reproduction are chromosome duplication, which takes place in S (Synthetic) phase, followed by chromosome segregation and nuclear division (mitosis) and cell division (cytokinesis), which are collectively called M (Mitotic) phase. Fission yeast governs mitosis by mechanisms that are similar to those in multicellular animals. A spatial gradient is thought to coordinate cell size and mitotic entry in fission yeast. Cell cycle, mitosis and meiosis
CK1δ is involved in microtubule dynamics, cell cycle progression, genomic stability, mitosis and meiosis. Transient mitotic arrest, can be observed after CK1δ inhibition with IC261, even though this inhibitor have recently been shown not to be CK1-specific and to have many additional off-target  Nevertheless, in line with these results, CK1δ inhibition or silencing allows Wee1 stability and subsequent Cdk1 phosphorylation which permits cell cycle exit. Furthermore, it leads to a phase delay of circadian rhythm in nocturnal and diurnal animal models. An epigenetic clock is a biochemical test that can be used to measure age. used deep neural networks to train an epigenetic aging clock of unprecedented accuracy using >6,000 blood samples. 
Cellular differentiation of embryonic stem cells is accompanied by changes in replication timing, transcription and nuclear localization. [SEP] These events include the duplication of its DNA (DNA replication) and some of its organelles, and subsequently the partitioning of its cytoplasm, chromosomes and other components into two daughter cells in a process called cell division. The cell's nuclear DNA contents are duplicated during S phase. However, results from a recent study of E2F transcriptional dynamics at the single-cell level argue that the role of G1 cyclin-CDK activities, in particular cyclin D-CDK4/6, is to tune the timing rather than the commitment of cell cycle entry.Active S cyclin-CDK complexes phosphorylate proteins that make up the pre-replication complexes assembled during G1 phase on DNA replication origins. Other work indicates that phosphorylation, a post-translational modification, of cell cycle transcription factors by Cdk1 may alter the localization or activity of the transcription factors in order to tightly control timing of target genes.While oscillatory transcription plays a key role in the progression of the yeast cell cycle, the CDK-cyclin machinery operates independently in the early embryonic cell cycle. DNA replication and DNA replication origin activity
Analyses of synchronized cultures of Saccharomyces cerevisiae under conditions that prevent DNA replication initiation without delaying cell cycle progression showed that origin licensing decreases the expression of genes with origins near their 3' ends, revealing that downstream origins can regulate the expression of upstream genes. See also
Cellular model
Eukaryotic DNA replication
Mitotic catastrophe
Origin recognition complex
Retinoblastoma protein
Synchronous culture – synchronization of cell cultures
Wee1

References
Further reading
External links

 This article incorporates public domain material from Science Primer. Expression
Expression during development
Timing of gene expression during development varies from tissue to tissue. Later embryonic development is just as precisely regulated as pre-implantation development, and is more complicated due to differentiation of all tissues. 
Certain immunomodulator-human dialyzable leukocyte extract (hDLE) peptides are recognized by toll-like receptors (TLRs) on macrophages and dendritic cells. [SEP] Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are a class of proteins that play a key role in the innate immune system. Function
The ability of the immune system to recognize molecules that are broadly shared by pathogens is, in part, due to the presence of immune receptors called toll-like receptors (TLRs) that are expressed on the membranes of leukocytes including dendritic cells, macrophages, natural killer cells, cells of the adaptive immunity T cells, and B cells, and non-immune cells (epithelial and endothelial cells, and fibroblasts).The binding of ligands - either in the form of adjuvant used in vaccinations or in the form of invasive moieties during times of natural infection - to the TLR marks the key molecular events that ultimately lead to innate immune responses and the development of antigen-specific acquired immunity.Upon activation, TLRs recruit adaptor proteins (proteins that mediate other protein-protein interactions) within the cytosol of the immune cell to propagate the antigen-induced signal transduction pathway. Toll-like receptors have also been shown to be an important link between innate and adaptive immunity through their presence in dendritic cells. Summary of known mammalian TLRs
Toll-like receptors bind and become activated by different ligands, which, in turn, are located on different types of organisms or structures. Toll-like receptor 4 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TLR4 gene. TLR4 is a transmembrane protein, member of the toll-like receptor family, which belongs to the pattern recognition receptor (PRR) family. Function
TLR4 is a member of the toll-like receptor (TLR) family, which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activation of innate immunity. Interactions
TLR4 has been shown to interact with:

Lymphocyte antigen 96,
Myd88, and
TOLLIP. 
Charcoal is an effective treatment for acute paraquat poisoning. [SEP] Lavage is contra-indicated in cases of hydrocarbon ingestion.Activated charcoal is sometimes administered as it has been shown to be successful with some pesticides but its not effective for malathion poisoning  . In Korea, banning a single pesticide, paraquat, halved the number of suicides by pesticide poisoning and reduced the total number of suicides in that country. Charcoal-burning suicide induces death from carbon monoxide poisoning. Charcoal is the traditional fuel of a blacksmith's forge and other applications where an intense heat is required. In the 21st century, charcoal has been advocated as a way to improve the health of people burning raw biomass for cooking and/or heating. The medical use of activated charcoal is mainly the absorption of poisons. Medicine
Charcoal in the form of charcoal biscuits was consumed in the past for gastric problems. Research regarding its effectiveness is controversial.Charcoal has been used in combination with saccharin in research to measure mucociliary transport time.Charcoal has also been incorporated into toothpaste formulas; however, there is no evidence to determine its safety and effectiveness.Red colobus monkeys in Africa have been observed eating charcoal for self-medication. 
Charcoal shows no benefit for acute paraquat poisoning. [SEP] Toxicity
Paraquat is toxic to humans (Category II) by the oral route and moderately toxic (Category III) through the skin. Pure paraquat, when ingested, is highly toxic to mammals, including humans, causing severe inflammation and potentially leading to severe lung damage (e.g., irreversible pulmonary fibrosis, also known as 'paraquat lung'), acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), and death. The mortality rate is estimated between 60-90%.Paraquat is also toxic when inhaled and is in the Toxicity Category I (the highest of four levels) for acute inhalation effects. It has been reported that a small dose, even if removed from the stomach or spat out, can still cause death from fibrous tissue developing in the lungs, leading to asphyxiation.Accidental deaths and suicides from paraquat ingestion are relatively common. A 1995 study found that "no lung or other injury in cannabis users has ever been attributed to paraquat contamination". The U.S. Public Health Service stated that "this study should not be used to calculate the safe inhalation dose of paraquat in humans." Use in suicide and murder
A large majority (93 percent) of fatalities from paraquat poisoning are suicides, which occur mostly in developing countries. Charcoal-burning suicide induces death from carbon monoxide poisoning. 
Chemical injury represses transglutaminase 2 activity. [SEP] An injury is any physiological damage to living tissue caused by immediate physical stress. Mechanisms
Trauma
Traumatic injury is caused by an external object making forceful contact with the body, resulting in a wound. Fatal electrical injuries are often caused by tetanic spasm inducing respiratory arrest or interference with the heart causing cardiac arrest.Chemical burns are caused by contact with corrosive substances such as acid or alkali. The ingestion of corrosive substances can cause chemical burns to the larynx and stomach. Other mechanisms
Toxic injury is caused by the ingestion, inhalation, injection, or absorption of a toxin. Different toxins may cause different types of injuries, and many will cause injury to specific organs. Ingestion of corrosive chemicals can cause chemical burns to the larynx. Inhalation of toxic materials can also cause serious injury to the respiratory tract.Severe trauma to the chest can cause damage to the lungs, including pulmonary contusions, accumulation of blood, or a collapsed lung. 
Chenodeoxycholic acid treatment decreases brown adipose tissue activity. [SEP] Chenodeoxycholic acid is one of the main bile acids. Biosynthesis and function
Chenodeoxycholic acid is synthesized in the liver from cholesterol via several enzymatic steps. Brown adipose tissue (BAT) or brown fat makes up the adipose organ together with white adipose tissue (or white fat). The therapeutic targeting of brown fat for the treatment of human obesity is an active research field.In contrast to white adipocytes, which contain a single lipid droplet, brown adipocytes contain numerous smaller droplets and a much higher number of (iron-containing) mitochondria, which gives the tissue its color. Location and classification
The presence of brown adipose tissue in adult humans was discovered in 2003 during FDG-PET scans to detect metastatic cancers. However, brown adipose tissue is highly specialized for this non-shivering thermogenesis. These discoveries could lead to new methods of weight loss, since brown fat takes calories from normal fat and burns it. Brown adipose tissue activation may play an important role in bone health and bone density. 
Chenodeoxycholic acid treatment increases brown adipose tissue activity. [SEP] Brown adipose tissue (BAT) or brown fat makes up the adipose organ together with white adipose tissue (or white fat). In addition to heat produced by shivering muscle, brown adipose tissue produces heat by non-shivering thermogenesis. The therapeutic targeting of brown fat for the treatment of human obesity is an active research field.In contrast to white adipocytes, which contain a single lipid droplet, brown adipocytes contain numerous smaller droplets and a much higher number of (iron-containing) mitochondria, which gives the tissue its color. Location and classification
The presence of brown adipose tissue in adult humans was discovered in 2003 during FDG-PET scans to detect metastatic cancers. However, brown adipose tissue is highly specialized for this non-shivering thermogenesis. Scientists have been able to stimulate brown fat growth in mice. Brown adipose tissue activation may play an important role in bone health and bone density. Brown adipose tissue activation through cold exposure increases adiponectin levels, just two hours of cold exposure resulted in a 70% increase in circulating adiponectin in adult men. 
Chinese individuals with TT homozygosity in the MTHFR gene are less vulnerable to strokes caused by low levels of folate intake. [SEP] Individuals of 677TT are predisposed to mild hyperhomocysteinemia (high blood homocysteine levels), because they have less active MTHFR available to produce 5-methyltetrahydrofolate (which is used to decrease homocysteine). Low folate intake affects individuals with the 677TT genotype to a greater extent than those with the 677CC/CT genotypes. 677TT (but not 677CC/CT) individuals with lower plasma folate levels are at risk for elevated plasma homocysteine levels. Other research has found that individuals with folate-related mutations can still have a functional deficiency even when blood levels of folate are within the normal range, and recommended supplementation of methyltetrahydrofolate to potentially prevent and treat dementia (along with depression). The active form of folate, L-methylfolate, may be appropriate to target for conditions affected by MTHFR polymorphisms. There is also an elevated risk of neural tube defects among children of individuals with the C677T polymorphism (odds ratio 1.38).For cardiovascular risk, common MTHFR deficiencies were once thought to be associated but meta-analyses indicate that correlation this was an artifact of publication bias. Management
In common forms of MTHFR deficiency, elevated plasma homocysteine levels have sometimes been treated with Vitamin B12 and low doses of folic acid. 5-MTHF was shown to induce significantly higher plasma folate concentrations compared to folic acid in homozygous MTHFR mutation carriers in this case series.A different study corroborates these results and suggests a physiological dose (800 μg) of 5-methyltetrahydrofolate can bypass MTHFR C677T and A1298C isoforms in couples with fertility problems. 
Chinese individuals with TT homozygosity in the MTHFR gene are more vulnerable to strokes caused by low levels of folate intake. [SEP] Individuals of 677TT are predisposed to mild hyperhomocysteinemia (high blood homocysteine levels), because they have less active MTHFR available to produce 5-methyltetrahydrofolate (which is used to decrease homocysteine). Low dietary intake of the vitamin folate can also cause mild hyperhomocysteinemia. Low folate intake affects individuals with the 677TT genotype to a greater extent than those with the 677CC/CT genotypes. 677TT (but not 677CC/CT) individuals with lower plasma folate levels are at risk for elevated plasma homocysteine levels. The active form of folate, L-methylfolate, may be appropriate to target for conditions affected by MTHFR polymorphisms. It is caused by genetic defects in MTHFR, which is an important enzyme in the methyl cycle.Common variants of MTHFR deficiency are asymptomatic and have only minor effects on disease risk. There is also an elevated risk of neural tube defects among children of individuals with the C677T polymorphism (odds ratio 1.38).For cardiovascular risk, common MTHFR deficiencies were once thought to be associated but meta-analyses indicate that correlation this was an artifact of publication bias. 5-MTHF was shown to induce significantly higher plasma folate concentrations compared to folic acid in homozygous MTHFR mutation carriers in this case series.A different study corroborates these results and suggests a physiological dose (800 μg) of 5-methyltetrahydrofolate can bypass MTHFR C677T and A1298C isoforms in couples with fertility problems. 
Chlamydia trachomatis is most prevalent in the UK among individuals in their 50s and 60s. [SEP] United Kingdom (15.8%)
A national survey on sexual attitudes in 2000 found that 15.8% of men or boys in the United Kingdom (ages 16–44) were circumcised by their parents' choosing, while 11.7% of 16- to 19-year-olds, and 19.6% of 40- to 44-year-olds said they had been circumcised. Circumcision status was more common with males over 30 than males under 30, and more common with males who were born in Australia. Prophylactic usage originated in England during the 1850s, becoming established as a way to prevent sexually transmitted infections. Human papillomavirus
Human papillomavirus (HPV) is the most commonly transmitted sexually transmitted infection, affecting both men and women. Prevalence
Circumcision is one of the world's most widely performed medical procedures. Prevalence in the United States and Canada is estimated at 75% and 30% respectively. In the United Kingdom, prevalence was likely to have been 20–30% in the 1940s but declined at the end of that decade. Conviction
In the United Kingdom, in 1970, there was a 33% rate of conviction, while by 1985 there was a 24% conviction rate for rape trials in the UK; by 2004, the conviction rate reached 5%. 
Chlamydia trachomatis is most prevalent in the UK among sexually-experienced individuals aged 16 to 24. [SEP] Chlamydial and gonococcal infections in women are of particular concern due to the possibility of ascending infection. Southern Africa, Oceania, and North America report the highest numbers of rape.Most rape is committed by someone the victim knows. Conviction
In the United Kingdom, in 1970, there was a 33% rate of conviction, while by 1985 there was a 24% conviction rate for rape trials in the UK; by 2004, the conviction rate reached 5%. Human papillomavirus
Human papillomavirus (HPV) is the most commonly transmitted sexually transmitted infection, affecting both men and women. Prevalence
Circumcision is one of the world's most widely performed medical procedures. Chlamydia trachomatis may increase the risk of miscarriage. In a Danish register-based study where the prevalence of miscarriage was 11%, the prevalence rose from 9% at 22 years of age to 84% by 48 years of age. Another, later study in 2013 found that when either parent was over the age of 40, the rate of known miscarriages doubled.In 2010, 50,000 inpatient admissions for miscarriage occurred in the UK. 
Cholesterol loading induces KLF4 expression in VSMCs, resulting in the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines. [SEP] Signaling
Cholesterol is also implicated in cell signaling processes, assisting in the formation of lipid rafts in the plasma membrane, which brings receptor proteins in close proximity with high concentrations of second messenger molecules. KLF4 is involved in the regulation of proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis and somatic cell reprogramming. In the intestinal epithelium, KLF4 is an important regulator of Wnt signaling pathway genes of genes regulating differentiation.KLF4 is expressed in a variety of tissues and organs such as: the cornea where it is required for epithelial barrier function and is a regulator of genes required for corneal homeostasis; the skin where it is required for the development of skin permeability barrier function; the bone and teeth tissues where it regulates normal skeletal development; epithelial cell of the mouse male and female reproductive tract where in the males it is important for proper spermatogenesis; vascular endothelial cells where it is critical in preventing vascular leakage in response to inflammatory stimuli; white blood cells where it mediates inflammatory responses cellular differentiation and proliferation; the kidneys where it is involved in the differentiation of embryonic stem cells and induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells to renal lineage in vitro and its dysregulation has been linked to some renal pathologies. Similar finding in esophageal epithelium was observed, where overexpression of KLF4 resulted in increased inflammation that eventually lead to the development of esophageal squamous cell cancer in mice.The role of KLF4 in Epithelial–mesenchymal transition (EMT) is also controversial. Additionally, KLF4 was shown to suppress EMT in epidermal cancer, breast cancer, lung cancer, cisplatin-resistant nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells, and in hepatocellular carcinoma cells.KLF4 plays an important role in several vascular diseases where it was shown to regulate vascular inflammation by controlling macrophage polarization and plaque formation in atherosclerosis. It may suppress angiogenesis by regulating NOTCH1 activity, while in the central nervous system its overexpression leads to vascular dysplasia.KLF4 may promote inflammation by mediating NF-κB-dependent inflammatory pathway such as in macrophages, esophageal epithelium and in chemically-induced acute colitis in mice. Additionally, KLF-4 downregulates TNF-α-induced VCAM1 expression by targeting and blocking the binding site of NF-κB to the VCAM1 promoter.However, KLF4 may also suppress the activation of inflammatory signaling such as in endothelial cells in response to pro-inflammatory stimuli.KLF4 is essential for the cellular response to DNA damage. Recently a group investigated the role of KLF4 in a particular population of intestinal stem cells, the Bmi1+ stem cells. 
Chronic HIV stimulation of B cells leads to the premature exhaustion of B cells. [SEP] Deficiency may be caused by increased needs of the body for example in those with HIV/AIDS, and shortened red blood cell lifespan. BLIMP-1 is highly expressed in exhausted T-cells – clones of dysfunctional T-cells with diminished functions due to chronic immune response against cancer, viral infections, or organ transplant. The premature expression of BLIMP-1 in primary B cells results in cell death, so only cells that are ready to initiate transcription driven by BLIMP-1 are able to survive and differentiate. However, without BLIMP-1, proliferating B cells are unable to differentiate to plasma cells, resulting in severe reduction in production of all isotypes of immunoglobulin. T cell exhaustion
Multiple studies have reported high expression of BLIMP-1 in exhausted T cells. T cell exhaustion is usually a result of chronic immune activations, commonly caused by viral infection (e.g. High expression of BLIMP-1 in Tc and Th cells is associated with the transcription of receptors inhibiting immune responses, though it is unclear whether the relation between BLIMP-1 expression and T-cell exhaustion is causal or just associative.BLIMP-1 helps the production of short-lived effector T cells and clonally exhausted T cells. A low level of blood lymphocytes may result from the virus acting through ACE2-related entry into lymphocytes. 
Cis-acting lncRNAs control the expression of genes that are positioned in the vicinity of their transcription sites. [SEP] The lac operator is, thus, considered to "act in cis" on the regulation of the nearby genes. The lac operator is, thus, considered to "act in cis" on the regulation of the nearby genes. Long intervening/intergenic noncoding RNAs (lincRNAs) are sequences of lncRNA which do not overlap protein-coding genes.Long non-coding RNAs include intergenic lincRNAs, intronic ncRNAs, and sense and antisense lncRNAs, each type showing different genomic positions in relation to genes and exons. In addition to higher tissue specificity, lncRNAs are characterized by higher developmental stage specificity, and cell subtype specificity in tissues such as human neocortex and other parts of the brain, regulating correct brain development and function. The GENCODE consortium has collated and analysed a comprehensive set of human lncRNA annotations and their genomic organisation, modifications, cellular locations and tissue expression profiles. Some argue that these observations suggest non-functionality of the majority of lncRNAs, while others argue that they may be indicative of rapid species-specific adaptive selection.While the turnover of lncRNA transcription is much higher than initially expected, it is important to note that still, hundreds of lncRNAs are conserved at the sequence level. According to the curation of functional mechanisms of lncRNAs based on the literatures, lncRNAs are extensively reported to be involved in transcriptional regulation. For example, divergent lncRNAs that are transcribed in the opposite direction to nearby protein-coding genes (~20% of total lncRNAs in mammalian genomes) possibly regulate the transcription of nearby adjacent essential developmental regulatory genes in pluripotent cells.The RNA binding protein TLS binds and inhibits the CREB binding protein and p300 histone acetyltransferase activities on a repressed gene target, cyclin D1. 
Citrullinated proteins externalized in neutrophil extracellular traps act indirectly to disrupt the inflammatory cycle. [SEP] The immune system can attack citrullinated proteins, leading to autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and multiple sclerosis (MS). Autoimmune diseases
In rheumatoid arthritis and other autoimmune diseases, such as psoriatic arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus and Sjögren's syndrome,  autoantibodies often attack citrullinated proteins. Neutrophil extracellular traps
In 2004, Brinkmann and colleagues described a striking observation that activation of neutrophils causes the release of web-like structures of DNA; this represents a third mechanism for killing bacteria. These neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) comprise a web of fibers composed of chromatin and serine proteases  that trap and kill extracellular microbes. Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are networks of extracellular fibers, primarily composed of DNA from neutrophils, which bind pathogens. References
External links
Frontiers in Molecular Innate Immunity research topic about NET
"Molecular mechanisms involved in neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation", PhD thesis, Jyaysi Desai, Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich, Germany. Neutrophil extracellular traps
In 2004, Brinkmann and colleagues described a striking observation that activation of neutrophils causes the release of web-like structures of DNA; this represents a third mechanism for killing bacteria. These neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) comprise a web of fibers composed of chromatin and serine proteases  that trap and kill extracellular microbes. 
Citrullinated proteins externalized in neutrophil extracellular traps act indirectly to perpetuate the inflammatory cycle via induction of autoantibodies. [SEP] History
The presence of autoantibodies against citrullinated proteins in rheumatoid arthritis patients was first described in the mid-1970s when the biochemical basis of antibody reactivity against keratin and filaggrin was investigated. The immune system can attack citrullinated proteins, leading to autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and multiple sclerosis (MS). Autoimmune diseases
In rheumatoid arthritis and other autoimmune diseases, such as psoriatic arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus and Sjögren's syndrome,  autoantibodies often attack citrullinated proteins. So citrullination seems to be part of the mechanism that stimulates the immune system in autoimmune disease. Neutrophil extracellular traps
In 2004, Brinkmann and colleagues described a striking observation that activation of neutrophils causes the release of web-like structures of DNA; this represents a third mechanism for killing bacteria. Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are networks of extracellular fibers, primarily composed of DNA from neutrophils, which bind pathogens. References
External links
Frontiers in Molecular Innate Immunity research topic about NET
"Molecular mechanisms involved in neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation", PhD thesis, Jyaysi Desai, Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich, Germany. Neutrophil extracellular traps
In 2004, Brinkmann and colleagues described a striking observation that activation of neutrophils causes the release of web-like structures of DNA; this represents a third mechanism for killing bacteria. 
Clathrin stabilizes the spindle fiber apparatus during mitosis. [SEP] Formation of clathrin-coated vesicles is shut down in cells undergoing mitosis. During mitosis, clathrin binds to the spindle apparatus, in complex with two other proteins: TACC3 and ch-TOG/CKAP5. Clathrin aids in the congression of chromosomes by stabilizing kinetochore fibers of the mitotic spindle. The stabilization of kinetochore fibers requires the trimeric structure of clathrin in order to crosslink microtubules.Clathrin-mediated endocytosis (CME) regulates many cellular physiological processes such as the internalization of growth factors and receptors, entry of pathogens, and synaptic transmission. Formation of clathrin-coated vesicles is shut down in cells undergoing mitosis. During mitosis, clathrin binds to the spindle apparatus, in complex with two other proteins: TACC3 and ch-TOG/CKAP5. Clathrin aids in the congression of chromosomes by stabilizing kinetochore fibers of the mitotic spindle. The stabilization of kinetochore fibers requires the trimeric structure of clathrin in order to crosslink microtubules.Clathrin-mediated endocytosis (CME) regulates many cellular physiological processes such as the internalization of growth factors and receptors, entry of pathogens, and synaptic transmission. 
Cnn1 recruitment varies with cell cycle timing. [SEP] Egg balancing is possible on every day of the year, not just the vernal equinox, and there is no relationship between any astronomical phenomenon and the ability to balance an egg. Most dogs age consistently across all breeds in the first year of life, reaching adolescence by one year old; smaller and medium-sized breeds begin to age more slowly in adulthood. The menstrual cycles of women who live together do not tend to synchronize. Trump News Network
Citing Donald Trump's distrust of mainstream news, Jimmy appears as the President on "Trump News Network" (a knock-off of CNN) in which he unsuccessfully spins negative stories about him to portray him in a more positive light, instead having the reverse effect. and a trending topic is shown as a result (Example: Streaming service + Gone in 60 seconds = CNN+, referring to its quick closure). In 2012, April 1 fell on a weekend. Risk factors for this delay include maternal diabetes, stressful delivery, retained placenta, prolonged labor and birth by C-section. The non-ovulating period varies by individual. 
Cognitive behavioral therapy is an ineffective treatment for insomnia [SEP] Insomnia is defined as dissatisfaction with sleep duration or quality and difficulties initiating or maintaining sleep. Cognitive behavioral therapy has been seen to reduce insomnia and depression for cancer survivors. In children with ADHD, insomnia is the most common sleep disorder with behavioural therapy being the preferred treatment. Meditative
A 2021 meta-analysis found that meditative exercise programs (tai chi, yoga, qigong) were superior to other forms of exercise (aerobic, flexibility, resistance) in improving sleep quality. In a 2020 Cochrane review, cognitive behavioral therapy was found to have a small but beneficial effect for reducing pain and distress but adverse events were not well evaluated. A 2022 meta-analysis found that cognitive behavioral therapy reduces insomnia in people with chronic pain, including people with fibromyalgia. As of 2022, there is only low-quality evidence showing that patient education can decrease pain and fibromyalgia impact.Sleep hygiene interventions show low effectiveness in improving insomnia. Insomnia
Benzodiazepines can be useful for short-term treatment of insomnia. 
Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion are more effective after 12 weeks of reatment compared to varenicline monotherapy. [SEP] In a 2009 meta-analysis, varenicline was found to be more effective than bupropion (odds ratio 1.40) and nicotine replacement therapies (NRT) (odds ratio 1.56).A 2013 Cochrane overview and network meta-analysis concluded that varenicline is the most effective medication for tobacco cessation and that smokers were nearly three times more likely to quit tobacco use while on varenicline than with placebo treatment. Varenicline was more efficacious than bupropion or NRT and as effective as combination NRT for tobacco smoking cessation. No evidence for increased risks of cardiovascular events, depression, or self-harm with varenicline versus nicotine replacement therapy was found in one post-marketing surveillance study.In 2016, the FDA removed the black box warning. With time, however, this effect becomes negligible.The bupropion treatment course lasts for seven to twelve weeks, with the patient halting the use of tobacco about ten days into the course. After the course, the effectiveness of bupropion for maintaining abstinence from smoking declines over time, from 37% of tobacco abstinence at 3 months to 20% at one year. It is unclear whether extending bupropion treatment helps to prevent relapse of smoking.Overall, six months after the therapy, bupropion increases the likelihood of quitting smoking by approximately 1.6 fold as compared to placebo. In this respect, bupropion is as effective as nicotine replacement therapy but inferior to varenicline. Combining bupropion and nicotine replacement therapy does not improve the quitting rate.In children and adolescents, the use of bupropion for smoking cessation does not appear to offer any significant benefits. 
Commelina yellow mottle virus (ComYMV) has three typical badnavirus ORFs, capable of encoding proteins 23, 15, and 216 kD. [SEP] There are four different kinds of potyvirus inclusions.Replication follows the positive-stranded RNA virus replication model. Taxonomy
Potyvirus contains the following species:

A further four viruses were previously classified as species in this genus but were abolished due to lack of genetic sequence information:
Cowpea green vein banding virus
Groundnut eyespot virus
Helenium virus Y
Tropaeolum mosaic virus

Species groups
Potyviruses were further divided into the PVY, SCMV, BYMV, BCMV species groups in 1992. PVY
Contains 16 species including the type species of the genus (potato virus Y). "Taxonomy of potyviruses: current problems and some solutions". Barley yellow mosaic virus is plant pathogenic virus that causes the yellow mosaic disease of barley. References
External links
ICTVdB - The Universal Virus Database: Barley mosaic virus
Family Groups - The Baltimore Method Badnavirus is a genus of viruses, in the family Caulimoviridae order Ortervirales. References
External links
Viralzone: Badnavirus
Genus: Badnavirus - Caulimoviridae - Reverse Transcribing DNA and RNA Viruses - International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV) 
Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 2140 baise pairs. [SEP] It is about 350 base pairs and occupies about 11% of the human genome with around 1,500,000 copies. See #See also for lists of sequenced genomes. Genomes 2. A Primer of Genome Science (Second ed.). This sequence identified 19,969 protein-coding sequences, accounting for approximately 1.5% of the genome, and 63,494 genes in total, most of them being non-coding RNA genes. Since every base pair can be coded by 2 bits, this is about 750 megabytes of data. It is close to the maximum of 2 bits per base pair for the coding sequences (about 45 million base pairs), but less for the non-coding parts. Indeed, even within humans, there has been found to be a previously unappreciated amount of copy number variation (CNV) which can make up as much as 5–15% of the human genome. 
Comparative transcriptome analysis identified new platelet proteins with structural features suggesting a role in platelet function. [SEP] Platelets or thrombocytes (from Greek θρόμβος, "clot" and κύτος, "cell") are a component of blood whose function (along with the coagulation factors) is to react to bleeding from blood vessel injury by clumping, thereby initiating a blood clot. : 3 

One major function of platelets is to contribute to hemostasis: the process of stopping bleeding at the site of interrupted endothelium. Platelets also participate in both innate and adaptive intravascular immune responses. Hemostasis
The fundamental function of platelets is to clump together to stop acute bleeding. This process is complex, as more than 193 proteins and 301 interactions are known to be involved in platelet dynamics. Immune function
Platelets have a central role in innate immunity, initiating and participating in multiple inflammatory processes, directly binding pathogens and even destroying them. In case of injury, platelets, together with the coagulation cascade, form the first line of defense by forming a blood clot. Platelets are activated by collagen receptor glycoprotein IV (GPVI). 
Concentrations of SNV and CNV in stem-cell regulatory elements and binding sites of transcription factors in iPSC-lines are distinct from their founding cells. [SEP] Unipotent cells can produce only one cell type, their own, but have the property of self-renewal, which distinguishes them from non-stem cells

Identification
In practice, stem cells are identified by whether they can regenerate tissue. Stem cells can also be isolated by their possession of a distinctive set of cell surface markers. Both have the essential stem cell characteristics, yet they require very different environments in order to maintain an undifferentiated state. While rare, muse cells are identifiable by their expression of SSEA-3, a marker for undifferentiated stem cells, and general mesenchymal stem cells markers such as CD90, CD105. Induced pluripotent stem cells differ from embryonic stem cells. The chromatin of iPSCs appears to be more "closed" or methylated than that of ESCs. Similarly, the gene expression pattern between ESCs and iPSCs, or even iPSCs sourced from different origins. As induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) are thought to mimic embryonic stem cells in their pluripotent properties, few epigenetic differences should exist between them. 
Consumption of whole fruits increases the risk of type 2 diabetes. [SEP] In relation to type 2 diabetes, eating most food earlier in the day may be associated with lower levels of overweight and obesity and other factors that reduce the risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Diabetes
A 2022 umbrella review found that four additional 100g of red meat intake per day, was associated with a 17% increased risk of diabetes.A 2022 review of randomized control trials found that eating red meat does not increase risk factors for diabetes mellitus. Another review found that eating red meat does not worsen biomarkers of glycemic control or inflammation in adults at risk for cardiometabolic disease.However, 2017 prospective studies showed that daily consumption of 85 grams of red meat and 35 grams of processed red meat products by European and American consumers increased their risk of type 2 diabetes by 18–36%, while a diet of abstinence of red meat consuming whole grains, vegetables, fruits, and dairy was associated with an 81% reduced risk of diabetes. One study estimated that "substitutions of one serving of nuts, low-fat dairy, and whole grains per day for one serving of red meat per day were associated with a 16–35% lower risk of type 2 diabetes". Diabetes
Some reviews indicate that plant-based diets including fruits, vegetables, whole grains, legumes, and nuts are associated with a lower risk of diabetes.Therefor vegetarian and vegan diets are under clinical research to identify potential effects on type 2 diabetes, with preliminary results showing improvements in body weight and biomarkers of metabolic syndrome.When the focus was whole foods, an improvement of diabetes biomarkers occurred, including reduced obesity. In diabetic people, plant-based diets were also associated with improved emotional and physical well-being, relief of depression, higher quality of life, and better general health.The American College of Lifestyle Medicine stated that diet can achieve remission in many adults with type 2 diabetes when used as a primary intervention of whole, plant-based foods with minimal consumption of meat and other animal products. In general, people with type 1 diabetes are advised to follow an individualized eating plan.The proportion of carbohydrate in a diet is not linked to the risk of type 2 diabetes, although there is some evidence that diets containing certain high-carbohydrate items – such as sugar-sweetened drinks or white rice – are associated with an increased risk. Although fruits are a part of a complete nutritious diet, fruit intake should be limited due to high sugar content. 
Continued HHV-8 transmission among MSM in San Francisco may be explained by urogenital contact. [SEP] HHV-8-associated MCD is known to be caused by uncontrolled infection with the human herpesvirus 8 virus (HHV-8) and is most frequently diagnosed in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Patients with HHV-8-associated MCD have been observed to be at greater risk of developing lymphoma. Causes
HHV-8-associated MCD is known to be caused by infection with human herpesvirus-8. The HHV-8 virus is commonly found in healthy individuals showing no signs of disease, but it is also known to cause diseases such as Kaposi sarcoma and HHV-8-associated MCD. Diseases caused by HHV-8 are seen most frequently in the setting of immune dysfunction related to factors such as HIV infection or use of immunosuppressant medications; however, HHV-8-associated diseases, including HHV-8-associated MCD, have been reported in otherwise healthy individuals. HHV-8-associated MCD is caused by uncontrolled infection with human herpesvirus 8 (HHV-8, also known as Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus). The seroprevalence of HHV-8 varies significantly geographically and infection rates in northern European, southeast Asian, and Caribbean countries are between 2-4%, in Mediterranean countries at approximately 10%, and in sub-Saharan African countries at approximately 40%. Individuals infected with HIV-1 or genital warts are generally more likely to be co-infected with HHV-8.In countries with low seroprevalence, HHV-8 is primarily limited to AIDS and KS patients. 
Converting apoE4 to apoE3 by gene editing prevents the pathology associated with apoE4 in human iPSCderived neurons. [SEP] It is encoded in humans by the gene APOE. In the central nervous system, Apo-E is mainly produced by astrocytes and transports cholesterol to neurons via APOE receptors, which are members of the low density lipoprotein receptor gene family. Apo-E is required for cholesterol transportation from astrocytes to neurons. Using genotype APOE3,3 as a benchmark (with the persons who have this genotype regarded as having a risk level of 1.0) and for white populations only, individuals with genotype APOE4,4 have an odds ratio of 14.9 of developing Alzheimer's disease. It is encoded in humans by the gene APOE. In the central nervous system, Apo-E is mainly produced by astrocytes and transports cholesterol to neurons via APOE receptors, which are members of the low density lipoprotein receptor gene family. Apo-E is required for cholesterol transportation from astrocytes to neurons. Using genotype APOE3,3 as a benchmark (with the persons who have this genotype regarded as having a risk level of 1.0) and for white populations only, individuals with genotype APOE4,4 have an odds ratio of 14.9 of developing Alzheimer's disease. 
Converting apoE4 to apoE3 by gene editing worsens the pathology associated with apoE4 in human iPSCderived neurons. [SEP] It is encoded in humans by the gene APOE. In the central nervous system, Apo-E is mainly produced by astrocytes and transports cholesterol to neurons via APOE receptors, which are members of the low density lipoprotein receptor gene family. Apo-E is required for cholesterol transportation from astrocytes to neurons. Using genotype APOE3,3 as a benchmark (with the persons who have this genotype regarded as having a risk level of 1.0) and for white populations only, individuals with genotype APOE4,4 have an odds ratio of 14.9 of developing Alzheimer's disease. It is encoded in humans by the gene APOE. In the central nervous system, Apo-E is mainly produced by astrocytes and transports cholesterol to neurons via APOE receptors, which are members of the low density lipoprotein receptor gene family. Apo-E is required for cholesterol transportation from astrocytes to neurons. Using genotype APOE3,3 as a benchmark (with the persons who have this genotype regarded as having a risk level of 1.0) and for white populations only, individuals with genotype APOE4,4 have an odds ratio of 14.9 of developing Alzheimer's disease. 
Cost effectiveness evaluations based on cRCT data accurately reflect prices for patients in actual clinical practice. [SEP] Researchers have found that other bona fide therapeutic interventions were equally effective for treating certain conditions in adults. Although improvements in both  research quality and treatment adherence is required before advocating for the global dissemination of CCBT, it has been found in meta-studies to be cost-effective and often cheaper than usual care, including for anxiety and PTSD. A study assessing an online version of CBT for people with mild-to-moderate PTSD found that the online approach was as effective as, and cheaper than, the same therapy given face-to-face. Comorbidity and treatment
Therapy has been shown to have equal efficacy in patients with GAD and patients with GAD and comorbid disorders. However, high quality clinical data is needed to generalize to the whole chronic pain population. Morphine is the gold standard to which all narcotics are compared. Self-report, if possible, is the most accurate measure of pain. The severity of each patient's depression was assessed at the same baseline in each group. 
Cost effectiveness evaluations based on cRCT data lack external validity. [SEP] The authors of the 2000 findings questioned the belief that "observational studies should not be used for defining evidence-based medical care" and that RCTs' results are "evidence of the highest grade." Many randomized trials of psychological interventions like CBT do not monitor potential harms to the patient. Therapists complained that the data does not fully support the attention and funding CBT receives. Evaluations of effectiveness based on the interpretation of the therapist alone cannot be proven. A 2015 review found tentative but insufficient evidence to justify its use outside of clinical studies. Treatment approaches lacked empirical support in quality-of-life contexts, and many programs focused on success measures that lack predictive validity and real-world relevance. There is no scientific support for major elements of the underlying model, there is little scientific evidence to support the therapy, and research methods that could conclusively evaluate the therapy's effectiveness have not been applied. The review concluded that the quality of the available evidence was insufficient to make any recommendations. 
Crossover hot spots are found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. [SEP] Others genes have "weak" promoters that form weak associations with transcription factors and initiate transcription less frequently. Non-homologous chromosomal crossover. Recombination hotspots are regions in a genome that exhibit elevated rates of recombination relative to a neutral expectation. Alternatively, initiation sites of recombination hotspots can be coded for in the genome. These findings suggest that transcription-associated recombination may contribute significantly to recombination hotspot formation. In coronaviruses, the Spike genomic region is a recombination hotspot. A primer on recombination hotspots by Jody Hey in PLoS  Biology Exposure of yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae to DNA damaging agents results in overlapping but distinct transcriptional profiles. 
Cyclin A2 destruction is necessary to switch from unstable to stable kt-mt attachments in mitosis. [SEP] Phosphorylation of CDC6 and MCM4 by the cyclin A2-CDK2 complex prevents re-replication of DNA during the cell cycle.Cyclin A2 is involved in the G2/M transition but it cannot independently form a maturation promoting factor (MPF). Recent studies have shown that the cyclin A2-CDK1 complex triggers cyclin B1-CDK1 activation which results in chromatin condensation and the breakdown of the nuclear envelope. Regulation
The levels of cyclin A2 are tightly synchronized with the progression of the cell cycle. DNA Repair
Cyclin A2 regulates homologous recombinational DNA repair in human breast cancer cells  Loss of cyclin A2 causes high rates of double-strand breaks in DNA. Cyclin A2 mediates the abundance of MRE11 nuclease by binding to Mre11 mRNA. Cyclin A2 mediates the abundance of RAD51 protein by inhibiting proteasome degradation of this protein. Cyclin-CDK complexes of earlier cell-cycle phase help activate cyclin-CDK complexes in later phase. With cyclin, two alpha helices change position to permit ATP binding. 
Cytochrome c is transferred from cytosol to the mitochondrial intermembrane space during apoptosis. [SEP] Role in apoptosis
Cytochrome c was also discovered in 1996 by Xiaodong Wang to have an intermediate role in apoptosis, a controlled form of cell death used to kill cells in the process of development or in response to infection or DNA damage.Cytochrome c binds to cardiolipin in the inner mitochondrial membrane, thus anchoring its presence and keeping it from releasing out of the mitochondria and initiating apoptosis. Inhibition of apoptosis
One of the ways cell apoptosis is activated is by release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria into cytosol. As an antioxidative enzyme
In addition to its well-known roles in the electron transport chain and cell apoptosis, according to a recent study cytochrome c can also act as an antioxidative enzyme in the mitochondria; it does so by removing superoxide (O2–) and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) from mitochondria. Extramitochondrial localisation
Cytochrome c is widely believed to be localised solely in the mitochondrial intermembrane space under normal physiological conditions. The release of cytochrome c from mitochondria to the cytosol, where it activates the caspase family of proteases, is believed to be the primary trigger leading to the onset of apoptosis. Measuring the amount of cytochrome c leaking from mitochondria to cytosol, and out of the cell to culture medium, is a sensitive method to monitor the degree of apoptosis. During apoptosis, cyt c is released from the intermembrane spaces of mitochondria
into the cytosol. Cytochrome c is thought to play a role in apoptosis via the release of apoptotic factors from the mitochondria. 
Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for TFRC1. [SEP] Cellular iron regulation
Iron import
Most cell types take up iron primarily through receptor-mediated endocytosis via transferrin receptor 1 (TFR1), transferrin receptor 2 (TFR2) and GAPDH. Translational control of cellular iron
Although some control exists at the transcriptional level, the regulation of cellular iron levels is ultimately controlled at the translational level by iron-responsive element-binding proteins IRP1 and especially IRP2. When iron levels are low, these proteins are able to bind to iron-responsive elements (IREs). In contrast, TFR1 and some DMT1 variants contain 3' UTR IREs, which bind IRP2 under iron deficiency, stabilizing the mRNA, which guarantees the synthesis of iron importers. When iron is present, it interacts with the protein to cause it to release the mRNA. For example, In high iron conditions in humans, IRP1 binds with an iron-sulphur complex [4Fe-4S] and adopts an aconitase conformation unsuitable for IRE binding. However, when Iron interacts at the IRE, it causes the mRNA to change its shape, thus favoring the binding of the eIF4F. Genes with IREs
Genes known to contain IREs include FTH1, FTL, TFRC, ALAS2,  Sdhb, ACO2, Hao1, SLC11A2 (encoding DMT1), NDUFS1, SLC40A1 (encoding the ferroportin) CDC42BPA , CDC14A, EPAS1.In humans, 12 genes have been shown to be transcribed with the canonical IRE structure, but several mRNA structures, that are non-canonical, have been shown to interact with IRPs and be influenced by iron concentration. 
DMS3 protein enables Pol V transcription in vivo. [SEP] Many Pol II transcripts exist transiently as single strand precursor RNAs (pre-RNAs) that are further processed to generate mature RNAs. RNA polymerase III (Pol III) transcribes small non-coding RNAs, including tRNAs, 5S rRNA, U6 snRNA, SRP RNA, and other stable short RNAs such as ribonuclease P RNA. The additional subunits found in Pol I and Pol III relative to Pol II, are homologous to Pol II transcription factors.Crystal structures of RNA polymerases I and II provide an opportunity to understand the interactions among the subunits and the molecular mechanism of eukaryotic transcription in atomic detail. Eukaryotic promoters and general transcription factors
Pol II-transcribed genes contain a region in the immediate vicinity of the transcription start site (TSS) that binds and positions the preinitiation complex. SPT5 is a universal transcription factor that helps recruit 5'-capping enzyme to Pol II with a CTD phosphorylated at Ser-5. The poly-T termination signal pauses Pol III

Eukaryotic transcriptional control
The regulation of gene expression in eukaryotes is achieved through the interaction of several levels of control that acts both locally to turn on or off individual genes in response to a specific cellular need and globally to maintain a chromatin-wide gene expression pattern that shapes cell identity. RNA Pol II elongation promoters can be summarised in 3 classes. Associated with pre-initiation and allowing RNA Pol II binding. 
DRD1 proteins enable Pol V transcription in vivo. [SEP] Dopamine receptor D1, also known as DRD1. It is a protein that in humans is encoded by the DRD1 gene. Many Pol II transcripts exist transiently as single strand precursor RNAs (pre-RNAs) that are further processed to generate mature RNAs. The additional subunits found in Pol I and Pol III relative to Pol II, are homologous to Pol II transcription factors.Crystal structures of RNA polymerases I and II provide an opportunity to understand the interactions among the subunits and the molecular mechanism of eukaryotic transcription in atomic detail. The carboxyl terminal domain (CTD) of RPB1, the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II, plays an important role in bringing together the machinery necessary for the synthesis and processing of Pol II transcripts. SPT5 is a universal transcription factor that helps recruit 5'-capping enzyme to Pol II with a CTD phosphorylated at Ser-5. The poly-T termination signal pauses Pol III

Eukaryotic transcriptional control
The regulation of gene expression in eukaryotes is achieved through the interaction of several levels of control that acts both locally to turn on or off individual genes in response to a specific cellular need and globally to maintain a chromatin-wide gene expression pattern that shapes cell identity. Associated with pre-initiation and allowing RNA Pol II binding. 
DUSP4 decreases apoptosis. [SEP] For one thing, a gene called Dusp8 is linked with an increased risk for diabetes. Examples of poor prognosis genes include ITGAV, DUSP1 and P2RX7. DUSPs, which have a docking domain to MAPKs and dual-specific phosphatase activity, can also bind to p38 MAPKs and dephosphorylate of both phosphotyrosine and phosphothreonine residues. In addition, p38α MAPK induction promotes myocyte apoptosis. Clinical relevance
USP27X deubiquitinating action has been discovered to regulate the presence of multiple proteins related to various human cancers, as well as affecting cancerous cells' resistance to chemotherapeutic agents. One of the mechanisms that cancerous cells use to do so is USP27X. Although USP27X is not the only deubiquitinase that affects Snail1, it is one of the most effective and it has been proved to directly increase Snail1 presence by preventing its degradation. Accordingly, we can conclude that USP27X can act as a tumour suppressor by inhibiting ERK-signalling, causing the deubiquitination and consequent stabilization of Bim, allowing it to induce apoptosis in cancer cells that use ERK-signalling. 
DUSP4 downregulation deactivates the Ras-ERK pathway [SEP] Dual specificity protein phosphatase 4 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the DUSP4 gene. Interactions
DUSP22 has been shown to interact with MAPK1 and MAPK8. The phosphorylation of ERK results in an activation of its kinase activity and leads to phosphorylation  of its many downstream targets involved in regulation of cell proliferation. ERK1/2 activation downstream of mitogen induced Ras signaling is necessary and sufficient to remove this cell cycle block and allow cells to progress to S-phase in most mammalian cells. Disruption of the ERK pathway is common in cancers, especially Ras, c-Raf, and receptors such as HER2. Phosphorylation of ERKs leads to the activation of their kinase activity. It was found that Ras GTP-binding proteins are involved in the activation of ERKs. Clinical significance
Activation of the ERK1/2 pathway by aberrant RAS/RAF signalling, DNA damage, and oxidative stress leads to cellular senescence. 
DUSP4 increases apoptosis. [SEP] DUSP
Single or multiple tandem DUSP domains of approximately 120 residues are found in six USPs. The function of the DUSP domain is currently unknown but it may play a role in protein-protein interaction, in particular to DUBs substrate recognition. This is predicted because of the hydrophobic cleft present in the DUSP domain of USP15 and that some protein interactions with DUSP containing USPs do not occur without these domains. Within most DUSP domains in USPs there is a conserved sequence of amino acids known as the PGPI motif. Ubiquitin-specific-processing protease (USP) is a family of deubiquitinating enzymes that play a crucial role in cell cycle regulation. For one thing, a gene called Dusp8 is linked with an increased risk for diabetes. Accordingly, we can conclude that USP27X can act as a tumour suppressor by inhibiting ERK-signalling, causing the deubiquitination and consequent stabilization of Bim, allowing it to induce apoptosis in cancer cells that use ERK-signalling. Examples of poor prognosis genes include ITGAV, DUSP1 and P2RX7. 
De novo assembly of sequence data has fewer specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. [SEP] Unassembled genomes are not included, nor are organelle only sequences. This characteristic makes CRISPRs easily identifiable in long sequences of DNA, since the number of repeats decreases the likelihood of a false positive match.Analysis of CRISPRs in metagenomic data is more challenging, as CRISPR loci do not typically assemble, due to their repetitive nature or through strain variation, which confuses assembly algorithms. This is computationally more difficult, particularly with second generation sequencing technologies (e.g. CRISPR identification in raw reads has been achieved using purely de novo identification or by using direct repeat sequences in partially assembled CRISPR arrays from contigs (overlapping DNA segments that together represent a consensus region of DNA) and direct repeat sequences from published genomes as a hook for identifying direct repeats in individual reads. De novo may also refer to:

Science and computers
De novo mutation, a new germline mutation not inherited from either parent
De novo protein design, the creation of a protein sequence that is not based on existing, natural sequences
De novo protein structure prediction, the prediction of a protein's 3D structure, based only on its sequence
De novo synthesis of complex molecules from simple molecules in chemistry
De novo transcriptome assembly, the method of creating a transcriptome without a reference genome, using de novo sequence assembly
De novo gene birth, the emergence of genes from non-coding sequence
De novo assembly in genomics
De Novo classification, a pathway to classify new medical devices provided by the US Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
Denovo, a supercomputer project that simulates nuclear reactions; see Titan (supercomputer) § Projects

Other
De novo review, an appellate standard of review for legal issues
Trial de novo, or a new trial in the legal system
De novo bank, a state bank that has been in operation for five years or less
De Novo, a public housing estate in Kai Tak, Hong Kong
Denovo (band), a 1980s Italian new wave group In chemistry, de novo synthesis (from Latin 'from the new') refers to the synthesis of complex molecules from simple molecules such as sugars or amino acids, as opposed to recycling after partial degradation. For example, nucleotides are not needed in the diet as they can be constructed from small precursor molecules such as formate and aspartate. DNA
De novo DNA synthesis refers to the synthetic creation of DNA rather than assembly or modification of natural precursor template DNA sequences. 
De novo assembly of sequence data has shorter contigs than unassembled sequence data. [SEP] Unassembled genomes are not included, nor are organelle only sequences. This characteristic makes CRISPRs easily identifiable in long sequences of DNA, since the number of repeats decreases the likelihood of a false positive match.Analysis of CRISPRs in metagenomic data is more challenging, as CRISPR loci do not typically assemble, due to their repetitive nature or through strain variation, which confuses assembly algorithms. In general usage, de novo (literally 'of new') is a Latin expression used in English to mean 'from the beginning', 'anew'. De novo may also refer to:

Science and computers
De novo mutation, a new germline mutation not inherited from either parent
De novo protein design, the creation of a protein sequence that is not based on existing, natural sequences
De novo protein structure prediction, the prediction of a protein's 3D structure, based only on its sequence
De novo synthesis of complex molecules from simple molecules in chemistry
De novo transcriptome assembly, the method of creating a transcriptome without a reference genome, using de novo sequence assembly
De novo gene birth, the emergence of genes from non-coding sequence
De novo assembly in genomics
De Novo classification, a pathway to classify new medical devices provided by the US Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
Denovo, a supercomputer project that simulates nuclear reactions; see Titan (supercomputer) § Projects

Other
De novo review, an appellate standard of review for legal issues
Trial de novo, or a new trial in the legal system
De novo bank, a state bank that has been in operation for five years or less
De Novo, a public housing estate in Kai Tak, Hong Kong
Denovo (band), a 1980s Italian new wave group In chemistry, de novo synthesis (from Latin 'from the new') refers to the synthesis of complex molecules from simple molecules such as sugars or amino acids, as opposed to recycling after partial degradation. DNA
De novo DNA synthesis refers to the synthetic creation of DNA rather than assembly or modification of natural precursor template DNA sequences. Pyrosequencing has enabled rapid genome sequencing. The deoxynucleotides lack in the OH group both at the 2' and at the 3' position of the ribose molecule, therefore once they are inserted within a DNA molecule they prevent it from being further elongated. 
Decrease of p62 in prostate tumor stroma results in defective autophagy. [SEP] A number of studies have found increased frequency of PTEN loss in tumours which are more highly visible on diagnostic scans such as mpMRI, potentially reflecting increased proliferation and cell density in these tumours.During tumor development, mutations and deletions of PTEN occur that inactivate its enzymatic activity leading to increased cell proliferation and reduced cell death. Loss of PTEN allows the pathway to go into overdrive, leading to cancer. For example, transmembrane serine protease 2 (TMPRSS2), which is an F-protein-processing enzyme, is often overexpressed in prostate cancer cells. These proteins are translated from the polycistronic mRNA of P gene. Dysregulation of p53
The tumor-suppressor protein p53 accumulates when DNA is damaged due to a chain of biochemical factors. HPV E6 causes p53, which regulates the cell cycle, to become inactive. It is suggested that mitochondrial degradation proceeds through at least two redundant pathways besides that triggered by lipoxygenase-dependent formation of 13(S)-HpODE- and 13(S)-HODE-bound phospholipids viz., mitochondrial digestion by autophagy and mitochondrial exocytosis. Prostate cancer
15-LOX 1 is overexpressed in prostate cancerous compared to non-cancerous prostate tissue and the levels of its expression in cultured various human prostate cancer cell lines correlates positively with their rates of proliferation and increases the proliferation response of prostate cancer cells to epidermal growth factor and insulin-like growth factor 1); its levels in human prostate cancer tissues also correlates positively with the cancers' severity as judged by the cancers' Gleason score; and overexpressed 15-LOX 1 appears to not only increase prostate cancer cell proliferation, but also promotes its cell survival by stimulating production and of insulin-like growth factor 1 and possibly altering the Bcl-2 pathway of cellular apoptosis as well as increases prostate tumor vascularization and thereby metastasis by stimulating production of vascular endothelial growth factor. 
Decreased conversion of PGE 2 to PPARy ligand 15-ket-PGE 2 causes accumulation of PGE. [SEP] pp. pp. PGE  may refer to:

Pacific Gas and Electric Company, commonly abbreviated PG&E
Pacific Gas & Electric (band), an American blues rock band
Pacific Great Eastern Railway, the original name of BC Rail
Parser Grammar Engine, Perl 6 rule compiler/interpreter for the Parrot virtual machine
Platinum group element
Polska Grupa Energetyczna
Portland General Electric
PGE Park
Propylene glycol ether
Prostaglandin E
Provisional Government of Eritrea PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. (PGE SA or PGE Group, the name can be translated as Polish Energy Group) is a state-owned public power company and the largest power producing company in Poland. In 2022 and 2023 it was reported that PGE was buying PKP Energetyka from CVC Capital Partners, CVC signed a preliminary agreement for the sale of PKP Energetyka in January 2023. On April 3, 2023 PGE Polish Energy Group acquired from the CVC Fund 100% of shares in PKPE Holding sp. thus closing the purchase transaction of PKP Energetyka S.A. April 4, 2023 change of the company's name from PKP Energetyka to PGE Energetyka Kolejowa. The depletion of PPARG will result in embryonic lethality at E10.5, due to the vascular anomalies in placenta, with no permeation of fetal blood vessels and dilation and rupture of maternal blood sinuses. 
Decreased diastolic blood pressure (DBP) is associated with abdominal aortic aneurysm. [SEP] If blood pressure is lowered aggressively, patients are at increased risk of complications including stroke, blindness, or kidney failure. It is again important that the blood pressure is lowered slowly. Excessive reduction in blood pressure can precipitate coronary, cerebral, or kidney ischemia and, possibly, infarction.A hypertensive emergency is not based solely on an absolute level of blood pressure, but also on a patient's baseline blood pressure before the hypertensive crisis occurs. In some cases, it appears that a decrease in excessive diastolic pressure can actually increase risk, probably due to the increased difference between systolic and diastolic pressures. In a study of people with heart valve regurgitation that compared measurements two weeks apart for each person, there was an increased severity of aortic and mitral regurgitation when diastolic blood pressure increased, whereas when diastolic blood pressure decreased, there was a decreased severity. This is a medical concern if it causes signs or symptoms, such as dizziness, fainting, or in extreme cases, circulatory shock.Causes of low arterial pressure include:
Sepsis
Hemorrhage – blood loss
Cardiogenic shock
Neurally mediated hypotension (or reflex syncope)
Toxins including toxic doses of blood pressure medicine
Hormonal abnormalities, such as Addison's disease
Eating disorders, particularly anorexia nervosa and bulimia

Orthostatic hypotension
A large fall in blood pressure upon standing (persistent systolic/diastolic blood pressure decrease of >20/10 mm Hg) is termed orthostatic hypotension (postural hypotension) and represents a failure of the body to compensate for the effect of gravity on the circulation. Vasodilators (such as nitroglycerin) increase the caliber of blood vessels, thereby decreasing arterial pressure. Diastolic pressure is minimum pressure in the arteries, which occurs near the beginning of the cardiac cycle when the ventricles are filled with blood. 
Deleting Raptor increases G-CSF levels. [SEP] Raptor or RAPTOR may refer to:

Animals
The word "raptor" refers to several groups of bird-like dinosaurs which primarily capture and subdue/kill prey with their talons. Raptor (bird) or bird of prey, a bird that primarily hunts and feeds on vertebrates
Raptor- or -raptor, a taxonomic affix used in to describe dromeosaurs or similar animals
Dromaeosauridae, a family of dinosaurs including Velociraptor, informally known as raptors

Arts and entertainment
Film and television
Raptor (film), a 2001 film
Raptor, a fictional spacecraft in Battlestar Galactica

Gaming
Raptor: Call of the Shadows, a 1994 video game
Raptor heavy fighter, a fictional craft in the Wing Commander game
Lord Raptor, a Darkstalkers character

In print
Raptor (novel), a 1993 novel by Gary Jennings
Raptor (Gary Wilton, Jr.), a Marvel Comics character
Raptor (Damon Ryder), a Marvel Comics character
Raptor (Brenda Drago), a Marvel Comics character

Roller coasters
Raptor (Fantasilandia), a roller coaster in Santiago, Chile
Raptor (Gardaland), a roller coaster in Lake Garda, Italy
Raptor (Cedar Point), a roller coaster in Sandusky, Ohio, U.S.

Other arts and entertainment
Raptor (Thai duo), a music group
Rex Raptor, a Yu-Gi-Oh! RAPTOR (Reconnaissance Airborne Pod Tornado) was a reconnaissance pod used by the Royal Air Force on its fleet of Tornado GR.4A and GR.4 aircraft. RAPTOR was manufactured by the Goodrich Corporation, initially part of UTC Aerospace Systems, but now part of Collins Aerospace. G-CSF also stimulates the survival, proliferation, differentiation, and function of neutrophil precursors and mature neutrophils. G-CSF can restore neutrophil count. Following a return to baseline after stopping the drug, it may sometimes be safely rechallenged with the added use of G-CSF. G-CSF-R is a cell-surface receptor for the granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF). 
Deletion of ATM and Rad3 related protein is not predictive of acute tissue loss. [SEP] This suppresses the production of the WRN protein and its functions in DNA repair. This shortened protein may also be broken down too quickly, leading to a loss of Werner protein in the cell. Without normal Werner protein in the nucleus, cells cannot perform the tasks of DNA replication, repair, and transcription. WRN stimulates NEIL1 in excision of oxidative lesions. This interaction is mediated by the binding of the RAD1 subunit to the N-terminal region of WRN and is instrumental for WRN relocalization to nuclear foci and its phosphorylation in response to replication arrest. In addition, this protein interacts with BRCA1 and is phosphorylated by ATM, indicating a potential role for this protein in DNA repair. A disruption involves breakdown of normal tissues. Advanced paternal age has also been linked to increased risk of achondroplasia and Apert syndrome. 
Deletion of ATM and Rad3 related protein leads to acute tissue loss. [SEP] This shortened protein may also be broken down too quickly, leading to a loss of Werner protein in the cell. Without normal Werner protein in the nucleus, cells cannot perform the tasks of DNA replication, repair, and transcription. WRN stimulates NEIL1 in excision of oxidative lesions. This interaction is mediated by the binding of the RAD1 subunit to the N-terminal region of WRN and is instrumental for WRN relocalization to nuclear foci and its phosphorylation in response to replication arrest. In addition, this protein interacts with BRCA1 and is phosphorylated by ATM, indicating a potential role for this protein in DNA repair. A disruption involves breakdown of normal tissues. Chromosomal disorders involve the loss or duplication of larger portions of a chromosome (or an entire chromosome) containing hundreds of genes. Advanced paternal age has also been linked to increased risk of achondroplasia and Apert syndrome. 
Deltex has no known interactions with eIF3f. [SEP] Although researchers do not know how a reduction in the amount of p300 protein leads to the specific features of Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome, it is clear that the loss of one copy of the EP300 gene disrupts normal development. In cancer cells, EP300 mutations prevent the gene from producing any functional protein. Interactions
EP300 has been shown to interact with:

References
Further reading
External links
GeneReviews/NCBI/NIH/UW entry on Rubinstein-Taybi Syndrome
GeneCard
EP300+protein,+human at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)
NURSA C54
FactorBook P300This article incorporates text from the United States National Library of Medicine, which is in the public domain. Protein deltex-1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the DTX1 gene. Interactions
DTX1 has been shown to interact with EP300. Protein deltex-2 also known as E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase DTX2 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the DTX2 gene.DTX2 functions as a ubiquitin E3 ligase in conjunction with the E2 enzyme UBCH5A. References
Further reading
External links
DTX2+protein,+human at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)This article incorporates text from the United States National Library of Medicine, which is in the public domain. Interactions
UBE2D3 has been shown to interact with NEDD4. 
Deltex interacts with eIF3. There is no known interaction between Deltex and elF3 [SEP] This gene encodes the adenovirus E1A-associated cellular p300 transcriptional co-activator protein. EP300 is closely related to another gene, CREB binding protein, which is found on human chromosome 16. p300 HAT contains a bromodomain which is involved in IL6 signaling. The p300 interaction with transcription factors is managed by one or more of p300 domains: the nuclear receptor interaction domain (RID), the KIX domain (CREB and MYB interaction domain), the cysteine/histidine regions (TAZ1/CH1 and TAZ2/CH3) and the interferon response binding domain (IBiD). Clinical significance
Mutations in the EP300 gene are responsible for a small percentage of cases of Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome. Interactions
EP300 has been shown to interact with:

References
Further reading
External links
GeneReviews/NCBI/NIH/UW entry on Rubinstein-Taybi Syndrome
GeneCard
EP300+protein,+human at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)
NURSA C54
FactorBook P300This article incorporates text from the United States National Library of Medicine, which is in the public domain. Ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2 D3 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the UBE2D3 gene. Interactions
UBE2D3 has been shown to interact with NEDD4. 
Depletion of T-helper 17 (Th17) cells during simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection decreases dissemination of Salmonella Typhimurium from the gut. [SEP] T helper 17 cells (Th17) are a subset of pro-inflammatory T helper cells defined by their production of interleukin 17 (IL-17). Th17 cells play an important role in maintaining mucosal barriers and contributing to pathogen clearance at mucosal surfaces; such protective and non-pathogenic Th17 cells have been termed as Treg17 cells.They have also been implicated in autoimmune and inflammatory disorders. Function
Th17 cells play a role in adaptive immunity protecting the body against pathogens. Th17 cells have also been shown to be necessary for maintenance of mucosal immunity. Contribution of Th17 cells in HIV pathogenesis
The depletion of Th17 cell populations in the intestine disrupts the intestinal barrier, increases levels of movement of bacteria out of the gut through microbial translocation, and contributes to chronic HIV infection and progression to AIDS. Increasing Th17 cell populations in the intestine has been shown to be both an effective treatment as well as possibly preventative.Although all CD4+ T cells gut are severely depleted by HIV, the loss of intestinal Th17 cells in particular has been linked to symptoms of chronic, pathogenic HIV and SIV infection. Th17 cells prevent severe HIV infection by maintaining the intestinal epithelial barrier during HIV infection in the gut. Th17 helper cells
Th17 helper cells are a subset of T helper cells developmentally distinct from Th1 and Th2 lineages producing interleukin 17 (IL-17). 
Depletion of T-helper 17 (Th17) cells during simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection increases dissemination of Salmonella Typhimurium from the gut. [SEP] T helper 17 cells (Th17) are a subset of pro-inflammatory T helper cells defined by their production of interleukin 17 (IL-17). Th17 cells play an important role in maintaining mucosal barriers and contributing to pathogen clearance at mucosal surfaces; such protective and non-pathogenic Th17 cells have been termed as Treg17 cells.They have also been implicated in autoimmune and inflammatory disorders. The loss of Th17 cell populations at mucosal surfaces has been linked to chronic inflammation and microbial translocation. Function
Th17 cells play a role in adaptive immunity protecting the body against pathogens. Contribution of Th17 cells in HIV pathogenesis
The depletion of Th17 cell populations in the intestine disrupts the intestinal barrier, increases levels of movement of bacteria out of the gut through microbial translocation, and contributes to chronic HIV infection and progression to AIDS. Increasing Th17 cell populations in the intestine has been shown to be both an effective treatment as well as possibly preventative.Although all CD4+ T cells gut are severely depleted by HIV, the loss of intestinal Th17 cells in particular has been linked to symptoms of chronic, pathogenic HIV and SIV infection. Th17 cells prevent severe HIV infection by maintaining the intestinal epithelial barrier during HIV infection in the gut. Th17 helper cells
Th17 helper cells are a subset of T helper cells developmentally distinct from Th1 and Th2 lineages producing interleukin 17 (IL-17). 
Depletion of nitric oxide is responsible for vasospasm. [SEP] Vasospasm refers to a condition in which an arterial spasm leads to vasoconstriction. Symptomatic vasospasm or delayed cerebral ischemia is a major contributor to post-operative stroke and death especially after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Along with physical resistance, vasospasm is a main cause of ischemia. Once nitric oxide is converted to nitrates and nitrites by oxygen and water, cell signaling is deactivated.The endothelium (inner lining) of blood vessels uses nitric oxide to signal the surrounding smooth muscle to relax, resulting in vasodilation and increasing blood flow. Vasospasm refers to a condition in which an arterial spasm leads to vasoconstriction. Symptomatic vasospasm or delayed cerebral ischemia is a major contributor to post-operative stroke and death especially after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Along with physical resistance, vasospasm is a main cause of ischemia. Vasospasm is one of the leading causes of death after the aneurysmal rupture along with the effect of the initial haemorrhage and later bleeding. 
Deregulation of HAND2 is a crucial step in endometrial carcinogenesis in mice. [SEP] In avian species, Hand2 has been shown to be expressed in developing gut tissue and is believed to contribute to the formation of enteric neurons.Hand2 also plays a critical role in the establishment of a proper implantation environment for pregnancy in mice. The induction of Hand2 by progesterone-dependent mechanisms in uterine stromal tissue suppresses fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) that would otherwise stimulate estrogen producing pathways and impair embryo implantation.Hand2 plays a role in lower jaw formation and tongue morphogenesis in mice by suppressing the homeobox genes Dlx5 and Dlx6. In this instance, trisomy of the hand2 gene can directly cause human congenital heart disease.Hand2 gene hypermethylation and epigenetic silencing has also been implicated to increase the development of endometrial cancer. Hand2, in addition to its other functions in the developing heart and limbs, has been found to be an important transcription factor seen in the endometrial stroma. In fact, in mice with the Hand2 gene knocked out, they developed premalignant lesions as they grew older, further providing evidence of its role in endometrial cancer development. These findings have led to Hand2 becoming a potentially promising biomarker for early detection of endometrial cancer and may be used to predict its treatment. Regulation of Hand2
HAND2 is an important transcription factor in development of the endothelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT) which allows for the development of the cardiac cushion in the atrioventricular canal which forms the mitral and tricuspid valves. Endometrial protection
Estrogens stimulate endometrial proliferation and carcinogenesis. 
Destination container port throughput(CPT) is negatively related to dengue virus (DENV-1) diffusion in air traffic shipments. [SEP] Dengue virus (DENV) is the cause of dengue fever. Mechanism of infection
Dengue virus' (DENV) E envelope protein binds to a cellular receptor. Dengue fever is a mosquito-borne tropical disease caused by the dengue virus. Cause
Virology
Dengue fever virus (DENV) is an RNA virus of the family Flaviviridae; genus Flavivirus. Dengue virus (DENV) is the cause of dengue fever. Mechanism of infection
Dengue virus' (DENV) E envelope protein binds to a cellular receptor. Dengue fever is a mosquito-borne tropical disease caused by the dengue virus. Cause
Virology
Dengue fever virus (DENV) is an RNA virus of the family Flaviviridae; genus Flavivirus. 
Destination container port throughput(CPT) is positively related to dengue virus (DENV-1) diffusion in air traffic shipments. [SEP] Dengue virus (DENV) is the cause of dengue fever. Mechanism of infection
Dengue virus' (DENV) E envelope protein binds to a cellular receptor. Cause
Virology
Dengue fever virus (DENV) is an RNA virus of the family Flaviviridae; genus Flavivirus. Transmission
Dengue virus is primarily transmitted by Aedes mosquitos, particularly A. aegypti. Dengue virus (DENV) is the cause of dengue fever. Mechanism of infection
Dengue virus' (DENV) E envelope protein binds to a cellular receptor. The dengue pandemic in Sri Lanka is part of the tropical disease dengue fever pandemic. In the early 1970s two type of dengue dominated in Sri Lanka: DENV-1 type1 and DENV-2 type 2. 
Dexamethasone increases risk of postoperative bleeding. [SEP] Postoperative complications can include increased intracranial pressure, brain edema, new or recurrent bleeding, infection, and seizures. Dexamethasone, when used together with surgical drainage, may reduce the recurrence rate of subdural haematoma. Also in veterinary surgery, bleeding was a common complication. Medications
A single dose of the corticosteroid drug dexamethasone may be given during surgery to prevent post-operative vomiting. A dose of dexamethasone during surgery prevents vomiting in one out of every five children. A dose of dexamethasone may help children return to a normal diet more quickly and have less post-operative pain. There is a theoretical concern that NonSteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of bleeding but evidence does not support such a risk. The addition of dexamethasone to a nerve block or if given intravenously for surgery can prolong the duration of an upper limb nerve block leading to reduction in postoperative opioid consumption. 
Diabetes remission occurs less in people treated with conventional therapy than in people treated with laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding surgery. [SEP] "Sleeve gastrectomy had the lowest complication and reoperation rates of the three (main weight-loss surgery) procedures.....The percentage of procedures requiring reoperations due to complications was 15.3 percent for the gastric band, 7.7 percent for gastric bypass and 1.5 percent for sleeve gastrectomy," according to a 2012 study by the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery. Both of the effects were fewer than those reported with adjustable gastric banding.As the rate of complications appears to be reduced when the procedure is performed by an experienced surgeon, guidelines recommend that surgery be performed in dedicated or experienced units. Short-term complications from laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding are reported to be lower than laparoscopic Roux-en-Y surgery, and complications from laparoscopic Roux-en-Y surgery are lower than conventional (open) Roux-en-Y surgery.Risks of Roux-en-Y gastric bypass include anastomotic stenosis (narrowing of the intestine where the two segments are rejoined), marginal ulcers (ulcers near the rejoined segment), internal hernia, small bowel obstruction, kidney stones, and gall stones. Compared to the Sleeve Gastrectomy and Rou-en-Y Gastric Bypass, BPD/DS produces the best results in terms of durable weight loss and resolution of Type 2 Diabetes. Surgery
Weight loss surgery in those with obesity and type 2 diabetes is often an effective measure. Bariatric surgery often improves diabetes in those who are obese.Rates of type 2 diabetes have increased markedly since 1960 in parallel with obesity. It did, however, show reduction of risk of developing type 2 diabetes when compared to a placebo or to no treatment. Surgery
Weight loss surgery in those who are obese is an effective measure to treat diabetes. 
Diabetes remission occurs more in people treated with conventional therapy than in people treated with laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding surgery. [SEP] A meta-analysis in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes, respectively. "Sleeve gastrectomy had the lowest complication and reoperation rates of the three (main weight-loss surgery) procedures.....The percentage of procedures requiring reoperations due to complications was 15.3 percent for the gastric band, 7.7 percent for gastric bypass and 1.5 percent for sleeve gastrectomy," according to a 2012 study by the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery. Both of the effects were fewer than those reported with adjustable gastric banding.As the rate of complications appears to be reduced when the procedure is performed by an experienced surgeon, guidelines recommend that surgery be performed in dedicated or experienced units. Short-term complications from laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding are reported to be lower than laparoscopic Roux-en-Y surgery, and complications from laparoscopic Roux-en-Y surgery are lower than conventional (open) Roux-en-Y surgery.Risks of Roux-en-Y gastric bypass include anastomotic stenosis (narrowing of the intestine where the two segments are rejoined), marginal ulcers (ulcers near the rejoined segment), internal hernia, small bowel obstruction, kidney stones, and gall stones. Compared to the Sleeve Gastrectomy and Rou-en-Y Gastric Bypass, BPD/DS produces the best results in terms of durable weight loss and resolution of Type 2 Diabetes. Surgery
Weight loss surgery in those with obesity and type 2 diabetes is often an effective measure. Bariatric surgery often improves diabetes in those who are obese.Rates of type 2 diabetes have increased markedly since 1960 in parallel with obesity. Surgery
Weight loss surgery in those who are obese is an effective measure to treat diabetes. 
Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience decreased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. [SEP] people with or without diabetes), there does not appear to be a benefit strong enough to outweigh the risk of excessive bleeding. Nevertheless, many clinical practice guidelines continue to recommend aspirin for primary prevention, and some researchers feel that those with very high cardiovascular risk but low risk of bleeding should continue to receive aspirin. A meta-analysis in 2009 including 27,049 participants and 2,370 major vascular events showed a 15% relative risk reduction in cardiovascular disease with more-intensive glucose lowering over an average follow-up period of 4.4 years, but an increased risk of major hypoglycemia.Aspirin has been found to be of only modest benefit in those at low risk of heart disease, as the risk of serious bleeding is almost equal to the protection against cardiovascular problems. Lower doses of aspirin have also been shown to reduce the risk of death from a heart attack, or the risk of stroke in people who are at high risk or who have cardiovascular disease, but not in elderly people who are otherwise healthy. In those with prior ischaemic stroke or acute myocardial infarction, daily low dose aspirin was associated with a 19% relative risk reduction of serious cardiovascular events (non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke, or vascular death). The ASCEND study demonstrated that in high-bleeding risk diabetics with no prior cardiovascular disease, there is no overall clinical benefit (12% decrease in risk of ischaemic events v/s 29% increase in GI bleeding) of low dose aspirin in preventing the serious vascular events over a period of 7.4 years. Determining the net benefit was based on balancing the risk reduction of taking aspirin for heart attacks and ischaemic strokes, with the increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding, intracranial bleeding, and hemorrhagic strokes. Aspirin may reduce cardiovascular risk in those without established cardiovascular disease in people with moderate CKD, without significantly increasing the risk of bleeding. 
Differentiated E2f-1, -2, -3 TKO cells in the intestine do not exhibit apoptosis. [SEP] Specifically, E2F5 is only expressed in terminally differentiated cells in mice. When cells are not proliferating, E2F DNA binding sites contribute to transcriptional repression. Knockout mice, deplete of E2F7 and E2F8, result in abnormal trophoblastic proliferation accompanied by advanced cellular apoptosis. However, signalling through TNFR1 might also induce apoptosis in a caspase-independent manner. APAF-1 cells are protected from apoptosis stimuli such as irradiation. These include absence of apoptotic markers (caspase activation, cytochrome c release, and oligonucleosomal DNA fragmentation) and differential kinetics of cell death markers (phosphatidylserine exposure and cell membrane permeabilization). However, apoptosis induced by CDV in HeLa cells does not involve the initiator protein caspase-8. Using these inhibitors it was discovered that cells can die while displaying a morphology similar to apoptosis without caspase activation. 
Differentiation of progenitor cells to myeloid cells is skewed upon activation of insulin signaling. [SEP] A progenitor cell is a biological cell that can differentiate into a specific cell type. Progenitor cells can only differentiate into their "target" cell type. Current research on progenitor cells focuses on two different applications: regenerative medicine and cancer biology. Pancreatic progenitor cells are among the most studied progenitors. In hematopoiesis, myeloid or myelogenous cells are blood cells that arise from a progenitor cell for granulocytes, monocytes, erythrocytes, or platelets (the common myeloid progenitor, that is, CMP or CFU-GEMM), or in a narrower sense also often used, specifically from the lineage of the myeloblast (the myelocytes, monocytes, and their daughter types). Thus, although all blood cells, even lymphocytes, are normally born in the bone marrow in adults, myeloid cells in the narrowest sense of the term can be distinguished from lymphoid cells, that is, lymphocytes, which come from common lymphoid progenitor cells that give rise to B cells and T cells. Similarly, myelogenous usually refers to nonlymphocytic white blood cells, and erythroid can often be used to distinguish "erythrocyte-related" from that sense of myeloid and from lymphoid.The word myelopoiesis has several senses in a way that parallels those of myeloid, and myelopoiesis in the narrower sense is the regulated formation specifically of myeloid leukocytes (myelocytes), allowing that sense of myelopoiesis to be contradistinguished from erythropoiesis and lymphopoiesis (even though all blood cells are normally produced in the marrow in adults). Development
Promyelocyte --> Myelocytes --> metamyelocytes. 
Differentiation of progenitor cells to myeloid cells is skewed when insulin signaling is suppressed. [SEP] A progenitor cell is a biological cell that can differentiate into a specific cell type. Progenitor cells can only differentiate into their "target" cell type. The most important difference between stem cells and progenitor cells is that stem cells can replicate indefinitely, whereas progenitor cells can divide only a limited number of times. Pancreatic progenitor cells are among the most studied progenitors. In hematopoiesis, myeloid or myelogenous cells are blood cells that arise from a progenitor cell for granulocytes, monocytes, erythrocytes, or platelets (the common myeloid progenitor, that is, CMP or CFU-GEMM), or in a narrower sense also often used, specifically from the lineage of the myeloblast (the myelocytes, monocytes, and their daughter types). Thus, although all blood cells, even lymphocytes, are normally born in the bone marrow in adults, myeloid cells in the narrowest sense of the term can be distinguished from lymphoid cells, that is, lymphocytes, which come from common lymphoid progenitor cells that give rise to B cells and T cells. Similarly, myelogenous usually refers to nonlymphocytic white blood cells, and erythroid can often be used to distinguish "erythrocyte-related" from that sense of myeloid and from lymphoid.The word myelopoiesis has several senses in a way that parallels those of myeloid, and myelopoiesis in the narrower sense is the regulated formation specifically of myeloid leukocytes (myelocytes), allowing that sense of myelopoiesis to be contradistinguished from erythropoiesis and lymphopoiesis (even though all blood cells are normally produced in the marrow in adults). Development
Promyelocyte --> Myelocytes --> metamyelocytes. 
Diminished ovarian reserve is a reliable indicator of infertility in a non-infertile population. [SEP] This decline is tied to a reduction in the number of ovarian follicles. As ovarian reserve and fertility decline with age, there is also a parallel increase in pregnancy failure and meiotic errors, resulting in chromosomally abnormal conceptions.Women with a germ-line BRCA1 mutation appear to have a diminished oocyte reserve and decreased fertility compared to normally aging women. During breastfeeding, a period of lactational infertility also reduces female fecundity. A lack of fecundity in adults can be described as infecundity or infertility. Ovarian aging
Ovarian aging is characterized by the gradual decline of the ovarian follicles number and decreasing quality of oocytes. The biology of menopause is associated with the depletion of the ovarian follicular pool. The quality of ovarian follicles declines with age due to the increase meiotic non-disjunction. This phenomenon is known as the premature ovarian failure (POF) and it is used as the model for the study of the genetics of ovarian aging. 
Distant CREs are important for transcriptional regulation. [SEP] Cis-regulatory elements (CREs) or Cis-regulatory modules (CRMs) are regions of non-coding DNA which regulate the transcription of neighboring genes. CREs are vital components of genetic regulatory networks, which in turn control morphogenesis, the development of anatomy, and other aspects of embryonic development, studied in evolutionary developmental biology. CREs are found in the vicinity of the genes that they regulate. CREs typically regulate gene transcription by binding to transcription factors. A single transcription factor may bind to many CREs, and hence control the expression of many genes (pleiotropy). CRMs are stretches of DNA, usually 100–1000 DNA base pairs in length, where a number of transcription factors can bind and regulate expression of nearby genes and regulate their transcription rates. CREs contrast with trans-regulatory elements (TREs). CREs function to control transcription by acting nearby or within a gene. 
Distant CREs are less conserved among species. [SEP] Dolphins have values higher than those of primates other than humans, but nearly all other mammals have EQ values that are substantially lower. Large scale changes to the structure of chromosomes called chromosomal rearrangement that can lead to a decrease of fitness but also to speciation in isolated, inbred populations. Gene deletions involve removal of whole genes, so that point mutations almost always have a much smaller effect. An increase in this population size has been correlated with a decreased rate of genetic diversity. Though they occur naturally in many eukaryotic species, they are not stably inherited and thus vary widely in copy number even between closely related individuals. Nevertheless, certain codons tend to be overrepresented (and others underrepresented) in different species. The sequences used in the comparison are chosen carefully from genes that are both widely conserved and that show greater variation between species than within species, e.g. Because the physical distance between them is relatively small, the chance that any two nearby parts of a DNA sequence (often loci or genetic markers) will be separated on to different chromatids during chromosomal crossover is statistically very low; such loci are then said to be more linked than loci that are farther apart. 
Drosophila supracellular actomyosin structures are found at boundaries in wing imaginal discs. [SEP] Drosophila brain structure and function develop and age significantly from larval to adult stage. "Assembly, Alignment and Annotation of 12 Drosophila species". "The Drosophila Virtual library". is library of Drosophila on the web
"Annual Drosophila Research Conference". During larval development, tissues known as imaginal discs grow inside the larva. These structures may be composed of myosin and actin, which are part of the cell's cytoskeleton. In molecular biology, an actomyosin contractile ring is a prominent structure during cytokinesis. It is composed of actin and myosin II bundles, thus the term actomyosin. 
Dscam1 acts as a hypervariable pattern-recognition receptor for the immune system. [SEP] Gene
The DSCAM gene has been identified in the DS critical region. Dscam is predicted to be a transmembrane protein and a member of the immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily of cell adhesion molecules. Functions
Like many neuronal receptors, Dscam proteins have multiple functions, with repulsive and attractive roles that are dependent on the type of ligand that they interact with. The role of Dscam in the fly immune response was demonstrated by an RNAi mediated depletion experiment of DSCAM in which it was found to be associated with the cells that play a role in the fly's immune system.Dscam is found to have a role in phagocytosis in insects. Dscam is predicted to be a transmembrane protein and a member of the immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily of cell adhesion molecules. Functions
Like many neuronal receptors, Dscam proteins have multiple functions, with repulsive and attractive roles that are dependent on the type of ligand that they interact with. The role of Dscam in the fly immune response was demonstrated by an RNAi mediated depletion experiment of DSCAM in which it was found to be associated with the cells that play a role in the fly's immune system.Dscam is found to have a role in phagocytosis in insects. Thus, Dscam1 proteins are required for self-avoidance and provide the molecular code by which neurites discriminate between self-dendrites and those of neighboring cells (Figure 7). 
During non-homologous end joining, the ligation step is not as tolerant of disrepairs and other distortions when joining 3' of strand breaks as compared to 5' strand breaks. [SEP] Non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) is a pathway that repairs double-strand breaks in DNA. NHEJ is referred to as "non-homologous" because the break ends are directly ligated without the need for a homologous template, in contrast to homology directed repair(HDR), which requires a homologous sequence to guide repair. The term "non-homologous end joining" was coined in 1996 by Moore and Haber.NHEJ is typically guided by short homologous DNA sequences called microhomologies. When the NHEJ pathway is inactivated, double-strand breaks can be repaired by a more error-prone pathway called microhomology-mediated end joining (MMEJ). In bacteria and archaea
Many species of bacteria, including Escherichia coli, lack an end joining pathway and thus rely completely on homologous recombination to repair double-strand breaks. These results showed that the repair mechanism of HLS is independent of NHEJ and HR pathways

Regulation
The choice between NHEJ and homologous recombination for repair of a double-strand break is regulated at the initial step in recombination, 5' end resection. In this step, the 5' strand of the break is degraded by nucleases to create long 3' single-stranded tails. Ligation may refer to:

Ligation (molecular biology), the covalent linking of two ends of DNA or RNA molecules
Chemical ligation, the chemoselective condensation of unprotected peptides
In medicine, the making of a ligature (tie)
Tubal ligation, a method of female sterilization
Rubber band ligation, a treatment for hemorrhoids
In coordination chemistry, making a bond between a ligand and a Lewis acid
In orthodontics, a method of attaching the archwires to the brackets
KAHA Ligation
Ligation-independent cloning
Typographic ligature forming 
During non-homologous end joining, the ligation step is not as tolerant of disrepairs and other distortions when joining 5' of strand breaks as compared to 3' strand breaks. [SEP] Non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) is a pathway that repairs double-strand breaks in DNA. NHEJ is referred to as "non-homologous" because the break ends are directly ligated without the need for a homologous template, in contrast to homology directed repair(HDR), which requires a homologous sequence to guide repair. The term "non-homologous end joining" was coined in 1996 by Moore and Haber.NHEJ is typically guided by short homologous DNA sequences called microhomologies. When the NHEJ pathway is inactivated, double-strand breaks can be repaired by a more error-prone pathway called microhomology-mediated end joining (MMEJ). In bacteria and archaea
Many species of bacteria, including Escherichia coli, lack an end joining pathway and thus rely completely on homologous recombination to repair double-strand breaks. These results showed that the repair mechanism of HLS is independent of NHEJ and HR pathways

Regulation
The choice between NHEJ and homologous recombination for repair of a double-strand break is regulated at the initial step in recombination, 5' end resection. In this step, the 5' strand of the break is degraded by nucleases to create long 3' single-stranded tails. Ligation may refer to:

Ligation (molecular biology), the covalent linking of two ends of DNA or RNA molecules
Chemical ligation, the chemoselective condensation of unprotected peptides
In medicine, the making of a ligature (tie)
Tubal ligation, a method of female sterilization
Rubber band ligation, a treatment for hemorrhoids
In coordination chemistry, making a bond between a ligand and a Lewis acid
In orthodontics, a method of attaching the archwires to the brackets
KAHA Ligation
Ligation-independent cloning
Typographic ligature forming 
During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer follicular areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. [SEP] B cell activation follows engagement of the cell-bound antibody molecule with an antigen, causing the cell to divide and differentiate into an antibody-producing cell called a plasma cell. In this activated form, the B cell starts to produce antibody in a secreted form rather than a membrane-bound form. Activated B cells differentiate into either antibody-producing cells called plasma cells that secrete soluble antibody or memory cells that survive in the body for years afterward in order to allow the immune system to remember an antigen and respond faster upon future exposures.At the prenatal and neonatal stages of life, the presence of antibodies is provided by passive immunization from the mother. Somatic hypermutation and affinity maturation
Following activation with antigen, B cells begin to proliferate rapidly. Antibody production
In humoral immune response, the B cells first mature in the bone marrow and gain B-cell receptors (BCR's) which are displayed in large numbers on the cell surface.These membrane-bound protein complexes have antibodies which are specific for antigen detection. The mature B cells then migrate from the bone marrow to the lymph nodes or other lymphatic organs, where they begin to encounter pathogens. B cell activation
When a B cell encounters an antigen a signal is activated, the antigen binds to the receptor and is taken inside the B cell by endocytosis. Development and structure
The corpus luteum develops from an ovarian follicle during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle or oestrous cycle, following the release of a secondary oocyte from the follicle during ovulation. 
EG7 tumors can be killed by systemic oxaliplatin primed CD8+ T cells from the tumor-draining lymph node cells. [SEP] Multiple trials have compared HAI (with various chemotherapeutic agents) to systemic chemotherapy. Considering improvements in the surgical placement of the HAI pump and studies showing promising results when HAI therapy is used together with systemic oxaliplatin or irinotecan, there is once again an increased interest in the role of HAI as a treatment option in patients with cancer, who have unresectable CRC liver metastases. Therefore, these T cells are called CD8+ T cells. CD8+ T cells are recognized as TC cells once they become activated and are generally classified as having a pre-defined cytotoxic role within the immune system. However, CD8+ T cells also have the ability to make some cytokines, such as TNF-α and IFN-γ, with antitumour and antimicrobial effects. It is the CD8+ T-cells that will mature and go on to become cytotoxic T cells following their activation with a class I-restricted antigen. CD8 T cells can also show Activation Induced Cell Death or AICD which is mediated by CD3 receptor complex. Recently, a platelet released protein TLT-1 has been shown to induce AICD like cell death in CD8 T cellsThe transcription factor Eomesodermin is suggested to play a key role in CD8+ T cell function, acting as a regulatory gene in the adaptive immune response. 
EGR2 is important to myelination of the peripheral nervous system. [SEP] In 1984, he joined the European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL) in Heidelberg (Germany) as a group leader and focused on the study of transcription factors that played a decisive role in establishing the nervous system during development. Since 1989, he has been working in the Biology Department of the ENS, where he continues to study genes that play an important role in the development of the nervous system or its function and regulation. Discovery of members of the Eph family of tyrosine kinase receptors involved in the segmentation of the rhombencephalon. Decisive involvement of Krox20 in controlling the formation and maintenance of peripheral myelin. Role of boundary capsule cells as a barrier between the central and peripheral nervous system and as a progenitor of neural and glial cells of the peripheral nervous system. Deciphering the genetic network governing the expression of Krox20 and its involvement in the segmentation of the rhombencephalon. Mutations in this gene have been reported to be causative the autosomal-recessive version of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease known as CMT4D.It has been reported that NDRG1 localizes to the endosomes and is a Rab4a effector involved in vesicular recycling.As reviewed by Fang et al., NDRG1 is involved in embryogenesis and development, cell growth and differentiation, lipid biosynthesis and myelination, stress responses, immunity, DNA repair and cell adhesion among other functions. Also was shown its role in T-cell clonal anergy downstream of Egr2, where NDRG1 is upregulated in the absence of costimulation to inhibit subsequent re-activation of T cells by TCR and CD28 signalling. 
ER-localized phosphatase Sac1 processes PI4P through coordination with OSBP and the endosome-localized protein sorting nexin 2. [SEP] PIP2 also forms lipid clusters that sort proteins.PIP2 is formed primarily by the type I phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinases from PI(4)P. In metazoans, PIP2 can also be formed by type II phosphatidylinositol 5-phosphate 4-kinases from PI(5)P.The fatty acids of PIP2 are variable in different species and tissues, but the most common fatty acids are stearic in position 1 and arachidonic in 2. Endocytosis and exocytosis
The first evidence that indicated phosphoinositides(PIs) (especially PI(4,5)P2) are important during the exocytosis process was in 1990. Through the use of PI-specific kinase/phosphatase identification and PI antibody/drug/blocker discovery, the role of PI (especially PI(4,5)P2) in secretion regulation was extensively investigated. PtdIns4P, PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 and PtdIns(4,5)P2 not only act as substrates for enzymes but also serve as docking phospholipids that bind specific domains that promote the recruitment of proteins to the plasma membrane and subsequent activation of signaling cascades. PI4KA is a kinase, which phosphorylates a hydroxyl group of phosphatidylinositol in its inositol-ring at position four. This phosphorylation generates phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate (PI4P), a docking site normally located at the Golgi membrane. PI4P is necessary for the recruitment of effector proteins participating in transport vesicles of lipid transfer. Resulting from that PI4P is crucial for maintaining the Golgi membrane structure and Golgi-secretion.By binding PI4KA on its domain 1 and accumulating PI4P away from the Golgi apparatus, NS5A induces the formation of a membranous web, a membrane structure arising from the endoplasmic reticulum via recruitment of lipid vesicles. 
ERAP1 SNPs are epistatic to HLA alleles for ankylosing spondylitis. [SEP] Nomenclature
ARTS1 is also known as: 

ER aminopeptidase 1 (ERAP1) the name accepted by the Hugo Gene Nomenclature Committee
ER aminopeptidase associated with antigen processing (ERAAP) in mice 
Adipocyte-derived leucine aminopeptidase (ALAP)
Puromycin-insensitive leucine aminopeptidase (PILS-AP)

Function
ERAP1 has two major functions in the immune system:

First, ERAP1 cleaves several proteins called cytokine receptors on the surface of cells. Second, ERAP1 trims peptides within the endoplasmic reticulum so that they can be loaded onto major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I. Mutations in the ARTS-1 have been linked to an increased risk of ankylosing spondylitis but only in HLA-B27 positive patients.The protein encoded by this gene is an aminopeptidase involved in trimming HLA class I-binding precursors so that they can be presented on MHC class I molecules. In autoimmunity
HLA types are inherited, and some of them are connected with autoimmune disorders and other diseases. People with certain HLA antigens are more likely to develop certain autoimmune diseases, such as type I diabetes, ankylosing spondylitis, rheumatoid arthritis, celiac disease, SLE (systemic lupus erythematosus), myasthenia gravis, inclusion body myositis, Sjögren syndrome, and narcolepsy. SFVT categorization of HLA is applied in genetic association analysis so that the effects and roles of the epitopes shared by several HLA alleles can be identified. For example, SSP-PCR within the clinical situation is often used for identifying HLA phenotypes. Haplotypes
An HLA haplotype is a series of HLA "genes" (loci-alleles) by chromosome, one passed from the mother and one from the father. 
Early patent ductus ateriosus (PDA) screening decreases in-hospital mortality. [SEP] PDA may refer to:

Science and technology
Patron-driven acquisition, a mechanism for libraries to purchase books
Personal digital assistant, a mobile device
Photodiode array, a type of detector
Polydiacetylenes, a family of conducting polymers
Pitch detection algorithm, to find the pitch of a signal
Pushdown automaton, a type of abstract device in automata theory

Biology and medicine
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, the main type of pancreatic cancer
Patent ductus arteriosus, a heart defect
Posterior descending artery, an artery
Potato dextrose agar, a microbiological media for culturing yeast and fungus
Pathological demand avoidance

Music
"PDA" (song), a song by Interpol
"PDA", a song by the Backstreet Boys from This Is Us
"PDA", a song by Audio Adrenaline from Audio Adrenaline
"P.D.A. (We Just Don't Care)", a song by John Legend
"PDA", a song by Emily Burns

Organizations
Parenteral Drug Association, a global pharmaceutical trade association
Pharmacists' Defence Association, UK
Peruvian Debate Association, for inter-school debating
Pinoy Dream Academy, the Philippine franchise of Endemol's Star Academy
Population and Community Development Association, Thailand
Private defense agency, an enterprise which would provide personal protection and military defense services to individuals
Professional Driver Association, of NASCAR drivers before the 1969 Talladega 500
Public development authority, government-owned corporations in Washington, US

Politics
Alternative Democratic Pole, a political party in Colombia (Polo Democrático Alternativo)
Progressive Democratic Alliance, a former political party in British Columbia, Canada
Progressive Democrats of America, a progressive political organization
Party of Democratic Action, a Bosniak party in Bosnia-Herzegovina
Movement of Democratic Action, a political party in Bosnia-Herzegovina (Pokret demokratske akcije)
Aruban Democratic Party, an Aruban political party (Partido Democrático Arubano)

Law and culture
Public display of affection, an act of physical intimacy in the view of others
Pregnancy Discrimination Act, US
"PDA" (The Office), an episode from the American television sitcom The Office
Past Doctor Adventures, spin-off novels from the BBC's Doctor Who
Pub Design Awards, UK
Professional Development Award, offered by the Scottish Qualification Authority
Pathological Demand Avoidance Brighton and SUSSEX Medical School in the UK was the first medical school to provide wide scale use of PDAs to its undergraduate students. The learning opportunities provided by having PDAs complete with a suite of key medical texts was studied with results showing that learning occurred in context with timely access to key facts and through consolidation of knowledge via repetition. The PDA was an important addition to the learning ecology rather than a replacement. Recreational uses
PDAs may be used by music enthusiasts to play a variety of music file formats. For a physician, this score is helpful in deciding how aggressively to treat a condition. have derived and validated an Elixhauser comorbidity index that summarizes disease burden and can discriminate for in-hospital mortality. 
Early patent ductus ateriosus (PDA) screening increases in-hospital mortality. [SEP] Screening, in medicine, is a strategy used to look for as-yet-unrecognised conditions or risk markers. Screening interventions are designed to identify conditions which could at some future point turn into disease, thus enabling earlier intervention and management in the hope to reduce mortality and suffering from a disease. The overall benefits of screening should outweigh the harm.In summation, "when it comes to the allocation of scarce resources, economic considerations must be considered alongside 'notions of justice, equity, personal freedom, political feasibility, and the constraints of current law'." Limitations
Screening can detect medical conditions at an early stage before symptoms present while treatment is more effective than for later detection. Analysis
To many people, screening instinctively seems like an appropriate thing to do, because catching something earlier seems better. So, the cases screening often detects automatically have better prognosis than symptomatic cases. The trial found reduced cardiovascular mortality in those who were screened for breast cancer. However, disease-specific mortality might be biased in favor of screening. 
Ectopic expression of Sall4, Nanog, Esrrb, and Lin28 generates induced pluripotent stem cells from mouse embryonic fibroblasts more efficiently than other factor combinations. [SEP] This interaction is best characterized in the co-regulation of HOXA9 gene by SALL4 and MLL in leukemic cells.In mouse ESCs, Sall4 was found to bind the essential stem cell factor, octamer-binding transcription factor 4 (Oct4), in two separate unbiased mass spectrometry (spec) screens Sall4 can also bind other important pluripotency proteins such as Nanog and sex determining region Y (SRY)-box 2 protein (Sox2). Expression and role in stem cells and development
In mouse embryos, SALL4 expression is detectable as early as the two-cell stage. SALL4 is an important factor for maintaining the “stemness” of ESCs of both mouse and human origin, since loss of Sall4 leads to differentiation of these pluripotent cells down the trophectoderm lineage. Sall4 is part of the transcriptional regulatory network that includes other pluripotent factors such as Oct4, Nanog, and Sox2 Because of its important role in early development, genetically mutated mice without functioning SALL4 die early on at the peri-implantation stage, while heterozygous mice have neural, kidney, heart defects and limb abnormalities. Function
NANOG is a transcription factor in embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and is thought to be a key factor in maintaining pluripotency. Knockdown of NANOG in embryonic stem cells results in a reduction of Rex1 expression, while forced expression of NANOG stimulates Rex1 expression.Besides the effects of NANOG in the embryonic stages of life, ectopic expression of NANOG in the adult stem cells can restore the proliferation and differentiation potential that is lost due to organismal aging or cellular senescence. Cancer stem cells
Nanog is a transcription factor that controls both self-renewal and pluripotency of embryonic stem cells. Function
ESRRB has been shown to be vital for the transition between a naïve pluripotent and primed pluripotent state in mammalian cells, and NANOG controls the expression of ESRRB in this scenario. 
Egr2 regulates the homeostasis of B and T cells. [SEP] EGR-1 is a mammalian transcription factor. Several studies suggest it has a role in neuronal plasticity.EGR-1 is an important transcription factor in memory formation. EGR-1 recruits the TET1 protein that initiates a pathway of DNA demethylation. EGR-1, together with TET1, is employed in programming the distribution of methylation sites on brain DNA during brain development, in learning and in long-term neuronal plasticity. EGR-1 has also been found to regulate the expression of VAMP2 (a protein important for synaptic exocytosis).Beside its function in the nervous system, there is significant evidence that EGR-1 along with its paralog EGR-2 is induced in fibrotic diseases has key functions in fibrinogenesis and is necessary for experimentally induced fibrosis in mice.It may also be involved in ovarian function

Structure
The DNA-binding domain of EGR-1 consists of three zinc finger domains of the Cys2His2 type. EGR1 protein binds to DNA in gene promoter and enhancer regions. EGR1 is an important transcription factor in memory formation. EGR1, together with TET1, is employed in programming the distribution of methylation sites on brain DNA during brain development and in learning (see Epigenetics in learning and memory). 
Egr3 regulates the homeostasis of B and T cells. [SEP] Work at Johns Hopkins University published in October 2004 identified LAG3's key role in regulatory T cells. At National Taiwan University a group showed that LAG3 plays a role in the immunosuppressive capability of Tregs stimulated by Peyer's patch B cells. EGR-1 is a mammalian transcription factor. Several studies suggest it has a role in neuronal plasticity.EGR-1 is an important transcription factor in memory formation. EGR-1, together with TET1, is employed in programming the distribution of methylation sites on brain DNA during brain development, in learning and in long-term neuronal plasticity. DNA binding specificity
EGR-1 binds the DNA sequence 5'-GCG TGG GCG-3' (and similar ones like 5'-GCG GGG GCG-3'). EGR1 is an important transcription factor in memory formation. EGR1, together with TET1, is employed in programming the distribution of methylation sites on brain DNA during brain development and in learning (see Epigenetics in learning and memory). 
Eilat virus (EILV) produced in mosquitos elicits rapid and long-lasting neutralizing antibodies in nonhuman primates. [SEP] Eilat virus (EILV) is a unique Alphavirus which is known mainly for its host range restriction generally to insects (primarily to mosquitoes) by means of RNA replication. [1]

Areas of infection
When tested on four different mosquito species the Eilat virus had similar effects on certain organs of the mosquitos and did not infect other organs. The Eilat virus's incapability of entering vertebrate cells was proven by infection with the EILV-expressing red fluorescent protein which was obtained from a second genomic promoter. Anopheles coustani's aid in natural maintenance
The Eilat virus was first isolated from the specified species Anopheles coustani (mosquito species) located at the Negrev desert. Eilat virus (EILV) is a unique Alphavirus which is known mainly for its host range restriction generally to insects (primarily to mosquitoes) by means of RNA replication. [1]

Areas of infection
When tested on four different mosquito species the Eilat virus had similar effects on certain organs of the mosquitos and did not infect other organs. The Eilat virus's incapability of entering vertebrate cells was proven by infection with the EILV-expressing red fluorescent protein which was obtained from a second genomic promoter. Anopheles coustani's aid in natural maintenance
The Eilat virus was first isolated from the specified species Anopheles coustani (mosquito species) located at the Negrev desert. 
Elevated cell-free mitochondrial DNA levels are associated with mortality. [SEP] Genetic illness
Mutations of mitochondrial DNA can lead to a number of illnesses including exercise intolerance and Kearns–Sayre syndrome (KSS), which causes a person to lose full function of heart, eye, and muscle movements. Supporting a link between longevity and mitochondrial DNA, some studies have found correlations between biochemical properties of the mitochondrial DNA and the longevity of species. Elevated levels of cfDNA are observed in cancer, especially in advanced disease. Cell‐free DNA (cfDNA) is present in the circulating plasma and in other body fluids.The release of cfDNA into the bloodstream appears by different reasons, including apoptosis, necrosis and NETosis. Oxidized mtDNA generated during programmed cell death is not limited to activate TLR9, but was shown to also engage the NRLP3 inflammasome, leading to the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, IL-1β, and IL-18. Miyazawa found mitochondrial superoxide anion production can lead to organ atrophy and dysfunction via mitochondrial- mediated apoptosis. Mitochondrial damage is closely linked to apoptosis and since mitochondria are easily targeted there is potential for cancer therapy.The cytotoxic nature of ROS is a driving force behind apoptosis, but in even higher amounts, ROS can result in both apoptosis and necrosis, a form of uncontrolled cell death, in cancer cells.Numerous studies have shown the pathways and associations between ROS levels and apoptosis, but a newer line of study has connected ROS levels and autophagy. The extensive amount of ROS and mitochondrial damage may also signal for apoptosis. 
Eliminating the last sporadic cases of malaria requires considerable funding. [SEP] By 2004, cases of poliomyelitis in Africa had been reduced to just a small number of isolated regions in the western portion of the continent, with sporadic cases elsewhere. The last cases of paralytic poliomyelitis caused by endemic transmission of wild virus in the United States occurred in 1979, with an outbreak among the Amish in several Midwest states. 1988
A global effort to eradicate polio, led by the World Health Organization (WHO), UNICEF, and the Rotary Foundation, began in 1988, and has relied largely on the oral polio vaccine developed by Albert Sabin and Mikhail Chumakov (Sabin-Chumakov vaccine). The war must be ended." By the end of the war, starvation caused by famine had killed approximately 100,000 people in Lebanon. While most of the internally displaced have now squatted around the capital, in musseques (shanty towns) the general situation for Angolans remains desperate.A drought in 2016 caused the worst food crisis in Southern Africa in 25 years, affecting 1.4 million people across seven of Angola's 18 provinces. The measure is part of the Strategic Plan for the Elimination of Measles 2014–2020 created by the Angolan Ministry of Health which includes strengthening routine immunisation, a proper dealing with measles cases, national campaigns, introducing a second dose of vaccination in the national routine vaccination calendar and active epidemiological surveillance for measles. Political scientist Olivier Roy estimated between 50,000 and 100,000 people disappeared during the Taraki–Amin period. 
Emodin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. [SEP] Intramolecular hydrogen bonding is partly responsible for the secondary and tertiary structures of proteins and nucleic acids. Hydrogen bonds in polymers
Hydrogen bonding plays an important role in determining the three-dimensional structures and the properties adopted by many proteins. Hydrogen bonds also play a part in forming the tertiary structure of protein through interaction of R-groups. Computer molecular dynamics simulations suggest that osmolytes stabilize proteins by modifying the hydrogen bonds in the protein hydration layer.Several studies have shown that hydrogen bonds play an important role for the stability between subunits in multimeric proteins. Clinical significance
In humans the PGAM2 gene which encodes this enzyme is located on the short arm of chromosome 7. This gene encodes muscle-specific PGAM subunit. Protein
The isozyme encoded by PGAM2 spans 253 residues, which demonstrates highly sequence similarity (81% identity) to the protein PGAM1. Interactions
PGAM2 is known to interact with:

SIRT2. 
Energy balance requires hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission. [SEP] The hypothalamus also regulates food intake through autonomic signals, and hormone release by the digestive system. In humans, blood glucose is the primary source of energy for most cells and is critical for normal function in a number of tissues, including the brain. The human brain consumes approximately 60% of blood glucose in fasted, sedentary individuals. Brain metabolism normally relies upon blood glucose as an energy source, but during times of low glucose (such as fasting, endurance exercise, or limited carbohydrate intake), the brain uses ketone bodies for fuel with a smaller need for glucose. The brain mostly uses glucose for energy, and deprivation of glucose, as can happen in hypoglycemia, can result in loss of consciousness. It is thought that hypothalamic neurons tonically produce endocannabinoids that work to tightly regulate hunger. Energy balance and metabolism
The endocannabinoid system has been shown to have a homeostatic role by controlling several metabolic functions, such as energy storage and nutrient transport. Based upon animal models, exercise appears to normalize the excessive levels of glutamate neurotransmission into the nucleus accumbens that occurs in drug addiction. 
Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines damages viral control in the lung. [SEP] Cytokines and chemokines promote the migration of neutrophils and macrophages to the site of inflammation. Activated macrophages in the tissue release cytokines such as IL-1 and TNFα, which in turn leads to production of chemokines that bind to proteoglycans forming gradient in the inflamed tissue and along the endothelial wall. Lymphokines: produced by lymphocytes
Monokines: produced exclusively by monocytes
Interferons: involved in antiviral responses
Colony stimulating factors: support the growth of cells in semisolid media
Chemokines: mediate chemoattraction (chemotaxis) between cells. Current data suggest cytokine storms may be the source of extensive lung tissue damage and dysfunctional coagulation in COVID-19 infections. Surfactant degradation or inactivation may contribute to enhanced susceptibility to lung inflammation and infection.Most of the respiratory system is lined with mucous membranes that contain mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue, which produces white blood cells such as lymphocytes. Infection may initiate a chain of vasoconstrictive responses within the body, including pulmonary vasoconstriction – a possible mechanism in which oxygenation decreases during pneumonia. In particular, pathogenic GM-CSF-secreting T cells were shown to correlate with the recruitment of inflammatory IL-6-secreting monocytes and severe lung pathology in people with COVID‑19. Data collected from Jin Yin-tan Hospital in Wuhan, China indicates that patients who had more severe responses to COVID‑19 had greater amounts of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines in their system than patients who had milder responses. 
Environmental factors can influence the development of breast cancer. [SEP] Breast size and cancer risk
Some factors of breast morphology, including their density, are clearly implicated in breast cancer. Most cancers are related to environmental, lifestyle, or behavioral exposures. Risk factors
Risk factors can be divided into two categories:

modifiable risk factors (things that people can change themselves, such as consumption of alcoholic beverages), and
fixed risk factors (things that cannot be changed, such as age and physiological sex).The primary risk factors for breast cancer are being female and older age. One study indicates that exposure to light pollution is a risk factor for the development of breast cancer.If all adults maintained the healthiest possible lifestyles, including not drinking alcoholic beverages, maintaining a healthy body composition, never smoking, eating healthful food, and other actions, then almost a quarter of breast cancer cases worldwide could be prevented. Diabetes mellitus might also increase the risk of breast cancer. Autoimmune diseases such as lupus erythematosus seem also to increase the risk for the acquisition of breast cancer.The major causes of sporadic breast cancer are associated with hormone levels. Pathophysiology
Breast cancer, like other cancers, occurs because of an interaction between an environmental (external) factor and a genetically susceptible host. This implicates environmental and other causes as triggers for breast cancers. 
Environmentally-induced senescence is mimicked in disease modeling by adding specific molecules to the culture system. [SEP] Cellular senescence can be initiated by a wide variety of stress inducing factors. These stress factors include both environmental and internal damaging events, abnormal cellular growth, oxidative stress, autophagy factors, among many other things.The physiological importance for cell senescence has been attributed to prevention of carcinogenesis, and more recently, aging, development, and tissue repair. This induces replicative senescence. The induction of cellular senescence was associated with an increase in inflammatory cytokines as is expected based on the SASP. Cellular senescence in mammalian disease
Transplantation of only a few (1 per 10,000) senescent cells into lean middle-aged mice was shown to be sufficient to induce frailty, early onset of aging-associated diseases, and premature death.Biomarkers of cellular senescence have been shown to accumulate in tissues of older individuals. The accumulation of senescent cells in tissues of vertebrates with age is thought to contribute to the development of ageing-related diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, type 2 diabetes, and various cancers.Progeria is another example of a disease that may be related to cell senescence. Senescence can be induced by several factors, including telomere shortening, DNA damage and stress. One of the identified compounds cleared senescent cells and reduced expression of senescence-associated genes in the kidneys of aged mice.A study identifies low levels of taurine, which declines with age, as a driver of the aging process and suggests that taurine supplements may increase lifespan. 
Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in high economic settings. [SEP] These diseases produced in part by poverty are in contrast to diseases of affluence, which are diseases thought to be a result of increasing wealth in a society.Poverty and infectious diseases are causally related. Contributing factors
The prevalence of unfavorable environmental and social factors that contribute to disease are highest among individuals living in poverty. These communities are at a higher risk of adverse health outcomes, particularly with infectious diseases and noncommunicable diseases. Noncommunicable Diseases
Noncommunicable diseases (NCD) such as cardiovascular disease, chronic respiratory diseases, cancer, and diabetes place a significant burden of disease in low- and middle-income countries (LMIC). Heart disease is the leading cause of death worldwide and there are disparities of morbidity between the rich and poor. Generally, low-income populations, whether they live in high-income countries or in low-middle income countries (LMIC) suffer higher disease burden for chronic conditions including obesity when compared to their higher income counterparts. Those who are poor are at greater risk. For instance, urbanization and aging have led to increasing poor health conditions related to non-communicable diseases in India. 
Ethanol stress increases the expression of IBP in bacteria. [SEP] Ethanol kills microorganisms by dissolving their membrane lipid bilayer and denaturing their proteins, and is effective against most bacteria, fungi and viruses. Absolute ethanol may inactivate microbes without destroying them because the alcohol is unable to fully permeate the microbe's membrane. Ethanol can also be used as a disinfectant and antiseptic because it causes cell dehydration by disrupting the osmotic balance across the cell membrane, so water leaves the cell leading to cell death. Ethanol is also produced during the germination of many plants as a result of natural anaerobiosis. Fermentation
Ethanol in alcoholic beverages and fuel is produced by fermentation. Toxicity of ethanol to yeast limits the ethanol concentration obtainable by brewing; higher concentrations, therefore, are obtained by fortification or distillation. The most ethanol-tolerant yeast strains can survive up to approximately 18% ethanol by volume. Fermentation
Ethanol is produced by microbial fermentation of the sugar. 
Ethanol stress increases the expression of PSP in bacteria. [SEP] Ethanol kills microorganisms by dissolving their membrane lipid bilayer and denaturing their proteins, and is effective against most bacteria, fungi and viruses. Absolute ethanol may inactivate microbes without destroying them because the alcohol is unable to fully permeate the microbe's membrane. Ethanol can also be used as a disinfectant and antiseptic because it causes cell dehydration by disrupting the osmotic balance across the cell membrane, so water leaves the cell leading to cell death. Many of the symptoms typically associated with alcohol intoxication—as well as many of the health hazards typically associated with the long-term consumption of ethanol—can be attributed to acetaldehyde toxicity in humans.The subsequent oxidation of acetaldehyde into acetate is performed by aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) enzymes. The flash point of pure ethanol is 13 °C (55 °F), but may be influenced very slightly by atmospheric composition such as pressure and humidity. The most ethanol-tolerant yeast strains can survive up to approximately 18% ethanol by volume. Spirits of wine are about 94% ethanol (188 proof). Fermentation
Ethanol is produced by microbial fermentation of the sugar. 
Ethanol stress increases the expression of SRL in bacteria. [SEP] Ethanol kills microorganisms by dissolving their membrane lipid bilayer and denaturing their proteins, and is effective against most bacteria, fungi and viruses. Absolute ethanol may inactivate microbes without destroying them because the alcohol is unable to fully permeate the microbe's membrane. Ethanol can also be used as a disinfectant and antiseptic because it causes cell dehydration by disrupting the osmotic balance across the cell membrane, so water leaves the cell leading to cell death. Ethanol serves this process by acting as a competitive inhibitor against methanol and ethylene glycol for alcohol dehydrogenase. Many of the symptoms typically associated with alcohol intoxication—as well as many of the health hazards typically associated with the long-term consumption of ethanol—can be attributed to acetaldehyde toxicity in humans.The subsequent oxidation of acetaldehyde into acetate is performed by aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) enzymes. Toxicity of ethanol to yeast limits the ethanol concentration obtainable by brewing; higher concentrations, therefore, are obtained by fortification or distillation. The most ethanol-tolerant yeast strains can survive up to approximately 18% ethanol by volume. Many ethanol reactions occur at its hydroxyl group. 
Ethanol stress lowers the expression of PSP in bacteria. [SEP] Ethanol kills microorganisms by dissolving their membrane lipid bilayer and denaturing their proteins, and is effective against most bacteria, fungi and viruses. Absolute ethanol may inactivate microbes without destroying them because the alcohol is unable to fully permeate the microbe's membrane. Ethanol can also be used as a disinfectant and antiseptic because it causes cell dehydration by disrupting the osmotic balance across the cell membrane, so water leaves the cell leading to cell death. Ethanol serves this process by acting as a competitive inhibitor against methanol and ethylene glycol for alcohol dehydrogenase. The addition of even a few percent of ethanol to water sharply reduces the surface tension of water. The most ethanol-tolerant yeast strains can survive up to approximately 18% ethanol by volume. Spirits of wine are about 94% ethanol (188 proof). PPSSPP is currently the fastest and most compatible PSP emulator; it supports all major games. 
Ethanol stress reduces the expression of SRL in bacteria. [SEP] Ethanol kills microorganisms by dissolving their membrane lipid bilayer and denaturing their proteins, and is effective against most bacteria, fungi and viruses. Absolute ethanol may inactivate microbes without destroying them because the alcohol is unable to fully permeate the microbe's membrane. Ethanol can also be used as a disinfectant and antiseptic because it causes cell dehydration by disrupting the osmotic balance across the cell membrane, so water leaves the cell leading to cell death. Ethanol serves this process by acting as a competitive inhibitor against methanol and ethylene glycol for alcohol dehydrogenase. Many of the symptoms typically associated with alcohol intoxication—as well as many of the health hazards typically associated with the long-term consumption of ethanol—can be attributed to acetaldehyde toxicity in humans.The subsequent oxidation of acetaldehyde into acetate is performed by aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) enzymes. Toxicity of ethanol to yeast limits the ethanol concentration obtainable by brewing; higher concentrations, therefore, are obtained by fortification or distillation. The most ethanol-tolerant yeast strains can survive up to approximately 18% ethanol by volume. Many ethanol reactions occur at its hydroxyl group. 
Excess gestational weight gain is associated with obesity-related pregnancy outcomes. [SEP] Complications of pregnancy
Obesity is related to many complications in pregnancy including: haemorrhage, infection, increased hospital stays for the mother, and increased NICU requirements for the infant. Obese females also have increased risk of preterm births and low birth weight infants.Obese females have more than twice the rate of C-sections compared to females of "normal" weight. Birth defects
Those who are obese during pregnancy have a greater risk of have a child with a number of congenital malformations including: neural tube defects such as anencephaly and spina bifida, cardiovascular anomalies, including septal anomalies, cleft lip and palate, anorectal malformation, limb reduction anomalies, and hydrocephaly. Intrauterine fetal death
Maternal obesity is associated with an increased risk of intrauterine fetal death. Gestational weight gain is defined as the amount of weight gain a woman experiences between conception and birth of an infant. Expectations
Overweight and obese women are significantly more likely to expect excessive gestational weight gain compared with normal-weight women, and women who report expecting to gain excessively are three times more likely to actually gain excessively  than those who expect to gain within the guidelines. Mothers with pre-pregnancy obesity, as defined by BMI ≥30 kg/m2, are known to have children that have higher growth rates and more likely to have obesity. In general, obese mothers or women with excessive gestational weight gain may have higher risk of pregnancy complications (ranging from LGA, shoulder dystocia, etc.). 
Exercise increases cancer mortality rates among Chinese citizens. [SEP] Some studies indicate that exercise may increase life expectancy and the overall quality of life. People who participate in moderate to high levels of physical exercise have a lower mortality rate compared to individuals who by comparison are not physically active. A lack of physical activity causes approximately 6% of the burden of disease from coronary heart disease, 7% of type 2 diabetes, 10% of breast cancer and 10% of colon cancer worldwide. According to the American Heart Association, exercise reduces the risk of cardiovascular diseases, including heart attack and stroke.Some have suggested that increases in physical exercise might decrease healthcare costs, increase the rate of job attendance, as well as increase the amount of effort women put into their jobs. Cancer
A systematic review evaluated 45 studies that examined the relationship between physical activity and cancer survival rates. According to the review, "[there] was consistent evidence from 27 observational studies that physical activity is associated with reduced all-cause, breast cancer–specific, and colon cancer–specific mortality. Evidence suggests that exercise may positively affect the quality of life in cancer survivors, including factors such as anxiety, self-esteem and emotional well-being. For people with cancer undergoing active treatment, exercise may also have positive effects on health-related quality of life, such as fatigue and physical functioning. 
Exercise reduces cancer mortality rates among Chinese citizens. [SEP] Some studies indicate that exercise may increase life expectancy and the overall quality of life. People who participate in moderate to high levels of physical exercise have a lower mortality rate compared to individuals who by comparison are not physically active. A lack of physical activity causes approximately 6% of the burden of disease from coronary heart disease, 7% of type 2 diabetes, 10% of breast cancer and 10% of colon cancer worldwide. According to the American Heart Association, exercise reduces the risk of cardiovascular diseases, including heart attack and stroke.Some have suggested that increases in physical exercise might decrease healthcare costs, increase the rate of job attendance, as well as increase the amount of effort women put into their jobs. Cancer
A systematic review evaluated 45 studies that examined the relationship between physical activity and cancer survival rates. According to the review, "[there] was consistent evidence from 27 observational studies that physical activity is associated with reduced all-cause, breast cancer–specific, and colon cancer–specific mortality. Evidence suggests that exercise may positively affect the quality of life in cancer survivors, including factors such as anxiety, self-esteem and emotional well-being. For people with cancer undergoing active treatment, exercise may also have positive effects on health-related quality of life, such as fatigue and physical functioning. 
Exhaustion of B cells contributes to poor Ab response in HIV-infected individuals. [SEP] IL-10 levels are elevated in B cells from VL PBMC. Depletion of B cells increased CD4+ T cell proliferation and IFN-γ secretion but decreased IL-10 secretion. Memory T cells may be depleted in VL patient PBMC. Low white blood cells increase the risk of infections. Other viruses that have been linked to the development of aplastic anemia include hepatitis, Epstein-Barr, cytomegalovirus, and HIV. This suggests that cytokine‐induced and Fas‐mediated apoptosis play roles in bone marrow failure because annihilation of CD34+ progenitor cells leads to hematopoietic stem cell deficiency. In addition to low numbers of hematopoietic stem cells, aplastic anemia patients have altered hematopoietic niche:
cytotoxic T-cells (polyclonal expansion of dysregulated CD4+ T-cells) trigger apoptosis in bone marrow cells
activated T-cells induce apoptosis in hematopoietic stem cells
there is abnormal production of interferon-γ, tumor necrosis factor-α, and transforming growth factor
overexpression of Fas receptor leads to apoptosis of hematopoietic stem cells
poor quality and quantity of regulatory T-cells means failure in suppressing auto-reactivity, which leads to abnormal T-cell expansion
due to higher amounts of interferon-γ, macrophages are more frequent in the bone marrow of aplastic anemia patients; interferon-mediated loss of hematopoietic stem cells occurs only in the presence of macrophages
interferon-γ can cause direct exhaustion and depletion of hematopoietic stem cells and indirect reduction of their functions through cells that are part of the bone marrow microenvironment (e.g., macrophages and mesenchymal stem cells)
increased numbers of B cells produce autoantibodies against hematopoietic stem cells
increased numbers of adipocytes and decreased numbers of pericytes also play a role in suppressing hematopoiesis

Treatment
Treating immune-mediated aplastic anemia involves suppression of the immune system, an effect achieved by daily medicine or, in more severe cases, a bone marrow transplant, a potential cure. A low level of blood lymphocytes may result from the virus acting through ACE2-related entry into lymphocytes. 
Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is unrelated to anxiety prevalence. [SEP] Cognitive hazards
The effects of air pollution and particulate matter on cognitive performance has become an active area of research. Short term exposure to particulate matter has been linked to short term cognitive decline in otherwise healthy adults.Air pollution, particulate matter and wood smoke may also cause brain damage and increase the risk of developmental disorders, neurodegenerative disorders mental disorders, and suicide, although studies on the link between depression and some air pollutants are not consistent. [Growing evidence suggests that air pollution exposure may be associated with reduced IQ scores, impaired cognition, increased risk for psychiatric disorders such as depression and detrimental perinatal health.] A 2007 study found that in women, air pollution is not associated with hemorrhagic but with ischemic stroke. At present, there is no evidence to suggest that ozone exposure poses a deleterious effect on spontaneous fertility in either females or males. Childhood indoor air pollution may negatively affect cognitive function and neurodevelopment. Our findings add to the growing body of evidence that air pollution may play a role in autism, as well as in other neurodevelopmental disorders. ... [T]here is no safe level of exposure to fine particulate matter. 
Expression of MSX2 is induced 3 hours after the addition of BMP4, which is earlier than T and CDX2. [SEP] Homeobox protein MSX-2 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MSX2 gene. Msx2 is a homeobox gene localized on human chromosome 5 that encodes a transcription repressor and activator (MSX-2) responsible for craniofacial and limb-bud development. Cells will express msx2 when exposed to signaling molecules BMP-2 and BMP-4 in situ. Msx2 downregulates E-cadherins and upregulates N-cadherin and vimentin which indicates its role in inducing epithelial mesenchymal transition (EMT). Interactions
Msh homeobox 2 has been shown to interact with DLX5, DLX2 and MSX1. MSX2 human gene details in the UCSC Genome Browser.This article incorporates text from the United States National Library of Medicine, which is in the public domain. Furthermore, it was demonstrated that Smad1 had transactivational ability localized at the carboxy terminus, which can be enhanced by adding BMP4. This phosphorylation event has a dual effect on Smad4 activity. 
Expression of oncolytic virus antigens as peptides makes relapse more likely. [SEP] Some researchers claim that cancerous cells routinely arise and are destroyed by the immune system (immunosurveillance); and that tumors form when the immune system fails to destroy them.Some types of cancer, such as cervical cancer and liver cancer, are caused by viruses (oncoviruses). The difference is that the antigens for viral vaccines are derived from viruses or cells infected with virus, while the antigens for tumor antigen vaccines are derived from cancer cells. Cancer-specific tumor antigens include peptides from proteins that are not typically found in normal cells but are activated in cancer cells or peptides containing cancer-specific mutations. That is, they contain a mixture of peptides from the patient’s tumor that the patient exhibits an immune response against. Desirable characteristics
Cancer vaccines seek to target a tumor-specific antigen as distinct from self-proteins. An effective vaccine should also stimulate long term immune memory to prevent tumor recurrence. Defined tumor antigens decrease the risk of autoimmunity, but because the immune response is directed to a single epitope, tumors can evade destruction through antigen loss variance. In Hodgkin lymphoma, in which the malignant Hodgkin Reed-Sternberg cells are typically HLA class I deficient, immune evasion is in part mediated by skewing towards an exhausted PD-1hi NK cell phenotype, and re-activation of these NK cells appears to be one mechanism of action induced by checkpoint-blockade. 
Expression of oncolytic virus antigens as peptides permits additional protection against relapse. [SEP] An oncolytic virus is a virus that preferentially infects and kills cancer cells. Oncolytic viruses are thought not only to cause direct destruction of the tumour cells, but also to stimulate host anti-tumour immune system responses. Mechanisms of action
Immunotherapy
With advances in cancer immunotherapy such as immune checkpoint inhibitors, increased attention has been given to using oncolytic viruses to increase antitumor immunity. It has been shown that immunosuppression by chemotherapy and inhibition of the complement system can enhance oncolytic virus therapy.Pre-existing immunity can be partly avoided by using viruses that are not common human pathogens. Some oncolytic viruses are very immunogenic and may by infection of the tumour, elicit an anti-tumor immune response, especially viruses delivering cytokines or other immune stimulating factors.Viruses selectively infect tumor cells because of their defective anti-viral response. Since vaccinia virus has long been recognized as an ideal backbone for vaccines due to its potent antigen presentation capability, this combines well with its natural oncolytic activities as an oncolytic virus for cancer immunotherapy. The pool of resultant oncolytic viruses can then be further screened in pre-clinical models to select an oncolytic virus with the desired therapeutic characteristics.Directed evolution was applied on human adenovirus, one of many viruses that are being developed as oncolytic agents, to create a highly selective and yet potent oncolytic vaccine. Modifications to improve oncolytic activity
Oncolytic viruses can be used against cancers in ways that are additional to lysis of infected cells. 
F4/80+ macrophages regulate mature osteoblast maintenance. [SEP] Function
Osteoclasts
Osteoclast are multi-nucleated cells that that absorb and remove bone which is critical for growth of new bones and maintenance of bone strength. Osteoclasts are critical for the bone remodeling cycle which is achieved by the building of bone by osteoblasts, reabsorption by osteoclasts, and remodeling by osteoblasts. Osteoclasts precursor cells and mature osteoclast require stimulation of CSF1R for survival. Stimulation of CSF1R promotes osteoclastogenesis (differentiation of monocytes into osteoclasts). CSF1R signaling also directly regulates osteoclast function. CSF1R signaling also regulates macrophage function. Clinical significance
Bone disease
Bone remodeling is regulated by mutual cross-regulation between osteoclasts and osteoblasts. Increased CSF-1 promotes proliferation of osteoclasts and osteoclast precursors and increases osteoclast bone reabsorption. 
FACT and other histone chaperone(s) compensate for Histone 2A (H2A)-histone 2B (H2B) dimer eviction during the histone exchange process. [SEP] The FACT complex is a heterodimer that does not hydrolyze ATP, but is able to facilitate "loosening" of histones in nucleosomes, but how the FACT complex is able to relieve the tight association of histones for DNA removal remains unanswered.Another histone chaperone that associates with the replisome is Asf1, which interacts with the Mcm complex dependent on histone dimers H3-H4. After the deposition of histones H3-H4, nucleosomes form by the association of histone H2A-H2B. In addition, histones play important roles in gene regulation and DNA replication. Gene expression
Histone modifications modulate the packing of chromatin. Histone H2B is one of the 5 main histone proteins involved in the structure of chromatin in  eukaryotic cells. Histone H2B helps regulate chromatin structure and function through post-translational modifications and specialized histone variants.Acetylation and ubiquitination are examples of two post-translational modifications that affect the function of histone H2B in particular ways. Post-Translational Modifications
Histone H2B is modified by a combination of several types of post-translational modifications. Ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes and ubiquitin ligases regulate the ubiquitination of histone H2B. 
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have decreased risk for dementia. [SEP] Indeed, the apolipoprotein ε4 isoform is more protective against cognitive decline than other isoforms in some cases, so caution is advised before making determinant statements about the influence of APOE polymorphisms on cognition, development of Alzheimer's disease, cardiovascular disease, telomere shortening, etc. As of 2007, there was no evidence that APOE polymorphisms influence cognition in younger age groups (other than possible increased episodic memory ability and neural efficiency in younger APOE4 age groups), nor that the APOE4 isoform places individuals at increased risk for any infectious disease.However, the association between the APOE4 allele and Alzheimer's disease has been shown to be weaker in minority groups differently compared to their caucasian counterparts. Thus, the genotype most at risk for Alzheimer's disease and at an earlier age is APOE4,4. Projecting from their data, some researchers have suggested that lowering serum cholesterol levels may reduce a person's risk for Alzheimer's disease, even if they have two ApoE4 alleles, thus reducing the risk from nine or ten times the odds of getting AD down to just two times the odds.Women are more likely to develop AD than men across most ages and APOE genotypes. Indeed, the apolipoprotein ε4 isoform is more protective against cognitive decline than other isoforms in some cases, so caution is advised before making determinant statements about the influence of APOE polymorphisms on cognition, development of Alzheimer's disease, cardiovascular disease, telomere shortening, etc. As of 2007, there was no evidence that APOE polymorphisms influence cognition in younger age groups (other than possible increased episodic memory ability and neural efficiency in younger APOE4 age groups), nor that the APOE4 isoform places individuals at increased risk for any infectious disease.However, the association between the APOE4 allele and Alzheimer's disease has been shown to be weaker in minority groups differently compared to their caucasian counterparts. Thus, the genotype most at risk for Alzheimer's disease and at an earlier age is APOE4,4. Projecting from their data, some researchers have suggested that lowering serum cholesterol levels may reduce a person's risk for Alzheimer's disease, even if they have two ApoE4 alleles, thus reducing the risk from nine or ten times the odds of getting AD down to just two times the odds.Women are more likely to develop AD than men across most ages and APOE genotypes. 
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for Alzheimer's disease. [SEP] Thus, the genotype most at risk for Alzheimer's disease and at an earlier age is APOE4,4. Using genotype APOE3,3 as a benchmark (with the persons who have this genotype regarded as having a risk level of 1.0) and for white populations only, individuals with genotype APOE4,4 have an odds ratio of 14.9 of developing Alzheimer's disease. While ApoE4 has been found to greatly increase the odds that an individual will develop Alzheimer's, a 2002 study concluded, that in persons with any combination of APOE alleles, high serum total cholesterol and high blood pressure in mid-life are independent risk factors which together can nearly triple the risk that the individual will later develop AD. Projecting from their data, some researchers have suggested that lowering serum cholesterol levels may reduce a person's risk for Alzheimer's disease, even if they have two ApoE4 alleles, thus reducing the risk from nine or ten times the odds of getting AD down to just two times the odds.Women are more likely to develop AD than men across most ages and APOE genotypes. Thus, the genotype most at risk for Alzheimer's disease and at an earlier age is APOE4,4. Using genotype APOE3,3 as a benchmark (with the persons who have this genotype regarded as having a risk level of 1.0) and for white populations only, individuals with genotype APOE4,4 have an odds ratio of 14.9 of developing Alzheimer's disease. While ApoE4 has been found to greatly increase the odds that an individual will develop Alzheimer's, a 2002 study concluded, that in persons with any combination of APOE alleles, high serum total cholesterol and high blood pressure in mid-life are independent risk factors which together can nearly triple the risk that the individual will later develop AD. Projecting from their data, some researchers have suggested that lowering serum cholesterol levels may reduce a person's risk for Alzheimer's disease, even if they have two ApoE4 alleles, thus reducing the risk from nine or ten times the odds of getting AD down to just two times the odds.Women are more likely to develop AD than men across most ages and APOE genotypes. 
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have longer lifetime exposure to estrogen due to an increased reproductive period. [SEP] Indeed, the apolipoprotein ε4 isoform is more protective against cognitive decline than other isoforms in some cases, so caution is advised before making determinant statements about the influence of APOE polymorphisms on cognition, development of Alzheimer's disease, cardiovascular disease, telomere shortening, etc. As of 2007, there was no evidence that APOE polymorphisms influence cognition in younger age groups (other than possible increased episodic memory ability and neural efficiency in younger APOE4 age groups), nor that the APOE4 isoform places individuals at increased risk for any infectious disease.However, the association between the APOE4 allele and Alzheimer's disease has been shown to be weaker in minority groups differently compared to their caucasian counterparts. Thus, the genotype most at risk for Alzheimer's disease and at an earlier age is APOE4,4. While ApoE4 has been found to greatly increase the odds that an individual will develop Alzheimer's, a 2002 study concluded, that in persons with any combination of APOE alleles, high serum total cholesterol and high blood pressure in mid-life are independent risk factors which together can nearly triple the risk that the individual will later develop AD. Indeed, the apolipoprotein ε4 isoform is more protective against cognitive decline than other isoforms in some cases, so caution is advised before making determinant statements about the influence of APOE polymorphisms on cognition, development of Alzheimer's disease, cardiovascular disease, telomere shortening, etc. As of 2007, there was no evidence that APOE polymorphisms influence cognition in younger age groups (other than possible increased episodic memory ability and neural efficiency in younger APOE4 age groups), nor that the APOE4 isoform places individuals at increased risk for any infectious disease.However, the association between the APOE4 allele and Alzheimer's disease has been shown to be weaker in minority groups differently compared to their caucasian counterparts. Thus, the genotype most at risk for Alzheimer's disease and at an earlier age is APOE4,4. While ApoE4 has been found to greatly increase the odds that an individual will develop Alzheimer's, a 2002 study concluded, that in persons with any combination of APOE alleles, high serum total cholesterol and high blood pressure in mid-life are independent risk factors which together can nearly triple the risk that the individual will later develop AD. 
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have shorter lifetime exposure to estrogen due to a decreased reproductive period. [SEP] Indeed, the apolipoprotein ε4 isoform is more protective against cognitive decline than other isoforms in some cases, so caution is advised before making determinant statements about the influence of APOE polymorphisms on cognition, development of Alzheimer's disease, cardiovascular disease, telomere shortening, etc. As of 2007, there was no evidence that APOE polymorphisms influence cognition in younger age groups (other than possible increased episodic memory ability and neural efficiency in younger APOE4 age groups), nor that the APOE4 isoform places individuals at increased risk for any infectious disease.However, the association between the APOE4 allele and Alzheimer's disease has been shown to be weaker in minority groups differently compared to their caucasian counterparts. Thus, the genotype most at risk for Alzheimer's disease and at an earlier age is APOE4,4. Apo-AI and ApoA4 are part of the APOA1/C3/A4/A5 gene cluster on chromosome 11.Hundreds of genetic polymorphisms of the apolipoproteins have been described, and many of them alter their structure and function. Indeed, the apolipoprotein ε4 isoform is more protective against cognitive decline than other isoforms in some cases, so caution is advised before making determinant statements about the influence of APOE polymorphisms on cognition, development of Alzheimer's disease, cardiovascular disease, telomere shortening, etc. As of 2007, there was no evidence that APOE polymorphisms influence cognition in younger age groups (other than possible increased episodic memory ability and neural efficiency in younger APOE4 age groups), nor that the APOE4 isoform places individuals at increased risk for any infectious disease.However, the association between the APOE4 allele and Alzheimer's disease has been shown to be weaker in minority groups differently compared to their caucasian counterparts. Thus, the genotype most at risk for Alzheimer's disease and at an earlier age is APOE4,4. Apo-AI and ApoA4 are part of the APOA1/C3/A4/A5 gene cluster on chromosome 11.Hundreds of genetic polymorphisms of the apolipoproteins have been described, and many of them alter their structure and function. 
Fibroblast Growth Factor is a ligand which signals through receptor tyrosine kinases. [SEP] The fibroblast growth factor receptors (FGFR) are, as their name implies, receptors that bind to members of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family of proteins. Structure
The fibroblast growth factor receptors consist of an extracellular ligand domain composed of three immunoglobulin-like domains, a single transmembrane helix domain, and an intracellular domain with tyrosine kinase activity. Fibroblast growth factors (FGF) are a family of cell signalling proteins produced by macrophages; they are involved in a wide variety of processes, most notably as crucial elements for normal development in animal cells. This local action of FGFs (Fibroblast Growth Factors) with their RTK receptors is classified as paracrine signalling. Fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1), also known as basic fibroblast growth factor receptor 1, fms-related tyrosine kinase-2 / Pfeiffer syndrome, and CD331, is a receptor tyrosine kinase whose ligands are specific members of the fibroblast growth factor family. FGFR1-4 are cell surface membrane receptors that possess tyrosine kinase activity. It binds to and exerts effects via specific fibroblast growth factor receptor  (FGFR) proteins, themselves a family of closely related molecules. Receptor tyrosine kinases may, by this method, influence growth factor receptor signaling. 
Fibroblast growth factor 21 protects against atherosclerosis by modulating adiponectin and SREBP2 levels. [SEP] FGF1 has been shown in clinical experimental studies to induce angiogenesis in the heart.As well as stimulating blood vessel growth, FGFs are important players in wound healing. Fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) is a protein and member of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family which participates in the regulation of phosphate in plasma and vitamin D metabolism. Description
Fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) is a protein which in humans is encoded by the FGF23 gene. FGF23 is a member of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family which participates in phosphate and vitamin D metabolism and regulation. Atherosclerosis is associated with inflammatory processes in the endothelial cells of the vessel wall associated with retained low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particles. Diet
Changes in diet may help prevent the development of atherosclerosis. It is involved in atherosclerotic initiation and progression including lipid metabolism, insulin signaling and glucose homeostatis, cell type progression and proliferation, and myeloid cell differentiation. High adiponectin levels correlate with a lower risk of diabetes mellitus type 2. 
Flexible molecules experience less steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. [SEP] Flexible may refer to:

Science and technology
Power cord, a flexible electrical cable. Most organic substances are molecules. Steric effects  arise from the spatial arrangement of atoms. Steric effects are nonbonding interactions that influence the shape (conformation) and reactivity of ions and molecules. Steric effects complement electronic effects, which dictate the shape and reactivity of molecules. Significance and applications
Steric effects are critical to chemistry, biochemistry, and pharmacology. In pharmacology, steric effects determine how and at what rate a drug will interact with its target bio-molecules. Recent findings from experiments that use this model show that active growth of the tumor is restricted to the outer edges of the tumor and that stiffening of the underlying normal tissue inhibits tumor growth as well.Benign conditions that are not associated with an abnormal proliferation of tissue (such as sebaceous cysts) can also present as tumors, however, but have no malignant potential. 
Folate and vitamin B12 levels influence the association between homocysteine and preeclampsia. [SEP] Elevated plasma homocysteine and low folate are associated with cognitive impairment, dementia and Alzheimer's disease. Supplementing the diet with folic acid and vitamin B12 lowers plasma homocysteine. Both adults and children need folate to make normal red and white blood cells and prevent anemia, which causes fatigue, weakness, and inability to concentrate.Increased homocysteine levels suggest tissue folate deficiency, but homocysteine is also affected by vitamin B12 and vitamin B6, renal function, and genetics. Cobalamin (vitamin B12) deficiency may lead to folate deficiency, which, in turn, increases homocysteine levels and may result in the development of cardiovascular disease or birth defects. Folate levels in the individual may affect the course of pathological changes and symptomatology of vitamin B12 deficiency. Consequently, an altered gene expression can possibly mediate impaired foetal growth and the programming of non-communicable diseases.Vitamin B12 and folate status during pregnancy is associated with the increasing risk of low birth weight, preterm birth, insulin resistance and obesity in the offspring. Deficiency of vitamin B12 can impair the remethylation of homocysteine in the methionine cycle, and result in raised homocysteine levels. In adults with metabolic syndrome, individuals with low levels of vitamin B12 had higher levels of homocysteine compared to healthy subjects. 
For every 1,000 children with cerebral palsy, more than 300 of them are premature or underweight at birth. [SEP] Premature infants are at greater risk for cerebral palsy, delays in development, hearing problems and problems with their vision. Its use before delivery, however, does appear to decrease the risk of cerebral palsy. It is estimated that one third of these low birth weight deliveries are due to preterm delivery. Weight generally correlates to gestational age; however, infants may be underweight for other reasons than a preterm delivery. Neonates of low birth weight (LBW) have a birth weight of less than 2,500 g (5 lb 8 oz) and are mostly but not exclusively preterm babies as they also include small for gestational age (SGA) babies. The 2007 Institute of Medicine report Preterm Birth found that the 550,000 premature babies born each year in the U.S. run up about $26 billion in annual costs, mostly related to care in neonatal intensive care units, but the real tab may top $50 billion. Babies born before 37 weeks are "preterm" and at higher risk of health problems such as cerebral palsy. Underweight births and intrauterine growth restrictions cause 2.2 million child deaths a year. 
Forkhead 0 (fox0) transcription factors are involved in apoptosis. [SEP] FOX (forkhead box) proteins are a family of transcription factors that play important roles in regulating the expression of genes involved in cell growth, proliferation, differentiation, and longevity. For example, the FOXF2 gene encodes forkhead box F2, one of many human homologues of the Drosophila melanogaster transcription factor forkhead. Apoptosis
FOXO1 may play an important role in apoptosis because it is phosphorylated and inhibited by AKT. When FOXO1 is over expressed in human LNCaP prostate cancer cells, it causes apoptosis. FOXO1 upregulates Fas ligand (FasL) transcriptionally resulting in apoptotic cell death. Function
FOXO3 belongs to the O subclass of the forkhead family of transcription factors which are characterized by a distinct fork head DNA-binding domain. Function
FOXA1 is a member of the forkhead class of DNA-binding proteins. The expression of this gene can be induced by nerve growth factor (NGF), as well as by the forkhead transcription factor FKHR-L1 (FoxO3a), which suggests a role of this gene in neuronal and lymphocyte apoptosis. 
Forkhead 0 (fox0) transcription factors are involved in cellular differentiation. [SEP] FOX (forkhead box) proteins are a family of transcription factors that play important roles in regulating the expression of genes involved in cell growth, proliferation, differentiation, and longevity. FOX proteins also have pioneering transcription activity by being able to bind condensed chromatin during cell differentiation processes.The defining feature of FOX proteins is the forkhead box, a sequence of 80 to 100 amino acids forming a motif that binds to DNA. FOXP2 is a member of the forkhead box family of transcription factors, proteins that regulate gene expression by binding to DNA. The FOXP2 gene region acts as a transcription factor for the forkhead box P2 protein. Using a combination of bioinformatics and RNA analyses, they discovered that the gene codes for a novel protein belonging to the forkhead-box (FOX) group of transcription factors. Function
This gene belongs to subfamily P of the forkhead box (FOX) transcription factor family. Forkhead box transcription factors play important roles in the regulation of tissue- and cell type-specific gene transcription during both development and adulthood. Fox genes are part of a forkhead DNA-binding domain family. 
Formation of N-terminal pyroglutamate by glutamine cyclase (GC) competes with NTAQ1 for Nt-Gln substrates. [SEP] N-terminal glutamic acid and glutamine residues can spontaneously cyclize to become pyroglutamate, or enzymatically converted by glutaminyl cyclases. The enzyme pyroglutamate aminopeptidase can restore a free N-terminus by cleaving off the pyroglutamate residue.Pyroglutamic acid exists as two distinct enantiomers:

(2R) or D which happens to be (+) or d
(2S) or L which happens to be (–) or l

Metabolism
As first discovered in 1882, pyroglutamic acid can be formed by heating glutamic acid at 180 °C, which results in the loss of a molecule of water. Pyroglutamic acid may function in glutamate storage, and acts to oppose the action of glutamate, including in the brain. Pyroglutamate aminopeptidase is a type of enzyme that cleaves the peptide bond linking the N-terminal end of a polypeptide forming a cyclical lactam to the next amino acid residue. Pyroglutamate aminopeptidase may be used to cleave the cyclical lactam and will therefore leave the next amino acid with a free N-terminal. In enzymology, a glutaminyl-peptide cyclotransferase (EC 2.3.2.5) is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction

L-glutaminyl-peptide 
  
    
      
        ⇌
      
    
    {\displaystyle \rightleftharpoons }
   5-oxoprolyl-peptide + NH3 or
L-glutamyl-peptide 
  
    
      
        ⇌
      
    
    {\displaystyle \rightleftharpoons }
   5-oxoprolyl-peptide + H2OHence, this enzyme has one substrate, L-glutaminyl-peptide or L-glutamyl-peptide, and two products, 5-oxoprolyl-peptide and NH3 or H2O. "Identification of a mammalian glutaminyl cyclase converting glutaminyl into pyroglutamyl peptides". "Isolation and properties of glutamine cyclotransferase of dried papaya latex". 
FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is inhibited by reactive oxygen species (ROS). [SEP] Regulation and function
Due to a variety of upstream and downstream regulatory interactions, CHOP plays an important role in ER stress-induced apoptosis caused by a variety of stimuli such as pathogenic microbial or viral infections, amino acid starvation, mitochondrial stress, neurological diseases, and neoplastic diseases. BAX-BAK oligomerization causes cytochrome c and apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) release from mitochondria, eventually causing cell death.TRB3 pseudokinase  is upregulated by the ER stress-inducible transcriptional factor, ATF4-CHOP. Apoptosis induction via Death-Receptor Pathway
Death receptor-mediated apoptosis occurs via activation of death ligands (Fas, TNF, and TRAIL) and death receptors. Upon activation, the receptor protein, Fas-associated death domain protein, forms death-inducing signaling complex, which activates the downstream caspase cascade to induce apoptosis. The PERK-ATF4-CHOP pathway can induce apoptosis by binding to the death receptors and upregulating the expression of death receptor 4 (DR4) and DR5. CHOP also upregulates the expression of DR5 by binding to the 5′-region of the DR5 gene.Under prolonged ER stress conditions, activation of the PERK-CHOP pathway will permit DR5 protein levels to rise, which accelerates the formation of the death-inducing signaling complex (DISC) and activates caspase-8, leading to apoptosis

Apoptosis induction through other downstream pathways
In addition, CHOP also mediates apoptosis through increasing the expression of the ERO1α (ER reductase) gene, which catalyzes the production of H2O2 in the ER. The highly oxidized state of the ER results in H2O2 leakage into the cytoplasm, inducing the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and a series of apoptotic and inflammatory reactions.The overexpression of CHOP can lead to cell cycle arrest and result in cell apoptosis. Bag5 overexpression inhibited ER stress-induced apoptosis in the unfolded protein response by suppressing PERK-eIF2-ATF4 and enhancing the IRE1-Xbp1 activity.In general, the downstream targets of CHOP regulate the activation of apoptotic pathways, however, the molecular interaction mechanisms behind those processes remain to be discovered. 
Foxk2 regulates autophagy genes in muscle cells and fibroblast cells. [SEP] Molecular biology
Autophagy is executed by autophagy-related (Atg) genes. These two kinases regulate autophagy through inhibitory phosphorylation of the Unc-51-like kinases ULK1 and ULK2 (mammalian homologues of Atg1). Induction of autophagy results in the dephosphorylation and activation of the ULK kinases. Exercise-induced autophagy was unsuccessful however; but when autophagy was induced artificially post-exercise, the accumulation of damaged organelles in collagen VI deficient muscle fibres was prevented and cellular homeostasis was maintained. Both studies demonstrate that autophagy induction may contribute to the beneficial metabolic effects of exercise and that it is essential in the maintaining of muscle homeostasis during exercise, particularly in collagen VI fibers.Work at the Institute for Cell Biology, University of Bonn, showed that a certain type of autophagy, i.e. Autophagy plays an important role in cancer – both in protecting against cancer as well as potentially contributing to the growth of cancer. The interface between inflammation and autophagy
Regulators of autophagy control regulators of inflammation, and vice versa. Autophagy is essential for neuronal survival. 
Foxp3 enables the expression of transcriptional regulators implicated in memory T cell development. [SEP] Both subsets require the expression of the transcription factor FOXP3 which can be used to identify the cells. Mutations of the FOXP3 gene can prevent regulatory T cell development, causing the fatal autoimmune disease IPEX. Several other types of T cells have suppressive activity, but do not express FOXP3 constitutively. In addition to possessing innate-like functions, this T cell subset supports the adaptive immune response and has a memory-like phenotype. In vitro, butyrate increases gene expression of FOXP3 (the transcription regulator for Tregs) and promotes colonic regulatory T cells (Tregs) through the inhibition of class I histone deacetylases; through these actions, it increases the expression of interleukin 10, an anti-inflammatory cytokine. Function
Transcriptional regulation
KMT2A gene encodes a transcriptional coactivator that plays an essential role in regulating gene expression during early development and hematopoiesis. Tonic TCR signalling is necessary to keep the FoxO transcription factor active, which in turn allows for IL-7R transcription. As a results, many genes are acetylated and therefore accessible to transcription even after the differentiation into memory subsets, hence allowing memory T cells to rapidly re-express some effector related genes. 
Foxp3 represses the expression of transcriptional regulators implicated in memory T cell development. [SEP] Both subsets require the expression of the transcription factor FOXP3 which can be used to identify the cells. Mutations of the FOXP3 gene can prevent regulatory T cell development, causing the fatal autoimmune disease IPEX. Several other types of T cells have suppressive activity, but do not express FOXP3 constitutively. In addition to possessing innate-like functions, this T cell subset supports the adaptive immune response and has a memory-like phenotype. Function
Transcriptional regulation
KMT2A gene encodes a transcriptional coactivator that plays an essential role in regulating gene expression during early development and hematopoiesis. In vitro, butyrate increases gene expression of FOXP3 (the transcription regulator for Tregs) and promotes colonic regulatory T cells (Tregs) through the inhibition of class I histone deacetylases; through these actions, it increases the expression of interleukin 10, an anti-inflammatory cytokine. As a result akt promotes GLUT1 membrane deposition and akt also inhibits transcription factor forkhead box O (FoxO), whose inactivation acts in synergy with the mTORC2 above mentioned changes. Tonic TCR signalling is necessary to keep the FoxO transcription factor active, which in turn allows for IL-7R transcription. 
G-CSF increases the expansion and infiltration of MDSCs into tumors. [SEP] Tumors with high levels of infiltration by MDSCs have been associated with poor patient outcome and resistance to therapies. Tumor cell lines overexpress colony-stimulating factors (G-CSF and GM-CSF) and IL6, which promote development of MDSCs that have immune suppressive function in vivo. GM-CSF promotes synthesis of MDSCs from bone marrow, and the transcription factor c/EBP regulates development of MDSCs in bone marrow and in tumors. In cancer patients, growing tumors secrete a variety of cytokines and other molecules which are key signals involved in the generation of MDSC. G-CSF and GM-CSF) have long been used in vivo models of MDSC generation. GM-CSF, G-CSF and IL-6 allow the in vitro generation of MDSC that retain their suppressive function in vivo. The myeloid-differentiation cytokine GM-CSF is a key factor in MDSC production from bone marrow, and it has been shown that the c/EBPβ transcription factor plays a key role in the generation of in vitro bone marrow-derived and in vivo tumor-induced MDSC. As a drug target
CSF1R inhibitors have been developed as a potential route to reduce the presence of TAMs in the tumor microenvironment. 
GATA3 regulates cell cycle progression in bone marrow hematopoietic stem cells. [SEP] GATA1 plays a similarly critical role in the maturation of blood platelets from megakaryoblasts, promegakaryocytes, and megakaryocytes; the latter cells then shed membrane-enclosed fragments of their cytoplasm, i.e. mice lacking the Gata1 gene, indicate that this gene is essential for the development and maintenance of blood-based and/or tissue-based hematological cells, particularly red blood cells and platelets but also eosinophils, basophils, mast cells, and dendritic cells. These defects reflect the essential role of Gata-1 in stimulating the development, self-renewal, and/or maturation of red blood cell and platelet precursor cells. Studies using mice depleted of their Gata1 gene during adulthood show that: 1) Gata1 is required for the stimulation of erythropoiesis (i.e. Subsequent studies in mice and isolated human cells found that GATA1 stimulates the expression of genes that promote the maturation of precursor cells (e.g. Also based on mouse and isolated human cell studies, GATA1 appears to play a similarly critical role in the maturation of platelets from their precursor cells. GATA1 in myelofibrosis
Myelofibrosis is a rare hematological malignancy characterized by progressive fibrosis of the bone marrow, extramedullary hematopoiesis (i.e. The GATA1 gene resides on the X chromosome and codes for two transcription factors, GATA1 and a shorter version, GATA1-S. GATA1 and GATA1-S contribute to regulating the expression of genes that control the maturation of megakaryoblasts to promegakaryocytes, megakaryocytes, and platelets as well as the maturation of erythroblasts to red blood cells. 
GATA3 regulates self-renewal capacity in bone marrow hematopoietic stem cells. [SEP] GATA3 is a transcription factor that in humans is encoded by the GATA3 gene. Studies in animal models and humans indicate that it controls the expression of a wide range of biologically and clinically important genes.The GATA3 transcription factor is critical for the embryonic development of various tissues as well as for inflammatory and humoral immune responses and the proper functioning of the endothelium of blood vessels. Function
GATA3 belongs to the GATA family of transcription factors. Gene-deletion studies in mice indicate that Gata3 (mouse gene equivalent to GATA3) is critical for the embryonic development and/or function of various cell types (e.g. Comparable studies in animals implicate GATA3 in the development of lymphocytes that mediate allergic and humoral immunity as well as allergic and humoral immune responses. 3) GATA3 promotes the secretion of IL-4, IL-5, and IL-13 from Th2 cells in humans and has similar actions on comparable mouse lymphocytes. These regulators may promote or inhibit GATA3 in stimulating the expression of its target genes. GATA transcription factors are a family of transcription factors characterized by their ability to bind to the DNA sequence "GATA".GATA transcription factors have been correlated to their broader influence on stem cell development. 
Gastric infection with Helicobacter pylori decreases risk of gastric cancer in humans. [SEP] Cancer
Two related mechanisms by which H. pylori could promote cancer are under investigation. Although the data varies between different countries, overall about 1% to 3% of people infected with Helicobacter pylori develop gastric cancer in their lifetime compared to 0.13% of individuals who have had no H. pylori infection. Since 1% to 3% of infected individuals are likely to develop gastric cancer, H. pylori-induced gastric cancer is the third highest cause of worldwide cancer mortality as of 2018.Infection by H. pylori causes no symptoms in about 80% of those infected. H. pylori infection is also associated with a 1–2% lifetime risk of stomach cancer and a less than 1% risk of gastric MALT lymphoma.In the absence of treatment, H. pylori infection – once established in its gastric niche – is widely believed to persist for life. Infections
Helicobacter pylori infection is an essential risk factor in 65–80% of gastric cancers, but only 2% of people with H. pylori infections develop stomach cancer. Prevention
Getting rid of H. pylori in those who are infected decreases the risk of stomach cancer. Bacterial infection may also increase the risk of cancer, as seen in Helicobacter pylori-induced gastric carcinoma. Bacteria and parasites
Certain bacterial infections also increase the risk of cancer, as seen in Helicobacter pylori-induced gastric carcinoma. 
Gastric infection with Helicobacter pylori increases risk of gastric cancer in humans. [SEP] Although the data varies between different countries, overall about 1% to 3% of people infected with Helicobacter pylori develop gastric cancer in their lifetime compared to 0.13% of individuals who have had no H. pylori infection. Since 1% to 3% of infected individuals are likely to develop gastric cancer, H. pylori-induced gastric cancer is the third highest cause of worldwide cancer mortality as of 2018.Infection by H. pylori causes no symptoms in about 80% of those infected. Prognosis
Helicobacter pylori colonizes the stomach and induces chronic gastritis, a long-lasting inflammation of the stomach. H. pylori infection is also associated with a 1–2% lifetime risk of stomach cancer and a less than 1% risk of gastric MALT lymphoma.In the absence of treatment, H. pylori infection – once established in its gastric niche – is widely believed to persist for life. Infections
Helicobacter pylori infection is an essential risk factor in 65–80% of gastric cancers, but only 2% of people with H. pylori infections develop stomach cancer. Colonization of the gastric mucosa with Helicobacter pylori results in the development of chronic gastritis in infected individuals and, in a subset of patients, chronic gastritis progresses to complications (e.g., ulcer disease, stomach cancers, and some distinct extragastric disorders). Bacterial infection may also increase the risk of cancer, as seen in Helicobacter pylori-induced gastric carcinoma. Bacteria and parasites
Certain bacterial infections also increase the risk of cancer, as seen in Helicobacter pylori-induced gastric carcinoma. 
Gastric lavage is an effective treatment for acute paraquat poisoning. [SEP] Seizures are typically managed with lorazepam, phenytoin and phenobarbitol, or diazepam (particularly for organochlorine poisonings).Gastric lavage is not recommended to be used routinely in pesticide poisoning management, as clinical benefit has not been confirmed in controlled studies; it is indicated only when the patient has ingested a potentially life-threatening amount of poison and presents within 60 minutes of ingestion. Lavage is contra-indicated in cases of hydrocarbon ingestion.Activated charcoal is sometimes administered as it has been shown to be successful with some pesticides but its not effective for malathion poisoning  . Indications
Gastric lavage is used infrequently in modern poisoning treatment. Lavage should only be considered if the amount of poison ingested is potentially life-threatening and the procedure can be performed within 60 minutes of ingestion. Decontamination
Treatment of a recently ingested poison may involve gastric decontamination to decrease absorption. Gastric decontamination can involve activated charcoal, gastric lavage, whole bowel irrigation, or nasogastric aspiration. Lavage has been used for many years as a common treatment for poisoned patients. Diluted paraquat used for spraying is less toxic; thus, the greatest risk of accidental poisoning is during mixing and loading paraquat for use.The standard treatment for paraquat poisoning is first to remove as much as possible by pumping the stomach. 
General exercise therapy is more effective than rotator cuff exercises in reducing pain and improving function of the shoulder. [SEP] Pain management
Treatment for a rotator cuff tear can include rest, ice, physical therapy, and/or surgery. Manual therapy
A systematic review and Meta-analysis study shows manual therapy may help to reduce pain for patient with Rotator cuff tendiopathy, based on low- to moderate-quality evidence. Orthotherapy exercises
Patients that suffer from pain in the rotator cuff may consider utilizing orthotherapy into their daily lives. (See external links)
The recommendations usually include:

regular shoulder exercises to maintain strength and flexibility
using proper form when lifting or moving heavy weights
resting the shoulder when experiencing pain
application of cold packs and heat pads to a painful, inflamed shoulder
strengthening program to include the back and shoulder girdle muscles as well as the chest, shoulder and upper arm
adequate rest periods in occupations that require repetitive lifting and reaching

Size
According to a study which measured tendon length against the size of the injured rotator cuff, researchers learned that as rotator cuff tendons decrease in length, the average rotator cuff tear severity is proportionally decreased, as well. The empty can and full can exercises are amongst the most effective at isolating and strengthening the supraspinatus.Following arthroscopic rotator-cuff repair surgery, individuals need rehabilitation and physical therapy. Exercise decreases shoulder pain, strengthens the joint, and improves range of motion. There is no irrefutable evidence that rotator cuff surgery benefits more than non-surgical management and a percentage of individuals never regain full range of motion after surgery.Arthroscopic procedures produce "satisfactory results" more than 90 percent of the time. Steroid injections compared to physical therapy have a similar effect in improving shoulder function and decreasing pain. 
General exercise therapy is more effective than scapular stabilizer exercises in reducing pain and improving function of the shoulder. [SEP] (See external links)
The recommendations usually include:

regular shoulder exercises to maintain strength and flexibility
using proper form when lifting or moving heavy weights
resting the shoulder when experiencing pain
application of cold packs and heat pads to a painful, inflamed shoulder
strengthening program to include the back and shoulder girdle muscles as well as the chest, shoulder and upper arm
adequate rest periods in occupations that require repetitive lifting and reaching

Size
According to a study which measured tendon length against the size of the injured rotator cuff, researchers learned that as rotator cuff tendons decrease in length, the average rotator cuff tear severity is proportionally decreased, as well. When the shoulder muscle is exercised in all directions, such as external rotation, flexion, and extension, or vertical abduction, it is less likely to develop a tear of the tendon. The latter may cause less injury to muscle and produce better results. The empty can and full can exercises are amongst the most effective at isolating and strengthening the supraspinatus.Following arthroscopic rotator-cuff repair surgery, individuals need rehabilitation and physical therapy. Exercise decreases shoulder pain, strengthens the joint, and improves range of motion. In some studies, those who received earlier and more aggressive therapy reported reduced shoulder pain, less stiffness and better range of motion. The strengthening focuses on the rotator cuff and the upper back/scapular stabilizers. (It is named "military" because of the similarity in appearance to the "at attention" position used in most militaries) Unlike the seated shoulder press, the military press involves the majority of the muscles of the core as stabilizers to keep the body rigid and upright, and is thus a more effective compound exercise. 
Genes involved in pre-mRNA splicing have a significant impact on genome stability. [SEP] A very important modification of eukaryotic pre-mRNA is RNA splicing. The efficiency of mRNA-splicing is a major factor controlling the level of A-to-I RNA editing. Trans-splicing is very common in C. elegans
A splice donor site being joined to a splice acceptor site further upstream in the primary transcript, yielding a circular transcript.The notion that circularized transcripts are byproducts from imperfect splicing is supported by the low abundance and the lack of sequence conservation of most circRNAs, but has been challenged. On the accuracy of splicing
The spliceosome is a very complex structure containing up to one hundred proteins and five different RNAs. This relatively high level of splicing errors explains why most splice variants are rapidly degraded by nonsense-mediated decay.The presence of sloppy binding sites within genes causes splicing errors and it may seem strange that these sites haven't been eliminated by natural selection. A significant fraction of human deaths by disease may be caused by mutations that interfere with normal splicing; mostly by creating cryptic splice sites.Incorrectly spliced transcripts can easily be detected and their sequences entered into the online databases. The efficiency of splicing was improved by association with stabilizing proteins to form the primitive spliceosome.Early studies of genomic DNA sequences from a wide range of organisms show that the intron-exon structure of homologous genes in different organisms can vary widely. The control of alternative RNA splicing is performed by a complex network of signaling molecules that respond to a wide range of intracellular and extracellular signals. 
Genes regulated by Esrrb transcription factor are sensitive to Mbd3 function. [SEP] Bookmarking by transcription factors
Notable transcription factors implicated in mitotic bookmarking include:

BRD4
GATA1
HSP70
TFIID
ESRRB


== References == Methyl-CpG-binding domain protein 3 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MBD3 gene. Human proteins MECP2, MBD1, MBD2, MBD3, and MBD4 comprise a family of nuclear proteins related by the presence in each of a methyl-CpG binding domain (MBD). However, unlike the other family members, MBD3 is not capable of binding to methylated DNA but instead binds to hydroxymethylated DNA. The predicted MBD3 protein shares 71% and 94% identity with MBD2 (isoform 1) and mouse Mbd3. MBD3 is a subunit of the NuRD, a multisubunit complex containing nucleosome remodeling and histone deacetylase activities. MBD3 mediates the association of metastasis-associated protein 2 (MTA2) with the core histone deacetylase complex.MBD3 also contains the coiled‐coil domain common to all three MBD3 isoforms. Interactions
MBD3 has been shown to interact with:

AURKA,
GATAD2B,
HDAC1,
MTA2, and
MBD2. 
Genetic deficiency of mast cells leads to decreased weight gain in a mouse model of diet-induced obesity. [SEP] The first in vitro differentiation and growth of a pure population of mouse mast cells has been carried out using conditioned medium derived from concanavalin A-stimulated splenocytes. Function
Mast cells play a key role in the inflammatory process. Other membrane activation events can either prime mast cells for subsequent degranulation or act in synergy with FcεRI signal transduction. Several lines of evidence suggest that mast cells may have a fairly fundamental role in innate immunity: They are capable of elaborating a vast array of important cytokines and other inflammatory mediators such as TNF-α; they express multiple "pattern recognition receptors" thought to be involved in recognizing broad classes of pathogens; and mice without mast cells seem to be much more susceptible to a variety of infections.Mast cell granules carry a variety of bioactive chemicals. Mast cells serve the same general functions in the body and central nervous system, such as effecting or regulating allergic responses, innate and adaptive immunity, autoimmunity, and inflammation. Mutations in c-Kit are associated with mastocytosis. This mast cell activation could contribute to brain inflammation and neurodevelopmental problems. Expression of some molecules may change in course of the mast cell activation. 
Genetic deletion of JAM-A increases gut permeability. [SEP] The Jam were  an English mod revival/punk rock band formed in 1972 at Sheerwater Secondary School in Woking, Surrey. The song is almost unanimously considered to be his greatest contribution to the Jam. At this point the group changed its name to From the Jam. "From the Jam toured the UK in late 2007, finishing with a concert at Brighton Centre on 21 December 2007 to mark the 25th anniversary of the Jam's final show. That's Entertainment:: My Life in the Jam. Thick As Thieves: Personal Situations with the Jam. Articles:
The Jam articles - The Guardian
article about the Jam - The Guardian
Vanessa Thorpe, 25 years on, life in the Jam is revealed, The Guardian, 15 July 2007
'From the Jam' Billboard.com article

References
External links
The Jam fan – run by Rick Buckler
The Jam Information Pages History, lyrics, album covers, info
The Jam - BBC
"From the Jam":
From the Jam Official – Administrated by Guy Helliker In an early promotional interview, Vedder said that the name "Pearl Jam" was a reference to his great-grandmother Pearl, who was married to a Native American and had a special recipe for peyote-laced jam. 
Genomic aberrations of metastases provide information for targeted therapy. [SEP] Untargeted approaches are also useful in research to observe tumor heterogeneity or to discover new drug targets. Targeted approaches
In a targeted approach, sequencing of ctDNA can be directed towards a genetic panel constructed based on mutational hotspots for the cancer of interest. This is especially important for informing treatment in situations where mutations are identified in druggable targets. Whole genome or whole exome sequencing of the primary tumor biopsy allows for discovery of genetic mutations specific to a patient’s tumor, and can be used for subsequent targeted sequencing of the patient’s ctDNA. This makes ctDNA a powerful emerging tool for the detection of genetic mutations at the genomic scale in patients suffering from metastatic cancer to observe the clinical relevance of the clonal composition of these tumors to understand better cancer control. Furthermore, ctDNA analysis is an emerging tool for understanding the clonal composition of metastatic tumors, detecting different mutations on a genomic scale, studying subclonal diversity that affects the prognosis of the disease as different resistant phenotypes can be found and the appearance of new mechanisms of genomic and transcriptomic resistance to treatment. These sequencing techniques can also determine the clonal evolution of cancer, tumor heterogeneity and drug resistance mechanisms involved in cancer. At the translational level, Cancer Systems Biology should engender precision medicine application to cancer treatment. 
Genomic sequences involved in alternative splicing responsible for Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS) are abundant in the ''progerinonly'' allele of Lmna knock-in models. [SEP] Genome-wide analysis
Genome-wide analysis of alternative splicing is a challenging task. Pathophysiology
Hutchinson-Gilford syndrome (HGPS) is an extremely rare autosomal dominant genetic disorder in which symptoms resembling aspects of aging are manifested at an early age. It is caused by mutations in the LMNA (lamin A protein) gene on chromosome 1; the mutated form of lamin A is commonly known as progerin. Defects in Lamin A/C
Hutchinson–Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS) and restrictive dermopathy (RD) are two PS caused by a defect in lamin A/C, which is encoded by the LMNA gene. At least 16 Other mutations in lamin A/C, or defects in the ZMPSTE24 gene, have been shown to cause HGPS and other progeria-like symptoms, although these are less studied. HGPS may refer to:

Progeria (Hutchinson–Gilford progeria syndrome)
Hellisheiði Power Station, in Iceland
Holy Ghost Preparatory School, in Bensalem, Pennsylvania, United States
Hospital General de la Plaza de la Salud in the Dominican Republic
LMNA, or Lamin A/C, a protein
ROBO3, or Roundabout homolog 3, a protein

See also
HGP (disambiguation) Pathophysiology
Hutchinson-Gilford syndrome (HGPS) is an extremely rare autosomal dominant genetic disorder in which symptoms resembling aspects of aging are manifested at an early age. It is caused by mutations in the LMNA (lamin A protein) gene on chromosome 1; the mutated form of lamin A is commonly known as progerin. 
Glial calcium waves influence seizures. [SEP] Astrocytes in humans are more than twenty times larger than in rodent brains, and make contact with more than ten times the number of synapses.Research since the mid-1990s has shown that astrocytes propagate intercellular Ca2+ waves over long distances in response to stimulation, and, similar to neurons, release transmitters (called gliotransmitters) in a Ca2+-dependent manner. An influx of Ca2+ ions into astrocytes is the essential change that ultimately generates calcium waves. Calcium elevations are the primary known axis of activation in astrocytes, and are necessary and sufficient for some types of astrocytic glutamate release. Given the importance of calcium signaling in astrocytes, tight regulatory mechanisms for the progression of the spatio-temporal calcium signaling have been developed. Epileptic seizures can vary from brief and nearly undetectable periods to long periods of vigorous shaking due to abnormal electrical activity in the brain. Gliosis, neuronal loss, and atrophy of specific areas of the brain are linked to epilepsy but it is unclear if epilepsy causes these changes or if these changes result in epilepsy.The seizures can be described on different scales, from the cellular level to the whole brain. These are several concomitant factor, which on different scale can "drive" the brain to pathological states and trigger a seizure. In people with coeliac disease or non-celiac gluten sensitivity and occipital calcifications, a gluten-free diet may decrease the frequency of seizures. 
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is characterized by extensive invasion, rapid growth, necrosis, and angiogenesis. [SEP] Glioblastoma, previously known as glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), is the most aggressive and most common type of cancer that originates in the brain, and has very poor prognosis for survival. See also
References
External links

Information about Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM) from the American Brain Tumor Association
AFIP Course Syllabus – Astrocytoma WHO Grading Lecture Handout Glioblastoma, previously known as glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), is the most aggressive and most common type of cancer that originates in the brain, and has very poor prognosis for survival. See also
References
External links

Information about Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM) from the American Brain Tumor Association
AFIP Course Syllabus – Astrocytoma WHO Grading Lecture Handout Glioblastoma multiforme
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most aggressive (grade IV) and most common form of a malignant brain tumor. Standard therapy for glioblastoma multiforme consists of maximal surgical resection of the tumor, followed by radiotherapy between two and four weeks after the surgical procedure to remove the cancer, then by chemotherapy, such as temozolomide. Glioblastoma, previously known as glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), is the most aggressive and most common type of cancer that originates in the brain, and has very poor prognosis for survival. See also
References
External links

Information about Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM) from the American Brain Tumor Association
AFIP Course Syllabus – Astrocytoma WHO Grading Lecture Handout 
Glucose restriction to 0.05% reduces RLS (replicative life span) by 20-40% in S. cerevisiae. [SEP] Nutritional requirements
All strains of S. cerevisiae can grow aerobically on glucose, maltose, and trehalose and fail to grow on lactose and cellobiose. Some of the topics studied using yeast are calorie restriction, as well as in genes and cellular pathways involved in senescence. The two most common methods of measuring aging in yeast are Replicative Life Span (RLS), which measures the number of times a cell divides, and Chronological Life Span (CLS), which measures how long a cell can survive in a non-dividing stasis state. Limiting the amount of glucose or amino acids in the growth medium has been shown to increase RLS and CLS in yeast as well as other organisms. Over-expression of the genes sir2 and fob1 has been shown to increase RLS by preventing the accumulation of extrachromosomal rDNA circles, which are thought to be one of the causes of senescence in yeast. A yeast mutant lacking the genes Sch9 and Ras2 has recently been shown to have a tenfold increase in chronological lifespan under conditions of calorie restriction and is the largest increase achieved in any organism.Mother cells give rise to progeny buds by mitotic divisions, but undergo replicative aging over successive generations and ultimately die. During starvation of non-replicating S. cerevisiae cells, reactive oxygen species increase leading to the accumulation of DNA damages such as apurinic/apyrimidinic sites and double-strand breaks. S. cerevisiae causes 1% to 3.6% nosocomial cases of fungemia. 
Glycan adaptation involves insertion-deletion events. [SEP] Following full assembly, the glycan is transferred en bloc by the glycosyltransferase oligosaccharyltransferase to a nascent peptide chain, within the reticular lumen. Essentials of Glycobiology. "Glycans in the immune system and The Altered Glycan Theory of Autoimmunity". Different species synthesize different types of N-linked glycan. N-linked glycans are almost always attached to the nitrogen atom of an asparagine (Asn) side chain that is present as a part of Asn–X–Ser/Thr consensus sequence, where X is any amino acid except proline (Pro).In animal cells, the glycan attached to the asparagine is almost inevitably N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) in the β-configuration. This core glycan is then elaborated and modified further, resulting in a diverse range of N-glycan structures. Upon transferring the completed glycan onto the nascent polypeptide, two glucose residues are removed from the structure. "Glycans in the immune system and The Altered Glycan Theory of Autoimmunity: a critical review". 
Glycan adaptation is rarely observed in the B-cell repertoire. [SEP] Processing and modification of N-linked glycans within the Golgi does not follow a linear pathway. Until now, glycans have received little attention from the research community due to a lack of tools to probe their often complex structures and properties. "Glycans in the immune system and The Altered Glycan Theory of Autoimmunity". The N-linked glycosylation process occurs in eukaryotes and widely in archaea, but very rarely in bacteria. Different species synthesize different types of N-linked glycan. However, compared to eukaryotes, the final glycan structure in eubacteria and archaea does not seem to differ much from the initial precursor made in the endoplasmic reticulum. "Glycans in the immune system and The Altered Glycan Theory of Autoimmunity: a critical review". B1 cells sequences also show no evidence for somatic hypermutation (SHM), and few non-templated nucleotide (N) sequence insertions, a pattern typical of neonatal B cells. 
Gpr124 increases BBB breakdown in mouse models of ischemic stroke. [SEP] Probable G-protein coupled receptor 124 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the GPR124 gene. It is a member of the adhesion-GPCR family of receptors. Interactions
GPR124 has been shown to interact with DLG1 and is involved in the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway along with RECK.Zebrafish embryos with Gpr124 loss of function demonstrate severe angiogenic deficiencies in the central nervous system. G protein-coupled receptor 55 also known as GPR55 is a G protein-coupled receptor that in humans is encoded by the GPR55 gene.GPR55, along with GPR119 and GPR18, have been implicated as novel cannabinoid receptors. GPR55 is indeed activated by endogenous and exogenous cannabinoids such as plant and synthetic cannabinoids but GPR-55 knockout mice generated by a research group from Glaxo Smith Kline showed no altered blood pressure regulation after administration of the cannabidiol-derivative abnormal cannabidiol. Signal cascade
GPR55 is coupled to the G-protein G13 and activation of the receptor leads to stimulation of rhoA, cdc42 and rac1. Pharmacology
GPR55 is activated by the plant cannabinoids Δ9-THC and the endocannabinoids anandamide, 2-AG and noladin ether in the low nanomolar range. GPR55 is widely expressed in the brain, especially in the cerebellum. 
Gpr124 suppresses BBB breakdown in mouse models of ischemic stroke. [SEP] Probable G-protein coupled receptor 124 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the GPR124 gene. It is a member of the adhesion-GPCR family of receptors. Interactions
GPR124 has been shown to interact with DLG1 and is involved in the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway along with RECK.Zebrafish embryos with Gpr124 loss of function demonstrate severe angiogenic deficiencies in the central nervous system. G protein-coupled receptor 55 also known as GPR55 is a G protein-coupled receptor that in humans is encoded by the GPR55 gene.GPR55, along with GPR119 and GPR18, have been implicated as novel cannabinoid receptors. GPR55 is indeed activated by endogenous and exogenous cannabinoids such as plant and synthetic cannabinoids but GPR-55 knockout mice generated by a research group from Glaxo Smith Kline showed no altered blood pressure regulation after administration of the cannabidiol-derivative abnormal cannabidiol. Signal cascade
GPR55 is coupled to the G-protein G13 and activation of the receptor leads to stimulation of rhoA, cdc42 and rac1. Mice with a target deletion of the GPR55 gene show no specific phenotype. GPR55 is widely expressed in the brain, especially in the cerebellum. 
Guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitor (Rho-GDI) interacts with the p75 NTR death domain [SEP] RhoA is activated primarily by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) via phosphorylation; due to large network of overlapping phosphorylation, a multitude of GEFs are utilized to enable specific signaling pathways. RhoA pathway
Molecules act on various receptors, such as NgR1, LINGO1, p75, TROY and other unknown receptors (e.g. p75NTR associates with the Rho GDP dissociation inhibitor (RhoGDI), and RhoGDI associates with  RhoA. In molecular biology, the Guanosine dissociation inhibitors (GDIs) constitute a family of small GTPases that serve a regulatory role in vesicular membrane traffic. References
External links
Guanine+Nucleotide+Dissociation+Inhibitors at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) RhoA is activated primarily by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) via phosphorylation; due to large network of overlapping phosphorylation, a multitude of GEFs are utilized to enable specific signaling pathways. p75NTR associates with the Rho GDP dissociation inhibitor (RhoGDI), and RhoGDI associates with  RhoA. RHO protein GDP dissociation inhibitor  of Rho proteins (rho GDI), regulates GDP/GTP exchange. 
Guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) mediate RhoA activation in response to tensional forces on fibronectin-binding integrins. [SEP] Activation mechanism
RhoA acquires both inactive GDP-bound and active GTP-bound conformational states; these states alternate between the active and inactive states via the exchange of GDP to GTP (conducted simultaneously via guanine nucleotide exchange factors and GTPase activating factor). RhoA is activated primarily by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) via phosphorylation; due to large network of overlapping phosphorylation, a multitude of GEFs are utilized to enable specific signaling pathways. Activation levels of RhoA and associated GEFs are measured using RhoA and GEF pull down assays that uses Rhotekin and mutant RhoA G17A beads respectively

Participation in cellular processes
RhoA is primarily involved in these activities: actin organization, myosin contractility, cell cycle maintenance, cellular morphological polarization, cellular development and transcriptional control. Signal transduction pathways regulated via RhoA link plasma membrane receptors to focal adhesion formation and the subsequent activation of relevant actin stress fibers. RhoA directly stimulates actin polymerization through activation of diaphanous-related formins, thereby structurally changing the actin monomers to filaments. Integrins can modulate RhoA activity depending on the extracellular matrix composition and other relevant factors. Regulators
Three general classes of regulators of Rho protein signaling have been identified: guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEFs), GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs) and guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitors (GDIs). GEFs activate Rho proteins by catalyzing the exchange of GDP for GTP. 
H.pylori-mediated gastric cancer occurs due to the accumulation of mutations in host epithelial cells. [SEP] Cancer
Two related mechanisms by which H. pylori could promote cancer are under investigation. According to the proposed perigenetic mechanism, inflammation-associated signaling molecules, such as TNF-α, can alter gastric epithelial cell adhesion and lead to the dispersion and migration of mutated epithelial cells without the need for additional mutations in tumor suppressor genes, such as genes that code for cell adhesion proteins.The strain of H. pylori a person is exposed to may influence the risk of developing gastric cancer. Although the data varies between different countries, overall about 1% to 3% of people infected with Helicobacter pylori develop gastric cancer in their lifetime compared to 0.13% of individuals who have had no H. pylori infection. Since 1% to 3% of infected individuals are likely to develop gastric cancer, H. pylori-induced gastric cancer is the third highest cause of worldwide cancer mortality as of 2018.Infection by H. pylori causes no symptoms in about 80% of those infected. H. pylori infection is also associated with a 1–2% lifetime risk of stomach cancer and a less than 1% risk of gastric MALT lymphoma.In the absence of treatment, H. pylori infection – once established in its gastric niche – is widely believed to persist for life. Role of infections
Bacterial
Helicobacter pylori can cause gastric cancer. Although the data varies between different countries, overall about 1% to 3% of people infected with Helicobacter pylori develop gastric cancer in their lifetime compared to 0.13% of individuals who have had no H. pylori infection. Since 1% to 3% of infected individuals are likely to develop gastric cancer, H. pylori-induced gastric cancer is the third highest cause of worldwide cancer mortality as of 2018.Infection by H. pylori causes no symptoms in about 80% of those infected. 
H4 G94P proteins induce chromatin assembly, which increases free histones. [SEP] Histone proteins are the basic packers and arrangers of chromatin and can be modified by various post-translational modifications to alter chromatin packing (histone modification). For example, histone acetylation results in loosening and increased accessibility of chromatin for replication and transcription. This singular modification changed the dynamics of the chromatin which shows that acetylation of H4 at K16 is vital for proper intra- and inter- functionality of chromatin structure.Polycomb-group proteins play a role in regulating genes through modulation of chromatin structure.For additional information, see Chromatin variant, Histone modifications in chromatin regulation and RNA polymerase control by chromatin structure. Through altering the chromatin structure, histones residues are adding chemical groups namely phosphate, acetyl and one or more methyl groups and these control the expressions of gene building by proteins to acquire DNA. Chromatin regulation
Histones undergo posttranslational modifications that alter their interaction with DNA and nuclear proteins. H3K9Me2/3 serves as a binding site for the recruitment of Swi6 (heterochromatin protein 1 or HP1, another classic heterochromatin marker) which in turn recruits further repressive activities including histone modifiers such as histone deacetylases and histone methyltransferases. Nucleosome formation is dependent on the positive charges of the H4 histones and the negative charge on the surface of H2A histone fold domains. After the deposition of histones H3-H4, nucleosomes form by the association of histone H2A-H2B. 
H4 G94P proteins induce degradation of free histones via Rad53-dependent mechanisms. [SEP] In addition, histones play important roles in gene regulation and DNA replication. Without histones, unwound DNA in chromosomes would be very long. The 4 'core' histones (H2A, H2B, H3 and H4) are relatively similar in structure and are highly conserved through evolution, all featuring a 'helix turn helix turn helix' motif (DNA-binding protein motif that recognize specific DNA sequence). Histones are subject to post translational modification by enzymes primarily on their N-terminal tails, but also in their globular domains. Chromatin regulation
Histones undergo posttranslational modifications that alter their interaction with DNA and nuclear proteins. The H3 and H4 histones have long tails protruding from the nucleosome, which can be covalently modified at several places. Due to the tight association of histone proteins to DNA, eukaryotic cells have proteins that are designed to remodel histones ahead of the replication fork, in order to allow smooth progression of the replisome. After the deposition of histones H3-H4, nucleosomes form by the association of histone H2A-H2B. 
H4 G94P proteins inhibit chromatin assembly, which decreases free histones. [SEP] Chromatin regulation
Histones undergo posttranslational modifications that alter their interaction with DNA and nuclear proteins. H3K36Me3 is recognised by the Rpd3 histone deacetylase complex, which removes acetyl modifications from surrounding histones, increasing chromatin compaction and repressing spurious transcription. H3K9Me2/3 serves as a binding site for the recruitment of Swi6 (heterochromatin protein 1 or HP1, another classic heterochromatin marker) which in turn recruits further repressive activities including histone modifiers such as histone deacetylases and histone methyltransferases. Suppression of histone gene expression outside of S phases is dependent on Hir proteins which form inactive chromatin structure at the locus of histone genes, causing transcriptional activators to be blocked. Such modifications affect the binding affinity between histones and DNA, and thus loosening or tightening the condensed DNA wrapped around histones, e.g., Methylation of specific lysine residues in H3 and H4 causes further condensation of DNA around histones, and thereby prevents binding of transcription factors to the DNA that lead to gene repression. General loss of histones precludes addition of histone modifications and contributes changes in enrichment in some chromatin regions during senescence. Nucleosome formation is dependent on the positive charges of the H4 histones and the negative charge on the surface of H2A histone fold domains. Lysines on the amino terminal tails of histones have a tendency to weaken the chromatin's overall structure. 
H4 G94P proteins suppress degradation of free histones via Rad53-dependent mechanisms. [SEP] Histones prevent DNA from becoming tangled and protect it from DNA damage. In addition, histones play important roles in gene regulation and DNA replication. Without histones, unwound DNA in chromosomes would be very long. The 4 'core' histones (H2A, H2B, H3 and H4) are relatively similar in structure and are highly conserved through evolution, all featuring a 'helix turn helix turn helix' motif (DNA-binding protein motif that recognize specific DNA sequence). Histones are subject to post translational modification by enzymes primarily on their N-terminal tails, but also in their globular domains. Histone proteins are among the most highly conserved proteins in eukaryotes, emphasizing their important role in the biology of the nucleus. Chromatin regulation
Histones undergo posttranslational modifications that alter their interaction with DNA and nuclear proteins. The H3 and H4 histones have long tails protruding from the nucleosome, which can be covalently modified at several places. 
HAND2 methylation is a key step in early endometrial carcinogenesis. [SEP] However, it has become apparent that cancer is also driven by
epigenetic alterations.Epigenetic alterations refer to functionally relevant modifications to the genome that do not involve a change in the nucleotide sequence. Epigenetic repression of DNA repair genes in accurate DNA repair pathways appear to be central to carcinogenesis. FEN1, the flap endonuclease in MMEJ, is epigenetically increased by promoter hypomethylation and is over-expressed in the majority of cancers of the breast, prostate, stomach, neuroblastomas, pancreas, and lung. PARP1 is also over-expressed when its promoter region ETS site is epigenetically hypomethylated, and this contributes to progression to endometrial cancer and BRCA-mutated serous ovarian cancer. A recent prospective human study investigating the relationship between microbial metabolites and cancer found a strong correlation between circulating deoxycholate as well as other specific bile acids and colorectal cancer risk in women. Epigenetic alterations occur frequently in cancers. As an example, one study listed protein coding genes that were frequently altered in their methylation in association with colon cancer. However, up to 15% of MLH1-deficiencies in sporadic colon cancers appeared to be due to over-expression of the microRNA miR-155, which represses MLH1 expression.In 29–66% of glioblastomas, DNA repair is deficient due to epigenetic methylation of the MGMT gene, which reduces protein expression of MGMT. 
HIV trans-activator protein (TAT) effectively transports large and small molecules across cellular membranes into larger populations of neurons. [SEP] In molecular biology, Tat is a protein that is encoded for by the tat gene in HIV-1. Tat is a regulatory protein that drastically enhances the efficiency of viral transcription. Tat then binds to cellular factors and mediates their phosphorylation, resulting in increased transcription of all HIV genes, providing a positive feedback cycle. Function and mechanism
Like other lentiviruses, HIV-1 encodes a trans-activating regulatory protein (Tat), which is essential for efficient transcription of the viral genome. Tat secretion by infected cells is highly active, and export is the major destination for HIV-1 Tat. The HIV genome encodes a small number of viral proteins, invariably establishing cooperative associations among HIV proteins and between HIV and host proteins, to invade host cells and hijack their internal machineries. Essential regulatory elements
tat (HIV trans-activator) plays an important role in regulating the reverse transcription of viral genome RNA, ensuring efficient synthesis of viral mRNAs and regulating the release of virions from infected cells. Tat is expressed as 72-amino acid one-exon Tat as well as the 86–101-amino-acid two-exon Tat, and plays an important role early in HIV infection. 
HNF4A mutations are associated with macrosomia in infancy. [SEP] Hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 alpha (HNF4A) also known as NR2A1 (nuclear receptor subfamily 2, group A, member 1) is a nuclear receptor that in humans is encoded by the HNF4A gene. Function
HNF-4α is a nuclear transcription factor that binds DNA as a homodimer. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.HNF4A is required for the PXR and CAR-mediated transcriptional activation of CYP3A4. Clinical significance
Mutations in the HNF4A gene are associated with a form of diabetes called maturity onset diabetes of the young (MODY), specifically MODY 1. Deletion of Hnf4a in the developing mouse kidney caused Fanconi syndrome phenotypes including polyruia, polydipsia, glycosuria, and phosphaturia. The Hnf4a mutant kidney showed a defect in the formation of proximal tubules. Causes
Multiple factors have been shown to increase likelihood of infant macrosomia, including preexisting obesity, diabetes, or dyslipidemia of the mother, gestational diabetes, post-term pregnancy, prior history of a macrosomic birth, genetics, and other factors. Epidemiology
In healthy pregnancies without pre-term or post-term health complications, fetal macrosomia has been observed to affect around 12% of newborns. 
HOXB4 facilitates HSC expansion when co-cultured with HSCs. [SEP] Homeobox protein Hox-B4 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HOXB4 gene. Intracellular or ectopic expression of this protein expands hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells in vivo and in vitro, making it a potential candidate for therapeutic stem cell expansion. See also
Homeobox

References
Further reading
External links
HOXB4+protein,+human at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)This article incorporates text from the United States National Library of Medicine, which is in the public domain. Such studies have identified functional RAREs within flanking sequences of some of the most 3′ Hox genes (including HOXA1, HOXB1, HOXB4, HOXD4), suggesting a direct interaction between the genes and retinoic acid. For example, ATRA plays an important role in activating Hox genes required for hindbrain development. HSC may stand for:

Business
Hughes Systique Corporation
Halifax Shopping Centre
Harmonized System Code
Harsco Corporation

Computing
HSC50 (Hierarchical Storage Controller), using DEC Mass Storage Control Protocol
Hughes Systique Corporation

Medicine
Health and Social Care in Northern Ireland
Hematopoietic stem cell
Hepatic stellate cell
Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Canada
Hydraulic Sinus Condensing, a technique used in dentistry to lift the sinus
Hysteroscopy, a method for looking into the uterus via the cervix

Organizations
Harare Sports Club, sports venue in Zimbabwe
Health Service Commissioner for England
Health Sponsorship Council
Heraldry Society of Canada
Huntington Society of Canada
Health and Safety Commission
Horizon Scanning Centre (HSC)
United States Homeland Security Council

Schooling
Certificates
Higher School Certificate (New South Wales), Australia
Higher School Certificate (Victoria), Australia
Higher School Certificate (UK)
Higher Secondary (School) Certificate (South Asian countries)

Schools
Hampden–Sydney College
Hillfield Strathallan College, private school in Hamilton, Ontario, Canada
Hsin Sheng College of Medical Care and Management, private junior college in Taoyuan City, Taiwan

Related
Hindu Students Council

Other
High-speed craft
Houston Ship Channel
Hyper Suprime-Cam, camera for Subaru Telescope
Mauser HSc, pistol
Shaoguan Guitou Airport, IATA code Since Haberlandt's original assertions, methods for tissue and cell culture have been realized, leading to significant discoveries in biology and medicine. Culture of human stem cells is used to expand the number of cells and differentiate the cells into various somatic cell types for transplantation. 
HOXB4 is a highly expressed component of cellular secretome from fetal liver cell populations. [SEP] Homeobox protein Hox-B4 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HOXB4 gene. It is included in a cluster of homeobox B genes located on chromosome 17. See also
Homeobox

References
Further reading
External links
HOXB4+protein,+human at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)This article incorporates text from the United States National Library of Medicine, which is in the public domain. Such studies have identified functional RAREs within flanking sequences of some of the most 3′ Hox genes (including HOXA1, HOXB1, HOXB4, HOXD4), suggesting a direct interaction between the genes and retinoic acid. hMSCs’ secretome is one of the most widely researched secretome profile. A large fraction of the corresponding liver-specific proteins are mainly expressed in hepatocytes and secreted into the blood and constitute plasma proteins and hepatokines. Other liver-specific proteins are certain liver enzymes such as HAO1 and RDH16, proteins involved in bile synthesis such as BAAT and SLC27A5, and transporter proteins involved in the metabolism of drugs, such as ABCB11 and SLC2A2. In the human embryo, the hepatic diverticulum is the tube of endoderm that extends out from the foregut into the surrounding mesenchyme. 
HSCT-T dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before AMI. [SEP] The High Speed Civil Transport (HSCT) was the focus of the NASA High-Speed Research (HSR) program, which intended to develop the technology needed to design and build a supersonic transport that would be environmentally acceptable and economically feasible. Infection and graft-versus-host disease are major complications of allogeneic HSCT.HSCT remains a dangerous procedure with many possible complications; it is reserved for patients with life-threatening diseases. Autologous HSCT is an effective treatment against aggressive Multiple Sclerosis. The type of autologous HSCT used as a Multiple Sclerosis treatment is considered safe and the serious adverse events rare. Engraftment
After several weeks of growth in the bone marrow, expansion of HSCs and their progeny is sufficient to normalize the blood cell counts and reinitiate the immune system. Prognosis
Prognosis in HSCT varies widely dependent upon disease type, stage, stem-cell source, HLA-matched status (for allogeneic HSCT), and conditioning regimen. This study reported a cardiovascular-related fatality risk within the first 30 days of HSCT of about two in 10,000. A randomized clinical trial including 110 patients showed that HSCT significantly prolonged time to disease progression compared to disease-modifying therapy. 
Having a main partner improves HIV outcomes. [SEP] Prevention
Sexual contact
Consistent condom use reduces the risk of HIV transmission by approximately 80% over the long term. Additional benefits include a decreased risk of transmission of the disease to sexual partners and a decrease in mother-to-child transmission. HAART also prevents the transmission of HIV between serodiscordant same-sex and opposite-sex partners so long as the HIV-positive partner maintains an undetectable viral load.Treatment has been so successful that in many parts of the world, HIV has become a chronic condition in which progression to AIDS is increasingly rare. This has been shown to lead to dramatically reduced transmission of HIV when one partner with a suppressed viral load (<50 copies/ml) has sex with a partner who is HIV negative. The studies demonstrating that U=U is an effective strategy for preventing HIV transmission in serodiscordant couples so long as "the partner living with HIV [has] a durably suppressed viral load" include: Opposites Attract, PARTNER 1, PARTNER 2, (for male-male couples) and HPTN052 (for heterosexual couples). The importance of the final results of the PARTNER 2 study were described by the medical director of the Terrence Higgins Trust as "impossible to overstate", while lead author Alison Rodger declared that the message that "undetectable viral load makes HIV untransmittable ... can help end the HIV pandemic by preventing HIV transmission." (2018) found that individuals in open relationships reported more condom use in both vaginal and anal intercourse compared to monogamous couples.The development of PrEP has led to a decrease in risk for HIV infection by as much as 92%. Monogamy was seen as a way to avoid getting HIV/AIDS. 
Having a main partner worsens HIV outcomes. [SEP] Within many countries, an HIV-positive status can result in social exclusion, loss of social support, and decreased chances of getting married. Delayed testing is highly detrimental and leads to an increased risk of HIV transmission. These types of infections cause significant illness and death in patients with HIV/AIDS. women with HIV are also more likely to be infected with other sexually transmitted diseases, placing them at higher risk for infertility. People with AIDS fall prey to opportunistic infections and die as a result. This creates a greater risk for women to suffer from complications associated with HIV. There is also evidence to suggest that the presence of HIV/AIDS infection in a woman could result in lower or no marriage prospects, which creates greater stigma for women suffering from HIV/AIDS. Not having a partner (being single, divorced, or widowed) doubled the risk of dementia. 
HbA1c consistently overestimates glycemic control in black individuals with Sickle cell trait (SCT). [SEP] Glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c, glycohemoglobin, hemoglobin, A1C or A1c) is a form of hemoglobin (Hb) that is chemically linked to a sugar. The process by which sugars attach to hemoglobin is called glycation and the reference system is based on HbA1c, defined as beta-N-1-deoxy fructosyl haemoglobin as component.HbA1c is measured primarily to determine the three-month average blood sugar level and can be used as a diagnostic test for diabetes mellitus and as an assessment test for glycemic control in people with diabetes. A diabetic person with good glucose control has an HbA1c level that is close to or within the reference range.The International Diabetes Federation and the American College of Endocrinology recommend HbA1c values below 48 mmol/mol (6.5 DCCT %), while the American Diabetes Association recommends HbA1c be below 53 mmol/mol (7.0 DCCT %) for most patients. Lower-than-expected levels of HbA1c can be seen in people with shortened red blood cell lifespans, such as with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, sickle-cell disease, or any other condition causing premature red blood cell death. Good glycemic control, in the sense of a "target" for treatment, has become an important goal of diabetes care, although recent research suggests that the complications of diabetes may be caused by genetic factors or, in type 1 diabetics, by the continuing effects of the autoimmune disease which first caused the pancreas to lose its insulin-producing ability.Because blood sugar levels fluctuate throughout the day and glucose records are imperfect indicators of these changes, the percentage of hemoglobin which is glycated is used as a proxy measure of long-term glycemic control in research trials and clinical care of people with diabetes. As of 2015 the guidelines called for an HbA1c of around 7% or a fasting glucose of less than 7.2 mmol/L (130 mg/dL); however these goals may be changed after professional clinical consultation, taking into account particular risks of hypoglycemia and life expectancy. In the non-diabetic, the HbA1c level ranges from 4.0 to 6.0%; patients with diabetes mellitus who manage to keep their HbA1c level below 6.5% are considered to have good glycemic control. sickle cell disease). 
Headaches are correlated with cognitive impairment. [SEP] Headaches that occur after a concussion may feel like migraine headaches or tension-type headaches. Most headaches are tension-type headaches, which may be associated with a neck injury that occurred at the same time of the head injury. Physical
A common condition associated with PCS is headache. (see diagnosis above).Headache is one of the criteria for PCS, but it is notably undetermined where the headache comes from. Couch, Lipton, Stewart and Scher (2007) argue that headaches, one of the hallmarks of PCS, occur in a variety of injuries to the head and neck. Symptoms related to cognition include emotional instability and fatigue including neurological fatigue. Brain-injured people commonly experience issues with memory. Headaches and pain can also occur as a result of a brain injury either directly from the damage or due to neurological conditions stemming from the injury. 
Healthy volunteers exhibit rapid and transient increase of cellular ATP after being bolus-injected with fructose. [SEP] This result compares favorably with placebo, where, according to the literature, 3–6% of patients gained more than 7% of their initial weight. The dose is subsequently escalated for further groups, up to a predetermined level.Food effect
A short trial designed to investigate any differences in absorption of the drug by the body, caused by eating before the drug is given. However, newer studies suggest that a goal of SBP <130 mmHg may confer even greater benefit. While intensive glucose control can prevent certain complications of diabetes such as kidney damage and retinal damage, there has previously been little evidence that it decreases the risk of stroke or death. A balloon is inflated at the site of stenosis, opening up the clogged artery to allow for increased blood flow to the brain. The name "Increase" is a literal translation of the Hebrew "Yosëf" (Joseph). Increase Mather. Increase Mather: The Foremost American Puritan. 
Helicobacter pylori-induced aberrant NF-kB-dependent expression of activation-induced cytidine deaminase contributes to the mutagenesis of host DNA. [SEP] Bacterial infection may also increase the risk of cancer, as seen in Helicobacter pylori-induced stomach cancer. It also appears that chronic inflammation caused by HCV infection triggers the aberrant up-regulation of activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID) in hepatocytes. AID creates mutations in DNA by deamination (a DNA damage) of the cytosine base, which converts cytosine into uracil. Levels of 8-oxo-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), one of the predominant forms of free radical-induced oxidative DNA damages, are increased more than 8-fold in DNA after infection by H. pylori, especially if the H. pylori are cagA positive. Such alterations can lead to abnormal methylation of promoters of tumor suppressor genes.In addition to mutations caused by the direct damage to DNA by H. pylori-induced ROS, H. pylori-induced carcinogenic mutations and protein expression alterations are very often a result of H. pylori-induced epigenetic alterations. These epigenetic alterations include H. pylori-induced methylation of CpG sites in promoters of genes and H. pylori-induced altered expression of multiple microRNAs.As reviewed by Santos and Ribeiro H. pylori infection is associated with epigenetically reduced efficiency of the DNA repair machinery, which favors the accumulation of mutations and genomic instability as well as gastric carcinogenesis. It creates mutations in DNA by deamination of cytosine base, which turns it into uracil (which is recognized as a thymine). Function
This gene encodes a DNA-editing deaminase that is a member of the cytidine deaminase family. 
Helminths interfere with immune system control of coinfections by microbial pathogens 16. [SEP] Helminths are able to survive in their mammalian hosts for many years due to their ability to manipulate the host's immune response by secreting immunomodulatory products. Many of the worms referred to as helminths are intestinal parasites. An infection by a helminth is known as helminthiasis, helminth infection, or intestinal worm infection. Helminth infection causes an increase in eosinophils. Immunological response
As pathogens in the body, helminths induce an immune response. Secondary effects
Immune changes
In humans, T helper cells and eosinophils respond to helminth infestation. These substances then enter the circulatory and lymphatic systems of the host body.Chronic immune responses to helminthiasis may lead to increased susceptibility to other infections such as tuberculosis, HIV, and malaria. Coinfection with helminths affects around 800 million people worldwide.Coinfection is of particular human health importance because pathogen species can interact within the host. 
Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rates above 90%. [SEP] Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are the stem cells that give rise to other blood cells. Hematopoietic stem cells constitute 1:10,000 of cells in myeloid tissue. This enables Hematopoietic stem cells to be harvested directly from the blood. The doses are stored frozen until needed.The FDA has approved five hematopoietic stem-cell products derived from umbilical-cord blood, for the treatment of blood and immunological diseases.In 2014, the European Medicines Agency recommended approval of limbal stem cells for people with severe limbal stem cell deficiency due to burns in the eye. Research using both hematopoietic adult stem cells and embryonic stem cells has provided insight into the possible mechanisms and methods of treatment for many of these ailments.Fully mature human red blood cells may be generated ex vivo by hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), which are precursors of red blood cells. Hematopoietic stem cells have also been discovered to be travelling in the blood stream and possess equal differentiating ability as other mesenchymal stem cells, again with a very non-invasive harvesting technique.There has been more recent interest in the use of extra embryonic mesenchymal stem cells. Stem cell procedures are highly profitable for clinics. Hematopoietic stem cells may also cross the bone marrow barrier, and may thus be harvested from blood. 
High levels of CRP lead to a higher risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). [SEP] C-reactive protein (CRP) is a common inflammatory marker that has been found to be present in increased levels in patients at risk for cardiovascular disease. Chronic respiratory disease
Chronic Respiratory Diseases (CRDs) are diseases of the lungs and airways. Common CRDs are: Asthma, Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, Occupational lung disease, and Pulmonary hypertension. The main risk factors for developing CRDs are: tobacco smoking, indoor and outdoor air pollution, allergens, and occupational risks.WHO helped launch the Global Alliance against Chronic Respiratory Diseases (GARD) in 2006. "The term pneumonia is sometimes more broadly applied to any condition resulting in inflammation of the lungs (caused for example by autoimmune diseases, chemical burns or drug reactions); however, this inflammation is more accurately referred to as pneumonitis.Factors that predispose to pneumonia include smoking, immunodeficiency, alcoholism, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, sickle cell disease (SCD), asthma, chronic kidney disease, liver disease, and biological aging. C-reactive protein (CRP) may help support the diagnosis. For those with CRP less than 20 mg/L without convincing evidence of pneumonia, antibiotics are not recommended.Procalcitonin may help determine the cause and support decisions about who should receive antibiotics. Most critical respiratory comorbidities according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), are: moderate or severe asthma, pre-existing COPD, pulmonary fibrosis, cystic fibrosis. 
Higher plasma levels of I-carnitine, when associated with trimethylamine N-oxide, are negatively correlated with cardiovascular events in humans. [SEP] Carnitine is a quaternary ammonium compound involved in metabolism in most mammals, plants, and some bacteria. Carnitine supplements do not improve oxygen consumption or metabolic functions when exercising, nor do they increase the amount of carnitine in muscle. Diseases
Carnitine has been studied in various cardiometabolic conditions, indicating it is under preliminary research for its potential as an adjunct in heart disease and diabetes, among numerous other disorders. Carnitine has no effect on preventing all-cause mortality associated with cardiovascular diseases, and has no significant effect on blood lipids.Although there is some evidence from meta-analyses that L-carnitine supplementation improved cardiac function in people with heart failure, there is insufficient research to determine its overall efficacy in lowering the risk or treating cardiovascular diseases.There is only preliminary clinical research to indicate the use of L-carnitine supplementation for improving symptoms of type 2 diabetes, such as improving glucose tolerance or lowering fasting levels of blood glucose.The kidneys contribute to overall homeostasis in the body, including carnitine levels. In the case of renal impairment, urinary elimination of carnitine increasing, endogenous synthesis decreasing, and poor nutrition as a result of disease-induced anorexia can result in carnitine deficiency. Carnitine has no effect on most parameters in end-stage kidney disease, although it may lower C-reactive protein, a biomarker for systemic inflammation. Carnitine blood levels and muscle stores can become low, which may contribute to anemia, muscle weakness, fatigue, altered levels of blood fats, and heart disorders. By acting as an acyl group acceptor, carnitine may also play the role of regulating the intracellular CoA:acyl-CoA ratio. 
Higher plasma levels of I-carnitine, when associated with trimethylamine N-oxide, are positively correlated with cardiovascular events in humans. [SEP] Carnitine is a quaternary ammonium compound involved in metabolism in most mammals, plants, and some bacteria. Carnitine supplements do not improve oxygen consumption or metabolic functions when exercising, nor do they increase the amount of carnitine in muscle. Male fertility
The carnitine content of seminal fluid is directly related to sperm count and motility, suggesting that the compound might be of value in treating male infertility. Diseases
Carnitine has been studied in various cardiometabolic conditions, indicating it is under preliminary research for its potential as an adjunct in heart disease and diabetes, among numerous other disorders. Carnitine has no effect on preventing all-cause mortality associated with cardiovascular diseases, and has no significant effect on blood lipids.Although there is some evidence from meta-analyses that L-carnitine supplementation improved cardiac function in people with heart failure, there is insufficient research to determine its overall efficacy in lowering the risk or treating cardiovascular diseases.There is only preliminary clinical research to indicate the use of L-carnitine supplementation for improving symptoms of type 2 diabetes, such as improving glucose tolerance or lowering fasting levels of blood glucose.The kidneys contribute to overall homeostasis in the body, including carnitine levels. Carnitine has no effect on most parameters in end-stage kidney disease, although it may lower C-reactive protein, a biomarker for systemic inflammation. Carnitine blood levels and muscle stores can become low, which may contribute to anemia, muscle weakness, fatigue, altered levels of blood fats, and heart disorders. By acting as an acyl group acceptor, carnitine may also play the role of regulating the intracellular CoA:acyl-CoA ratio. 
Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) induces oxidative stress. [SEP] Ribosome maturation protein SBDS is a protein that in humans is encoded by the SBDS gene. Knockdown of SBDS expression results in increased apoptosis in erythroid cells undergoing differentiation due to elevated ROS levels. Hence SBDS is critical for normal erythropoiesis.This family is highly conserved in species ranging from archaea to vertebrates and plants. The family contains several Shwachman-Bodian-Diamond syndrome (SBDS) proteins from both mouse and humans. It is associated with the SBDS gene and has autosomal recessive inheritance. The SBDS gene resides in a block of genomic sequence that is locally duplicated on the chromosome. The marked absence of patients homozygous for the otherwise common nonsense mutation suggested that the SBDS gene is essential. Mechanisms
The SBDS gene is expressed in all tissues and encodes a protein of 250 amino acid residues. 
Human embryonic stem cells give rise to cell types from all three embryonic germ layers. [SEP] The inner cell mass is the source of embryonic stem cells, which are pluripotent and can develop into any one of the three germ layer cells, and which have the potency to give rise to all the tissues and organs. The three germ layers are the ectoderm, mesoderm and endoderm, and are formed as three overlapping flat discs. Pluripotent
Embryonic stem cells of the inner cell mass are pluripotent, meaning they are able to differentiate to generate primitive ectoderm, which ultimately differentiates during gastrulation into all derivatives of the three primary germ layers: ectoderm, endoderm, and mesoderm. These germ layers generate each of the more than 220 cell types in the adult human body. After more than 6 months of undifferentiated proliferation, these cells demonstrated the potential to form derivatives of all three embryonic germ layers both in vitro and in teratomas. cells derived from any of the three germ layers. ESCs are pluripotent and give rise during development to all derivatives of the three germ layers: ectoderm, endoderm and mesoderm. Plasticity
Discoveries in recent years have suggested that adult stem cells might have the ability to differentiate into cell types from different germ layers. 
Human embryonic stem cells give rise to cell types from the outer embryonic germ layer, but not the other two layers. [SEP] See also

Germ cell
Histogenesis
Neurulation
List of human cell types derived from the germ layers


== References == The inner cell mass is the source of embryonic stem cells, which are pluripotent and can develop into any one of the three germ layer cells, and which have the potency to give rise to all the tissues and organs. See also
Germline development
List of human cell types derived from the germ layers
Germ cell tumor

References
External links

Germ+Cells at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)
Primordial Germ Cell Development pluripotentia, "ability for many [things]") refers to a stem cell that has the potential to differentiate into any of the three germ layers: endoderm (gut, lungs, yolk sac), mesoderm (muscle, skeleton, blood vascular, urogenital, dermis), or ectoderm (nervous, sensory, epidermis), but not into extra-embryonic tissues like the placenta. Examples of stem and progenitor cells include:
Radial glial cells (embryonic neural stem cells) that give rise to excitatory neurons in the fetal brain through the process of neurogenesis. Mesenchymal stem cells (adult stem cells) from the bone marrow that give rise to stromal cells, fat cells, and types of bone cells
Epithelial stem cells (progenitor cells) that give rise to the various types of skin cells
Muscle satellite cells (progenitor cells) that contribute to differentiated muscle tissue.A pathway that is guided by the cell adhesion molecules consisting of four amino acids, arginine, glycine, asparagine, and serine, is created as the cellular blastomere differentiates from the single-layered blastula to the three primary layers of germ cells in mammals, namely the ectoderm, mesoderm and endoderm (listed from most distal (exterior) to proximal (interior)). The transduction of the stem cells into these cells types is not directed solely by chemokine cues and cell to cell signaling. Later development
Once the three germ layers have been established, cellular differentiation can occur. 
Human embryonic stem cells have the capacity to give rise to differentiated progeny representative of all three embryonic germ layers. [SEP] Stem cells are characterized by their capacity to differentiate into multiple cell types. Generation of 3D in vitro models of the human CNS
Human midbrain-derived neural progenitor cells (hmNPCs) have the ability to differentiate down multiple neural cell lineages that lead to neurospheres as well as multiple neural phenotypes. See also
Induced pluripotent stem cells
List of human cell types derived from the germ layers

References
Jaganathan, Arun; Tiwari, Meena; Phansekar, Rahul; Panta, Rajkumar; Huilgol, Nagraj (2011). Plasticity
Discoveries in recent years have suggested that adult stem cells might have the ability to differentiate into cell types from different germ layers. In common with embryonic stem cells, adult stem cells have the ability to differentiate into more than one cell type, but unlike the former they are often restricted to certain types or "lineages". Mesenchymal stem cells (adult stem cells) from the bone marrow that give rise to stromal cells, fat cells, and types of bone cells
Epithelial stem cells (progenitor cells) that give rise to the various types of skin cells
Muscle satellite cells (progenitor cells) that contribute to differentiated muscle tissue.A pathway that is guided by the cell adhesion molecules consisting of four amino acids, arginine, glycine, asparagine, and serine, is created as the cellular blastomere differentiates from the single-layered blastula to the three primary layers of germ cells in mammals, namely the ectoderm, mesoderm and endoderm (listed from most distal (exterior) to proximal (interior)). Soon after the gastrula is formed, three distinct layers of cells (the germ layers) from which all the bodily organs and tissues then develop. During morphogenesis, totipotent stem cells become the various pluripotent cell lines of the embryo, which in turn become fully differentiated cells. 
Hypocretin neurones suppress panicprone state in rats. [SEP] Neurotransmitters found in this area were oddly similar to the gut hormone, secretin, a member of the incretin family, so they named hypocretin to stand for a hypothalamic member of the incretin family. hypocretin-1) has been shown to be strongly wake-promoting in animal models, but it does not cross the blood–brain barrier. More recent clinical studies on both animals and humans have also revealed that hypocretin is involved in other functions beside regulation of wakefulness and sleep. In studies where the concentration of the hypocretin was measured under different circumstances, it was observed that the hypocretin levels increased with the positive emotion, anger or social interaction but stayed low during sleep or during pain experience.The most reliable and valid animal models developed are the canine (narcoleptic dogs) and the rodent (orexin-deficient mice) ones which helped investigating the narcolepsy and set the focus on the role of orexin in this disorder. Noradrenaline (norepinephrine) is released from most postganglionic neurons in the sympathetic nervous system onto two sets of GPCRs: alpha adrenoceptors and beta adrenoceptors. Serotonergic neurons—serotonin. Histaminergic neurons—histamine. Histamine-producing neurons are found in the tuberomammillary nucleus of the hypothalamus. 
Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is unrelated to energy balance. [SEP] Classes of neurotransmitters include amino acids, monoamines, and peptides. Neurotransmitters regulate each other's release, and weak consistent imbalances in this mutual regulation were linked to temperament in healthy people. The whole circuitry is driven by the process of neurotransmission. The hypothalamus also regulates food intake through autonomic signals, and hormone release by the digestive system. Brain metabolism normally relies upon blood glucose as an energy source, but during times of low glucose (such as fasting, endurance exercise, or limited carbohydrate intake), the brain uses ketone bodies for fuel with a smaller need for glucose. It is thought that hypothalamic neurons tonically produce endocannabinoids that work to tightly regulate hunger. Based upon animal models, exercise appears to normalize the excessive levels of glutamate neurotransmission into the nucleus accumbens that occurs in drug addiction. In other words, the hedonic impact did not change based on the amount of sugar. 
IFI16 impedes STING phosphorylation and translocation, resulting in reduced activation of STING. [SEP] Gamma-interferon-inducible protein Ifi-16 (Ifi-16) also known as interferon-inducible myeloid differentiation transcriptional activator is a protein that in humans is encoded by the IFI16 gene. IFI16 has been shown to play a role in the sensing of intracellular DNA - a hallmark of virally infected cells - and has also been linked to the death of HIV-infected helper CD4 T cells by pyroptosis, a highly inflammatory form of programmed cell death. Recently, it has been shown how IFI16, once extracellularly released, can induce inflammation upon TLR4 binding, acting as a DAMP. Bandleader Gordon Solomon thought he looked like a bee (or according to Sting himself, "they thought I looked like a wasp"), which prompted the name "Sting". Sting himself was inducted in 2003, as a member of the Police.In October 2009, Sting played a concert in Tashkent, Uzbekistan, for an arts and cultural festival organised by the Forum of Culture and Arts of Uzbekistan Foundation. Sting states, "before [the Ball] I did not know about Amnesty, I did not know about its work, I did not know about torture in the world." "In January 2018, it was reported that Sting had joined the board of advisors of an impact investing fund of JANA Partners LLC named JANA Impact Capital, aimed at serving environmental and social causes. Sting may refer to:

Stinger or sting, a structure of an animal to inject venom, or the injury produced by a stinger
Irritating hairs or prickles of a stinging plant, or the plant itself
Sting operation,  a deceptive operation by law enforcement designed to catch a person attempting to commit a crime

Fictional characters and entities
Sting (Middle-earth), a fictional sword in J. R. R. Tolkien's The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings
Sting Oakley, a character in Gundam Seed Destiny
Peter Stanchek (comics), a character nicknamed "Sting" in the Valiant Comics universe
Trixie Sting, a character in the TV series Slugterra
Kamen Rider Sting, a character in the TV series Kamen Rider Dragon Knight

Music
Sting (EP), 2016, by Stellar
"Sting" (Eric Saade song), 2015
"Sting" (Fletcher song), 2022
Sting (musical phrase), a short sequence of music used in films and TV as a form of punctuation
Sting (percussion), a brief burst of percussion to punctuate a joke
"Sting" (Stellar song), 2016

People
Sting (musician) (born 1951), English musician and actor
Sting (wrestler) (born 1959), American professional wrestler and actor
Cheeseekau or Sting (1760–1792), war chief of the Kispoko division of the Shawnee Nation
Sting International, stage name of American musician Shaun Pizzonia (born 1968)

Science
Stimulator of interferon genes (STING), a protein
Sting, a plant disease caused by Belonolaimus longicaudatus

Sports teams
Arizona Sting, an NLL lacrosse team (2004–2007)
Charlotte Sting, a WNBA basketball team (1997–2006)
Chicago Sting, an American soccer team (1975–1988)
Las Vegas Sting, now the Anaheim Piranhas, an Arena Football League team (1994–1995)
Sarnia Sting, an Ontario Hockey League junior team
Southern Sting, a New Zealand netball team (1998–2007)
Trenton Sting, an Ontario Provincial Junior A Hockey League team

Video gaming
Sting: The Secret Operations, a 2008 online first person shooter
Sting Entertainment, a video game development company

Other uses
Sting (fixture), a wind tunnel part
Sting (horse) (born 1921), an American Thoroughbred racehorse
Airborne Sting, a hang glider
Sting Energy Drink, a Filipino/Pakistani energy drink
Sting operation, a deceptive law enforcement operation to catch a person committing a crime
The Sting, a caper film

See also
The Sting (disambiguation) 
IFIT1 speeds viral replication by allowing for the proliferation of mis-capped viral RNAs. [SEP] Interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the IFIT1 gene. IFIT proteins (Interferon Induced proteins with Tetratricopeptide repeats) are produced in the human body and are supposed to confer immunity against viral infection. These proteins are generally produced during viral infection; Interferon (IFN) treatment;  and during pathogen recognition (Pathogen associated molecular pattern recognition) by the immune system during infections.So far, four families of this protein have been identified in humans which are IFIT1, IFIT2, IFIT3 and IFIT5 and other variants have been found in different species. Anti viral mechanism of IFIT proteins
IFIT proteins are suggested to show anti viral activity in two ways; one, by binding specifically to viral nucleic acids and the other, by directly binding to eukaryotic initiation factor 3 (eIF3) and preventing eIF3 from initiating the translational process. Experimental data and the three dimensional structure of IFIT1 reveals that the proteins bind to viral PPP RNA in a sequence specific manner. Viral replication is the formation of biological viruses during the infection process in the target host cells. Replication is monocistronic and includes individual, segmented genomes, meaning that each of the genes codes for only one protein, unlike other viruses, which exhibit more complex translation. This usually involves the deletion of a part of the viral genome critical for viral replication. 
IL-10 production by monocytes inhibits CD4 + T cell response. [SEP] IL-10 suppresses Th1 cells differentiation and function of dendritic cells. Human IL-10 (hIL-10) suppresses the proliferation and cytokine production of all T cells and the activity of macrophages, but continues to stimulate plasma cells, ensuring that antibody production still occurs. Triggering PD-1 expressed on activated monocytes by its ligand PD-L1, induces IL-10 production which inhibits CD4 T-cell function. Triggering monocytes-expressed PD-1 by its ligand PD-L1 induces IL-10 production, which activates CD4 Th2 cells and inhibits CD4 Th1 cell function. IL-10 can be produced by monocytes upon PD-1 triggering in these cells. Extensive IL-10 locus remodeling is observed in monocytes upon stimulation of TLR or Fc receptor pathways. Discovered in 1991, IL-10 was initially reported to suppress cytokine secretion, antigen presentation and CD4+ T cell activation. Triggering PD-1, expressed on monocytes and up-regulated upon monocytes activation, by its ligand PD-L1 induces IL-10 production which inhibits CD4 T-cell function.In mice, expression of this gene is induced in the thymus when anti-CD3 antibodies are injected and large numbers of thymocytes undergo apoptosis. 
IL-6 signaling plays a major role in atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. [SEP] Recent evidence indicate that PCSK9 is highly expressed in arterial walls such as endothelium, smooth muscle cells, and macrophages, with a local effect that can regulate vascular homeostasis and atherosclerosis. Recent advances in basic science have established a fundamental role for inflammation in mediating all stages of atherosclerosis from initiation through progression and, ultimately, the thrombotic complications from it. These new findings provide important links between risk factors and the mechanisms of atherogenesis. Clinical studies have shown that this emerging biology of inflammation in atherosclerosis applies directly to human patients. In addition, low-grade chronic inflammation, as indicated by levels of the inflammatory marker C-reactive protein, prospectively defines risk of atherosclerotic complications, thus adding to prognostic information provided by traditional risk factors. These new insights on inflammation contribute to the etiology of atherosclerosis, and the practical clinical applications in risk stratification and the targeting of therapy for atherosclerosis. Obese people commonly have many elevated markers of inflammation, including:
IL-6 (Interleukin-6)
Low-grade chronic inflammation is characterized by a two- to threefold increase in the systemic concentrations of cytokines such as TNF-α, IL-6, and CRP. As of 2017 the association of systemic inflammation with insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes, and with atherosclerosis was under preliminary research, although rigorous clinical trials had not been conducted to confirm such relationships.C-reactive protein (CRP) is generated at a higher level in obese people, and may increase the risk for cardiovascular diseases. 
ITAM phosphorylation allows for the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). [SEP] The T-cell receptor (TCR) is a protein complex found on the surface of T cells, or T lymphocytes, that is responsible for recognizing fragments of antigen as peptides bound to major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules. Each locus can produce a variety of polypeptides with constant and variable regions.When the TCR engages with antigenic peptide and MHC (peptide/MHC), the T lymphocyte is activated through signal transduction, that is, a series of biochemical events mediated by associated enzymes, co-receptors, specialized adaptor molecules, and activated or released transcription factors. The cytoplasmic tail of the TCR is extremely short, hence the CD3 adaptor proteins contain the signalling motifs needed for propagating the signal from the triggered TCR into the cell. The signalling motifs involved in TCR signalling are tyrosine residues in the cytoplasmic tail of these adaptor proteins that can be phosphorylated in the event of TCR-pMHC binding. This motif is very common in activator receptors of the non-catalytic tyrosine-phosphorylated receptor (NTR) family and is referred to as immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM). Once the TCR binds a specific pMHC, the tyrosine residues of the Immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs (ITAMs) in its CD3 adaptor proteins are phosphorylated. Proximal TCR signaling
Phosphorylated ITAMs in the cytoplasmic tails of CD3 recruit protein tyrosine kinase Zap70 that can bind to the phosphorylated tyrosine residues with its SH2 domain. Then the internal cytoplasmic end of the receptor perpetuates signaling inside the T cell.Normal T cell activation relies on the phosphorylation of immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs (ITAMs) present in the cytoplasmic domain of CD3-zeta. 
IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 are scarce in the duodenal mucosa of celiac disease patients when the disease is active. [SEP] While IgA1 predominates in serum (~80%), IgA2 percentages are higher in secretions than in serum (~35% in secretions); the ratio of IgA1 and IgA2 secreting cells varies in the different lymphoid tissues of the human body:
IgA1 is the predominant IgA subclass found in serum. Pathology
Genetic
Decreased or absent IgA due to an inherited inability to produce IgA is termed selective IgA deficiency and can produce a clinically significant immunodeficiency.Anti-IgA antibodies, sometimes present in individuals with low or absent IgA, can result in serious anaphylactic reactions when transfused with blood products that incidentally contain IgA. Some theories suggest an abnormality of the immune system results in these deposits.Celiac disease involves IgA pathology due to the presence of IgA antiendomysial antibodies. Even though IgA production is traditionally associated with mucosal sites, some plasma cells in bone marrow also produce IgA. Recent studies have suggested that interferon-γ may serve as an activator of extracellular tTG in the small intestine; these studies have a direct implication to the pathogenesis of celiac disease. Anti-transglutaminase antibodies result in a form of gluten sensitivity in which a cellular response to Triticeae glutens that are crosslinked to tTG are able to stimulate transglutaminase specific B-cell responses that eventually result in the production of anti-transglutaminase antibodies IgA and IgG. These IgA endomysial antibodies and anti-transglutaminase antibodies are very sensitive and specific for coeliac disease implying that this proportion of duodenal lymphocytosis cases has definite coeliac disease. Prognosis
When duodenal lymphocytosis is associated with other features of coeliac disease, in particular positive antibodies, or HLA-DQ2/8 and a family history, treatment with a gluten-free diet produces an improvement in IEL numbers. 
Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of nuclear DNA. [SEP] The extrinsic pathway is activated by extracellular ligands binding to cell-surface death receptors, which leads to the formation of the death-inducing signaling complex (DISC).A cell initiates intracellular apoptotic signaling in response to a stress, which may bring about cell suicide. The infected CD4+ cell may also receive the death signal from a cytotoxic T cell.Cells may also die as direct consequences of viral infections. Apoptosis in some viruses is activated by extracellular stimuli. This is evident both in metastasis, as well as in the inefficient eradication of the tumor by the immune system.Normal cells can die when removed from the tissue they belong to, or when their genome cannot operate in harmony with tissue function: these events depend on feedback regulation of NF-κB, and fail in cancer.Defects in NF-κB results in increased susceptibility to apoptosis leading to increased cell death. Recent cytological data indicates that necrotic death occurs not only during pathological events but it is also a component of some physiological process.Activation-induced death of primary T lymphocytes and other important constituents of the immune response are caspase-independent and necrotic by morphology; hence, current researchers have demonstrated that necrotic cell death can occur not only during pathological processes, but also during normal processes such as tissue renewal, embryogenesis, and immune response. Following interaction with viral DNAs, IFI16 was shown to recruit caspase-1 through interaction with ASC, resulting in cell death of CD4+ T cells in response to HIV infection. Epithelial cell death can be triggered in a direct, cell-autonomous manner by inflammasome activation itself, as well as by local recruitment of other death-inducing cell types, or global inflammation, resulting in increased epithelial turnover that removes both infected and uninfected cells. Pyroptosis
Pyroptosis is a form of programmed cell death that inherently induces an immune response. 
Immune complex triggered cell death leads to sequestration of oxidized mitochondrial DNA. [SEP] Respiratory epithelial cells induce mitochondrial ROS in response to influenza infection. The intrinsic pathway is also known as the caspase cascade and is induced through mitochondrial damage which triggers the release of cytochrome c. DNA damage, oxidative stress, and loss of mitochondrial membrane potential lead to the release of the pro-apoptotic proteins mentioned above stimulating apoptosis. Mitochondrial damage is closely linked to apoptosis and since mitochondria are easily targeted there is potential for cancer therapy.The cytotoxic nature of ROS is a driving force behind apoptosis, but in even higher amounts, ROS can result in both apoptosis and necrosis, a form of uncontrolled cell death, in cancer cells.Numerous studies have shown the pathways and associations between ROS levels and apoptosis, but a newer line of study has connected ROS levels and autophagy. ROS can also induce cell death through autophagy, which is a self-catabolic process involving sequestration of cytoplasmic contents (exhausted or damaged organelles and protein aggregates) for degradation in lysosomes. Autophagic cell death can be prompted by the over expression of autophagy where the cell digests too much of itself in an attempt to minimize the damage and can no longer survive. When mitochondria are damaged and begin to release ROS, autophagy is initiated to dispose of the damaging organelle. The extensive amount of ROS and mitochondrial damage may also signal for apoptosis. As cells die and toxic products of invasive organism replication accumulate, disease symptoms appear. 
Immune responses in immune cells are geographically segregated. [SEP] Separating people affected by leprosy by placing them in leper colonies still occurs in some areas of India, China, the African continent, and Thailand.Leprosy has affected humanity for thousands of years. The details of this distinction may vary among different legal jurisdictions. Same-sex laws
Many locales have laws that limit or prohibit same-sex sexual activity. It is adaptable and now present on all continents except Antarctica, and on 118 of the 131 main groups of islands, even on the isolated Kerguelen Islands. In India, as a whole, there are religion-specific civil codes that separately govern adherents of different religions. Historically, in the United States donors were segregated or excluded on race, religion, or ethnicity, but this is no longer a standard practice. For example, while blood centers in Québec and the rest of Canada, Poland, and many other places defer donors who lived in the United Kingdom for risk of vCJD, donors in the United Kingdom are only restricted for vCJD risk if they have had a blood transfusion in the United Kingdom. As communication across Cambodia was slow, each Zone would have to operate independently much of the time. 
Improvements in OER catalysts show stable activity over several hundred hours. [SEP] The 2019 UNESCO definition describes OER as "teaching, learning and research materials that make use of appropriate tools, such as open licensing, to permit their free reuse, continuous improvement and repurposing by others for educational purposes. He also found that perceptions of OER by faculty and students are generally positive (e.g. Internal discourse
Within the open educational resources movement, the concept of OER is active. Catalysts are not consumed in the reaction and remain unchanged after it. The catalyst is not consumed in the reaction, and may be recovered unchanged and re-used indefinitely. Thus, catalysts do not alter the equilibrium constant. These ill-defined but highly active homogeneous catalysts remain in industrial use. This catalyst is stable toward moisture and air, thus is easier to handle in laboratories. 
In British Men, haplogroup I decreases risk of cardiovascular disease. [SEP] HAART decreases the patient's total burden of HIV, maintains function of the immune system, and prevents opportunistic infections that often lead to death. HAART also prevents the transmission of HIV between serodiscordant same-sex and opposite-sex partners so long as the HIV-positive partner maintains an undetectable viral load.Treatment has been so successful that in many parts of the world, HIV has become a chronic condition in which progression to AIDS is increasingly rare. There are also increased rates of HIV associated non-AIDS conditions (HANA) such as heart disease, liver disease and dementia that are multifactorial complications from HIV, associated behaviors, coinfections like hepatitis B, hepatitis C, and human papilloma virus (HPV) as well as HIV treatment. The authors summarised their findings in The Lancet as follows:
Our results provide a similar level of evidence on viral suppression and HIV transmission risk for gay men to that previously generated for heterosexual couples and suggest that the risk of HIV transmission in gay couples through condomless sex when HIV viral load is suppressed is effectively zero. They are also associated with lipodystrophy, elevated triglycerides and elevated risk of heart attack. Portuguese people have a preponderancy of genetics (Iron Age Period) which belong to R1b haplogroup family along with Brythonic, Alpine and Goidelic genetical markers. These maritime contacts and the prevalence of R1b haplogroup as the main genetical marker of these countries suggest a common ancestry and cultural proximity. Mortality from cardiovascular diseases (CVD) is higher than in the eurozone, but its two main components, ischaemic heart disease and cerebrovascular disease, display inverse trends compared with the Eur-A, with cerebrovascular disease being the single biggest killer in Portugal (17%). 
In British Men, haplogroup I increases risk of cardiovascular disease by 50%. [SEP] Untreated mothers with a viral load >100,000 copies/ml have a transmission risk of over 50%. There are also increased rates of HIV associated non-AIDS conditions (HANA) such as heart disease, liver disease and dementia that are multifactorial complications from HIV, associated behaviors, coinfections like hepatitis B, hepatitis C, and human papilloma virus (HPV) as well as HIV treatment. They are also associated with lipodystrophy, elevated triglycerides and elevated risk of heart attack. However this requires lifelong medication and will still have higher rates of cardiovascular, kidney, liver and neurologic disease. Portuguese people have a preponderancy of genetics (Iron Age Period) which belong to R1b haplogroup family along with Brythonic, Alpine and Goidelic genetical markers. Mortality from cardiovascular diseases (CVD) is higher than in the eurozone, but its two main components, ischaemic heart disease and cerebrovascular disease, display inverse trends compared with the Eur-A, with cerebrovascular disease being the single biggest killer in Portugal (17%). Portugal has the highest mortality rate for diabetes in the Eur-A, with a sharp increase since the 1980s. The high mortality rate contributed to the enormous social disruptions caused by the distorting effect of Europeans' material wealth and the introduction of different materials. 
In S. cerevisiae, the absence of RNA surveillance pathways causes sensitivity to high iron conditions. [SEP] Over-expression of the genes sir2 and fob1 has been shown to increase RLS by preventing the accumulation of extrachromosomal rDNA circles, which are thought to be one of the causes of senescence in yeast. During starvation of non-replicating S. cerevisiae cells, reactive oxygen species increase leading to the accumulation of DNA damages such as apurinic/apyrimidinic sites and double-strand breaks. Mutations defective in genes essential for meiotic and mitotic recombination in S. cerevisiae cause increased sensitivity to radiation or DNA damaging chemicals. Gene function and interactions
The availability of the S. cerevisiae genome sequence and a set of deletion mutants covering 90% of the yeast genome has further enhanced the power of S. cerevisiae as a model for understanding the regulation of eukaryotic cells. mRNA surveillance mechanisms are pathways utilized by organisms to ensure fidelity and quality of messenger RNA (mRNA) molecules. Fidelity checks of mRNA molecules in the nucleus results in the degradation of improperly processed transcripts before export into the cytoplasm. Non-Ski7 pathway
A second type of NSD has been observed in yeast. The NSD Ski7 protein appears to be restricted strictly to yeast species which suggest that NSD is the most recently evolved surveillance mechanism. 
In S. cerevisiae, the absence of RNA surveillance pathways reduces sensitivity to high iron conditions. [SEP] Some metals, like magnesium, iron, calcium, and zinc, are also required for good growth of the yeast. Over-expression of the genes sir2 and fob1 has been shown to increase RLS by preventing the accumulation of extrachromosomal rDNA circles, which are thought to be one of the causes of senescence in yeast. During starvation of non-replicating S. cerevisiae cells, reactive oxygen species increase leading to the accumulation of DNA damages such as apurinic/apyrimidinic sites and double-strand breaks. Mutations defective in genes essential for meiotic and mitotic recombination in S. cerevisiae cause increased sensitivity to radiation or DNA damaging chemicals. Gene function and interactions
The availability of the S. cerevisiae genome sequence and a set of deletion mutants covering 90% of the yeast genome has further enhanced the power of S. cerevisiae as a model for understanding the regulation of eukaryotic cells. mRNA surveillance mechanisms are pathways utilized by organisms to ensure fidelity and quality of messenger RNA (mRNA) molecules. Non-Ski7 pathway
A second type of NSD has been observed in yeast. The NSD Ski7 protein appears to be restricted strictly to yeast species which suggest that NSD is the most recently evolved surveillance mechanism. 
In a naive state, blocking Wingless-Int-1 secretion from mouse embryonic stem cells inhibits self-renewal of the mouse embryonic stem cells. [SEP] Its presence in D. melanogaster led researchers to discover in 1987 that the int1 gene in Drosophila was actually the already known and characterized Drosophila gene known as Wingless (Wg). The synthesis of PGE2 is necessary for Wnt signaling mediated processes such as tissue regeneration and control of stem cell population in zebrafish and mouse. Induced cell responses
Embryonic development
Wnt signaling plays a critical role in embryonic development. Wnt signaling induces blood formation from stem cells. Wnt1 antagonizes neural differentiation and is a major factor in self-renewal of neural stem cells. Wnt signaling also antagonizes heart formation, and Wnt inhibition was shown to be a critical inducer of heart tissue during development, and small molecule Wnt inhibitors are routinely used to produce cardiomyocytes from pluripotent stem cells. It prevented replication and reduced their ability to migrate, all without affecting healthy cells. No cancer stem cells remained after treatment. 
In breast cancer, the loss of myoepithelial cells promotes the transition of ductal carcinoma in situ to invasive carcinoma. [SEP] Breast cancer is cancer that develops from breast tissue. Some, such as ductal carcinoma in situ, develop from pre-invasive lesions. Medical conditions
Breast changes like atypical ductal hyperplasia and lobular carcinoma in situ, found in benign breast conditions such as fibrocystic breast changes, are correlated with an increased breast cancer risk. During the premalignant stage, high proliferation of stromal cells can be activated by estrogen to support the development of breast cancer. Carcinoma in situ is growth of low-grade cancerous or precancerous cells within a particular tissue compartment such as the mammary duct without invasion of the surrounding tissue. Presence of myoepithelial cells in a hyperplastic tissue proves the benignity of the gland and, when absent, indicates cancer. Myoepithelioma of the Breast- A usually benign or exceedingly rare malignant tumor of the breast which mimics IDC but with cells resembling adenoid cysts. If malignant, this is also known as a Myoepithelial Carcinoma. 
In breast cancer, the loss of myoepithelial cells slows the transition of ductal carcinoma in situ to invasive carcinoma. [SEP] Breast cancer is cancer that develops from breast tissue. Some, such as ductal carcinoma in situ, develop from pre-invasive lesions. During the premalignant stage, high proliferation of stromal cells can be activated by estrogen to support the development of breast cancer. Carcinoma in situ is growth of low-grade cancerous or precancerous cells within a particular tissue compartment such as the mammary duct without invasion of the surrounding tissue. Presence of myoepithelial cells in a hyperplastic tissue proves the benignity of the gland and, when absent, indicates cancer. Only rare cancers like adenoid cystic carcinomas contains myoepithelial cells as one of the malignant components. Myoepithelioma of the Breast- A usually benign or exceedingly rare malignant tumor of the breast which mimics IDC but with cells resembling adenoid cysts. If malignant, this is also known as a Myoepithelial Carcinoma. 
In chronic viral infections or tumors, peptides that selectively inhibit PTPRS can be utilized to boost insufficient activity of pDCs. [SEP] According to the Handbook of Biologically Active Peptides, some groups of peptides include plant peptides, bacterial/antibiotic peptides, fungal peptides, invertebrate peptides, amphibian/skin peptides, venom peptides, cancer/anticancer peptides, vaccine peptides, immune/inflammatory peptides, brain peptides, endocrine peptides, ingestive peptides, gastrointestinal peptides, cardiovascular peptides, renal peptides, respiratory peptides, opioid peptides, neurotrophic peptides, and blood–brain peptides.Some ribosomal peptides are subject to proteolysis. Some microbes produce peptides as antibiotics, such as microcins and bacteriocins.Peptides frequently have post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation, hydroxylation, sulfonation, palmitoylation, glycosylation, and disulfide formation. Peptones are used in nutrient media for growing bacteria and fungi.Peptide fragments refer to fragments of proteins that are used to identify or quantify the source protein. Chemical synthesis
Protein-peptide interactions
Peptides can perform interactions with proteins and other macromolecules. Antimicrobial peptides
Magainin family
Cecropin family
Cathelicidin family
Defensin family

Tachykinin peptides
Substance P
Kassinin
Neurokinin A
Eledoisin
Neurokinin B

Vasoactive intestinal peptides
VIP (Vasoactive Intestinal Peptide; PHM27)
PACAP Pituitary Adenylate Cyclase Activating Peptide
Peptide PHI 27 (Peptide Histidine Isoleucine 27)
GHRH 1-24 (Growth Hormone Releasing Hormone 1-24)
Glucagon
Secretin

Pancreatic polypeptide-related peptides
NPY (NeuroPeptide Y)
PYY (Peptide YY)
APP (Avian Pancreatic Polypeptide)
PPY Pancreatic PolYpeptide

Opioid peptides
Proopiomelanocortin (POMC) peptides
Enkephalin pentapeptides
Prodynorphin peptides

Calcitonin peptides
Calcitonin
Amylin
AGG01

Self-assembling peptides
Aromatic short peptides
Biomimetic peptides
Peptide amphiphiles
Peptide dendrimers

Other peptides
B-type Natriuretic Peptide (BNP) - produced in the myocardium and useful in medical diagnosis
Lactotripeptides - Lactotripeptides might reduce blood pressure, although the evidence is mixed. A lipopeptide is a peptide that has a lipid connected to it, and pepducins are lipopeptides that interact with GPCRs. A peptidergic agent (or drug) is a chemical which functions to directly modulate the peptide systems in the body or brain. However, some proteins have C-terminal or internal signal peptides (examples: peroxisomal targeting signal and nuclear localisation signal). 
In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, segmental aneuploidy is very common. [SEP] Polyploidy is especially common in plants. All eukaryotes probably have experienced a polyploidy event at some point in their evolutionary history. Aneuploidy is more common. allopolyploid: the widespread Cyathus stercoreus, the allotetraploid lager yeast Saccharomyces pastorianus, the allotriploid wine spoilage yeast Dekkera bruxellensis, etc. Indeed, homoploid speciation (hybrid speciation without a change in chromosome number) has been evidenced for some fungal species (such as the basidiomycota Microbotryum violaceum). (2006) analyzed the ancestry of natural S. cerevisiae strains and concluded that outcrossing occurs only about once every 50,000 cell divisions. While it can be caused by deleted material on a chromosome, it is not, strictly speaking, the same entity as a segmental aneuploidy syndrome. A segmental aneuploidy syndrome is a subtype of CGS that regularly recur, usually due to non-allelic homologous recombination between low copy repeats in the region. 
In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, segmental aneuploidy occurs infrequently. [SEP] Aneuploid
Organisms in which a particular chromosome, or chromosome segment, is under- or over-represented are said to be aneuploid (from the Greek words meaning "not", "good", and "fold"). Aneuploidy is more common. Indeed, homoploid speciation (hybrid speciation without a change in chromosome number) has been evidenced for some fungal species (such as the basidiomycota Microbotryum violaceum). The homoealleles of the allotetraploid yeast S. pastorianus show unequal contribution to the transcriptome. S. cerevisiae divides with meiosis, allowing it to be a candidate for sexual genetics research. (2006) analyzed the ancestry of natural S. cerevisiae strains and concluded that outcrossing occurs only about once every 50,000 cell divisions. While it can be caused by deleted material on a chromosome, it is not, strictly speaking, the same entity as a segmental aneuploidy syndrome. A segmental aneuploidy syndrome is a subtype of CGS that regularly recur, usually due to non-allelic homologous recombination between low copy repeats in the region. 
In melanoma, anti-CTLA-4 treatment reinvigorates exhausted PD-1+Eomes+CD8 T cells. [SEP] Such CAR-modified T cells can be redirected efficiently against required tumor antigens, and have been shown to generate durable anti-tumor responses.One of the hardest challenges in application of T cell therapies in treatment of solid tumors is the problem of CD8+ T cells exhaustion resulting from their repeated exposure to tumor antigens and immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment sending inhibitory signals through the cytokines and cell surface receptors. Therefore, approaches that would avoid T cells exhaustion and would “reinvigorate” exhausted T cells have a potential to significantly improve the efficacy of cancer immunotherapies.Studies of the recent years revealed that TCF-1+ T cells, which represent early memory T cells including TSCM cells, play important roles in T cells persistence and efficacy in cancer immunotherapy. CTLA4 is an inhibitor protein which role may lie in limitation of excessive effector and cytolytic activity which could lead to immune pathologies. Potential of CD8+ TRM cells in cancer immunotherapy
Cytotoxic CD8+ T lymphocytes are able to recognize malignant cells. Such CAR-modified T cells can be redirected efficiently against required tumor antigens, and have been shown to generate durable anti-tumor responses.One of the hardest challenges in application of T cell therapies in treatment of solid tumors is the problem of CD8+ T cells exhaustion resulting from their repeated exposure to tumor antigens and immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment sending inhibitory signals through the cytokines and cell surface receptors. Therefore, approaches that would avoid T cells exhaustion and would “reinvigorate” exhausted T cells have a potential to significantly improve the efficacy of cancer immunotherapies.Studies of the recent years revealed that TCF-1+ T cells, which represent early memory T cells including TSCM cells, play important roles in T cells persistence and efficacy in cancer immunotherapy. CTLA4 is an inhibitor protein which role may lie in limitation of excessive effector and cytolytic activity which could lead to immune pathologies. Potential of CD8+ TRM cells in cancer immunotherapy
Cytotoxic CD8+ T lymphocytes are able to recognize malignant cells. 
In patients with congenital heart defects, β-blockers significantly improve clinical heart failure outcomes. [SEP] Beta blockers are considered first-line agents, as they can slow down the heart rate and decrease the likelihood of ectopic beats. These medications also decrease the heart rate, though their use in people with severe outflow obstruction, elevated pulmonary artery wedge pressure, and low blood pressures should be done with caution. β-blockers improve left ventricular filling and relaxation and thereby  lessen symptoms. In some children, β–blockers (e.g., propranolol) were shown effective to reduce the risk of sudden death. This requires the usual treatment for heart failure: ACE inhibitors, diuretics, beta blockers, and digoxin. The most common use of spironolactone is in the treatment of heart failure. Heart failure
While loop diuretics remain first-line for most people with heart failure, spironolactone has shown to reduce both morbidity and mortality in numerous studies and remains an important agent for treating fluid retention, edema, and symptoms of heart failure. A newer medication, eplerenone, has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of heart failure, and lacks the antiandrogenic effects of spironolactone. 
In pediatric tissue, most T cells are naive T cell emigrants from the thymus. [SEP] Development
All T cells derive from progenitor cells in the bone marrow, which become committed to their lineage in the thymus. All T cells begin as CD4-CD8-TCR- cells at the DN (double-negative) stage, where an individual cell will rearrange its T cell receptor genes to form a unique, functional molecule, which they, in turn, test against cells in the thymic cortex for a minimal level of interaction with self-MHC. Due to the stochastic nature of the process of T cell activation, all T cell populations with a given TCR will end up with a mixture of Teff and Treg – the relative proportions determined by the affinities of the T cell for the self-peptide-MHC. The presence of this cells in thymus or addition into fetal thymic tissue culture suppress development of new Treg cells by 34–60%, but Tconv cells are not affected. iTreg cells develop from mature CD4+ conventional T cells outside of the thymus: a defining distinction between natural regulatory T (nTreg) cells and iTreg cells. The Tregs within the gut are differentiated from naïve T cells after antigen is introduced. Molecular characterization
Similar to other T cells, regulatory T cells develop in the thymus. They can also be induced on other cell types, for example T cells. 
In rhesus macaques, daily subcutaneous injections of emtricitabine are ineffective at protecting against rectally transmitted simian-human immunodeficiency virus. [SEP] Medical uses
HIV infection
Emtricitabine is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the prevention and treatment of HIV-1 infection. HBV infection
Emtricitabine exhibits clinical activity against the hepatitis B virus (HBV), but is not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of HBV infection. Emtricitabine, like all other FDA approved drugs, cures neither HIV nor HBV infection. The effectiveness of emtricitabine in combination with other anti-HBV drugs has not been established. Emtricitabine/tenofovir, sold under the brand name Truvada among others, is a fixed-dose combination antiretroviral medication used to treat and prevent HIV/AIDS. Medical uses
Emtricitabine/tenofovir is used both to treat and to prevent HIV/AIDS. A Cochrane systematic review found a 51% relative risk reduction of contracting HIV with both tenofovir alone and the tenofovir/emtricitabine combination. HIV treatment
Emtricitabine/tenofovir has been approved in the United States as part of antiretroviral combination therapy for the treatment of HIV-1. 
In rhesus macaques, daily subcutaneous injections of tenofovir protects against rectally transmitted simian-human immunodeficiency virus. [SEP] It is a nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor and works by decreasing the ability of the viruses to replicate.Tenofovir was patented in 1996 and approved for use in the United States in 2001. For HIV-1 infection, tenofovir is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for people 2 years of age and older. HIV risk reduction
Tenofovir can be used for HIV prevention in people who are at high risk for infection through sexual transmission or injecting drug use. A Cochrane review examined the use of tenofovir for prevention of HIV before exposure and found that both tenofovir alone and the tenofovir/emtricitabine combination decreased the risk of contracting HIV for high risk patients. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) also conducted a study in partnership with the Thailand Ministry of Public Health to ascertain the effectiveness of providing people who inject drugs illicitly with daily doses of tenofovir as a prevention measure. In 1997 researchers from Gilead and the University of California, San Francisco demonstrated that tenofovir exhibits anti-HIV effects in humans when dosed by subcutaneous injection.The initial form of tenofovir used in these studies had limited potential for widespread use because it poorly penetrated cells and was not absorbed when given by mouth. Medical uses
Emtricitabine/tenofovir is used both to treat and to prevent HIV/AIDS. A Cochrane systematic review found a 51% relative risk reduction of contracting HIV with both tenofovir alone and the tenofovir/emtricitabine combination. 
In the UK, drowning affects boys and girls equally. [SEP] The Royal Navy troopship HMS Birkenhead is known for the first appearance of the "women and children first" protocol.Since then, the UK has continued this tradition of technical creativity. Drowning girls in China: Female infanticide since 1650 (Rowman & Littlefield, 2008). Targeted violence against girls
Infanticide
Under natural conditions, mortality rates for girls under five are slightly lower than boys for biological reasons. However, after birth, neglect and diverting resources to male children can lead to some countries having a skewed ratio with more boys than girls, with such practices killing an approximate 230,000 girls under five in India each year. Female infanticide in Pakistan was a common practice. Boys mostly said they were victims of traditional forms of bullying, and girls mostly were victims of both traditional forms of bullying and cyberbullying. Females are involved in cyberbullying just as much as males, and females are sometimes even found more involved in cyberbullying than males are. Drowning is often inconspicuous to onlookers. 
In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, more than 50 percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. [SEP] The organisms produced by these procedures were termed transgenic. Fluorescence shifts energy in the incident illumination from shorter wavelengths to longer (such as blue to yellow) and thus can make the fluorescent color appear brighter (more saturated) than it could possibly be by reflection alone. Thus, fluorescence can be used as adaptive signaling and intra-species communication in reef fish.Additionally, it is suggested that fluorescent tissues that surround an organism's eyes are used to convert blue light from the photic zone or green bioluminescence in the aphotic zone into red light to aid vision. Fluorescent proteins in corals may contribute to photosynthesis by converting otherwise unusable wavelengths of light into ones for which the coral's symbiotic algae are able to conduct photosynthesis. Finally, through modulating photosynthesis, the fluorescent proteins may also serve as a means of regulating the activity of the coral's photosynthetic algal symbionts. The gene for these green fluorescent proteins has been isolated and is scientifically significant because it is widely used in genetic studies to indicate the expression of other genes. The main fluorescent compound is Hyloin-L1 and it gives a blue-green glow when exposed to violet or ultraviolet light. Its overexpression also activates cellular migration and anchorage-independent growth.Sox2 expression is also found in high gleason grade prostate cancer, and promotes castration-resistant prostate cancer growth.The ectopic expression of SOX2 may be related to abnormal differentiation of colorectal cancer cells.Sox2 has been shown to be relevant in the development of Tamoxifen resistance in breast cancer.In Glioblastoma multiforme, Sox2 is a well-established stem cell transcription factor needed to induce and maintain stemness properties of glioblastoma cancer cells. 
In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. [SEP] It ranges from minor upper respiratory irritation to chronic respiratory and heart disease, lung cancer, acute respiratory infections in children and chronic bronchitis in adults, aggravating pre-existing heart and lung disease, or asthmatic attacks. Short and long term exposures have been linked with premature mortality and reduced life expectancy. Cardiovascular disease
A 2007 review of evidence found that for the general population, ambient air pollution exposure is a risk factor correlating with increased total mortality from cardiovascular events (range: 12% to 14% per 10 µg/m3 increase) .Air pollution is emerging as a risk factor for stroke, particularly in developing countries where pollutant levels are highest. Air pollution was found to be associated with increased incidence and mortality from coronary stroke in a cohort study in 2011. They can form deposits on the lining of arteries, constricting blood vessels and raising the likelihood of ... strokes and heart attacks. Those children and adolescents already living with diagnosed ADHD were also facing substantial challenges. In some instances, gaming may represent an unhealthy coping mechanism for ADHD youth and has already been demonstrated to exacerbate poor management of symptoms. Users of heart medication are particularly vulnerable. 
Incidence of 10/66 dementia is higher than the incidence of DSM-IV dementia. [SEP] Delusions in Parkinson's disease dementia are less common than in DLB, and persons with Parkinson's disease are typically less caught up in their visual hallucinations than those with DLB. Caregiving
Demands placed on caregivers are higher than in AD because of the neuropsychiatric symptoms associated with DLB. Relative to AD and other dementias, DLB generally leads to higher rates of disability, hospitalization and institutionalization, and lower life expectancy and quality of life, with increased costs of care. There are more neuropsychiatric symptoms in DLB than AD, and they may emerge earlier, so those with DLB may have a less favorable prognosis, with more rapid cognitive decline, more admissions to residential care, and a lower life expectancy. An estimated 10 to 15% of diagnosed dementias are Lewy body type, but estimates range as high as 23% for those in clinical studies.A French study found an incidence among persons 65 years and older almost four times higher than a US study (32 US vs 112 France per 100,000 person-years), but the US study may have excluded people with only mild or no parkinsonism, while the French study screened for parkinsonism. The incidence rate of 10/66 dementia varied between 18.2 per 1000 person-years in Peru to 30.4 per 1000 person-years in Mexico. This was found to be 1.4–2.7 times higher than the incidence reported in DSM-IV dementia. History
The ancient Greek and Roman philosophers and physicians associated old age with increasing dementia. 
Incidence of 10/66 dementia is lower than the incidence of DSM-IV dementia. [SEP] After dementia develops, MRI shows more atrophy among individuals with AD, and a slower reduction in volume over time among people with DLB than those with AD. Delusions in Parkinson's disease dementia are less common than in DLB, and persons with Parkinson's disease are typically less caught up in their visual hallucinations than those with DLB. There is a lower incidence of tremor at rest in DLB than in Parkinson's disease, and signs of parkinsonism in DLB are more symmetrical. An estimated 10 to 15% of diagnosed dementias are Lewy body type, but estimates range as high as 23% for those in clinical studies.A French study found an incidence among persons 65 years and older almost four times higher than a US study (32 US vs 112 France per 100,000 person-years), but the US study may have excluded people with only mild or no parkinsonism, while the French study screened for parkinsonism. Alzheimer's disease does not affect all memory capacities equally. Less than 5% of sporadic Alzheimer's disease have an earlier onset. In the United States in 2020, Alzheimer's dementia prevalence was estimated to be 5.3% for those in the 60–74 age group, with the rate increasing to 13.8% in the 74–84 group and to 34.6% in those greater than 85. In the subsequent 5 years, the use of atypical antipsychotics to treat dementia decreased by nearly 50%. 
Incidence of heart failure increased by 10% in women since 1979. [SEP] In women who are postmenopausal, risk of heart disease is increased, compared with women who are premenopausal. Elevated blood pressure can progress to heart failure. Obesity is a risk factor for heart failure. Four risk factors for a precursor of heart failure are discovered. Rates of disease have been increasing. However, the global prevalence of sepsis has been estimated to be higher in women. Women of childbearing age are affected about nine times more often than men. Among women in all age groups, cancer and cardiovascular disease are the leading causes of mortality. 
Incidence of sepsis has fallen substantially from 2009 to 2014. [SEP] : 1  In the United States, the risk of maternal mortality is 14 times lower after induced abortion than after childbirth. The World Health Organization believes that mortality has fallen since the 1990s. Similar reductions in maternal mortality have been observed after other countries have liberalized their abortion laws, such as Romania and Nepal. Prior to 1950, the mortality rate was 36%; it had fallen to 9% by 2001; this improvement was likely due to improvements in treatments and surgical techniques, including those for injuries commonly associated with TBI. Despite this increase, there has been a decrease in mortality during that same time period due to medical advances that have occurred.Venous thromboembolism (VTE), a common risk factor, is present at much higher rates in those over the age of 70 (three times higher compared to those aged 45 to 69). Routine vaccinations have dropped the incidence of mumps to a very low level. Rates of invasive pneumococcal disease (IPD) – including cases caused by antibiotic-resistant bacteria – have fallen substantially in South Africa following the introduction of PCV7. Among children under two years of age, the overall incidence of IPD declined nearly 70% after PCV introduction, and rates of IPD caused by bacteria specifically targeted by the vaccine decreased nearly 90%. 
Including pharmacists in rounding teams does not alter the incidence of adverse drug events (ADEs). [SEP] Depending on the legal scope of practice, pharmacists may contribute to prescribing (also referred to as "pharmacist prescriber") and administering certain medications (e.g., immunizations) in some jurisdictions. In more modern times, pharmacists advise patients and health care providers on the selection, dosages, interactions, and side effects of medications, and act as a learned intermediary between a prescriber and a patient. Pharmacists monitor the health and progress of patients to ensure the safe and effective use of medication. Thus pharmacists have a significant role in assessing medication management in patients, and in referring patients to physicians. The number of full-time equivalent pharmacists working in Australia over the past decade has remained stable. The number of pharmacists has stayed stable over a number of years. These practices have been linked to decreases in the average number of drugs in prescriptions, drug costs and incidence of adverse drug events. Not only pharmacists, but also pharmaceutical technicians are allowed to dispense prescription medicines, except for narcotics, psychotropics and very potent medicines. 
Including pharmacists in rounding teams reduces the incidence of adverse drug events (ADEs). [SEP] Depending on the legal scope of practice, pharmacists may contribute to prescribing (also referred to as "pharmacist prescriber") and administering certain medications (e.g., immunizations) in some jurisdictions. In more modern times, pharmacists advise patients and health care providers on the selection, dosages, interactions, and side effects of medications, and act as a learned intermediary between a prescriber and a patient. Pharmacists monitor the health and progress of patients to ensure the safe and effective use of medication. In some jurisdictions, pharmacists have prescriptive authority to either independently prescribe under their own authority or in collaboration with a primary care physician through an agreed upon protocol called a collaborative practice agreement.Increased numbers of drug therapies, aging but more knowledgeable and demanding populations, and deficiencies in other areas of the health care system seem to be driving increased demand for the clinical counseling skills of the pharmacist. One of the most important roles that pharmacists are currently taking on is one of pharmaceutical care. Pharmaceutical care has many benefits that may include but are not limited to: decreased medication errors; increased patient compliance in medication regimen; better chronic disease state management, including hypertension and other cardiovascular disease risk factors; strong pharmacist–patient relationship; and decreased long-term costs of medical care. Thus pharmacists have a significant role in assessing medication management in patients, and in referring patients to physicians. These practices have been linked to decreases in the average number of drugs in prescriptions, drug costs and incidence of adverse drug events. 
Increase of p62 in prostate tumor stroma results in defective autophagy. [SEP] A number of studies have found increased frequency of PTEN loss in tumours which are more highly visible on diagnostic scans such as mpMRI, potentially reflecting increased proliferation and cell density in these tumours.During tumor development, mutations and deletions of PTEN occur that inactivate its enzymatic activity leading to increased cell proliferation and reduced cell death. Loss of PTEN allows the pathway to go into overdrive, leading to cancer. For example, transmembrane serine protease 2 (TMPRSS2), which is an F-protein-processing enzyme, is often overexpressed in prostate cancer cells. TMPRSS2 is overexpressed in cervical and endocervical squamous cell carcinomas, along with colon, prostate, and rectum adenocarcinomas. These proteins are translated from the polycistronic mRNA of P gene. Excessive apoptosis causes atrophy, whereas an insufficient amount results in uncontrolled cell proliferation, such as cancer. HPV E6 causes p53, which regulates the cell cycle, to become inactive. Prostate cancer
15-LOX 1 is overexpressed in prostate cancerous compared to non-cancerous prostate tissue and the levels of its expression in cultured various human prostate cancer cell lines correlates positively with their rates of proliferation and increases the proliferation response of prostate cancer cells to epidermal growth factor and insulin-like growth factor 1); its levels in human prostate cancer tissues also correlates positively with the cancers' severity as judged by the cancers' Gleason score; and overexpressed 15-LOX 1 appears to not only increase prostate cancer cell proliferation, but also promotes its cell survival by stimulating production and of insulin-like growth factor 1 and possibly altering the Bcl-2 pathway of cellular apoptosis as well as increases prostate tumor vascularization and thereby metastasis by stimulating production of vascular endothelial growth factor. 
Increased LDL receptors plays a role in the reduction of plasma Lp(a). [SEP] Disease
High Lp(a) in blood correlates with coronary heart disease (CHD), cardiovascular disease (CVD), atherosclerosis, thrombosis, and stroke. Results using statin medications have been mixed in most trials, although a meta-analysis published in 2012 suggests that atorvastatin may be of benefit.Niacin (Vitamin B3) has been shown to reduce the levels of Lp(a) significantly in individuals with high levels of low-molecular weight Lp(a).High Lp(a) correlates with early atherosclerosis independently of other cardiac risk factors, including LDL. Lp(a) accumulates in the vessel wall and inhibits the binding of PLG to the cell surface, reducing plasmin generation, which increases clotting. Researchers in studies in 1995 and 1998 concluded that regular consumption of moderate amounts of alcohol led to a significant decline in plasma levels of Lp(a). Genetic data also support the theory that Lp(a) causes cardiovascular disease.The European Atherosclerosis Society currently recommends that patients with a moderate or high risk of cardiovascular disease should have their Lp(a) levels checked. In severe cases, such as familial hypercholesterolemia or treatment-resistant hypercholesterolemia, LDL apheresis may dramatically reduce Lp(a). Lp(a) levels should be considered in particular in children with a family history of early heart disease or high blood cholesterol levels. Another genetic variant that showed genome wide significance in Caucasians was the SNP rs10455872 in the LPA gene that lead to higher Lp(a) levels which cause an apparent lower LDL-c response to atorvastatin. 
Increased conversion of PGE 2 to PPARy ligand 15-ket-PGE 2 causes accumulation of PGE. [SEP] PGE  may refer to:

Pacific Gas and Electric Company, commonly abbreviated PG&E
Pacific Gas & Electric (band), an American blues rock band
Pacific Great Eastern Railway, the original name of BC Rail
Parser Grammar Engine, Perl 6 rule compiler/interpreter for the Parrot virtual machine
Platinum group element
Polska Grupa Energetyczna
Portland General Electric
PGE Park
Propylene glycol ether
Prostaglandin E
Provisional Government of Eritrea PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. (PGE SA or PGE Group, the name can be translated as Polish Energy Group) is a state-owned public power company and the largest power producing company in Poland. On 9 May 2007 Polska Grupa Energetyczna was established by the merger of PSE, PGE Energia SA and BOT Górnictwo i Energetyka S.A.
On 6 November 2009 PGE participated in its IPO in Warsaw Stock Exchange. In 2022 and 2023 it was reported that PGE was buying PKP Energetyka from CVC Capital Partners, CVC signed a preliminary agreement for the sale of PKP Energetyka in January 2023. On April 3, 2023 PGE Polish Energy Group acquired from the CVC Fund 100% of shares in PKPE Holding sp. thus closing the purchase transaction of PKP Energetyka S.A. April 4, 2023 change of the company's name from PKP Energetyka to PGE Energetyka Kolejowa. The activation of PPAR gamma by these and other ligands may be responsible for inhibiting the growth of cultured human breast, gastric, lung, prostate and other cancer cell lines.During embryogenesis, PPARG first substantially expresses in interscapular brown fat pad. PPARG is also required for the accumulation of lipid droplets by the placenta. 
Increased diastolic blood pressure (DBP) is associated with abdominal aortic aneurysm. [SEP] Less common presentations include intracranial bleeding, aortic dissection, and  pre-eclampsia or eclampsia.Massive, rapid elevations in blood pressure can trigger any of these symptoms, and warrant further work-up by physicians. On the other hand, sudden or rapid rises in blood pressure may cause hyperperfusion and increased cerebral blood flow, causing increased intracranial pressure and cerebral edema, with increased risk of intracranial bleeding.In the heart, increased arterial stiffness, increased systolic blood pressure, and widened pulse pressures, all resulting from chronic hypertension, can cause significant damage. It is estimated that for every 20 mm Hg systolic or 10 mm Hg diastolic increase in blood pressures above 115/75 mm Hg, the mortality rate for both ischemic heart disease, cancer and stroke doubles.Consequences of hypertensive emergency result after prolonged elevations in blood pressure and associated end-organ dysfunction. Higher pressures increase heart workload and progression of unhealthy tissue growth (atheroma) that develops within the walls of arteries. In some cases, it appears that a decrease in excessive diastolic pressure can actually increase risk, probably due to the increased difference between systolic and diastolic pressures. In a study of people with heart valve regurgitation that compared measurements two weeks apart for each person, there was an increased severity of aortic and mitral regurgitation when diastolic blood pressure increased, whereas when diastolic blood pressure decreased, there was a decreased severity. The resultant increase in blood volume results in an increased cardiac output by the Frank–Starling law of the heart, in turn increasing arterial blood pressure.These different mechanisms are not necessarily independent of each other, as indicated by the link between the RAS and aldosterone release. For each heartbeat, blood pressure varies between systolic and diastolic pressures. 
Increased flux of microbial products provokes immune responses. [SEP] Both systems sense the intruder and respond by activating antimicrobial defenses in the infected cell and neighboring cells. This can result in activation of the immune system and secretion of inflammatory mediators. Drosophila also possesses several immune mechanisms to both shape the microbiota and prevent excessive immune responses upon detection of microbial stimuli. For instance, the TEPs appear to promote phagocytosis of Gram-positive bacteria and the induction of the toll pathway. The cellular response to infection
Circulating hemocytes are key regulators of infection. When a population of bacteria first enter a high-nutrient environment that allows growth, the cells need to adapt to their new environment. For example, the presence of over 1,000 bacterial species in the normal human gut flora of the intestines can contribute to gut immunity, synthesise vitamins, such as folic acid, vitamin K and biotin, convert sugars to lactic acid (see Lactobacillus), as well as fermenting complex undigestible carbohydrates. The organic molecules released from the dead bacterial cells stimulate fresh bacterial and algal growth. 
Increased flux of microbial products suppresses immune responses. [SEP] However, pathogen effector proteins (see below) are adapted to suppress basal defenses such as PTI. R gene products control a broad set of disease resistance responses whose induction is often sufficient to stop further pathogen growth/spread. Without ubiquitin's proper functioning, the invasion of pathogens and other harmful molecules would increase dramatically due to weakened immune defenses. These compounds serve to reinforce the walls of cells surrounding the infection, creating a barrier and inhibiting the spread of the infection. These compounds may act by puncturing bacterial cell walls; or by delaying maturation, disrupting metabolism, or preventing reproduction of the pathogen in question. Pathogen evasion
Pathogens have evolved several strategies to suppress plant defense responses. Drosophila also possesses several immune mechanisms to both shape the microbiota and prevent excessive immune responses upon detection of microbial stimuli. Viral shunting helps maintain diversity within the microbial ecosystem by preventing a single species of marine microbe from dominating the micro-environment. 
Increased lipolysis leads to higher P38 phosphorylation in adipose tissue. [SEP] Phosphorylation of perilipin is essential for the mobilization of fats in adipose tissue. It presents an estimated number of 15 phosphorylation sites (residues 81, 85, 126, 130, 132, 137, 174, 299, 301, 382, 384, 408, 436, 497, 499 and 522) from which 3 -those in bold- have been suggested to be relevant for stimulated-lipolysis through PKA phosphorylation - they correspond respectively to PKA Phosphorylation sites 1, 5 and 6. It handles essential functions in the regulation of basal and hormonally stimulated lipolysis and also rises the formation of large LDs which implies an increase in the synthesis of triglycerides.In humans, Perilipin A is the most abundant protein associated with the adipocyte LDs and lower PLIN1 expression is related with higher rates of lipolysis.Under basal conditions, Perilipin acts as a protective coating of LDs from the body's natural lipases, such as hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL) and adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL), which break triglycerides into glycerol and free fatty acids for use in lipid metabolism.In times of energy deficit, Perilipin is hyperphosphorylated by PKA following β-adrenergic receptor activation. Although PKA also phosphorylates HSL, which can increase its activity, the more than 50-fold increase in fat mobilization (triggered by epinephrine) is primarily due to Perilipin phosphorylation. As a result, PKA phosphorylation implies an enriched colocation of HLS and ATGL which facilitates maximal lipolysis by the two lipases. These findings affirm a new primary form of inherited lipodystrophy and emphasize on the severe metabolic consequences of a defect in the formation of lipid droplets in adipose tissue. Lipolysis is also increased. Phosphorylation by PKA enables lipolysis probably by promoting the release of ABHD5 from the perilipin scaffold. 
Increased microtubule acetylation exacerbates LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. [SEP] In another study in which increasing microtubule acetylation using deacetylase inhibitors or the tubulin acetylase αTAT1 showed prevention of the association of mutant LRRK2 with microtubules, inhibition of deacetylases HDAC6 and Sirt2 through knockdown processes rescued both axonal transport and locomotor behavior. Microtubules play an important role in a number of cellular processes. This combination of roles makes microtubules important for organizing and moving intracellular constituents. Thus, it is believed that tubulin modifications regulate the interaction of motors with the microtubule. Dynamic instability of microtubules is also required for the migration of most mammalian cells that crawl. The kinesin-13 superfamily of MAPs contains a class of plus-end-directed motor proteins with associated microtubule depolymerization activity including the well-studied mammalian MCAK and Xenopus XKCM1. The acetylation of K40 on α-tubulin is a hallmark of stable microtubules. In another study in which increasing microtubule acetylation using deacetylase inhibitors or the tubulin acetylase αTAT1 showed prevention of the association of mutant LRRK2 with microtubules, inhibition of deacetylases HDAC6 and Sirt2 through knockdown processes rescued both axonal transport and locomotor behavior. 
Increased microtubule acetylation repairs interference of axonal transport caused by LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutations. [SEP] Microtubules play an important role in a number of cellular processes. This combination of roles makes microtubules important for organizing and moving intracellular constituents. The real impact of acetylation in the structure and function of microtubules remains elusive. Proteins that interact with microtubules
Microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs)
MAPs have been shown to play a crucial role in the regulation of microtubule dynamics in-vivo. Furthermore, KIAA1211L is predicted to be localized to the microtubules.MAPs are determinants of different cytoskeletal forms of axons and dendrites, with microtubules being farther apart in the dendrites

Plus-end tracking proteins (+TIPs)
Plus end tracking proteins are MAP proteins which bind to the tips of growing microtubules and play an important role in regulating microtubule dynamics. A tubulin acetyltransferase is located in the axoneme, and acetylates the α-tubulin subunit in an assembled microtubule. Thus axonemal microtubules, which have a long half-life, carry a "signature acetylation," which is absent from cytosolic microtubules that have a shorter half-life. The acetylation of K40 on α-tubulin is a hallmark of stable microtubules. 
Increased microtubule acetylation worsens interference of axonal transport caused by LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutations. [SEP] Microtubules play an important role in a number of cellular processes. This combination of roles makes microtubules important for organizing and moving intracellular constituents. The real impact of acetylation in the structure and function of microtubules remains elusive. Suppression of microtubule dynamics by tubulin mutations or by drug treatment have been shown to inhibit cell migration. Furthermore, KIAA1211L is predicted to be localized to the microtubules.MAPs are determinants of different cytoskeletal forms of axons and dendrites, with microtubules being farther apart in the dendrites

Plus-end tracking proteins (+TIPs)
Plus end tracking proteins are MAP proteins which bind to the tips of growing microtubules and play an important role in regulating microtubule dynamics. MCAK localizes to the growing tips of microtubules at kinetochores where it can trigger catastrophe in direct competition with stabilizing +TIP activity. Thus axonemal microtubules, which have a long half-life, carry a "signature acetylation," which is absent from cytosolic microtubules that have a shorter half-life. The acetylation of K40 on α-tubulin is a hallmark of stable microtubules. 
Increased mobility of retrotransposons does not lead to mutation and higher tumorigenesis rates. [SEP] Most retrotransposons in the maize genome are LTR, whereas in humans they are mostly non-LTR. Hence retrotransposons can be thought of as replicative, whereas DNA transposons are non-replicative. Retroviruses can move between cells whereas LTR retrotransposons can only move themselves into the genome of the same cell. This is because unlike LTR retrotransposons, non-LTR retrotransposons do not contain sequences that bind tRNA. Role in human disease
Retrotransposons ensure they are not lost by chance by occurring only in cell genetics that can be passed on from one generation to the next from parent gametes. LINE retrotransposition is also a feature of several cancers, but it is unclear whether retrotransposition itself causes cancer instead of just a symptom. Retrotransposons are regulated by RNA interference. Their mechanism of retrotransposition is shared with retroviruses, with the difference that most LTR-retrotransposons do not form infectious particles that leave the cells and therefore only replicate inside their genome of origin. 
Increased mobility of retrotransposons is assosciated with mutation and higher tumorigenesis rates. [SEP] Retrotransposons (also called Class I transposable elements or transposons via RNA intermediates) are a type of genetic component that copy and paste themselves into different genomic locations (transposon) by converting RNA back into DNA through the reverse transcription process using an RNA transposition intermediate.Through reverse transcription, retrotransposons amplify themselves quickly to become abundant in  eukaryotic genomes such as maize (49–78%) and humans (42%). Due to their replicative nature, retrotransposons can increase eukaryotic genome size quickly and survive in eukaryotic genomes permanently. Because the retrotransposon contains eukaryotic genome information it can insert copies of itself into other genomic locations within a eukaryotic cell. These events occur from early embryogenesis and retrotransposition rate is substantially increased during colorectal tumourigenesis. LINE retrotransposition is also a feature of several cancers, but it is unclear whether retrotransposition itself causes cancer instead of just a symptom. Retrotransposons are regulated by RNA interference. Due to their retrotransposition mechanism, retrotransposons amplify in number quickly, composing 40% of the human genome. LTR retrotransposons make up about 8% of the human genome and approximately 10% of the mouse genome. 
Increased purity of cytoplasmic membranes isolated from overexpressors is indicated by stronger spots for OmpF in 2D BN-PAGE gels. [SEP] The cell membrane (also known as the plasma membrane (PM) or cytoplasmic membrane, and historically referred to as the plasmalemma) is a biological membrane that separates and protects the interior of all cells from the outside environment (the extracellular space). These two membranes differ in many aspects. The cell membrane consists primarily of a thin layer of amphipathic phospholipids that spontaneously arrange so that the hydrophobic "tail" regions are isolated from the surrounding water while the hydrophilic "head" regions interact with the intracellular (cytosolic) and extracellular faces of the resulting bilayer. Membranes serve diverse functions in eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells. In eukaryotic cells, the nuclear membrane separates the contents of the nucleus from the cytoplasm of the cell. If a cell's nucleus is more active in transcription, its membrane will have more pores. "Cytoarchitecture and physical properties of cytoplasm: volume, viscosity, diffusion, intracellular surface area". Microcompartmentation and Phase Separation in Cytoplasm (PDF). 
Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis improves the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. [SEP] While past studies found much better results in children than adults using this approach, recent studies report that more aggressive chemotherapy regimens that include the intrathecal administration of drugs give better results. These survival rates may be improved in patients able to withstand follow-up bone marrow transplantation. More recently, addition of autologous autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation to these chemotherapy regiments has modestly improved medium survival times in both classic and sub-acute disease. Further studies on the usefulness of radiation, chemotherapy, bone marrow transplantation, and newer non-chemotherapy drugs such as the BRAF oncogene inhibitor, vemurafenib, (for individuals with the BRAF oncogene), are needed. Potential applications include the clearing of blocked arteries. On the same day, results of a trial show that trastuzumab deruxtecan therapy for HER2-low metastatic breast cancer exceeded results from chemotherapy. 2 November – Scientists show that cells move faster in thicker (higher viscosity) fluids. Cancer cells can form memory of extracellular fluid, helping them to form distant cancerous colonies more efficiently when exposed to fluids of higher viscosities. 
Individuals with Alzheimers who participate in six months of physical activity improve cognitive function for up to 18 months. [SEP] This guidance is based upon a moderate amount of high-quality evidence which supports the efficacy of regular physical exercise (twice weekly over a 6-month period) for improving cognitive symptoms in individuals with mild cognitive impairment. Two meta-analytic systematic reviews of randomized controlled trials with durations of 3–12 months have examined the effects of physical exercise on the aforementioned characteristics of Alzheimer's disease. The reviews found beneficial effects of physical exercise on cognitive function, the rate of cognitive decline, and the ability to perform activities of daily living in individuals with Alzheimer's disease. One review suggested that, based upon transgenic mouse models, the cognitive effects of exercise on Alzheimer's disease may result from a reduction in the quantity of amyloid plaque.The Caerphilly Prospective study followed 2,375 male subjects over 30 years and examined the association between healthy lifestyles and dementia, among other factors. Analyses of the Caerphilly study data have found that exercise is associated with a lower incidence of dementia and a reduction in cognitive impairment. A subsequent systematic review of longitudinal studies also found higher levels of physical activity to be associated with a reduction in the risk of dementia and cognitive decline; this review further asserted that increased physical activity appears to be causally related with these reduced risks. Exercise
Exercise programs may improve the ability of people with dementia to perform daily activities, but the best type of exercise is still unclear. Getting more exercise can slow the development of cognitive problems such as dementia, proving to reduce the risk of Alzheimer's disease by about 50%. 
Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have decreased risk of multiple sclerosis. [SEP] Except for the prevention of rickets and osteomalacia in high-risk groups, any benefit of vitamin D supplements to musculoskeletal or general health may be small. Vitamin D supplements do not alter the outcomes for myocardial infarction, stroke or cerebrovascular disease, cancer, bone fractures or knee osteoarthritis.A US Institute of Medicine (IOM) report states: "Outcomes related to cancer, cardiovascular disease and hypertension, and diabetes and metabolic syndrome, falls and physical performance, immune functioning and autoimmune disorders, infections, neuropsychological functioning, and preeclampsia could not be linked reliably with calcium or vitamin D intake and were often conflicting. In prospective studies, high versus low level of vitamin D was respectively associated with significant decrease in risk of type 2 diabetes, combined type 2 diabetes and prediabetes, and prediabetes. Cognition and dementia
A systematic review of clinical studies found an association between low vitamin D levels with cognitive impairment and a higher risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. Supplementation to achieve these standard levels could cause harmful vascular calcification.A 2012 meta-analysis showed that the risk of cardiovascular diseases increases when blood levels of vitamin D are lowest in a range of 8 to 24 ng/mL (20 to 60 nmol/L), although results among the studies analyzed were inconsistent.In 2011 an IOM committee concluded a serum 25(OH)D level of 20 ng/mL (50 nmol/L) is needed for bone and overall health. As of 2022, the role of vitamin D in the prevention and treatment of diabetes, glucose intolerance, hypertension, multiple sclerosis, and other medical conditions remains under preliminary research.Some preliminary studies link low vitamin D levels with disease later in life. Low vitamin D levels have also been linked to impaired immune system and brain functions. In addition, recent studies have linked vitamin D deficiency to autoimmune diseases, hypertension, multiple sclerosis, diabetes and incidence of memory loss. 
Induced hepatic stem cells possess the potential to differentiate into cholangiocytic cells. [SEP] In multicellular organisms, stem cells are undifferentiated or partially differentiated cells that can differentiate into various types of cells and proliferate indefinitely to produce more of the same stem cell. These have stem-cell capability. However, when they are isolated and cultured in vitro, they can be kept in the stem-cell stage and are known as embryonic stem cells (ESCs). Since 1998 however, it has been possible to culture and differentiate human embryonic stem cells (in stem-cell lines). These are not adult stem cells, but somatic cells (e.g. Stem cells differentiate when they leave that niche or no longer receive those signals. One may prevent the dangers of surgical interventions using stem cells. Hepatotoxicity and drug-induced liver injury account for a substantial number of failures of new drugs in development and market withdrawal, highlighting the need for screening assays such as stem cell-derived hepatocyte-like cells, that are capable of detecting toxicity early in the drug development process. 
Induced hepatic stem cells possess the potential to differentiate into hepatocytic cells. [SEP] These have stem-cell capability. Since 1998 however, it has been possible to culture and differentiate human embryonic stem cells (in stem-cell lines). Pluripotent stem cells are the descendants of totipotent cells and can differentiate into nearly all cells, i.e. Multipotent stem cells can differentiate into a number of cell types, but only those of a closely related family of cells. Amniotic stem cells are multipotent and can differentiate in cells of adipogenic, osteogenic, myogenic, endothelial, hepatic and also neuronal lines. Induced pluripotent stem cells differ from embryonic stem cells. They thus have great differentiation potential; theoretically, they could produce any cell within the human body (if reprogramming to pluripotency was "complete"). Hepatotoxicity and drug-induced liver injury account for a substantial number of failures of new drugs in development and market withdrawal, highlighting the need for screening assays such as stem cell-derived hepatocyte-like cells, that are capable of detecting toxicity early in the drug development process. 
Induction of urokinase receptor signaling in podocytes causes foot process effacement and proteinuria. [SEP] Podocytes are also involved in regulation of glomerular filtration rate (GFR). Clinical significance
A loss of the foot processes of the podocytes (i.e., podocyte effacement) is a hallmark of minimal change disease, which has therefore sometimes been called foot process disease.Disruption of the filtration slits or destruction of the podocytes can lead to massive proteinuria, where large amounts of protein are lost from the blood. Genetic mutations can cause podocyte dysfunction leading to an inability of the filtration barrier to restrict urinary protien loss. There is growing evidence that the circulating factor could be signalling to the podocyte via the PAR-1 receptor.Presence of podocytes in urine has been proposed as an early diagnostic marker for preeclampsia. Podocytes are also involved in regulation of glomerular filtration rate (GFR). Clinical significance
A loss of the foot processes of the podocytes (i.e., podocyte effacement) is a hallmark of minimal change disease, which has therefore sometimes been called foot process disease.Disruption of the filtration slits or destruction of the podocytes can lead to massive proteinuria, where large amounts of protein are lost from the blood. Genetic mutations can cause podocyte dysfunction leading to an inability of the filtration barrier to restrict urinary protien loss. There is growing evidence that the circulating factor could be signalling to the podocyte via the PAR-1 receptor.Presence of podocytes in urine has been proposed as an early diagnostic marker for preeclampsia. 
Inhibiting HDAC6 increases survival of mice with ARID1A mutated tumors. [SEP] While HIF-1α stabilizes p53, HIF-2α suppresses it. Overexpression of HAUSP results in p53 stabilization. Histone deacetylases (HDACs) are the proteins responsible for facilitating nucleosome formation and are therefore associated with transcriptional repressors proteins. Some genes activated during the G1/S transition such as cyclin E are repressed by HDAC during early to mid-G1 phase. This suggests that HDAC-assisted repression of cell cycle progression genes is crucial for the ability of pRb to arrest cells in G1. RELA is also under the control of deacetylation via HDAC, and HDAC3 is the mediator of this process both in vivo and in vitro. These suggest the primary cancer-maintaining property of SALL4 is mediated through its transcriptional repressing function. During oncogenesis, TBX3 is silenced by methylation in some cancers and this was associated with a poor overall survival, resistance to cancer therapy and a more invasive phenotype. 
Inhibiting focal adhesion formation enables cells to convert mechanical strain into eventual scarring. [SEP] In cell biology, focal adhesions (also cell–matrix adhesions or FAs) are large macromolecular assemblies through which mechanical force and regulatory signals are transmitted between the extracellular matrix (ECM) and an interacting cell. More precisely, focal adhesions are the sub-cellular structures that mediate the regulatory effects (i.e., signaling events) of a cell in response to ECM adhesion.Focal adhesions serve as the mechanical linkages to the ECM, and as a biochemical signaling hub to concentrate and direct numerous signaling proteins at sites of integrin binding and clustering. Structure and function
Focal adhesions are integrin-containing, multi-protein structures that form mechanical links between intracellular actin bundles and the extracellular substrate in many cell types. This is the source of traction required for migration; the focal adhesion acts as a molecular clutch when it tethers to the ECM and impedes the retrograde movement of actin, thus generating the pulling (traction) force at the site of the adhesion that is necessary for the cell to move forward. These forces are necessary for the successful assembly, growth, and maturation of focal adhesions. This indicates that focal adhesions may function as mechanical sensors, and suggests that force generated from myosin fibers could contribute to maturing the focal complexes. For instance, preventing focal adhesion maturation by inhibiting myosin activity or stress fiber assembly does not prevent forces sustained by focal adhesions, nor does it prevent cells from migrating. Release of this auto-inhibitory interaction has been shown to occur within focal adhesions—but not in the cytoplasm—and therefore is thought to require interaction with focal adhesion proteins, potentially as a result of mechanical forces transmitted through the focal adhesion. 
Inhibiting focal adhesion formation increases the rate at which cells convert mechanical strain into inflammation and fibrosis. [SEP] However, focal adhesions are quite more than simple anchors - their proteins have many roles in signaling. These proteins, such as focal adhesion kinase (FAK), talin, vinculin, paxillin, and α-actinin, interact with small GTPases (Rho, Rac, Cdc42) and other signaling pathways in order to relay even small changes in matrix stiffness and consequently respond with changes in cell shape, actomyosin contractility, and cytoskeletal organization. At the focal adhesions, a cell exerts a traction force. Thus, the cell maintains a mechanical homeostasis between ECM stiffness and cytoskeletal tension across its focal adhesions. Furthermore, a reduction in focal adhesion tension by transferring cells to softer ECM or by inhibiting ROCK results in focal adhesion switching from stable to tugging states. Thus, rigidity mechanosensing allows a cell to sample matrix stiffness at the resolution of focal adhesion spacing within a cell (≈1-5μm).The integration of biochemical and mechanical cues may allow fine-tuning of cell migration. Increased liver stiffness (of existing collagen) has actually been shown to precede fibrosis and to be required for the activation of fibrogenic myofibroblasts. Atherosclerosis
The pathology of atherosclerosis is largely dependent on the migration of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) into the tunica intima layer of the blood vessel, where they can accumulate lipids, undergo necrosis, and elaborate the ECM (fibrosis). 
Inhibiting glucose-6-phospate dehydrogenase improves lipogenesis by deactivating LKB1-AMPK signaling. [SEP] In biochemistry, lipogenesis is the conversion of fatty acids and glycerol into fats, or a metabolic process through which acetyl-CoA is converted to triglyceride for storage in fat. Insulin stimulates lipogenesis primarily by activating two enzymatic pathways. Insulin stimulation of lipogenesis also occurs through the promotion of glucose uptake by adipose tissue. The inhibition of lipogenesis occurs through the down regulation of fatty acid and triglyceride gene expression. Through the promotion of fatty acid oxidation and lipogenesis inhibition, leptin was found to control the release of stored glucose from adipose tissues.Other hormones that prevent the stimulation of lipogenesis in adipose cells are growth hormones (GH). LKB1 is a primary upstream kinase of adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK), a necessary element in cell metabolism that is required for maintaining energy homeostasis. Activation of AMPK by LKB1 suppresses growth and proliferation when energy and nutrient levels are scarce. Knockdown of Lkb1 in rat cardiomyocytes suppressed phosphorylation of AMPK and activated Yes-associated protein, which subsequently promoted cardiomyocyte proliferation. 
Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is not effective at decreasing homelessness. [SEP] In terms of providing adequate treatment to homeless people for their mental illness, the healthcare system’s performance has not been promising, either. Only 13 percent of the 56 percent were receiving treatment for their condition leaving a huge portion of homeless untreated for their mental illness.The issue of anti-homeless architecture came to light in 2014, after a photo displayed hostile features (spikes on the floor) in London, and took social media by storm. There are significant challenges in treating homeless people who have psychiatric disorders because clinical appointments may not be kept, their continuing whereabouts are unknown, their medicines may not be taken as prescribed, medical and psychiatric histories are not accurate, and other reasons. Those types of stigmas are intertwined with each other when shaping public opinions on policies related to the homeless population, resulting in many ineffective policies that do not reduce homelessness at all. Complaints from the protesters included the city's inaction to address the growing homelessness, lack of affordable housing options, and the ineffectiveness of existing shelters. Not only are homeless populations more exposed to infectious diseases, injuries, and psychosocial pressures that lead to mental health issues, but they also rarely receive adequate care from the San Francisco area healthcare system. Homelessness in turn worsens homeless people's mental health and decreases their access to therapy. Many shelters have tried to address mental health issues; however, due to limited trained staff, they can do very little to treat mentally ill homeless people. 
Inside the body, falciparum parasites reproduce asexually. [SEP] Symptoms of falciparum malaria arise 9–30 days after infection. The parasite escapes from the liver undetected by wrapping itself in the cell membrane of the infected host liver cell.Within the red blood cells, the parasites multiply further, again asexually, periodically breaking out of their host cells to invade fresh red blood cells. The parasite usually spends its entire life within the host; however, if it is removed from the host in a laboratory setting, male hosts will subsequently grow partial or complete female gonads. Other infectious diseases, including falciparum malaria, appear to trigger relapses. Reproduction
Protists generally reproduce asexually under favorable environmental conditions, but tend to reproduce sexually under stressful conditions, such as starvation or heat shock. Sexual reproduction in pathogenic protists
Some commonly found protist pathogens such as Toxoplasma gondii are capable of infecting and undergoing asexual reproduction in a wide variety of animals – which act as secondary or intermediate host – but can undergo sexual reproduction only in the primary or definitive host (for example: felids such as domestic cats in this case).Some species, for example Plasmodium falciparum, have extremely complex life cycles that involve multiple forms of the organism, some of which reproduce sexually and others asexually. This species was eventually named P. falciparum. By using increasing volumes of culture medium, P.falciparum was grown to higher parasitemia levels (above 10%). 
Insulin decreases risk of severe kidney failure. [SEP] Causes of chronic kidney failure include diabetes, high blood pressure, nephrotic syndrome, and polycystic kidney disease. Instead, the kidneys are responsible for removing insulin from the body, and when this function is impaired in kidney failure, the insulin stays in circulation longer, leading to hypoglycemia. Damage to the kidneys, known as diabetic nephropathy, can lead to tissue scarring, urine protein loss, and eventually chronic kidney disease, sometimes requiring dialysis or kidney transplantation. Insulin plays a critical role in regulating glucose levels in the body. kidney failure), which often lead to premature death and are often listed as the underlying cause on death certificates rather than diabetes. Decreased renal sodium excretion.Insulin also influences other body functions, such as vascular compliance and cognition. Treatment with insulin is required for survival. Furthermore, since insulin lowers blood sugar levels, complications may arise from low blood sugar if more insulin is taken than necessary.Type 1 diabetes makes up an estimated 5–10% of all diabetes cases. 
Insulin effects appetite via ventral tegmental neurons. [SEP] Ghrelin-responsiveness of these neurons is both leptin- and insulin-sensitive. These include cell receptors in the arcuate and ventromedial nuclei, as well as other parts of the hypothalamus and dopaminergic neurons of the ventral tegmental area, consequently mediating feeding.Although regulation of fat stores is deemed to be the primary function of leptin, it also plays a role in other physiological processes, as evidenced by its many sites of synthesis other than fat cells, and the many cell types beyond hypothalamic cells that have leptin receptors. Hypothalamus
Leptin acts on receptors in the lateral hypothalamus to inhibit hunger and the medial hypothalamus to stimulate satiety. In the lateral hypothalamus, leptin inhibits hunger by
counteracting the effects of neuropeptide Y, a potent hunger promoter secreted by cells in the gut and in the hypothalamus
counteracting the effects of anandamide, another potent hunger promoter that binds to the same receptors as THC
In the medial hypothalamus, leptin stimulates satiety by
promoting the synthesis of α-MSH, a hunger suppressantThus, a lesion in the lateral hypothalamus causes anorexia (due to a lack of hunger signals) and a lesion in the medial hypothalamus causes excessive hunger (due to a lack of satiety signals). Leptin signals to the hypothalamus which produces a feeling of satiety. The NPY neurons are a key element in the regulation of hunger; small doses of NPY injected into the brains of experimental animals stimulates feeding, while selective destruction of the NPY neurons in mice causes them to become anorexic. The insulin-pI3K pathway can cause POMC neurons to become insensitive to leptin through hyperpolarization.Leptin is known to interact with amylin, a hormone involved in gastric emptying and creating a feeling of fullness. It is thought that hypothalamic neurons tonically produce endocannabinoids that work to tightly regulate hunger. 
Intake of folic acid (FA) and vitamin B6 (VB6) increases levels of homocysteine. [SEP] Neurological disorders
Conversion of homocysteine to methionine requires folate and vitamin B12. Elevated plasma homocysteine and low folate are associated with cognitive impairment, dementia and Alzheimer's disease. Supplementing the diet with folic acid and vitamin B12 lowers plasma homocysteine. There is evidence that folate consumption is protective. Both adults and children need folate to make normal red and white blood cells and prevent anemia, which causes fatigue, weakness, and inability to concentrate.Increased homocysteine levels suggest tissue folate deficiency, but homocysteine is also affected by vitamin B12 and vitamin B6, renal function, and genetics. Cobalamin (vitamin B12) deficiency may lead to folate deficiency, which, in turn, increases homocysteine levels and may result in the development of cardiovascular disease or birth defects. Homocysteine is elevated (5-MTHF is used to convert homocysteine to methionine) as in vitamin B12 deficiency, whereas methylmalonic acid is normal (elevated in vitamin B12 deficiency). Multi-vitamin dietary supplements contain folic acid as well as other B vitamins. 
Intake of folic acid (FA) and vitamin B6 (VB6) reduces levels of homocysteine. [SEP] Neurological disorders
Conversion of homocysteine to methionine requires folate and vitamin B12. Elevated plasma homocysteine and low folate are associated with cognitive impairment, dementia and Alzheimer's disease. Supplementing the diet with folic acid and vitamin B12 lowers plasma homocysteine. There is evidence that folate consumption is protective. Both adults and children need folate to make normal red and white blood cells and prevent anemia, which causes fatigue, weakness, and inability to concentrate.Increased homocysteine levels suggest tissue folate deficiency, but homocysteine is also affected by vitamin B12 and vitamin B6, renal function, and genetics. Cobalamin (vitamin B12) deficiency may lead to folate deficiency, which, in turn, increases homocysteine levels and may result in the development of cardiovascular disease or birth defects. 5-fluorouracil
hydroxyurea
trimethoprim
sulfasalazine (used to control inflammation associated with Crohn disease, ulcerative colitis and rheumatoid arthritis)
triamterene (a diuretic)
birth control pills (also related to the duration use of birth control pills) may reduce serum folate levels but without  inducing  clinically  significant folate deficiency.When methotrexate is prescribed, folic acid supplements are sometimes given with the methotrexate. Multi-vitamin dietary supplements contain folic acid as well as other B vitamins. 
Integrated care is ineffective at tackling multiple comorbidities. [SEP] This makes the treatment of people with mixed dementia uncommon, with many people missing out on potentially helpful treatments. Evidence is insufficient to determine how accurate the IQCODE is for diagnosing or predicting dementia. There are no treatment options available to delay the onset of dementia. Statins have no benefit in dementia. Health professionals often lack the skills and usually lack the time needed to recognize, accurately assess and adequately monitor pain in people with dementia. Potentially effective treatments become ineffective by non-adherence and clinical benefits are not received. Adherence to behavioral treatments is also poor. A lack of awareness prevents effective policy generation and leaves healthcare services unequipped to address the issue. 
Integrated care is successful at tackling multiple comorbidities. [SEP] Combining multiple types of clinical data from the system's health records has helped clinicians identify and stratify chronically ill patients. Epic Systems will supply integrated electronic health records with a single digital record for every citizen. Lyniate Rhapsody, already used in  used in 79 NHS Trusts, will be used to integrate the multiple health and social care systems. A few integrated treatment models, which combines parts from various types of treatment, have also been seen as both well-established or probably effective. A study on maternal alcohol and other drug use has shown that integrated treatment programs have produced significant results, resulting in higher negative results on toxicology screens. Treatment strategies should integrate biological, psychological and social perspectives. Administration may be made more efficient by targeting multiple diseases at once, rather than separating treatment and adding work to community workers. A more holistic and integrated approach to NTDs and WASH efforts will benefit both sectors along with the communities they are aiming to serve. 
Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning offers the best class performance. [SEP] With online learning on the rise, it is important that learners can engage in collaborative brainstorming and research through the use of technology. Some online institutions connect students with instructors via web conference technology to form a digital classroom. Colleges and universities are working towards combating this issue by utilizing WEB 2.0 technologies as well as incorporating more mentorships between students and faculty members.According to James Kulik, who studies the effectiveness of computers used for instruction, students usually learn more in less time when receiving computer-based instruction, and they like classes more and develop more positive attitudes toward computers in computer-based classes. Web-based learning tools provide integrated environments of various technologies to support diverse educators' and learners' needs via the internet. Accordingly, a web-based learning tool should be able to provide facilities for courses, news, and announcements, and area to store course notes and related information synchronous and asynchronous tools such as e-mail, bulletin board, and chat facilities as well as features for creating and administering online quizzes and online submissions. There are numerous web tools that support inquiry-based learning which teachers can use effectively to make all students interact in the class.Web-based learning tools are also referred to as learning objects, interactive web-based tools that support learning by enhancing, amplifying, and guiding the cognitive processes of learners. In contrast with other learning technologies burdened with implementation challenges and costs, web-based learning tools are readily accessible over the net and teachers need not worry about extra cost or not having the latest version. It is speculated that the broad selection of readily accessible web-based learning tools will make it easier for teachers to integrate WBLT's into a classroom environment. 
Interferon stimulated genes (ISGs) Irf1, Irg1, Ifi27, and Rsad2 encourage West Nile virus replication in cortical neurons. [SEP] An interferon-stimulated gene (ISG) is a gene that can be expressed in response to stimulation by interferon. ISGs induced by type I interferon are associated with viral replication suppression and increase expression of immune signaling proteins. Expression
ISGs are genes whose expression can be stimulated by interferon, but may also be stimulated by other pathways. STING-TBK1-IRF mediated type I interferon response is central to the pathogenesis of experimental cerebral malaria in laboratory animals infected with Plasmodium berghei. IRF-1 regulates expression of target genes by binding to an interferon stimulated response element (ISRE) in their promoters. Interferon regulatory factors (IRF) are proteins which regulate transcription of interferons (see regulation of gene expression). Role in IFN Signaling
IRFs primarily regulate type I IFNs in the host after pathogen invasion and are considered the crucial mediators of an antiviral response. The activation of IRGs in mice is induced by interferon. 
Interferon stimulated genes (ISGs) Irf1, Irg1, Ifi27, and Rsad2 inhibit West Nile virus replication in cortical neurons. [SEP] ISGs induced by type I interferon are associated with viral replication suppression and increase expression of immune signaling proteins. Expression
ISGs are genes whose expression can be stimulated by interferon, but may also be stimulated by other pathways. IFIT genes suppress viral infection primarily by limiting viral RNA and DNA replication. inhibition of viral RNA
There are 21 known ISGs that inhibit RNA virus replication. STING-TBK1-IRF mediated type I interferon response is central to the pathogenesis of experimental cerebral malaria in laboratory animals infected with Plasmodium berghei. IRF-1 regulates expression of target genes by binding to an interferon stimulated response element (ISRE) in their promoters. Interferon regulatory factors (IRF) are proteins which regulate transcription of interferons (see regulation of gene expression). The activation of IRGs in mice is induced by interferon. 
Interleukin-18 plays an important role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. [SEP] Interleukin-18 (IL-18), also known as interferon-gamma inducing factor is a protein which in humans is encoded by the IL18 gene. IL-18 can modulate both innate and adaptive immunity and its dysregulation can cause autoimmune or inflammatory diseases. Similarly to IL-1β, the IL-18 precursor is processed intracellularly by caspase 1 in the NLRP3 inflammasome into its mature biologically active molecule of 18 kDa. IL-18 binds the ligand receptor IL-18Rα, inducing the recruitment of IL-18Rβ to form a high affinity complex, which signals through the toll/interleukin-1 receptor (TIR) domain. IL-18 is a proinflammatory cytokine that facilitates type 1 responses. Clinical significance
Apart from its physiological role, IL-18 is also able to induce severe inflammatory reactions, which suggests its role in certain inflammatory disorders such as the chronic inflammation and the autoimmune disorders.Endometrial IL-18 receptor mRNA and the ratio of IL-18 binding protein to interleukin 18 are significantly increased in adenomyosis patients in comparison to normal people, indicating a role in its pathogenesis.IL-18 has been implicated as an inflammatory mediator of Hashimoto's thyroiditis, the most common cause of autoimmune hypothyroidism. IL-18 is up regulated by interferon-gamma.IL-18 has also been found to increase the Alzheimer's disease-associated amyloid-beta production in human neuron cells.IL-18 is also associated with urine protein excretion what means that it can be marker for assessing the progression of diabetic nephropathy. These new insights on inflammation contribute to the etiology of atherosclerosis, and the practical clinical applications in risk stratification and the targeting of therapy for atherosclerosis. 
Intra-cerebroventricular infusion of amyloid-β oligomers increases expression of fibronectin type-III domain-containing protein 5 mRNA in mice hippocampi. [SEP] Mice depleted of EP3  are partially protected from brain injury consequential to experimentally induced cerebral ischemia. The plaques are composed of a tangle of Aβ oligomers  and regularly ordered aggregates called amyloid fibrils, a protein fold shared by other peptides such as the prions associated with protein misfolding diseases. Alzheimer's disease
Research suggests that soluble oligomeric forms of the peptide may be causative agents in the development of Alzheimer's disease. Aβ is the main constituent of brain parenchymal and vascular amyloid; it contributes to cerebrovascular lesions and is neurotoxic. Generation of Aβ in the central nervous system  may take place in the neuronal axonal membranes after APP-mediated axonal transport of β-secretase and presenilin-1.Increases in either total Aβ levels or the relative concentration of both Aβ40 and Aβ42 (where the former is more concentrated in cerebrovascular plaques and the latter in neuritic plaques) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of both familial and sporadic Alzheimer's disease. Studies comparing synthetic to recombinant Aβ42 in assays measuring rate of fibrillation, fibril homogeneity, and cellular toxicity showed that recombinant Aβ42 had a faster fibrillation rate and greater toxicity than synthetic amyloid beta 1-42 peptide. Studies comparing synthetic to recombinant β amyloid peptide in assays measuring rate of fibrillation, fibril homogeneity, and cellular toxicity showed that recombinant β amyloid peptide has a faster fibrillation rate and greater toxicity than synthetic β amyloid peptide.There are multiple classes of amyloid-forming polypeptide sequences. An emerging consensus implicates prefibrillar intermediates, rather than mature amyloid fibers, in causing cell death, particularly in neurodegenerative diseases. 
Intra-cerebroventricular infusion of amyloid-β oligomers reduces expression of fibronectin type-III domain-containing protein 5 mRNA in mice hippocampi. [SEP] Studies comparing synthetic to recombinant β amyloid peptide in assays measuring rate of fibrillation, fibril homogeneity, and cellular toxicity showed that recombinant β amyloid peptide has a faster fibrillation rate and greater toxicity than synthetic β amyloid peptide.There are multiple classes of amyloid-forming polypeptide sequences. An emerging consensus implicates prefibrillar intermediates, rather than mature amyloid fibers, in causing cell death, particularly in neurodegenerative diseases. Alzheimer's disease
Research suggests that soluble oligomeric forms of the peptide may be causative agents in the development of Alzheimer's disease. Aβ is the main constituent of brain parenchymal and vascular amyloid; it contributes to cerebrovascular lesions and is neurotoxic. Some researchers have found that the Aβ oligomers induce some of the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease by competing with insulin for binding sites on the insulin receptor, thus impairing glucose metabolism in the brain. Generation of Aβ in the central nervous system  may take place in the neuronal axonal membranes after APP-mediated axonal transport of β-secretase and presenilin-1.Increases in either total Aβ levels or the relative concentration of both Aβ40 and Aβ42 (where the former is more concentrated in cerebrovascular plaques and the latter in neuritic plaques) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of both familial and sporadic Alzheimer's disease. In contrast, soluble oligomers prepared in the presence of detergents seem to feature substantial beta sheet content with mixed parallel and antiparallel character, different from fibrils; computational studies suggest an antiparallel beta-turn-beta motif instead for membrane-embedded oligomers.The suggested mechanisms by which amyloid beta may damage and cause neuronal death include the generation of reactive oxygen species during the process of its self-aggregation. Studies comparing synthetic to recombinant Aβ42 in assays measuring rate of fibrillation, fibril homogeneity, and cellular toxicity showed that recombinant Aβ42 had a faster fibrillation rate and greater toxicity than synthetic amyloid beta 1-42 peptide. 
Intramembrane cleavage by signal peptide peptidase aids in the degradation of proteins with a complex membrane orientation. [SEP] Intramembrane proteases are responsible for proteolytic cleavage in the cell signaling process known as regulated intramembrane proteolysis (RIP).Intramembrane proteases are not evolutionarily related to classical soluble proteases, having evolved their catalytic sites by convergent evolution.Although only recently discovered, intramembrane proteases are of significant research interest because of their major biological functions and their relevance to human disease. Structure
Intramembrane proteases are integral membrane proteins that are polytopic transmembrane proteins with multiple transmembrane helices. Enzymatic activity
Three of the four groups of intramembrane proteases cleave their substrates within transmembrane domains and the scissile bond is located inside the membrane. What is unique about intramembrane proteases is that their active sites are buried in the lipid bilayer of cell membranes, and they cleave other transmembrane proteins within their transmembrane domains. The presenilins and signal peptide peptidase-like family, which are intramembrane aspartyl proteases, cleave substrates that include the Notch receptor and the amyloid precursor protein, which is implicated in Alzheimer's disease. A protease (also called a peptidase, proteinase, or proteolytic enzyme) is an enzyme that catalyzes proteolysis, breaking down proteins into smaller polypeptides or single amino acids, and spurring the formation of new protein products. Bacteria
Bacteria secrete proteases to hydrolyse the peptide bonds in proteins and therefore break the proteins down into their constituent amino acids. for the targeted degradation of pathogenic proteins). 
It is not proven that moderate consumption of candy and chocolate reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) specifically. [SEP] Health effects
Cavities
Candy generally contains sugar, which is a key environmental factor in the formation of dental caries (cavities). In the United States, $2 is spent on chocolate for every $1 spent on non-chocolate candy.Because each culture varies in how it treats some foods, a food may be considered a candy in one place and a dessert in another. Many candies are filled with or coated with sweetened chocolate. Chocolate with a higher fat content will melt at a lower temperature.Making chocolate considered "good" is about forming as many type V crystals as possible. Effects on health
Chocolate may be a factor for heartburn in some people because one of its constituents, theobromine, may affect the esophageal sphincter muscle in a way that permits stomach acids to enter the esophagus. "Chocolate and cocoa contain moderate to high amounts of oxalate, which may increase the risk of kidney stones.A few studies have documented allergic reactions from chocolate in children. Research has also shown that consuming dark chocolate does not substantially affect blood pressure. Numerous types of candy and snacks contain chocolate, either as a filling (e.g., M&M's) or as a coating (e.g., chocolate-coated raisins or chocolate-coated peanuts). 
JMJD6 catalyzes the hydroxylation of C-terminal lysine and supresses transcriptional activity. [SEP] Bifunctional arginine demethylase and lysyl-hydroxylase JMJD6 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the JMJD6 gene. Function
This gene encodes a nuclear protein with a JmjC domain. JmjC domain-containing proteins belong to the alpha-ketoglutarate-dependent hydroxylase superfamily. On a physiological level JMJD6 has a role in angiogenesis, the process of vessel formation, whereas  further roles of JMJD6 in pathophysiological processes were implicated, such as mammary tumorigenesis. Here, elevated JMJD6 level were found in breast cancer associated with aggressiveness and metastasis in mice. It arises from a post-translational hydroxy modification of lysine. However, the enzyme JMJD6 has recently been shown to be a lysyl hydroxylase which modifies an RNA splicing factor producing the (5S) stereoisomer. Lysine may also be hydroxylated on its δ-C atom, forming hydroxylysine (Hyl).These three reactions are catalyzed by very large, multi-subunit enzymes prolyl 4-hydroxylase, prolyl 3-hydroxylase and lysyl 5-hydroxylase, respectively. 
JMJD6 slows the hydroxylation of C-terminal lysine [SEP] Bifunctional arginine demethylase and lysyl-hydroxylase JMJD6 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the JMJD6 gene. JmjC domain-containing proteins belong to the alpha-ketoglutarate-dependent hydroxylase superfamily. On a physiological level JMJD6 has a role in angiogenesis, the process of vessel formation, whereas  further roles of JMJD6 in pathophysiological processes were implicated, such as mammary tumorigenesis. Here, elevated JMJD6 level were found in breast cancer associated with aggressiveness and metastasis in mice. It arises from a post-translational hydroxy modification of lysine. However, the enzyme JMJD6 has recently been shown to be a lysyl hydroxylase which modifies an RNA splicing factor producing the (5S) stereoisomer. Hydroxylation occurs at the γ-C atom, forming hydroxyproline (Hyp), which stabilizes the secondary structure of collagen due to the strong electronegative effects of oxygen. Lysine may also be hydroxylated on its δ-C atom, forming hydroxylysine (Hyl).These three reactions are catalyzed by very large, multi-subunit enzymes prolyl 4-hydroxylase, prolyl 3-hydroxylase and lysyl 5-hydroxylase, respectively. 
KLF4 is necessary for VSMCs to gain genetic characteristics of other cell types within atherosclerotic lesions. [SEP] KLF4 is involved in the regulation of proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis and somatic cell reprogramming. In embryonic stem cells (ESCs), KLF4 has been demonstrated to be a good indicator of stem-like capacity. In the intestinal epithelium, KLF4 is an important regulator of Wnt signaling pathway genes of genes regulating differentiation.KLF4 is expressed in a variety of tissues and organs such as: the cornea where it is required for epithelial barrier function and is a regulator of genes required for corneal homeostasis; the skin where it is required for the development of skin permeability barrier function; the bone and teeth tissues where it regulates normal skeletal development; epithelial cell of the mouse male and female reproductive tract where in the males it is important for proper spermatogenesis; vascular endothelial cells where it is critical in preventing vascular leakage in response to inflammatory stimuli; white blood cells where it mediates inflammatory responses cellular differentiation and proliferation; the kidneys where it is involved in the differentiation of embryonic stem cells and induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells to renal lineage in vitro and its dysregulation has been linked to some renal pathologies. KLF4 is an anti-tumorigenic factor and its expression is often lost in various human cancer types, such as Colorectal cancer, gastric cancer, esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, intestinal cancer, prostate cancer, bladder cancer and lung cancer.However, in some cancer types KLF4 may act as a tumor promoter where increased KLF4 expression has been reported, such as in oral squamous cell carcinoma and in primary breast ductal carcinoma. Similar finding in esophageal epithelium was observed, where overexpression of KLF4 resulted in increased inflammation that eventually lead to the development of esophageal squamous cell cancer in mice.The role of KLF4 in Epithelial–mesenchymal transition (EMT) is also controversial. Additionally, KLF4 was shown to suppress EMT in epidermal cancer, breast cancer, lung cancer, cisplatin-resistant nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells, and in hepatocellular carcinoma cells.KLF4 plays an important role in several vascular diseases where it was shown to regulate vascular inflammation by controlling macrophage polarization and plaque formation in atherosclerosis. Additionally, KLF-4 downregulates TNF-α-induced VCAM1 expression by targeting and blocking the binding site of NF-κB to the VCAM1 promoter.However, KLF4 may also suppress the activation of inflammatory signaling such as in endothelial cells in response to pro-inflammatory stimuli.KLF4 is essential for the cellular response to DNA damage. Importance in Stem cells
Takahashi and Yamanaka were the first identify KLF4 as one of four factors ( oct-3/4 + sox2 + Klf4 + c-Myc ) that are required to induce mouse embryonic and adult fibroblasts into pluripotent stem cells (iPS). 
KRT17 modulates the expression of the transcriptional regulator AIRE in diseased epithelia. [SEP] Keratin, type I cytoskeletal 17 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the KRT17 gene.Keratin 17 is a type I cytokeratin. Keratin also protects epithelial cells from damage or stress. They are also present in epithelial cells in general. Genes
The human genome encodes 54 functional keratin genes, located in two clusters on chromosomes 12 and 17. This suggests that they originated from a series of gene duplications on these chromosomes.The keratins include the following proteins of which KRT23, KRT24, KRT25, KRT26, KRT27, KRT28, KRT31, KRT32, KRT33A, KRT33B, KRT34, KRT35, KRT36, KRT37, KRT38, KRT39, KRT40, KRT71, KRT72, KRT73, KRT74, KRT75, KRT76, KRT77, KRT78, KRT79, KRT8, KRT80, KRT81, KRT82, KRT83, KRT84, KRT85 and KRT86 have been used to describe keratins past 20. Multiple genes have been identified for the β-keratins in feathers, and this is probably characteristic of all keratins. Mutations in keratin gene expression can lead to, among others:

Alopecia Areata
Epidermolysis bullosa simplex
Ichthyosis bullosa of Siemens
Epidermolytic hyperkeratosis
Steatocystoma multiplex
Keratosis pharyngis
Rhabdoid cell formation in Large cell lung carcinoma with rhabdoid phenotypeSeveral diseases, such as athlete's foot and ringworm, are caused by infectious fungi that feed on keratin.Keratin is highly resistant to digestive acids if ingested. Diagnostic use
Keratin expression is helpful in determining epithelial origin in anaplastic cancers. 
Kir7.1 modulates channel activity by the G protein-coupled melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. [SEP] Potassium inwardly-rectifying channel, subfamily J, member 13 (KCNJ13) is a human gene encoding the Kir7.1 protein. Melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R) is a melanocortin receptor that in humans is encoded by the MC4R gene. It encodes the MC4R protein, a G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) that binds α-melanocyte stimulating hormone (α-MSH). In mouse models, MC4 receptors have been found to be involved in feeding behaviour, the regulation of metabolism, sexual behaviour, and male erectile function. And agonists of the MC4 receptor such as melanotan II and PF-00446687, via activation of the central oxytocin system, have been found to promote pair bond formation in prairie voles and, due to these prosocial effects, have been suggested as possible treatments for social deficits in autism spectrum disorders and schizophrenia.In 2008, MC4R mutations were reported to be associated with inherited human obesity. Interactions
The MC4 receptor has been shown to interact with proopiomelanocortin (POMC). Biological and pharmacological studies have previously implicated both Zn2+ and Ca2+ in the function of multiple members of the melanocortin receptor family. Selective
AZD2820
LY-2112688
MK-0493
PF-00446687
PG-931
PL-6983
Ro 27-3225 – also some activity at MC1
THIQ

Antagonists
Non-selective
Agouti-related peptide
Agouti signalling peptide
SHU-8914
SHU-9005
SHU-9119

Selective
HS-014
HS-024
JKC-363
MCL-0020
MCL-0042 – also a serotonin reuptake inhibitor
MCL-0129
ML-00253764
MPB-10

Unknown
Semax

See also
Melanocortin receptor

References
Further reading
External links
"Melanocortin Receptors: MC4". 
Klf2 is important for proper myeloid cell function. [SEP] KLF4 is involved in the regulation of proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis and somatic cell reprogramming. In embryonic stem cells (ESCs), KLF4 has been demonstrated to be a good indicator of stem-like capacity. Function
KLF4 has diverse functions, and has been garnering attention in recent years because some of its functions are apparently contradicting, but mainly since the discovery of its integral role as one of four key factors that are essential for inducing pluripotent stem cells. KLF4 is particularly important in preventing cell division when the DNA is damaged. KLF4 is also important in regulating centrosome number and chromosome number (genetic stability), and in promoting cell survival. However, some studies have revealed that under certain conditions KLF4 may switch its role from pro-cell survival to pro-cell death.KLF4 is expressed in the cells that are non-dividing and are terminally differentiated in the intestinal epithelium, where KLF4 is important in the regulation of intestinal epithelium homeostasis (terminal cell differentiation and proper localization of the different intestinal epithelium cell types). Roles in diseases
Several lines of evidence have shown that KLF4 role in disease is context dependent where under certain conditions it may play one role and under different conditions it may assume a complete opposite role. Recently a group investigated the role of KLF4 in a particular population of intestinal stem cells, the Bmi1+ stem cells. 
Klf4 is important for proper myeloid cell differentiation. [SEP] KLF4 is involved in the regulation of proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis and somatic cell reprogramming. In embryonic stem cells (ESCs), KLF4 has been demonstrated to be a good indicator of stem-like capacity. Function
KLF4 has diverse functions, and has been garnering attention in recent years because some of its functions are apparently contradicting, but mainly since the discovery of its integral role as one of four key factors that are essential for inducing pluripotent stem cells. KLF4 is particularly important in preventing cell division when the DNA is damaged. KLF4 is also important in regulating centrosome number and chromosome number (genetic stability), and in promoting cell survival. However, some studies have revealed that under certain conditions KLF4 may switch its role from pro-cell survival to pro-cell death.KLF4 is expressed in the cells that are non-dividing and are terminally differentiated in the intestinal epithelium, where KLF4 is important in the regulation of intestinal epithelium homeostasis (terminal cell differentiation and proper localization of the different intestinal epithelium cell types). In the intestinal epithelium, KLF4 is an important regulator of Wnt signaling pathway genes of genes regulating differentiation.KLF4 is expressed in a variety of tissues and organs such as: the cornea where it is required for epithelial barrier function and is a regulator of genes required for corneal homeostasis; the skin where it is required for the development of skin permeability barrier function; the bone and teeth tissues where it regulates normal skeletal development; epithelial cell of the mouse male and female reproductive tract where in the males it is important for proper spermatogenesis; vascular endothelial cells where it is critical in preventing vascular leakage in response to inflammatory stimuli; white blood cells where it mediates inflammatory responses cellular differentiation and proliferation; the kidneys where it is involved in the differentiation of embryonic stem cells and induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells to renal lineage in vitro and its dysregulation has been linked to some renal pathologies. Recently a group investigated the role of KLF4 in a particular population of intestinal stem cells, the Bmi1+ stem cells. 
Klf4 is not required for proper myeloid cell differentiation. [SEP] KLF4 is involved in the regulation of proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis and somatic cell reprogramming. In embryonic stem cells (ESCs), KLF4 has been demonstrated to be a good indicator of stem-like capacity. Function
KLF4 has diverse functions, and has been garnering attention in recent years because some of its functions are apparently contradicting, but mainly since the discovery of its integral role as one of four key factors that are essential for inducing pluripotent stem cells. KLF4 is highly expressed in non-dividing cells and its overexpression induces cell cycle arrest. KLF4 is particularly important in preventing cell division when the DNA is damaged. However, some studies have revealed that under certain conditions KLF4 may switch its role from pro-cell survival to pro-cell death.KLF4 is expressed in the cells that are non-dividing and are terminally differentiated in the intestinal epithelium, where KLF4 is important in the regulation of intestinal epithelium homeostasis (terminal cell differentiation and proper localization of the different intestinal epithelium cell types). In the intestinal epithelium, KLF4 is an important regulator of Wnt signaling pathway genes of genes regulating differentiation.KLF4 is expressed in a variety of tissues and organs such as: the cornea where it is required for epithelial barrier function and is a regulator of genes required for corneal homeostasis; the skin where it is required for the development of skin permeability barrier function; the bone and teeth tissues where it regulates normal skeletal development; epithelial cell of the mouse male and female reproductive tract where in the males it is important for proper spermatogenesis; vascular endothelial cells where it is critical in preventing vascular leakage in response to inflammatory stimuli; white blood cells where it mediates inflammatory responses cellular differentiation and proliferation; the kidneys where it is involved in the differentiation of embryonic stem cells and induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells to renal lineage in vitro and its dysregulation has been linked to some renal pathologies. In vivo functional studies on the role of KLF4 in stem cells are rare. 
Knockout proximal tubule-specific deletion of the BMP receptor Alk3 causes epithelial damage. [SEP] Dent's disease (or Dent disease) is a rare X-linked recessive inherited condition that affects the proximal renal tubules of the kidney. Signaling in the BMP pathway begins with the binding of a BMP to the type II receptor. These two protein signaling molecules and their BMPR2-mediated effects play an important role in follicle development in preparation for ovulation. An inactivating mutation in the BMPR2 gene has been linked to pulmonary arterial hypertension.BMPR2 functions to inhibit the proliferation of vascular smooth muscle tissue. Development
Bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) cell signaling plays a key role in diverse aspects of cardiac differentiation and morphogenesis. (BMPs) are multifunctional signaling molecules critical for the development of AV node. BMP influences AV node development through Alk3 receptor (Activin receptor-like kinase 3). Abnormalities seen in BMP and Alk3 are associated with some cardiovascular diseases like Ebstein’s anomaly and AV conduction disease. 
Knockout proximal tubule-specific deletion of the BMP receptor Alk3 causes fibrosis. [SEP] An inactivating mutation in the BMPR2 gene has been linked to pulmonary arterial hypertension.BMPR2 functions to inhibit the proliferation of vascular smooth muscle tissue. The dysfunction of BMPR2 can also lead to an elevation in pulmonary arterial pressure due to an adverse response of the pulmonary circuit to injury.It is especially important to screen for BMPR2 mutations in relatives of patients with idiopathic pulmonary hypertension, for these mutations are present in >70% of familial cases.There have been studies which has correlated BMPR2 with exercise induced elevation of PA pressure by measuring tricuspid regurgitation velocity by echocardiography. Bone morphogenetic protein 2 or BMP-2 belongs to the TGF-β superfamily of proteins. Development
Bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) cell signaling plays a key role in diverse aspects of cardiac differentiation and morphogenesis. BMP influences AV node development through Alk3 receptor (Activin receptor-like kinase 3). Abnormalities seen in BMP and Alk3 are associated with some cardiovascular diseases like Ebstein’s anomaly and AV conduction disease. Physiologically, fibrosis acts to deposit connective tissue, which can interfere with or totally inhibit the normal architecture and function of the underlying organ or tissue. Defined by the pathological accumulation of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins, fibrosis results in scarring and thickening of the affected tissue — it is in essence an exaggerated wound healing response which interferes with normal organ function. 
L3MBTL2 binds to H2AK119Ub marked chromatin to form a PRC1 complex. [SEP] PRC2 catalyzes trimethylation of lysine 27 on histone H3 (H3K27me2/3), while PRC1 mono- ubiquitinates histone H2A on lysine 119 (H2AK119Ub1). The mammalian PRC1 core complexes are very similar to Drosophila. PRC1 also mono-ubiquitinates histone H2A on lysine 119 (H2AK119Ub1). The mouse PRC2 has four subunits: Suz12 (zinc finger), Eed, Ezh1 or Ezh2 (SET domain with histone methyltransferase activity) and Rbbp4 (histone binding domain). PRC2 can bind to H3K27me3 and repress neighboring nucleosomes, thus spreading the repression.PRC2 has a role in X chromosome inactivation, in maintenance of stem cell fate, and in imprinting. Many other accessory components of PRC2 complex in Arabidopsis have been identified[1]. Another polycomb complex, PRC1, can bind H3K27me3 and adds the histone modification H2AK119Ub which aids chromatin compaction. H3K9Me2/3 serves as a binding site for the recruitment of Swi6 (heterochromatin protein 1 or HP1, another classic heterochromatin marker) which in turn recruits further repressive activities including histone modifiers such as histone deacetylases and histone methyltransferases. 
LDL cholesterol has a causal role in the development of cardiovascular disease. [SEP] Low density lipoproteins (LDL) transport cholesterol from the liver to the rest of the body and therefore raise blood cholesterol levels. The consumption of "saturated fats increases LDL levels within the body, thus raising blood cholesterol levels". Trans fats also "increase LDL levels whilst decreasing HDL levels within the body, significantly raising blood cholesterol levels".High levels of cholesterol in the bloodstream lead to atherosclerosis. HDL cholesterol works by removing LDL from the blood stream and returning it back to liver where it can not cause cardiovascular damage.LDL cholesterol is known as "the bad cholesterol" and it is recommended to have a low level (130 mg/dL or less) anything higher can lead to a higher CVD risk. In 1913, a study by Anichkov showed that rabbits fed on cholesterol developed lesions in their arteries similar to atherosclerosis, suggesting a role for cholesterol in atherogenesis.Dutch physician Cornelis de Langen noted the correlation between nutritional cholesterol intake and incidence of gallstones in  Javanese people in 1916. de Langen showed that the traditional Javanese diet, poor in cholesterol and other lipids, was associated with a low level of blood cholesterol and low incidence of cardiovascular disease (CVD), while the prevalence of CVD in Europeans living in Java on a Western diet was higher. Consensus
The medical consensus supports the lipid hypothesis as evidence from separate meta-analyses, prospective epidemiologic studies and randomized clinical trials have demonstrated that elevated levels of LDL blood cholesterol are a significant risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Too much LDL (called 'bad cholesterol') can lead to fatty deposits building up in the arteries which increases the risk of cardiovascular disease. A review from the Journal of the American College of Cardiology in 2018 concluded:

The causal effect of LDL and other apo B–containing lipoproteins on the risk of cardiovascular disease is determined by both the magnitude and the cumulative duration of exposure to these lipoproteins. 
LRBA prevents CTLA - 4 recycling. [SEP] Since LRBA loss results in a loss of CTLA4 protein, the immune dysregulation syndrome of LRBA deficient patients can be attributed to the secondary loss of CTLA4. Although the function of LRBA is not fully understood, it was recently reported that this protein plays a major immuno-regulatory role in the expression, function, and trafficking of cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA4). CTLA4 resides in intracellular vesicles, or endosomes, of regulatory T cells (Tregs) that are released and mobilize to the cell surface after T cell receptor stimulation.It is hypothesized that LRBA deficiency sufficiently impairs post-translational CTLA4 expression, as the abundance of CTLA4 protein in patients is significantly lower than normal. Knockdown of LRBA in wildtype cells, also leads to a post-translational loss of CTLA4 protein. Co-immunoprecipitation studies suggest that LRBA binds to the cytoplasmic tail of CTLA4. By binding to the tail, LRBA may protect and regulate the degradation of CTLA4 by blocking its trafficking to lysosomes for degradation. Treatment
A new investigation has identified a seemingly successful treatment for LRBA deficiency by targeting CTLA4. Antibodies to CTLA-4 may exert additional effects when used in vivo, by binding and thereby depleting regulatory T cells. 
LRBA promotes CTLA - 4 recycling. [SEP] Since LRBA loss results in a loss of CTLA4 protein, the immune dysregulation syndrome of LRBA deficient patients can be attributed to the secondary loss of CTLA4. Although the function of LRBA is not fully understood, it was recently reported that this protein plays a major immuno-regulatory role in the expression, function, and trafficking of cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA4). CTLA4 resides in intracellular vesicles, or endosomes, of regulatory T cells (Tregs) that are released and mobilize to the cell surface after T cell receptor stimulation.It is hypothesized that LRBA deficiency sufficiently impairs post-translational CTLA4 expression, as the abundance of CTLA4 protein in patients is significantly lower than normal. Knockdown of LRBA in wildtype cells, also leads to a post-translational loss of CTLA4 protein. Co-immunoprecipitation studies suggest that LRBA binds to the cytoplasmic tail of CTLA4. By binding to the tail, LRBA may protect and regulate the degradation of CTLA4 by blocking its trafficking to lysosomes for degradation. Treatment
A new investigation has identified a seemingly successful treatment for LRBA deficiency by targeting CTLA4. CTLA-4 or CTLA4 (cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4), also known as CD152 (cluster of differentiation 152), is a protein receptor that functions as an immune checkpoint and downregulates immune responses. 
LSD1-positive promoters are associated with RNA polymerase II [SEP] In an early study, looking at a limited set of transcriptional promoters, Fernandez et al. Real-time methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) suggests that many other genes are also hypermethylated. Similarly, expression of another epigenetic modifier, the LSD1 histone demethylase, is increased in chondrosarcoma, Ewing's sarcoma, osteosarcoma, and rhabdomyosarcoma. Drug targeting and inhibition of EZH2 in Ewing's sarcoma, or of LSD1 in several sarcomas, inhibits tumor cell growth in these sarcomas. Coactivators and repressors
IFRD1 is a positive cofactor of MyoD, as it cooperates with MyoD at inducing the transcriptional activity of MEF2C (by displacing HDAC4 from MEF2C); moreover IFRD1 also represses the transcriptional activity of NF-κB, which is known to inhibit MyoD mRNA accumulation. DNA sequences comprising the proximal RIBEYE promoter are enriched for DNA methylation and delay transcription of this isoform, possibly by inhibiting binding of the Cone-rod homeobox (CRX) transcription factor. Chromosomal aberrations and increased transcriptional expression of this gene are associated with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. Beside the NuRD complex, SALL4 is reportedly able to bind to other epigenetic modifiers such as histone lysine-specific demethylase 1 (LSD1), which is frequently associated with the NuRD complex and subsequently gene repression. 
Lack of FGF21 in mice increases life expectancy. [SEP] Managing other cardiovascular risk factors, such as hypertension, high cholesterol, and microalbuminuria, improves a person's life expectancy. A study demonstrates that a 30% caloric restriction extended life spans of male C57BL/6J mice by 10% but when combined with daily intermittent fasting and eating during the most active time of the day it extended life span by 35%. A study shows that infusing the nourishing cerebrospinal fluid from around brain cells of young mice into aged brains rejuvenates aspects of the brain, identifying FGF17 as a key target for potential therapeutics such as of anti-aging. A study shows that blood cells' loss of the Y chromosome in a subset of cells, reportedly affecting at least 40% of 70 years-old men to some degree, contributes to fibrosis, heart risks, and mortality in a causal way. 29 August
A study reports that in model animals, treatment with rapamycin – which typically has negative side-effects – for a limited timespan extended lifespan as much as life-long administration started at the same age and that it was most effective during early adulthood. 3 January – Genetically modified fast-ageing mice exhibited improved health and lived two to three times longer than expected after being injected with stem cells, according to findings published in Nature Communications. 14 May
Researchers extend the lifespan of mice by 24%, using gene therapy applied when the mice were adults. It is the most potent genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's identified in the past 20 years. 
Lack of FGF21 in mice leads to atherosclerotic plaque formation. [SEP] FFAR4-deficient mice have increased levels of inflammation in their fat tissues. Atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease
Arterial atherosclerosis is initiated by damage to these blood vessels' endothelial cells, i.e., their single layers of cells which face the blood. These M1 cells continue to ingest oxLDL and may eventually become cholesterol-laden foam cells that promote the development of atheromatous plaques, i.e., hardened accumulations of macrophages, lipids, calcium, and fibrous connective tissue. The following studies suggest that the suppression of vascular inflammation by FFAR4 agonists reduces the development of atherosclerosis and its associated disorders. 1) The FFAR1/FFAR4 activating drug, GW9508, stimulated cultured human THP-1 macrophage foam cells and RAW264.7 mouse macrophages to secrete their cholesterol and reduce their levels of cholesteryl esters. 3) Long-term administration of GW9508 or TUG-891 to APOE−/− mice (these mice develop atherosclerosis due to lack of the apolipoprotein E gene) converted M1 macrophages to inflammation-suppressing M2-macrophages and resulted in less vascular inflammation and smaller atherosclerotic plaques (TUG-891's actions were reversed by the FFAR4 antagonist, AH-7614). Further studies are needed to determine if the therapeutic effects of omega-3 fatty acids in mice and humans involve FFAR4 activation and if potent, selectively acting FFAR4 drugs are more effective than omega-3 fatty acids in preventing and/or treating these and the other cited atherosclerosis-associated disorders. The role of FFAR4 in bone development in mice and humans requires further study. 
Lack of FGF21 in mice leads to reduced lifespan. [SEP] Restoring methionine to the diet of mice on a dietary restriction regimen blocks many acute benefits of dietary restriction, a process that may be mediated by increased production of hydrogen sulfide.Methionine restriction can increase circulating liver hormone FGF21 between 5-fold and 10-fold in mice. Fibroblast Growth Factor 21 Production (FGF-21) has been documented as a pathway to longevity. BAT activation through cold exposure up-regulates circulating fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) in humans by 37%. FGF21 improves insulin sensitivity and glucose metabolism which may partially explain its longevity promoting benefits. A study shows that infusing the nourishing cerebrospinal fluid from around brain cells of young mice into aged brains rejuvenates aspects of the brain, identifying FGF17 as a key target for potential therapeutics such as of anti-aging. A study shows that blood cells' loss of the Y chromosome in a subset of cells, reportedly affecting at least 40% of 70 years-old men to some degree, contributes to fibrosis, heart risks, and mortality in a causal way. 3 January – Genetically modified fast-ageing mice exhibited improved health and lived two to three times longer than expected after being injected with stem cells, according to findings published in Nature Communications. 14 May
Researchers extend the lifespan of mice by 24%, using gene therapy applied when the mice were adults. 
Lack of FGF21 in mice slows the rate of atherosclerotic plaque formation. [SEP] FGF21 is a potent, extracellularly acting metabolic regulator, whose action was discovered through in vitro phenotypic screening and diet manipulation studies in rodents.,  unlike canonical growth-stimulating FGFs known to stimulate mitosis, differentiation and angiogenesis in their target tissues,  FGF21 exerts its action by activating FGF21 receptors located in the cell membrane of target cells. In a similar vein, FGF21 promotes glucose uptake in fat , whereas in liver, it stimulates gluconeogenesis.Although a unifying view on the physiological value of FGF21 for the survival of mammals may still be lacking, evidence indicates that, under dietary protein restriction, FGF21 plays a homeostatic role leading to extend lifespan and improve metabolic health; proof of concept for this view has been recently provided in experiments with mice. FGF21 also protects mice from diet-induced obesity when over expressed in transgenic mice and lowers blood glucose and triglyceride levels when administered to diabetic rodents. Treatment of mice with FGF21 results in increased energy expenditure, fat utilization and lipid excretion.FGF21 enhances gluconeogenesis, fatty acid activation and  ketogenesis in the mouse liver under various conditions. FGF21 treatment improves sensitivity to insulin in normal and high-fat fed wild mice. The anti-inflammatory effects of FGF21 may primarily be due to inhibition of NF-κB in macrophages. In mice, FGF21 has been shown to protect against high fat diet-induced inflammation and islet hyperplasia in the pancreas, a finding of possible clinical relevance. In obese mice, FGF21 treatment can also reduce circulating glucose and abnormal fat accumulation in the liver. 
Lamins are associated with nuclear membrane structure maintenance. [SEP] Both systems provide structural support for the nuclear envelope and anchoring sites for chromosomes and nuclear pores.The nuclear lamina is composed mostly of lamin proteins. The gene, known as lamin A (LMNA), makes a protein  necessary for holding the nucleus of the cell together. In most mammalian cells, lamin A, along with lamin B1, lamin B2, and lamin C, makes up the nuclear lamina, which provides shape and stability to the inner nuclear envelope. Lamin A
Lamin A is a major component of a protein scaffold on the inner edge of the nucleus called the nuclear lamina that helps organize nuclear processes such as RNA and DNA synthesis.Prelamin A contains a CAAX box at the C-terminus of the protein (where C is a cysteine and A is any aliphatic amino acids). Lamin proteins are thought to be involved in nuclear stability, chromatin structure and gene expression. The phosphorylated lamin B dimers remain associated with the nuclear membrane via their isoprenyl anchor. Lamin A is a major nuclear component that determines the shape and integrity of the nucleus, by acting as a scaffold protein that forms a filamentous meshwork underlying the inner nuclear envelope, the membrane that surrounds the nucleus. made of lamin, giving structural support to the nuclear envelope. 
Lamins are found within the inner layer of the mitochondrial membrane of all cells. [SEP] Like all proteins, lamins are synthesized in the cytoplasm and later transported to the nucleus interior, where they are assembled before being incorporated into the existing network of nuclear lamina. Lamins found on the cytosolic face of the membrane, such as emerin and nesprin, bind to the cytoskeleton to provide structural support. History
Lamins were first identified in the cell nucleus, using electron-microscopy. Later in 1978, immunolabeling techniques revealed that lamins are localized at the nuclear envelope under the inner nuclear membrane. A mitochondrion contains outer and inner membranes composed of phospholipid bilayers and proteins. Intermembrane space
The mitochondrial intermembrane space is the space between the outer membrane and the inner membrane. The inner mitochondrial membrane (IMM) is the mitochondrial membrane which separates the mitochondrial matrix from the intermembrane space. Structure
The structure of the inner mitochondrial membrane is extensively folded and compartmentalized. 
Lamins are found within the inner layer of the nuclear membrane of all cells. [SEP] : 14  Embedded within the inner membrane, various proteins bind the intermediate filaments that give the nucleus its structure. Both systems provide structural support for the nuclear envelope and anchoring sites for chromosomes and nuclear pores.The nuclear lamina is composed mostly of lamin proteins. Like all proteins, lamins are synthesized in the cytoplasm and later transported to the nucleus interior, where they are assembled before being incorporated into the existing network of nuclear lamina. Lamins found on the cytosolic face of the membrane, such as emerin and nesprin, bind to the cytoskeleton to provide structural support. Lamins are also found inside the nucleoplasm where they form another regular structure, known as the nucleoplasmic veil, that is visible using fluorescence microscopy. Nuclear lamina exist in all animals and all tissues. made of lamin, giving structural support to the nuclear envelope. These proteins localize to two regions of the nuclear compartment, the nuclear lamina—a proteinaceous structure layer subjacent to the inner surface of the nuclear envelope and throughout the nucleoplasm in the nucleoplasmic veil. 
Lamins have no effect on nuclear membrane structure maintenance. [SEP] Lamins, also known as nuclear lamins are fibrous proteins in type V intermediate filaments, providing structural function and transcriptional regulation in the cell nucleus. Nuclear lamins interact with inner nuclear membrane proteins to form the nuclear lamina on the interior of the nuclear envelope. Lamins are present in all animals but are not found in microorganisms, plants or fungi. These complex structures allow nuclear lamins to perform their specialized functions in maintaining the shape of the nucleus as well as roles during mitosis and apoptosis. Some studies have demonstrated that lamins A and C are not required for the formation of the nuclear lamina, yet disruptions in the LMNA gene can contribute to physical and mental limitations. Function
Maintenance of nuclear shape
Due to their properties as a type of IF protein, lamins provide support for maintaining the shape of the nucleus. Nuclei that lack lamins or have mutated versions have a deformed shape and do not function properly. Nuclear lamina exist in all animals and all tissues. 
Less than 10% of patients exposed to radiation have activated markers of mesenchymal stem cells. [SEP] These authors state that "Unlike primary mesenchymal stem cells, which are used with little objective evidence in clinical practice to promote tissue repair, iMS cells contribute directly to in vivo tissue regeneration in a context-dependent manner without forming tumors" and thus "has significant scope for application in tissue regeneration". CRCs do not express high levels of proteins characteristic of iPSCs or embryonic stem cells (ESCs) (e.g., Sox2, Oct4, Nanog, or Klf4). However, cell sources are limited, because they are produced in small numbers naturally and have a short lifespan. Mesenchymal stem cells
Induction
Mesenchymal stem/stromal cells (MSCs) are under investigation for applications in cardiac, renal, neural, joint and bone repair, as well as in inflammatory conditions and hemopoietic cotransplantation. Dedifferentiated adipocytes
Adipose tissue, because of its abundance and relatively less invasive harvest methods, represents a source of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). However, few cells appear in urine, only low conversion efficiencies had been achieved and the risk of bacterial contamination is relatively high. Allogenic stem-cell transplantation has the potential for a cure, but is used in a very small percentage of people (and in the relapsed setting, not as part of initial treatment). Mesenchymal stromal cells may reduce the all-cause mortality if they are used for a therapeutic reason and the therapeutic use of MSCs may increase the complete response of acute and chronic GvHD, but the evidence is very uncertain. 
Lice attenuated SIV vaccines induce a stronger antigen-specific T cell response in lymph node cells. [SEP] Lice are vectors of diseases such as typhus. Lice infestations can be controlled with lice combs, and medicated shampoos or washes. Bird taxa that are capable of exerting stronger antiparasitic defense—such as stronger T cell immune response or larger uropygial glands—harbor more taxa of Amblyceran lice than others. Head louse infestations may be beneficial in helping to foster a natural immune response against lice which helps humans in defense against the far more dangerous body louse, which is capable of transmitting dangerous diseases. Attenuated, or live, weakened, vaccines typically provoke more durable immunological responses. Live, attenuated vaccines, such as smallpox and polio vaccines, are able to induce killer T-cell (TC or CTL) responses, helper T-cell (TH) responses and antibody immunity. These vaccines are designed to stimulate nasal immune factors, such as IgA. In addition to inhibiting the virus, nasal vaccines provide ease of administration because no needles (or needle phobia) are involved. 
Lipopolysaccharides have an inflammation independent effect on kidney barrier function. [SEP] IL-1β seems to be an amplifier of inflammation by recruitment of macrophages in the context of sterile inflammation. This occurs, for instance, after exposure of macrophages and dendritic cells to lipopolysaccharide (LPS), which binds to TLR4 and acts as pathogen-associated molecular pattern, which is another group of alarmins.The synthesis of IL-1β precursor (and IL-18) is induced by stimulation of innate immune cells by Toll-like receptors (TLRs) or RIG-like receptors (RLRs), but to gain the ability to bind to IL-1 receptor, the IL-1β precursor has to be cleaved by a cysteine protease called caspase-1. Sepsis caused by gram-negative bacteria is thought to be largely due to a response by the host to the lipid A component of lipopolysaccharide, also called endotoxin. Sepsis caused by gram-positive bacteria may result from an immunological response to cell wall lipoteichoic acid. This lipopolysaccharide is an integral part of the gram-negative membrane and is released upon destruction of the bacterium. Further investigation has shown that IL-10 predominantly inhibits lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and bacterial product mediated induction of the pro-inflammatory cytokines TNFα, IL-1β, IL-12, and IFNγ secretion from Toll-Like Receptor (TLR) triggered myeloid lineage cells. Endotoxin response
The procoagulant response to lipopolysaccharide (bacterial endotoxin) is reduced in Duffy antigen negative Africans compared with Duffy positive Whites. Stimulation of inflammasome helps protect against SeV infection
Using human embryonic kidney cells (HEK 293T) it has been shown that SeV can stimulate production of a pattern recognition receptor NLRC5, which is a cytosolic protein expressed mainly in hematopoietic cells. 
Lmna knock-in models are appropriate for testing therapeutic approaches against Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS). [SEP] In Hutchinson–Gilford progeria syndrome, a 50-amino acid deletion in prelamin A (amino acids 607–656) removes the site for the second endoproteolytic cleavage. A truncated version of lamin A, commonly known as progerin, causes Hutchinson-Gilford-Progeria syndrome. Progeria is a specific type of progeroid syndrome, also known as Hutchinson–Gilford syndrome. Pathophysiology
Hutchinson-Gilford syndrome (HGPS) is an extremely rare autosomal dominant genetic disorder in which symptoms resembling aspects of aging are manifested at an early age. In 2003, the cause of progeria was discovered to be a point mutation in position 1824 of the LMNA gene, which replaces a cytosine with thymine. A genetic test for LMNA mutations can confirm the diagnosis of progeria. In 2020 BASE editing was used in a mouse model to target the LMNA gene mutation that causes the progerin protein instead of the healthy Lamin A while in 2023 a study designed a peptide that prevented progerin from binding to BubR1 which is known to regulate aging in mice. The condition was later named Hutchinson–Gilford progeria syndrome. 
Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis requires VPS9a [SEP] reported that Pin1 has putative novel nuclear localization signal (NLS) and Pin1 interacts with importin α5 (KPNA1). PIN1/2/3/4/7 in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana) localize at the plasma membrane (PM) where they serve as secondary active transporters involved in the efflux of auxin. The PM-localized PIN proteins show asymmetrical localisations on the membrane and are therefore responsible for polar auxin transport. PIN5 and 8 in Arabidopsis) localize mostly at the ER-membrane or have a dual PM and ER localisation (e.g. PIN6 in Arabidopsis). The PM-localized PIN proteins physically interact with a few members of the large PGP family of transporters that also work as auxin efflux carriers (PGP1 and PGP19 in Arabidopsis). The activity and localization of the PM-localized PIN proteins is regulated by several phosphorylations on their large cytosolic hydrophilic loop carried out by kinases of the AGC family (e.g. "Maternal Control of PIN1 Is Required for Female Gametophyte Development in Arabidopsis". 
Long - range chromatin interactions regulate transcription. [SEP] This observation sheds light on other possible cellular functions of chromatin organization outside of genomic regulation. Chromatin and bursts of transcription
Chromatin and its interaction with enzymes has been researched, and a conclusion being made is that it is relevant and an important factor in gene expression. Fluctuations between open and closed chromatin may contribute to the discontinuity of transcription, or transcriptional bursting. Other factors are probably involved, such as the association and dissociation of transcription factor complexes with chromatin. "CHROMATIN INSULATORS AND BOUNDARIES: Effects on Transcription and Nuclear Organization". ), Chromatin structure and gene expression. Chromatin greatly impedes transcription in eukaryotes. Indeed, the prevalence of long ncRNAs associated with protein coding genes may contribute to localised patterns of chromatin modifications that regulate gene expression during development. 
Long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids supplementation has no significant effects on wheezing or asthma at 3 and 6 years. [SEP] The benefits of allergen immunotherapy for food allergies is unclear, thus is not recommended as of 2015.There is research on the effects of increasing intake of polyunsaturated fatty acids during pregnancy, lactation, via infant formula and in early childhood on the subsequent risk of developing food allergies during infancy and childhood. From two reviews, maternal intake of omega-3, long-chain fatty acids during pregnancy appeared to reduce the risks of medically diagnosed IgE-mediated allergy, eczema and food allergy per parental reporting in the first 12 months of life, but the effects were not all sustained past 12 months. For infants, supplementing their diet with oils high in polyunsaturated fatty acids did not affect the risks of food allergies, eczema or asthma either as infants or into childhood.There is research on probiotics, prebiotics and the combination of the two (synbiotics) as a means of treating or preventing infant and child allergies. Cardiovascular disease
Moderate and high quality evidence from a 2020 review showed that EPA and DHA, such as that found in omega−3 polyunsaturated fatty acid supplements, does not appear to improve mortality or cardiovascular health. In this population omega−3 fatty acid supplementation decreases the risk of heart disease by about 25%.A 2019 review found that omega-3 fatty acid supplements make little or no difference to cardiovascular mortality and that patients with myocardial infarction yield no benefit in taking the supplements. Atopic diseases
Results of studies investigating the role of LCPUFA supplementation and LCPUFA status in the prevention and therapy of atopic diseases (allergic rhinoconjunctivitis, atopic dermatitis, and allergic asthma) are controversial; therefore, as of 2013 it could not be stated either that the nutritional intake of n−3 fatty acids has a clear preventive or therapeutic role, or that the intake of n-6 fatty acids has a promoting role in the context of atopic diseases. Asthma
As of 2015, there was no evidence that taking omega−3 supplements can prevent asthma attacks in children. In 2017, the American Heart Association issued a science advisory stating that it could not recommend use of omega-3 fish oil supplements for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease or stroke, although it reaffirmed supplementation for people who have a history of coronary heart disease.Manufacturers have begun to include long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids DHA and arachidonic acid (AA) into their formula milk for newborns, however, a 2017 review found that supplementation with DHA and AA does not appear to be harmful or beneficial to formula-fed infants. 
Long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids supplementation is associated with lower rates of atopic eczema at 1 year. [SEP] Diet
The role of vitamin D on atopic dermatitis is not clear, but vitamin D supplementation may improve its symptoms.There is no clear benefit for pregnant mothers taking omega 3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid (LCPUFA) in preventing the development of AD in their child.Several probiotics seem to have a positive effect, with a roughly 20% reduction in the rate of AD. Long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids, specifically docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), are beneficial for fetal development. Additionally, maternal intake of omega-3 long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 LC-PUFAs) has been associated with a reduced risk of development of eczema in childhood and reduced likelihood to for infants exhibit sensitivity to foods in the first year of life. The benefits of allergen immunotherapy for food allergies is unclear, thus is not recommended as of 2015.There is research on the effects of increasing intake of polyunsaturated fatty acids during pregnancy, lactation, via infant formula and in early childhood on the subsequent risk of developing food allergies during infancy and childhood. From two reviews, maternal intake of omega-3, long-chain fatty acids during pregnancy appeared to reduce the risks of medically diagnosed IgE-mediated allergy, eczema and food allergy per parental reporting in the first 12 months of life, but the effects were not all sustained past 12 months. For infants, supplementing their diet with oils high in polyunsaturated fatty acids did not affect the risks of food allergies, eczema or asthma either as infants or into childhood.There is research on probiotics, prebiotics and the combination of the two (synbiotics) as a means of treating or preventing infant and child allergies. Long chain polyunsaturated fatty acid supplementation
Some manufacturers have begun supplementing formula milk with long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCPUFA). Allergic diseases
In children who are at risk for developing allergic diseases (defined as at least one parent or sibling having atopy), atopic syndrome can be prevented or delayed through 4-month exclusive breastfeeding, though these benefits may not persist. 
Long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids supplementation reduces wheezing and asthma. [SEP] Long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids, specifically docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), are beneficial for fetal development. Maternal intake of vitamin D, vitamin E, and zinc have all been associated with a lower likelihood of wheezing in childhood, suggesting a protective effect. Additionally, maternal intake of omega-3 long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 LC-PUFAs) has been associated with a reduced risk of development of eczema in childhood and reduced likelihood to for infants exhibit sensitivity to foods in the first year of life. These are termed long chain, omega-3, polyunsaturated fatty acids, and are considered as important for fetal neurodevelopment. The benefits of allergen immunotherapy for food allergies is unclear, thus is not recommended as of 2015.There is research on the effects of increasing intake of polyunsaturated fatty acids during pregnancy, lactation, via infant formula and in early childhood on the subsequent risk of developing food allergies during infancy and childhood. From two reviews, maternal intake of omega-3, long-chain fatty acids during pregnancy appeared to reduce the risks of medically diagnosed IgE-mediated allergy, eczema and food allergy per parental reporting in the first 12 months of life, but the effects were not all sustained past 12 months. For infants, supplementing their diet with oils high in polyunsaturated fatty acids did not affect the risks of food allergies, eczema or asthma either as infants or into childhood.There is research on probiotics, prebiotics and the combination of the two (synbiotics) as a means of treating or preventing infant and child allergies. The American Heart Association also has diet recommendations aimed at preventing cardiovascular disease.Additionally, marine-derived omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) have been promoted for preventing sudden cardiac death due to their postulated ability to lower triglyceride levels, prevent arrhythmias, decrease platelet aggregation, and lower blood pressure. 
Low expression of miR7a does not repress target genes or exert a biological function in ovaries. [SEP] Thus it appears that much of the reduction or absence of BRCA1 in high grade ductal breast cancers may be due to over-expressed miR-182. Thus, miR-146a and/or miR-146b-5p may also contribute to reduced expression of BRCA1 in these triple-negative breast cancers. MicroRNA repression of BRCA1 in ovarian cancers
In both serous tubal intraepithelial carcinoma (the precursor lesion to high grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HG-SOC)), and in HG-SOC itself, miR-182 is overexpressed in about 70% of cases. Another microRNA known to reduce expression of BRCA1 in ovarian cancer cells is miR-9. Among 58 tumors from patients with stage IIIC or stage IV serous ovarian cancers (HG-SOG), an inverse correlation was found between expressions of miR-9 and BRCA1, so that increased miR-9 may also contribute to reduced expression of BRCA1 in these ovarian cancers. miRNA are downregulated in many tumors and thus appear to function as tumor suppressor genes. In humans, this microRNA is involved in the mechanisms of immunity, and in many different cancers (see below) it was found to be expressed at a particularly low level. It is suggested that the downregulation of miR-181 may play a role in the development of cancer. 
Low expression of miR7a does not repress target genes or exert a biological function in testis. [SEP] During development, miR-7 is strongly expressed in the zebrafish brain. SRY, which is highly expressed in murine testes, functions as a miR-138 sponge. For example, some areas of the mouse adult hippocampus show expression of CiRS-7 but not miR-7, suggesting that CiRS-7 may have roles that are independent of interacting with the miRNA.Potential roles include the following:

Binding to RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) and RNAs besides miRNAs to form RNA-protein complexes. It is formally possible that miR-7 moderates CiRS-7's regulatory activity instead of the other way around! In addition, these molecules contain few (if any) miRNA binding sites. miR-7 plays an important regulatory role in several cancers and in Parkinson's disease, which is a brain illness of unknown origin. Perhaps CiRS-7's sponge activity could help in countering miR-7 activity. The miR-150-5p miRNA plays a role in colorectal cancer (CRC), where a lower expression of the miRNA was associated with a suppression of CRC metastasis. 
Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with high methylation levels across species. [SEP] Dynamic nucleosome remodelling across the Yeast genome
Studies in 2007 have catalogued nucleosome positions in yeast and shown that nucleosomes are depleted in promoter regions and origins of replication. Heritability of methylation state depends on certain enzymes (such as DNMT1) that have a higher affinity for 5-methylcytosine than for cytosine. DNMT1 is the most abundant methyltransferase in somatic cells, localizes to replication foci, has a 10–40-fold preference for hemimethylated DNA and interacts with the proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA).By preferentially modifying hemimethylated DNA, DNMT1 transfers patterns of methylation to a newly synthesized strand after DNA replication, and therefore is often referred to as the ‘maintenance' methyltransferase. Nucleosome positioning
Eukaryotic genomes have numerous nucleosomes. Recent studies have uncovered connections between nucleosome positioning and other epigenetic factors, such as DNA methylation and hydroxymethylation. While age is a known risk factor for many diseases, age-related methylation
has been found to occur differentially at specific sites along the genome. Molecular interaction data, supported by colocalization analyses, identify multiple nuclear regulatory pathways, linking sequence variation to disturbances in DNA methylation and molecular and phenotypic variation. Sequencing RNA in its native form preserves modifications like methylation, allowing them to be investigated directly and simultaneously. 
Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil polarization by regulating membrane raft functions. [SEP] Ly49 is a family of membrane C-type lectin-like receptors expressed mainly on NK cells but also on other immune cells (some CD8+ and CD3+ T lymphocytes, intestinal epithelial lymphocytes (IELs), NKT cells, uterine NK cells (uNK) cells, macrophages or dendritic cells). Ly49 family is coded by Klra gene cluster and include genes for both inhibitory and activating paired receptors, but most of them are inhibitory. Inhibitory Ly49 receptors play a role in the recognition of self cells and thus maintain self-tolerance and prevent autoimmunity by suppressing NK cell activation. They express several types of inhibitory and activating receptors on their surface, including the Ly49 receptor family, which have roles in NK cell licensing, antiviral, and antitumor immunity,.NK cells are activated when signal from activating receptors outweighs inhibitory signals. Some Ly49 receptors have evolved to recognise specific viral proteins, for example Ly49H binds to murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV) glycoprotein m157. In neutrophils, lipid products of PI3Ks regulate activation of Rac1, hematopoietic Rac2, and RhoG GTPases of the Rho family and are required for cell motility. Rac-GTPases regulate cytoskeletal dynamics and facilitate neutrophils adhesion, migration, and spreading. Spatially regulating Rho GTPases and organizing the leading edge of the cell, PI3Ks and their lipid products could play pivotal roles in establishing leukocyte polarity, as compass molecules that tell the cell where to crawl. 
Ly6C hi monocytes have a higher inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. [SEP] The minor allele at FOXO3A summon a differential response of monocytes in RA patients. Gamma-linolenic acid, an omega-6 fatty acid, may reduce pain, tender joint count and stiffness, and is generally safe. (LTB4) increases vascular permeabiltity and stimulates other inflammatory substances. In animal studies biochemical markers of antioxidant defence mechanisms were increased with vitamin C supplementation and infiltration of inflammatory cells into synovial fluid were decreased. characterizes lymphoid leukemia cells. It's especially high expression is observed in the human mast cell line HMC-1, and in the human erythroleukemia cell line HEL. Mac-1 and LFA-1 are receptors found on leukocytes. characterizes lymphoid leukemia cells. 
Lysine histone demethylase inhibitor JIB 04 is inactive against KDM5A. [SEP] KDM1A gene expression is observed to be upregulated in some cancers, and so KDM1A inhibition has therefore been considered a possible epigenetic treatment for cancer. KDM2A has roles in either promoting or inhibiting tumor function, and KDM2B has roles in oncogenesis. The KDM5 family appears to regulate key developmental functions, including cellular differentiation, mitochondrial function and cell cycle progression. KDM5B and KDM5C have also shown to interaction with PcG proteins, which are involved in transcriptional repression. KDM6A and KDM6B possess tumor-suppressive characteristics. Lysine-specific demethylase 5A is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the KDM5A gene. It was recently renamed to Lysine Demethylase 5 (KDM5). Lysine-specific demethylase 5C is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the KDM5C gene. 
M. stadtmanae does not induce ASC speck formation in BlaER1 monocytes. [SEP] External links
"Methanosphaera stadtmaniae" at the Encyclopedia of Life
Type strain of Methanosphaera stadtmanae at BacDive -  the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase Cell wall and cell membrane compared to bacteria
The cell wall and cell membrane of Methanobrevibacter smithii determine susceptibility to antibiotics and statins. The presence of statin-sensitive isoprene units in the cell membrane of archaea allows statins to selectively interfere with the growth of archaea while leaving the cell membrane of bacteria unaffected. While bacteria do not use isoprene units in their cell membrane they are still required elsewhere. These bacterial isoprene units are, however, synthesized by the mevalonate pathway (MEP) that is not inhibited by statins. Statins can inhibit archaeal cell membrane biosynthesis apparently without affecting bacterial numbers as demonstrated in livestock and humans. While it is generally believed that statins inhibit methane production via their effect on cell membrane biosynthesis, mediated by inhibition of the HMG-CoA reductase, there is accumulating evidence for an alternative or additional mechanism of action where statins inhibit methanogenesis directly. A Series B round of $10.7 million was raised in 2011.Tiny Speck's first product was a computer game called Glitch—a social MMORPG with highly stylized 2D graphics. 
M. stadtmanae induces ASC speck formation in BlaER1 monocytes. [SEP] Methanosphaera stadtmaniae is a methanogen archaeon. "Tungsten-enhanced growth of Methanosphaera stadtmanae". External links
"Methanosphaera stadtmaniae" at the Encyclopedia of Life
Type strain of Methanosphaera stadtmanae at BacDive -  the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase The presence of statin-sensitive isoprene units in the cell membrane of archaea allows statins to selectively interfere with the growth of archaea while leaving the cell membrane of bacteria unaffected. These bacterial isoprene units are, however, synthesized by the mevalonate pathway (MEP) that is not inhibited by statins. Activator binds to an inducer and the complex binds to the activation sequence and activates target gene. When arabinose is present, it allosterically binds to the regulatory protein AraC, which then helps to recruit RNA polymerase for transcription. Currently, the president of the ASC is Stephen Lighthill.Members use the post-nominal letters "ASC". 
MEK inhibitors are effective treatments in RAS-driven mouse models of cancer. [SEP] One of the protective pathways is the PI3K/AKT pathway; another is the RAS/MEK/ERK pathway. Most chemotherapy medications work by destroying fast-growing and/or fast-replicating cancer cells, either by causing DNA damage upon replication or by other mechanisms. Clinical significance
Role in cancer
MET pathway plays an important role in the development of cancer through:

activation of key oncogenic pathways (RAS, PI3K, STAT3, beta-catenin);
angiogenesis (sprouting of new blood vessels from pre-existing ones to supply a tumor with nutrients);
scatter (cells dissociation due to metalloprotease production), which often leads to metastasis.Coordinated down-regulation of both MET and its downstream effector extracellular signal-regulated kinase 2 (ERK2) by miR-199a* may be effective in inhibiting not only cell proliferation but also motility and invasive capabilities of tumor cells.MET amplification has emerged as a potential biomarker of the clear cell tumor subtype.The amplification of the cell surface receptor MET often drives resistance to anti-EGFR therapies in colorectal cancer. Cancer therapies targeting HGF/MET
Since tumor invasion and metastasis are the main cause of death in cancer patients, interfering with MET signaling appears to be a promising therapeutic approach. SU11274 (SUGEN) specifically inhibits MET kinase activity and its subsequent signaling. Ras activates Raf (MAPKKK), which activates Mek (MAPKK), which activates Erk (MAPK). In 2007, mTORC1 inhibitors began being approved for treatments against cancers such as renal cell carcinoma. Anticancer mechanism
Direct cancer cells killing. 
MFGE8 regulates fat absorption by binding to av-Beta3 and av-Beta5 integrins. [SEP] Milk fat globule-EGF factor 8 protein (Mfge8), also known as lactadherin, is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MFGE8 gene. Species distribution
Mfge8 is a secreted protein found in vertebrates, including mammals as well as birds. Function
MFGE8 may function as a cell adhesion protein to connect smooth muscle to elastic fibers in arteries. An amyloid fragment of MFGE8 known as medin accumulates in the aorta with aging. MFGE8 in the vasculature of adults can induce recovery from ischemia by facilitating angiogenesis. It has been suggested that antagonizing MFGE8-induced angiogenesis could be a way of fighting cancer.MFGE8 contains a phosphatidylserine (PS) binding domain, as well as an arginine-glycine-aspartic acid motif, which enables the binding to integrins. MFGE8 binds PS, which is exposed on the surface of apoptotic cells. (There are exceptions, for example medium-chain triglycerides are fatty acid esters of glycerol that passively diffuse from the GI tract to the portal system.) 
MICAL redox enzymes regulate actin dynamics in many cell types. [SEP] Actin participates in many important cellular processes, including muscle contraction, cell motility, cell division and cytokinesis, vesicle and organelle movement, cell signaling, and the establishment and maintenance of cell junctions and cell shape. Many of these processes are mediated by extensive and intimate interactions of actin with cellular membranes. Actin therefore contributes to processes such as the intracellular transport of vesicles and organelles as well as muscular contraction and cellular migration. Rapid assembly and disassembly of actin network enables cells to migrate (Cell migration).Actin is extremely abundant in most cells, comprising 1–5% of the total protein mass of most cells, and 10% of muscle cells.The actin protein is found in both the cytoplasm and the cell nucleus. Actin is also involved in the movement of organelles and in cellular morphogenesis, which involve cell division as well as the elongation and differentiation of the cell.The most notable proteins associated with the actin cytoskeleton in plants include: villin, which belongs to the same family as gelsolin/severin and is able to cut microfilaments and bind actin monomers in the presence of calcium cations; fimbrin, which is able to recognize and unite actin monomers and which is involved in the formation of networks (by a different regulation process from that of animals and yeasts); formins, which are able to act as an F-actin polymerization nucleating agent; myosin, a typical molecular motor that is specific to eukaryotes and which in Arabidopsis thaliana is coded for by 17 genes in two distinct classes; CHUP1, which can bind actin and is implicated in the spatial distribution of chloroplasts in the cell; KAM1/MUR3 that define the morphology of the Golgi apparatus as well as the composition of xyloglucans in the cell wall; NtWLIM1, which facilitates the emergence of actin cell structures; and ERD10, which is involved in the association of organelles within membranes and microfilaments and which seems to play a role that is involved in an organism's reaction to stress. Nuclear actin organization varies in different cell types. This movement requires the interaction of actin and myosin. Cell movement
Actin is also involved in cell movement. 
MICAL redox enzymes regulate actin dynamics. [SEP] Actin participates in many important cellular processes, including muscle contraction, cell motility, cell division and cytokinesis, vesicle and organelle movement, cell signaling, and the establishment and maintenance of cell junctions and cell shape. Actin therefore contributes to processes such as the intracellular transport of vesicles and organelles as well as muscular contraction and cellular migration. Actin is also involved in the movement of organelles and in cellular morphogenesis, which involve cell division as well as the elongation and differentiation of the cell.The most notable proteins associated with the actin cytoskeleton in plants include: villin, which belongs to the same family as gelsolin/severin and is able to cut microfilaments and bind actin monomers in the presence of calcium cations; fimbrin, which is able to recognize and unite actin monomers and which is involved in the formation of networks (by a different regulation process from that of animals and yeasts); formins, which are able to act as an F-actin polymerization nucleating agent; myosin, a typical molecular motor that is specific to eukaryotes and which in Arabidopsis thaliana is coded for by 17 genes in two distinct classes; CHUP1, which can bind actin and is implicated in the spatial distribution of chloroplasts in the cell; KAM1/MUR3 that define the morphology of the Golgi apparatus as well as the composition of xyloglucans in the cell wall; NtWLIM1, which facilitates the emergence of actin cell structures; and ERD10, which is involved in the association of organelles within membranes and microfilaments and which seems to play a role that is involved in an organism's reaction to stress. This movement requires the interaction of actin and myosin. Cell movement
Actin is also involved in cell movement. Applications
Actin is used in scientific and technological laboratories as a track for molecular motors such as myosin (either in muscle tissue or outside it) and as a necessary component for cellular functioning. A number of regulatory mechanisms, employing many actin-binding proteins, have evolved to control the dynamics of the actin filament system. Actin remodeling is a biochemical process in cells. 
MT binding domain drives amyloid structure formation. [SEP] The amyloid beta region of the protein, located in the membrane-spanning domain, is not well conserved across species and has no obvious connection with APP's native-state biological functions.Mutations in critical regions of amyloid precursor protein, including the region that generates amyloid beta (Aβ), cause familial susceptibility to Alzheimer's disease. Larger deposits called amyloid plaques are thus further formed.Tau proteins are responsible in neuron's internal support and transport system to carry nutrients and other essential materials. Most mutations in the APP and presenilin genes increase the production of a small protein called amyloid beta (Aβ)42, which is the main component of amyloid plaques. One of these fragments gives rise to fibrils of amyloid beta, which then form clumps that deposit outside neurons in dense formations known as amyloid plaques.Alzheimer's disease is also considered a tauopathy due to abnormal aggregation of the tau protein. Disease mechanism
Exactly how disturbances of production and aggregation of the beta-amyloid peptide give rise to the pathology of Alzheimer's disease is not known. MAC) pathways in synapses with proximity to amyloid plaques. One of these fragments gives rise to fibrils of amyloid beta which can self-assemble into the dense extracellular amyloid plaques. amyloid beta: the major component of amyloid plaques in Alzheimer's disease. 
MUC1-C activates the NF-κB p65 signaling pathway by interacting with IκB kinase ß. [SEP] MUC-1 regulates tyrosine kinase signaling receptors, which promotes  biosynthetic intermediates used in cell growth. MUC-1 is an inhibitor for cell-to-cell-extracellular interactions for both normal and malignant cells. MUC-1 C increases the progression of TNBC. MUC-1 C chronically activates pro inflammatory pathways in cancer cells. In the cell nucleus, the protein MUC1 regulates the activity of transcription factor complexes that have a documented role in tumor-induced changes of host immunity. Preventing cell death
MUC1 cytoplasmic tail has been shown to bind to p53. Association of MUC1 with p53 in cancer results in inhibition of p53-mediated apoptosis and promotion of p53-mediated cell cycle arrest.Overexpression of MUC1 in fibroblasts increased the phosphorylation of Akt. Overexpression of MUC1 in cancer. 
MafA phosphorylation decreases its ubiquitination. [SEP] This phosphorylated FOXO1 is then ubiquitinated and degraded by the proteosome. Status of several phosphorylation sites determines RELA stability mediated by the ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis. TNFα, LPS and other factors serve as activation inducers, followed by phosphorylation at residue 32 and 36 of IκBα, leading to rapid degradation of IκBα via the ubiquitin-proteasomal system and subsequent release of RELA/p50 complex. When phosphorylated on these serines (e.g., serines 32 and 36 in human IκBα), the IκB proteins are modified by a process called ubiquitination, which then leads them to be degraded by a cell structure called the proteasome. This work was highlighted in an independent editorial.It has been shown that muscle A kinase–anchoring protein (mAKAP) organized E3 ubiquitin ligases, affecting stability and positioning of HIF-1 inside its action site in the nucleus. Depletion of mAKAP or disruption of its targeting to the perinuclear (in cardiomyocytes) region altered the stability of HIF-1 and transcriptional activation of genes associated with hypoxia. Mdm2 also acts as an ubiquitin ligase and covalently attaches ubiquitin to p53 and thus marks p53 for degradation by the proteasome. p53 levels can show oscillations (or repeated pulses) in response to certain stresses, and these pulses can be important in determining whether the cells survive the stress, or die.MI-63 binds to MDM2, reactivating p53 in situations where p53's function has become inhibited.A ubiquitin specific protease, USP7 (or HAUSP), can cleave ubiquitin off p53, thereby protecting it from proteasome-dependent  degradation via the ubiquitin ligase pathway . 
MafA phosphorylation enhances its ubiquitination. [SEP] Status of several phosphorylation sites determines RELA stability mediated by the ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis. TNFα, LPS and other factors serve as activation inducers, followed by phosphorylation at residue 32 and 36 of IκBα, leading to rapid degradation of IκBα via the ubiquitin-proteasomal system and subsequent release of RELA/p50 complex. This phosphorylated FOXO1 is then ubiquitinated and degraded by the proteosome. When phosphorylated on these serines (e.g., serines 32 and 36 in human IκBα), the IκB proteins are modified by a process called ubiquitination, which then leads them to be degraded by a cell structure called the proteasome. Phosphorylation of BMAL1 targets it for ubiquitination and degradation, as well as deubiquitination and stabilization. The sumoylation of BMAL1 by small ubiquitin-related modifier 3 signals its ubiquitination in the nucleus, leading to transactivation of the CLOCK/BMAL1 heterodimer. Phosphorylation by CK2α regulates BMAL1 intracellular localization  and phosphorylation by GSK3B controls BMAL1 stability and primes it for ubiquitination.In 2004, Rora was discovered to be an activator of Bmal1 transcription within the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), regulated by its core clock. A proline-tyrosine (PY) motif presents at its linker region enables its interaction with the WW domains of the E3 ubiquitin ligase, the Smad ubiquitination-related factors (Smurf2). 
MafA ubiquitination decreases the recruitment of coavtivator P/CAF by MafA. [SEP] MAFA is closely linked with the type 1 Fcɛ receptors in not only mucosal mast cells of humans and mice but also in the serosal mast cells of these same organisms.It has the ability to function as both a channel for calcium ions along with interact with other receptors to inhibit certain cell processes. The variation among glycosylation levels helps play an important role in the properties of MAFA proteins, so the protein must be properly made and modified in order to have full functionality. The phosphorylation on these residues play the primary role in allowing MAFA to inhibit different biochemical processes. Clustering
FcɛRI
MAFA protein also interact greatly with FcɛRI receptors through the formation of aggregates and lipid rafts within the cellular membrane. Ligation: E3 ubiquitin ligases catalyse the final step of the ubiquitination cascade. Ubiquitination, or ubiquitin conjugation to proteins, is a crucial process for cell cycle progression and cell proliferation and development. Moreover, ubiquitination can also act to turn on/off the kinase activity of a protein. By inhibition of the ligase activity (through the making of Cul1 dominant negative thus renders ubiquitination not to occur), increased reporter activity shows that the identified substrates are being accumulated. 
MafA ubiquitination increases the recruitment of coavtivator P/CAF by MafA. [SEP] MAFA is closely linked with the type 1 Fcɛ receptors in not only mucosal mast cells of humans and mice but also in the serosal mast cells of these same organisms.It has the ability to function as both a channel for calcium ions along with interact with other receptors to inhibit certain cell processes. The variation among glycosylation levels helps play an important role in the properties of MAFA proteins, so the protein must be properly made and modified in order to have full functionality. The phosphorylation on these residues play the primary role in allowing MAFA to inhibit different biochemical processes. Clustering
FcɛRI
MAFA protein also interact greatly with FcɛRI receptors through the formation of aggregates and lipid rafts within the cellular membrane. Ligation: E3 ubiquitin ligases catalyse the final step of the ubiquitination cascade. Ubiquitination, or ubiquitin conjugation to proteins, is a crucial process for cell cycle progression and cell proliferation and development. Moreover, ubiquitination can also act to turn on/off the kinase activity of a protein. Since polyubiquitination is essential for the export of substrates, it is widely thought that this driving force is provided by ubiquitin-binding factors. 
Major antigen-induced signals from the T cell receptor and secondary signals from costimulatory receptors are required for T cell activation. [SEP] These reactions all involve IgE antibodies, which require a Th2 response during helper T cell development. Each locus can produce a variety of polypeptides with constant and variable regions.When the TCR engages with antigenic peptide and MHC (peptide/MHC), the T lymphocyte is activated through signal transduction, that is, a series of biochemical events mediated by associated enzymes, co-receptors, specialized adaptor molecules, and activated or released transcription factors. The signal transduction mechanism by which a T cell elicits this response upon contact with its unique antigen is termed T-cell activation. Signal 1 is provided by the T-cell receptor when recognising a specific antigen on a MHC molecule. There are myriad molecules involved in the complex biochemical process (called trans-membrane signaling) by which T-cell activation occurs. T-lymphocytes must receive costimulatory signal. Receptor-ligand engagement triggers T-cell signaling resulting in IL-2 production, clonal expansion and therefore development of effector and memory T-lymphocytes. If T-lymphocyte does not receive costimulatory signal, its activation fails and it becomes anergic.Alloimmune response can be enhanced by proinflammatory cytokines and by CD4+ T-lymphocytes  that are responsible for APC maturation and IL-2 production. 
Major vault protein (MVP) leads to more aggressive tumors by regulating the sorting of tumor suppressive miR-193a into extracellular vesicles (EVs). [SEP] Major vault protein is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MVP gene. Interactions
Major vault protein has been shown to interact with Estrogen receptor alpha, PTEN and PARP4. Structure
The protein structure consists of an outer shell composed of 78 copies of the ~100 kDa major vault protein (MVP). Vaults from higher eukaryotes also contain one or several small vault RNAs (vRNAs, also known as vtRNAs) of 86–141 bases within.The MVP subunits are composed head-to-head, with the N-termini of each half-vault facing each other. Vaults have been implicated in a broad range of cellular functions including nuclear-cytoplasmic transport, mRNA localization, drug resistance, cell signaling, nuclear pore assembly, and innate immunity. The three vault proteins (MVP, VPARP, and TEP1) have each been knocked out individually and in combination (VPARP and TEP1) in mice. Association with cancer
In the late 1990s, researchers found that vaults (especially the MVP) were over-expressed in cancer patients who were diagnosed with multidrug resistance, that is the resistance against many chemotherapy treatments. When the major vault protein (MVP) is expressed in insect cells, vault particles are assembled on polyribosomes in the cytoplasm. 
Major vault protein regulates sorting of tumor suppressive miR-193a into EVs. [SEP] Vaults from higher eukaryotes also contain one or several small vault RNAs (vRNAs, also known as vtRNAs) of 86–141 bases within.The MVP subunits are composed head-to-head, with the N-termini of each half-vault facing each other. In breast cancer cell lines, there is an inverse correlation of BRCA1 protein levels with miR-182 expression. Thus it appears that much of the reduction or absence of BRCA1 in high grade ductal breast cancers may be due to over-expressed miR-182. In addition to miR-182, a pair of almost identical microRNAs, miR-146a and miR-146b-5p, also repress BRCA1 expression. These two microRNAs are over-expressed in triple-negative tumors and their over-expression results in BRCA1 inactivation. Thus, miR-146a and/or miR-146b-5p may also contribute to reduced expression of BRCA1 in these triple-negative breast cancers. In cells with over-expressed miR-182, BRCA1 remained low, even after exposure to ionizing radiation (which normally raises BRCA1 expression). Thus much of the reduced or absent BRCA1 in HG-SOC may be due to over-expressed miR-182. 
Malaria has a high vectorial capacity. [SEP] Malaria is a mosquito-borne infectious disease that affects humans and other animals. The presence of malaria in an area requires a combination of high human population density, high Anopheles mosquito population density and high rates of transmission from humans to mosquitoes and from mosquitoes to humans. In areas where there is a high prevalence of malaria infection (e.g. Malaria is prevalent in tropical and subtropical regions because of rainfall, consistent high temperatures and high humidity, along with stagnant waters where mosquito larvae readily mature, providing them with the environment they need for continuous breeding. However, the primary malaria vectors in Africa, A. gambiae and A. funestus, are strongly anthropophilic and, consequently, are two of the most efficient malaria vectors in the world.Once ingested by a mosquito, malaria parasites must undergo development within the mosquito before they are infectious to humans. Vector-borne diseases, such as malaria, have distinctive characteristics that determine pathogenicity. The female mosquito is a highly effective vector of this disease. The vector carrying the highest number of diseases is the mosquito, which is responsible for the tropical diseases dengue and malaria. 
Many cytokines that are produced by cancer cells also contribute to carcinogenesis. [SEP] Carcinogenesis, also called oncogenesis or tumorigenesis, is the formation of a cancer, whereby normal cells are transformed into cancer cells. In either case, expression of these genes promotes the malignant phenotype of cancer cells. Hormones
Some hormones play a role in the development of cancer by promoting cell proliferation. Bacteria and parasites
Certain bacterial infections also increase the risk of cancer, as seen in Helicobacter pylori-induced gastric carcinoma. Certain parasitic infections can also increase the presence of carcinogenic compounds in the body, leading to the development of cancers. Inflammation
There is evidence that inflammation itself plays an important role in the development and progression of cancer. On the other hand, many cells of the immune system contribute to cancer immunology, suppressing cancer. This capacity of a mediator of inflammation to influence the effects of steroid hormones in cells is very likely to affect carcinogenesis. 
Many transmembrane receptors transmit signals by long-range conformational changes in the association of alpha-helices across the plasma membrane. [SEP] glutamate  receptors) or to the binding  site within transmembrane helices (rhodopsin-like family). Receptor structure
GPCRs are integral membrane proteins that possess seven membrane-spanning domains or transmembrane helices. These structures indicate how ligand binding at the extracellular side of a receptor leads to conformational changes in the cytoplasmic side of the receptor. However, in contrast to other types of receptors that have been studied, wherein ligands bind externally to the membrane, the ligands of GPCRs typically bind within the transmembrane domain. Conformational change
The transduction of the signal through the membrane by the receptor is not completely understood. Binding of an agonist to the GPCR results in a conformational change in the receptor that is transmitted to the bound Gα subunit of the heterotrimeric G protein via protein domain dynamics. These trans-membrane receptors are able to transmit information from outside the cell to the inside because they change conformation when a specific ligand binds to it. glutamate  receptors)  or  to  the  binding  site  within  transmembrane  helices  (Rhodopsin-like  family). 
Marmosets have a brain region homologous to Broca's area. [SEP] Broca's area, or the Broca area (, also UK: , US: ), is a region in the frontal lobe of the dominant hemisphere, usually the left, of the brain with functions linked to speech production. Broca's area is now typically defined in terms of the pars opercularis and pars triangularis of the inferior frontal gyrus, represented in Brodmann's cytoarchitectonic map as Brodmann area 44 and Brodmann area 45 of the dominant hemisphere.Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has shown language processing to also involve the third part of the inferior frontal gyrus the pars orbitalis, as well as the ventral part of BA6 and these are now often included in a larger area called Broca's region.Studies of chronic aphasia have implicated an essential role of Broca's area in various speech and language functions. However, there is evidence to demonstrate that Broca's area also plays a significant role in language comprehension. Here the results showed that under rTMS stimulation: 

Semantic tasks only showed a decrease in reaction times when stimulation was aimed at the anterior part of Broca's area (where a decrease of 10% (50 ms) was seen compared to a no-TMS control group)
Phonological tasks showed a decrease in reaction times when stimulation was aimed at the posterior part of Broca's area (where a decrease of 6% (30 ms) was seen compared to control)To summarise, the work above shows anatomical specialisation in Broca's area for language comprehension, with the anterior part of Broca's area responsible for understanding the meaning of words (semantics) and the posterior part of Broca's area responsible for understanding how words sound (phonology). This suggests that Broca's area is not dedicated to sentence processing alone, but supports a function common to both. The study, therefore, claims that Broca's area is the "motor center for speech", which assembles and decodes speech sounds in the same way it interprets body language and gestures. More recently, the neocortical distribution of activity-dependent gene expression in marmosets provided direct evidence that the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, which comprises Broca's area in humans and has been associated with auditory processing of species-specific vocalizations and orofacial control in macaques, is engaged during vocal output in a New World monkey. Studies have supported the concerted evolution model by finding cortical expansions between macaques and marmosets are comparable to that of humans and macaques. 
Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have only a modest impact in reducing malaria transmission. [SEP] Practice in treating cases of malaria is most often based on the concept of combination therapy (e.g., using agents such as artemether and lumefantrine against chloroquine-resistant Plasmodium falciparum infection), since this offers advantages including reduced risk of treatment failure, reduced risk of developed resistance, as well as the possibility of reduced side-effects. Non-artemisinin based combinations
Artemisinin-based combination therapies should be used in preference to amodiaquine plus sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine for the treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria. Artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs)
Artemesinin has a very different mode of action than conventional anti-malarials (see information above), which makes it particularly useful in the treatment of resistant infections. Combination therapies, featuring artemisinin or its derivatives alongside some other antimalarial drug, constitute the contemporary standard-of-care treatment regimen for malaria. Medical use
The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends artemisinin or one of its derivatives ― typically in combination with a longer-lasting partner drug ― as frontline therapy for all cases of malaria. Adverse effects
Artemisinins are generally well tolerated at the doses used to treat malaria. Adverse effects in patients with acute P. falciparum malaria treated with artemisinin derivatives tend to be higher. A 2012 review reported that artemisinin-based therapies were the most effective drugs for treatment of malaria at that time; it was also reported to clear malaria parasites from patients' bodies faster than other drugs. 
MeCP2 influences the synaptic maturation of neurons. [SEP] Ca2+ flux through NMDA receptors in particular is thought to be critical in synaptic plasticity, a cellular mechanism for learning and memory, due to proteins which bind to and are activated by Ca2+ ions. Synaptic NMDA receptors promote gene expression, plasticity-related events, and acquired neuroprotection. Neural plasticity
NMDA receptors (NMDARs) critically influence the induction of synaptic plasticity. CDK5 regulates the amount of NR2B-containing NMDA receptors on the synaptic membrane, thus affecting synaptic plasticity. Presynaptic deficits resulting from Pb2+ exposure during synaptogenesis are mediated by disruption of NMDAR-dependent BDNF signaling. The excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) produced by activation of an NMDA receptor increases the concentration of Ca2+ in the cell. Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome is also associated with genomic imprinting, often caused by abnormalities in maternal genomic imprinting of a region on chromosome 11.Methyl CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2) is a transcriptional regulator that must be phosphorylated before releasing from the BDNF promoter, allowing transcription. NF-κB may regulate learning and memory in part by modulating synaptic plasticity, synapse function, as well as by regulating the growth of dendrites and dendritic spines.Genes that have NF-κB binding sites are shown to have increased expression following learning, suggesting that the transcriptional targets of NF-κB in the nervous system are important for plasticity. 
Measuring routine outcomes is more beneficial to clinical practice than assessing treatment adherence. [SEP] Both patient and health-care provider affect compliance, and a positive physician-patient relationship is the most important factor in improving compliance.As of 2003, US health care professionals more commonly used the term "adherence" to a regimen rather than "compliance", because it has been thought to reflect better the diverse reasons for patients not following treatment directions in part or in full. As of 2007, concordance has been used to refer specifically to patient adherence to a treatment regimen which the physician sets up collaboratively with the patient, to differentiate it from adherence to a physician-only prescribed treatment regimen. A 2009 study stated that such devices can help improve adherence.The effectiveness of two-way email communication between health care professionals and their patients has not been adequately assessed. They have also played a role in improving adherence to medication. The obvious benefit to this is that we can more precisely measure patient characteristics as compared to any kind of structured or unstructured interview. This greatly increases the ease with which they can be taken, which in turn increases the consistency with which medication is taken (adherence), and thus their effectiveness over the long-term. In contrast, randomized trials of pharmacological interventions are much more likely to take adverse effects into consideration.A 2017 meta-analysis revealed that adverse events are not common in children receiving CBT and, furthermore, that CBT is associated with fewer dropouts than either placebo or medications. Therefore, overall treatment strategies should be focused on promoting adherence. 
Medications to treat obesity are highly effective. [SEP] People with obesity are also more likely to be hospitalized for asthma. A study has stated that 75% of patients treated for asthma in the emergency room were either overweight or obese. Many prescription drugs, such as dexamethasone and other steroids, can also have side effects resulting in central obesity, especially in the presence of elevated insulin levels. Management
A permanent routine of exercise, eating healthily, and, during periods of being overweight, consuming the same number or fewer calories than used will prevent and help fight obesity. In the pharmaceutical industry, a blockbuster drug is one that achieves acceptance by prescribing physicians as a therapeutic standard for, most commonly, a highly prevalent chronic (rather than acute) condition. U.S. drug prices are among the highest in the world, and drug innovation is correspondingly high. Management of obesity
A large proportion (approximately 68%) of people who seek treatment for bipolar disorder are obese or overweight and managing obesity is important for reducing the risk of other health conditions that are associated with obesity. Pharmacological approaches include weight-loss medications or changing medications already being prescribed. 
Medications to treat obesity do not have side effects. [SEP] Anti-obesity medication or weight loss medications are pharmacological agents that reduce or control weight. Pharmacotherapy of obesity: options and alternatives. External links
 Media related to Anti-obesity medication at Wikimedia Commons
Prescription Medications for the Treatment of Obesity Obese people who do not experience medical complications from their obesity are sometimes called (metabolically) healthy obese, but the extent to which this group exists (especially among older people) is in dispute. There are numerous obese people who have relatively few metabolic abnormalities, and a minority of obese people have no medical complications. Even after cardiac bypass surgery, no increase in mortality is seen in the overweight and obese. However, obesity is not regarded as a psychiatric disorder, and therefore is not listed in the DSM-IVR as a psychiatric illness. Medication
Anti-obesity medications currently approved by the FDA for weight loss
Several anti-obesity medications are currently approved by the FDA for long term use. 
Medications to treat obesity have unwanted side effects. [SEP] Bupropion is not recommended for the treatment of eating disorders, due to an increased risk of seizure.Similar recommendations apply to binge eating disorder. SSRIs provide short-term reductions in binge eating behavior, but have not been associated with significant weight loss.Clinical trials have generated mostly negative results for the use of SSRIs in the treatment of anorexia nervosa. Those from the American Psychiatric Association (APA) note that SSRIs confer no advantage regarding weight gain, but may be used for the treatment of co-existing depressive, anxiety, or obsessive–compulsive disorders. Mirtazapine and paroxetine, for example, may be associated with weight gain and/or increased appetite, while others (such as bupropion and venlafaxine) achieve the opposite effect.The antihistaminic properties of certain TCA- and TeCA-class antidepressants have been shown to contribute to the common side effects of increased appetite and weight gain associated with these classes of medication. Weight loss almost always corresponds with loss of appetite, which may result from the medication. Nausea, dizziness, and headaches, other side effect, can also indirectly affect appetite and result in weight loss. Growth hormone, sodium oxybate, opioids and steroids were strongly recommended against due to lack of efficacy and side effects. Side effects
Negative side effects of a medicine can influence adherence. 
Men are more susceptible to death due to pneumonia when compared to women. [SEP] Sex differences
COVID‑19 case fatality rates are higher among men than women in most countries. Globally, men are more likely to be admitted to the ICU and more likely to die. One meta-analysis found that globally, men were more likely to get COVID‑19 than women; there were approximately 55 men and 45 women per 100 infections (CI: 51.43–56.58).The Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention reported the death rate was 2.8% for men and 1.7% for women. Some diseases that affect both sexes are statistically more common in men. In terms of behavioural factors, men have higher levels of consumption of alcohol, substances, and tobacco compared to women, resulting in increased rates of diseases such as lung cancer, cardiovascular disease, and cirrhosis of the liver. Men are more likely than women to engage in over 30 risky behaviours associated with increased morbidity, injury, and mortality. Additionally, despite a disproportionately lower rate of suicide attempts than women, men have significantly higher rates of death by suicide.Social determinants of men's health involve factors such as greater levels of occupational exposure to physical and chemical hazards than women. Women have a worse outcome overall than men. 
Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in similar efficacy and better quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. [SEP] Similar results were found in a study involving people with colorectal cancer who have been treated with the popular FOLFOX regimen. The fluoropyrimidines include fluorouracil and capecitabine. Their general use is not recommended for this purpose, however, due to side effects.Treatments used for colorectal cancer may include some combination of surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, and targeted therapy. Treatment
The treatment of colorectal cancer can be aimed at cure or palliation. For stage III and Stage IV colon cancer, chemotherapy is an integral part of treatment.If cancer has spread to the lymph nodes or distant organs, which is the case with stage III and stage IV colon cancer respectively, adding chemotherapy agents fluorouracil, capecitabine or oxaliplatin increases life expectancy. Another class of drugs used in the second line setting are epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors, of which the three FDA approved ones are aflibercept, cetuximab and panitumumab.The primary difference in the approach to low stage rectal cancer is the incorporation of radiation therapy. Research
The efficacy of cetuximab was explored in a clinical trial of advanced gastric cancer published in 2013; cetuximab showed no survival benefit.A 2020 phase III multicenter randomized controlled trial headed by University College London showed that adding cetuximab to perioperative chemotherapy worsened survival for colorectal cancer patients with operable liver metastases. Fluoropyrimidines are a class of anti-cancer drugs, or more specifically antimetabolites, and include:

Capecitabine
Carmofur (HCFU)
Doxifluridine
Fluorouracil (5-FU)
Tegafur 
Mice are incapable of producing neutralizing antibodies in reponse to the Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) produced in mosquitos. [SEP] Chikungunya is an infection caused by the Chikungunya virus (CHIKV). Transmission
Chikungunya is generally transmitted from mosquitoes to humans. Research by the Pasteur Institute in Paris has suggested Chikungunya virus strains in the 2005-2006 Reunion Island outbreak incurred a mutation that facilitated transmission by the Asian tiger mosquito (A. albopictus). Other species potentially able to transmit Chikungunya virus include Ae. It appears that in vitro, Chikungunya virus is able to replicate in human epithelial and endothelial cells, primary fibroblasts, and monocyte-derived macrophages. Mouse studies also suggest that chikungunya evades host defenses and counters the type-I interferon response by producing NS2, a nonstructural protein that degrades RBP1 and turns off the host cell's ability to transcribe DNA. Even with a vaccine, mosquito population control and bite prevention will be necessary to control chikungunya disease. No antiviral treatment for Chikungunya virus is currently available, though testing has shown several medications to be effective in vitro. 
Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) fail to reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). [SEP] Damage
DNA can be damaged by many sorts of mutagens, which change the DNA sequence. For example, UV light can damage DNA by producing thymine dimers, which are cross-links between pyrimidine bases. DNA damages that are naturally occurring, due to normal cellular processes that produce reactive oxygen species, the hydrolytic activities of cellular water, etc., also occur frequently. Enzymes can also bind to DNA and of these, the polymerases that copy the DNA base sequence in transcription and DNA replication are particularly important. Damage
DNA can be damaged by many sorts of mutagens, which change the DNA sequence. For example, UV light can damage DNA by producing thymine dimers, which are cross-links between pyrimidine bases. DNA damages that are naturally occurring, due to normal cellular processes that produce reactive oxygen species, the hydrolytic activities of cellular water, etc., also occur frequently. Enzymes can also bind to DNA and of these, the polymerases that copy the DNA base sequence in transcription and DNA replication are particularly important. 
Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase m (polm) fail to reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). [SEP] Damage
DNA can be damaged by many sorts of mutagens, which change the DNA sequence. Mutagens include oxidizing agents, alkylating agents and also high-energy electromagnetic radiation such as ultraviolet light and X-rays. For example, UV light can damage DNA by producing thymine dimers, which are cross-links between pyrimidine bases. DNA damages that are naturally occurring, due to normal cellular processes that produce reactive oxygen species, the hydrolytic activities of cellular water, etc., also occur frequently. Damage
DNA can be damaged by many sorts of mutagens, which change the DNA sequence. For example, UV light can damage DNA by producing thymine dimers, which are cross-links between pyrimidine bases. DNA damages that are naturally occurring, due to normal cellular processes that produce reactive oxygen species, the hydrolytic activities of cellular water, etc., also occur frequently. mtDNA mutational spectrum is sensitive to species-specific life-history traits
De novo mutations arise either due to mistakes during DNA replication or due to unrepaired damage caused in turn by endogenous and exogenous mutagens. 
Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase m (polm) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). [SEP] After ionizing radiation, VCP is recruited to DNA lesions and cooperates with the ubiquitin ligase RNF8 to orchestrate assembly of signaling complexes for efficient DSB repair. If DNA repair is deficient, DNA damage tends to accumulate. Such excess DNA damage may increase mutational errors during DNA replication due to error-prone translesion synthesis. Excess DNA damage may also increase epigenetic alterations due to errors during DNA repair. Damage
DNA can be damaged by many sorts of mutagens, which change the DNA sequence. For example, UV light can damage DNA by producing thymine dimers, which are cross-links between pyrimidine bases. Damage
DNA can be damaged by many sorts of mutagens, which change the DNA sequence. For example, UV light can damage DNA by producing thymine dimers, which are cross-links between pyrimidine bases. 
Mice lacking Sirt1 in Sf1-expressing neurons are immune to diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance. [SEP] The protein encoded by this gene is included in class I of the sirtuin family.Sirtuin 1 is downregulated in cells that have high insulin resistance. Furthermore, SIRT1 was shown to de-acetylate and affect the activity of both members of the PGC1-alpha/ERR-alpha complex, which are essential metabolic regulatory transcription factors.In vitro, SIRT1 has been shown to deacetylate and thereby deactivate the p53 protein, and may have a role in activating T helper 17 cells. Sirtuins are hypothesized to play a key role in an organism's response to stresses (such as heat or starvation) and to be responsible for the lifespan-extending effects of calorie restriction.The three letter yeast gene symbol Sir stands for Silent Information Regulator while the number 2 is representative of the fact that it was the second SIR gene discovered and characterized.In the roundworm, Caenorhabditis elegans, Sir-2.1 is used to denote the gene product most similar to yeast Sir2 in structure and activity. Sirtuins are a family of signaling proteins involved in metabolic regulation. From in vitro studies, sirtuins are implicated in influencing cellular processes like aging, transcription, apoptosis, inflammation and stress resistance, as well as energy efficiency and alertness during low-calorie situations. Actions and species distribution
Sirtuins are a family of signaling proteins involved in metabolic regulation. SIRT6 deficiency in mice leads to a degenerative aging-like phenotype. Furthermore, over-expression of SIRT6 can stimulate homologous recombinational repair.SIRT7 knockout mice display features of premature aging. 
Mice lacking Sirt1 in Sf1-expressing neurons have increased susceptibility to diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance. [SEP] SIRT1 is an enzyme located primarily in the cell nucleus that deacetylates transcription factors that contribute to cellular regulation (reaction to stressors, longevity). The protein encoded by this gene is included in class I of the sirtuin family.Sirtuin 1 is downregulated in cells that have high insulin resistance. However, mice lacking the SIRT1 gene (the sir2 biological equivalent) were smaller than normal at birth, often died early or became sterile. Sirtuins are a family of signaling proteins involved in metabolic regulation. From in vitro studies, sirtuins are implicated in influencing cellular processes like aging, transcription, apoptosis, inflammation and stress resistance, as well as energy efficiency and alertness during low-calorie situations. Actions and species distribution
Sirtuins are a family of signaling proteins involved in metabolic regulation. SIRT6 deficiency in mice leads to a degenerative aging-like phenotype. Furthermore, over-expression of SIRT6 can stimulate homologous recombinational repair.SIRT7 knockout mice display features of premature aging. 
Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor are highly susceptible to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. [SEP] Interferon gamma (IFN-γ) is a dimerized soluble cytokine that is the only member of the type II class of interferons. IFN-γ plays an important role in both innate and adaptive immunity. Function
IFN-γ, or type II interferon, is a cytokine that is critical for innate and adaptive immunity against viral, some bacterial and protozoan infections. IFN-γ is an important activator of macrophages and inducer of major histocompatibility complex class II molecule expression. Aberrant IFN-γ expression is associated with a number of autoinflammatory and autoimmune diseases. Receptor binding
Cellular responses to IFN-γ are activated through its interaction with a heterodimeric receptor consisting of Interferon gamma receptor 1 (IFNGR1) and Interferon gamma receptor 2 (IFNGR2). Interactions
Interferon-γ has been shown to interact with Interferon gamma receptor 1 and Interferon gamma receptor 2. Diseases
Interferon-γ has been shown to be a crucial player in the immune response against some intracellular pathogens, including that of Chagas disease. 
Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are highly susceptible to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. [SEP] In humans, the IFN-γ protein is encoded by the IFNG gene.Through cell signaling, IFN-γ plays a role in regulating the immune response of its target cell. IFN-γ plays an important role in both innate and adaptive immunity. IFN-γ is an important activator of macrophages and inducer of major histocompatibility complex class II molecule expression. Aberrant IFN-γ expression is associated with a number of autoinflammatory and autoimmune diseases. In macrophages, type II IFN stimulates IL-12 expression. The infectious pathophysiology of granulomas is discussed primarily here.The key association between IFN-γ and granulomas is that IFN-γ activates macrophages so that they become more powerful in killing intracellular organisms. Potential use in immunotherapy
IFN-γ increases an anti-proliferative state in cancer cells, while upregulating MHC I and MHC II expression, which increases immunorecognition and removal of pathogenic cells. Studies in mice on acyclovir resistant herpes have shown that IFN-γ treatment can significantly reduce herpes viral load. 
Microcin J25 encourages nucleoside triphosphate (NTP) binding. [SEP] A nucleoside triphosphate is a nucleoside containing a nitrogenous base bound to a 5-carbon sugar (either ribose or deoxyribose), with three phosphate groups bound to the sugar. Nucleoside triphosphates also serve as a source of energy for cellular reactions and are involved in signalling pathways.Nucleoside triphosphates cannot be absorbed well, so they are typically synthesized within the cell. Nucleoside triphosphates that contain ribose as the sugar are conventionally abbreviated as NTPs, while nucleoside triphosphates containing deoxyribose as the sugar are abbreviated as dNTPs. Nucleoside triphosphate metabolism
Given their importance in the cell, the synthesis and degradation of nucleoside triphosphates is under tight control. Nucleoside triphosphates cannot be absorbed well, so all nucleoside triphosphates are typically made de novo. Typically a NTP has one phosphate removed to become a NDP, then is converted to a dNDP by an enzyme called ribonucleotide reductase, then a phosphate is added back to give a dNTP. The Network Time Protocol (NTP) is a networking protocol for clock synchronization between computer systems over packet-switched, variable-latency data networks. NTP is a three-letter initialism which may stand for:

Politics
Nation Transformation Party, a political party in Papua New Guinea
National Toxicology Program, part of the United States Department of Health and Human Services
National Transport Plan, a ten-year plan of Norway
Ninh Thuận Province, a province in Vietnam
Northern Territory Police, the police force in the Northern Territory of Australia

Science and technology
Aerospace
Nuclear thermal propulsion, a rocket technology

Chemistry
Normal temperature and pressure, in chemistry
Nucleoside triphosphate, an organic compound and building block of nucleic acids

Computing
Network Time Protocol, a means of synchronizing clocks over a computer network

Other uses
National Toxicology Program, USA
New Teacher Project, a US non-profit organization
Norsk Teknisk Porselen, Norwegian ceramics manufacturer
NTP, Inc., an American company founded by inventor Thomas J. Campana Jr. that licensed its patents to BlackBerry for US$612.5 million

See also

All pages with titles beginning with NTP
All pages with titles containing NTP 
Microcin J25 inhibits nucleoside triphosphate (NTP) binding. [SEP] A nucleoside triphosphate is a nucleoside containing a nitrogenous base bound to a 5-carbon sugar (either ribose or deoxyribose), with three phosphate groups bound to the sugar. Nucleoside triphosphates also serve as a source of energy for cellular reactions and are involved in signalling pathways.Nucleoside triphosphates cannot be absorbed well, so they are typically synthesized within the cell. Nucleoside analogues may also be used to treat viral infections. Nucleoside triphosphates that contain ribose as the sugar are conventionally abbreviated as NTPs, while nucleoside triphosphates containing deoxyribose as the sugar are abbreviated as dNTPs. Nucleoside triphosphate metabolism
Given their importance in the cell, the synthesis and degradation of nucleoside triphosphates is under tight control. Nucleoside triphosphates cannot be absorbed well, so all nucleoside triphosphates are typically made de novo. Typically a NTP has one phosphate removed to become a NDP, then is converted to a dNDP by an enzyme called ribonucleotide reductase, then a phosphate is added back to give a dNTP. Nucleoside analogues
Nucleoside analogues can be used to treat viral infections. 
Microglia are an innate immune cell type of the central nervous system. [SEP] Microglia are a type of neuroglia (glial cell) located throughout the brain and spinal cord. Microglia account for about 10-15% of cells found within the brain. Microglia are key cells in overall brain maintenance—they are constantly scavenging the CNS for plaques, damaged or unnecessary neurons and synapses, and infectious agents. Microglia in this state are able to search for and identify immune threats while maintaining homeostasis in the CNS. Functions
Microglial cells fulfill a variety of different tasks within the CNS mainly related to both immune response and maintaining homeostasis. Microglia and macrophages both contribute to the immune response by acting as antigen presenting cells, as well as promoting inflammation and homeostatic mechanisms within the body by secreting cytokines and other signaling molecules.In their downregulated form, microglia lack the MHC class I/MHC class II proteins, IFN-γ cytokines, CD45 antigens, and many other surface receptors required to act in the antigen-presenting, phagocytic, and cytotoxic roles that distinguish normal macrophages. Clinical significance
Microglia are the primary immune cells of the central nervous system, similar to peripheral macrophages. Therefore, analyzing microglia can be a sensitive tool to diagnose and characterize central nervous system disorders in any given tissue specimen. 
Microglia are an innate immune cell type of the peripheral nervous system. [SEP] Microglia are a type of neuroglia (glial cell) located throughout the brain and spinal cord. Microglia are key cells in overall brain maintenance—they are constantly scavenging the CNS for plaques, damaged or unnecessary neurons and synapses, and infectious agents. Microglia in this state are able to search for and identify immune threats while maintaining homeostasis in the CNS. Phagocytic
Activated phagocytic microglia are the maximally immune-responsive form of microglia. Functions
Microglial cells fulfill a variety of different tasks within the CNS mainly related to both immune response and maintaining homeostasis. Microglia and macrophages both contribute to the immune response by acting as antigen presenting cells, as well as promoting inflammation and homeostatic mechanisms within the body by secreting cytokines and other signaling molecules.In their downregulated form, microglia lack the MHC class I/MHC class II proteins, IFN-γ cytokines, CD45 antigens, and many other surface receptors required to act in the antigen-presenting, phagocytic, and cytotoxic roles that distinguish normal macrophages. Clinical significance
Microglia are the primary immune cells of the central nervous system, similar to peripheral macrophages. Microglia can take on the role of neuroprotection or neurotoxicity in order to face these dangers. 
Migraine with aura is associated with ischemic stroke. [SEP] Migraine with aura doubles a person's risk for ischemic stroke. Migraine with aura, or "classic migraine", usually involves migraine headaches accompanied by aura. The report classifies severe migraine alongside severe depression, active psychosis, quadriplegia, and terminal-stage cancer.Migraine with aura appears to be a risk factor for ischemic stroke doubling the risk. Preventative therapy of migraines in those with migraine with aura may prevent associated strokes. CSD has also been implicated in migraine aura, where CSD is assumed to ascend in well-nourished tissue and is typically benign in most of the cases, although it may increase the probability in migraine patients to develop a stroke. A migrainous infarction is a rare type of ischaemic stroke which occurs in correspondence with migraine aura symptoms. However, migrainous infarction can also occur in those with migraine without aura, although this is less common with only 20% of migrainous infarction patients never having experienced aura. A diagnosis is confirmed when neuroimaging of the patient's brain exhibits an ischaemic infarction in an area associated with the migraine.Overall, only 18% of patients with MA will experience any aura symptoms for longer than 60 minutes. 
Misunderstandings between doctors and patients can lead to non-adherence. [SEP] Causes of healthcare error
The simplest definition of a health care error is a preventable adverse effect of care, whether or not it is evident or harmful to the patient. Failure to acknowledge the prevalence and seriousness of medical errors. As a result, diagnostic procedures or treatments cannot be performed, leading to substandard treatment.The Joint Commission's Annual Report on Quality and Safety 2007 found that inadequate communication between healthcare providers, or between providers and the patient and family members, was the root cause of over half the serious adverse events in accredited hospitals. Still, there may be a weak link because of physicians' deficiencies in understanding the patient safety features of e.g. This mismatch between a clinician's level of communication and a patient's ability to understand can lead to medication errors and adverse outcomes. However, many doctors and hospitals do not report errors under the current system because of concerns about malpractice lawsuits; this prevents collection of information needed to find and correct the conditions that lead to mistakes. Through miscommunications about medical dosages and parental refusal to give certain medicines due to mistrust, misunderstandings, and behavioral side effects, and the inability of the doctors to develop more empathy with the traditional Hmong lifestyle or try to learn more about the Hmong culture, Lia's condition worsens. These populations have a higher risk of hospitalization, longer hospital stays, are less likely to comply with treatment, are more likely to make errors with medication, and are more ill when they initially seek medical care.The mismatch between a clinician's communication of content and a patient's ability to understand that content can lead to medication errors and adverse medical outcomes. 
Mitochondria play a major role in apoptosis. [SEP] In addition to supplying cellular energy, mitochondria are involved in other tasks, such as signaling, cellular differentiation, and cell death, as well as maintaining control of the cell cycle and cell growth. Mitochondria are essential to multicellular life. Apoptotic proteins that target mitochondria affect them in different ways. Some apoptotic factors are vital during mitochondrial respiration e.g. Neurons that rely on mitochondrial respiration undergo apoptosis in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. Mitochondrial damage is closely linked to apoptosis and since mitochondria are easily targeted there is potential for cancer therapy.The cytotoxic nature of ROS is a driving force behind apoptosis, but in even higher amounts, ROS can result in both apoptosis and necrosis, a form of uncontrolled cell death, in cancer cells.Numerous studies have shown the pathways and associations between ROS levels and apoptosis, but a newer line of study has connected ROS levels and autophagy. The extensive amount of ROS and mitochondrial damage may also signal for apoptosis. It also plays a major role in cell apoptosis. 
Mitochondria play a major role in energy production. [SEP] In addition to supplying cellular energy, mitochondria are involved in other tasks, such as signaling, cellular differentiation, and cell death, as well as maintaining control of the cell cycle and cell growth. Function
The most prominent roles of mitochondria are to produce the energy currency of the cell, ATP (i.e., phosphorylation of ADP), through respiration and to regulate cellular metabolism. However, the mitochondrion has many other functions in addition to the production of ATP. Energy conversion
A dominant role for the mitochondria is the production of ATP, as reflected by the large number of proteins in the inner membrane for this task. When the energy needs of a cell are high, mitochondria grow and divide. Mitochondria is a double-membrane structure in the body cell that generates and transports essential metabolic products. Therefore, It needs a lot of energy to function and contains abundant mitochondria. They require abundant functional mitochondria to function. 
Mitochondria play a trivial role in calcium homeostasis. [SEP] The name lives on as a trivial name. Physiological role
Bicarbonate (HCO−3) is a vital component of the pH buffering system of the human body (maintaining acid–base homeostasis). The combination of glycolysis and the citric acid cycle now balances ATP production with ATP demand and the pool of AMP does not grow further. At rest, however, the liver will effortlessly cover the whole body energy needs until absorption of carbohydrates occurs. Since calcium cycling is used to regulate fiber activation and relaxation, the SR component of the muscle fiber controls the synchrony of contraction-relaxation processes. Since calcium cycling and crossbridge cycling are the two major systems that account for the vast majority of the energy expended during muscle contraction to support movement, when this property of the muscle is switched to a faster system the muscle can function more effectively in the unloaded environment. These observations are consistent with the results of studies focusing on mitochondrial function after 9 days of spaceflight in which no reduction in the capacity of skeletal muscle mitochondria to metabolize pyruvate (a carbohydrate derivative)  was observed. Thus, even an approach as basic as thoughtful scheduling of daily tasks could serve to help mitigate risk. 
Moderate consumption of candy and chocolate reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD). [SEP] Health effects
Cavities
Candy generally contains sugar, which is a key environmental factor in the formation of dental caries (cavities). In the United States, $2 is spent on chocolate for every $1 spent on non-chocolate candy.Because each culture varies in how it treats some foods, a food may be considered a candy in one place and a dessert in another. Much of the chocolate consumed today is in the form of sweet chocolate, a combination of cocoa solids, cocoa butter or added vegetable oils, and sugar. Many candies are filled with or coated with sweetened chocolate. Chocolate with a higher fat content will melt at a lower temperature.Making chocolate considered "good" is about forming as many type V crystals as possible. Research has also shown that consuming dark chocolate does not substantially affect blood pressure. Numerous types of candy and snacks contain chocolate, either as a filling (e.g., M&M's) or as a coating (e.g., chocolate-coated raisins or chocolate-coated peanuts). Chocolate: A Bittersweet Saga of Dark and Light. 
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin encourages castration resistance. [SEP] Cell-cell adhesion is mediated by extracellular cadherin domains, whereas the intracellular cytoplasmic tail associates with numerous adaptors and signaling proteins, collectively referred to as the cadherin adhesome. Structure
Cadherins are synthesized as polypeptides and undergo many post-translational modifications to become the proteins which mediate cell-cell adhesion and recognition. Function
Development
Cadherins behave as both receptors and ligands for other molecules. The suppression of E-cadherin expression is regarded as one of the main molecular events responsible for dysfunction in cell-cell adhesion, which can lead to local invasion and ultimately tumor development. Because E-cadherins play an important role in tumor suppression, they are also referred to as the "suppressors of invasion". Furthermore, suppression of E-cadherins impairs intracellular adhesion. Cadherin-2 is a transmembrane protein expressed in multiple tissues and functions to mediate cell–cell adhesion. Cadherin-2 is a transmembrane, homophilic glycoprotein belonging to the calcium-dependent cell adhesion molecule family. 
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin encourages metastasis. [SEP] Targeted conditions
Cancer
Anti-cancer monoclonal antibodies can be targeted against malignant cells by several mechanisms. Tumour metastasis
The E-cadherin–catenin complex plays a key role in cellular adhesion; loss of this function has been associated with increased invasiveness and metastasis of tumors. The suppression of E-cadherin expression is regarded as one of the main molecular events responsible for dysfunction in cell-cell adhesion, which can lead to local invasion and ultimately tumor development. The loss of the cell adhesion molecules, E cadherins, is causally involved in the formation of epithelial types of cancers such as carcinomas. The changes in any types of cadherin expression may not only control tumor cell adhesion but also may affect signal transduction leading to the cancer cells growing uncontrollably.In epithelial cell cancers, disrupted cell to cell adhesion might lead to the development of secondary malignant growths; they are distant from the primary site of cancer and can result from the abnormalities in the expression of E-cadherins or its associated catenins. In epithelial cell cancers, disrupted cell-cell adhesion that might lead to metastases can result from abnormalities in the expression of E-cadherin or its associated catenins. Cadherin-2 is a transmembrane protein expressed in multiple tissues and functions to mediate cell–cell adhesion. Role in cancer metastasis
Cadherin-2 is commonly found in cancer cells and provides a mechanism for transendothelial migration. 
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits castration resistance. [SEP] Function
Development
Cadherins behave as both receptors and ligands for other molecules. The suppression of E-cadherin expression is regarded as one of the main molecular events responsible for dysfunction in cell-cell adhesion, which can lead to local invasion and ultimately tumor development. Because E-cadherins play an important role in tumor suppression, they are also referred to as the "suppressors of invasion". Furthermore, suppression of E-cadherins impairs intracellular adhesion. Cadherin-2 also known as Neural cadherin (N-cadherin), is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CDH2 gene. Cadherin-2 is a transmembrane protein expressed in multiple tissues and functions to mediate cell–cell adhesion. Alterations in expression and integrity of Cadherin-2  has been observed in various forms of disease, including human dilated cardiomyopathy. Cadherin-2 is a transmembrane, homophilic glycoprotein belonging to the calcium-dependent cell adhesion molecule family. 
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits growth. [SEP] The monoclonal antibodies block the extracellular ligand binding domain. immunostaining for e-cadherin to differentiate between DCIS (ductal carcinoma in situ: stains positive) and LCIS (lobular carcinoma in situ: does not stain positive)). Monoclonal antibodies, due to their size, are utilized against cell surface targets. DN30 inhibits tumour growth and prevents metastasis in animal models. OA-5D5 is one-armed monoclonal anti-MET antibody that was demonstrated to inhibit orthotopic pancreatic and glioblastoma tumor growth and to improve survival in tumor xenograft models. Functioning as a classic cadherin by imparting to cells the ability to adhere in a homophilic manner, the protein may play an important role in endothelial cell biology through control of the cohesion and organization of the intercellular junctions.Integrity of intercellular junctions is a major determinant of permeability of the endothelium, and the VE-cadherin-based adherens junction is thought to be particularly important. VE-cadherin is known to be required for maintaining a restrictive endothelial barrier – early studies using blocking antibodies to VE-cadherin increased monolayer permeability in cultured cells and resulted in interstitial edema and hemorrhage in vivo. Deubiquitinase function of A20 was shown to remove ubiquitin chains from VE-cadherin, thereby prevented loss of VE-cadherin expression at the endothelial adherens junctions.VE-cadherin is indispensable for proper vascular development – there have been two transgenic mouse models of VE-cadherin deficiency, both embryonic lethal due to vascular defects. 
Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are dictated by initiation patterns. [SEP] The discontinuous stretches of DNA replication products on the lagging strand are known as Okazaki fragments and are about 100 to 200 bases in length at eukaryotic replication forks. This process is known as Okazaki fragment maturation and can be handled in two ways: one mechanism processes short flaps, while the other deals with long flaps. Thus, Okazaki fragment maturation is an efficient process that occurs immediately after the nascent DNA is synthesized. Importantly, this priming action occurs at replication initiation at origins to begin leading-strand synthesis and also at the 5' end of each Okazaki fragment on the lagging strand. Occurs once at the origin on the leading strand and at the start of each Okazaki fragment on the lagging strand. Step 1: Initiation
The completion of the initiation phase is dependent on the following three events:1. This process is referred to as 'maturation of Okazaki fragments', and ligase (see below) completes the final step in the maturation process. 3' to 5', toward the replication fork), the elongation must occur by an indirect mechanism in which a primase synthesizes short RNA primers complementary to the template DNA, and DNA polymerase then extends the primed segments into short chains of nucleotides known as Okazaki fragments. 
Mouse models can be generated using "artificial spermatids." [SEP] In 2016, scientists at Nanjing Medical University claimed they had produced cells resembling mouse spermatids from mouse embryonic stem cells artificially. They injected these spermatids into mouse eggs and produced pups. Mice and rats have no recognizable sperm centrioles. Spermatogenesis is a highly complex process and artificially rebuilding it in vitro is challenging. Isolated cell culture technique has been successfully used for in vitro production of sperm using mouse as an animal model.Investigations of appropriate feeder cells concluded that a variety of cells could encourage development of germ cells such as Sertoli cells, Leydig cells and peritubular myoid cells but the most essential is Sertoli cells, but Leydig and peritubular myoid cells both contribute to the microenvironment that encourage stem cells to remain pluripotent and self renew in the testis. In 2012, mature spermatozoa capable of fertilization was isolated from in vitro culture of immature mouse testis tissue. Clinical
While rodent spermatogenesis is not identical to its human counterpart, especially due to the high evolution rate of the male reproductive tract, these techniques are a solid starting point for future human applications.Various categories of infertile men may benefit from advances in these techniques, especially those with a lack of viable gamete production. Indeed, serial transplantation of SSCs from male mice of different ages into young mice 3 months of age, whose endogenous spermatogenesis had been ablated, was used to estimate stem cell content given that each stem cell would generate a colony of spermatogenesis. 
Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have severely reduced ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. [SEP] Ascorbate and ascorbic acid are both naturally present in the body, since the forms interconvert according to pH. Pharmacology
Pharmacodynamics
Vitamin C – specifically, in the form of ascorbate – performs numerous physiological functions in the human body by serving as an enzyme substrate or cofactor and an electron donor. SVCT1 and SVCT2 import the reduced form of ascorbate across plasma membranes. For example, the ascorbic acid content of pituitary and adrenal glands can exceed 2,000 µmol/L, and muscle is at 200-300 µmol/L. The known coenzymatic functions of ascorbic acid do not require such high concentrations, so there may be other, as yet unknown functions. There is feedback regulation in place, in that the presence of ascorbic acid inhibits enzymes in the synthesis pathway. "Ascorbic acid". However, two closely related rat/human members of the family, SVCT1 and SVCT2, localized to different tissues of the body, co-transport L-ascorbate (vitamin C) and Na+ with a high degree of specificity and high affinity for the vitamin. 
Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB1 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. [SEP] Heterotrimeric G proteins, also called guanosine nucleotide-binding proteins, consist of three subunits, called alpha, beta, and gamma subunits, or Gα, Gβ, and Gγ. Function
The Gβγ complex is an essential element in the GPCR signaling cascade. The Gβγ dimer has been found to interact with many different effector molecules by protein-protein interactions. Gβγ signalling has been examined for its role in a variety of conditions including heart failure, inflammation and leukemia. Guanine nucleotide-binding protein G(I)/G(S)/G(T) subunit beta-1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the GNB1 gene. Function
Heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins), which integrate signals between receptors and effector proteins, are composed of an alpha, a beta, and a gamma subunit. Interactions
GNB1 has been shown to interact with GNG4. However, such germline mutations (which cause highly penetrant cancer syndromes) are the cause of only about 1 percent of cancers.In sporadic cancers, deficiencies in DNA repair are occasionally caused by a mutation in a DNA repair gene but are much more frequently caused by epigenetic alterations that reduce or silence expression of DNA repair genes. 
Mutations in RIM1 decrease levels of IME1 RNA. [SEP] Mutations in this region can affect rate of efficiency of gene transcription, which in turn can alter levels of mRNA and, thus, protein levels in general. Mutations in this region can affect the efficiency of gene transcription, which controls both the levels of mRNA and overall protein levels. In addition, many of the C-bearing nucleotides become methylated, thus decreasing transcription. Regulating synaptic membrane exocytosis protein 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the RIMS1 gene. Interactions
RIMS1 has been shown to interact with:

ERC2,
RAB3A,
UNC13A,
UNC13B,  and
YWHAH. The only remaining version of the Standard missile 1 in service is the RIM-66E (SM-1MR Block VI). SM-1 Medium Range Blocks VI/VIA/VIB, RIM-66E
The RIM-66E was the last version of the standard missile one medium-range. The RIM-66D was the SM-2 medium-range block I version for the New Threat Upgrade. 
Mutations in RIM1 raise levels of IME1 RNA. [SEP] Mutations in this region can affect rate of efficiency of gene transcription, which in turn can alter levels of mRNA and, thus, protein levels in general. Mutations in this region can affect the efficiency of gene transcription, which controls both the levels of mRNA and overall protein levels. Regulating synaptic membrane exocytosis protein 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the RIMS1 gene. The only remaining version of the Standard missile 1 in service is the RIM-66E (SM-1MR Block VI). SM-1 Medium Range Block V, RIM-66B
The RIM-66B introduced changes that resulted in higher reliability. SM-1 Medium Range Blocks VI/VIA/VIB, RIM-66E
The RIM-66E was the last version of the standard missile one medium-range. The RIM-66D was the SM-2 medium-range block I version for the New Threat Upgrade. Block III missiles for New Threat Upgrade systems are designated RIM-66K. 
Myelin sheaths are lipid-rich cellular structures. [SEP] In most vertebrates (including humans), myelin is a lipid-rich material that surrounds nerve cell axons (the nervous system's "wires") to insulate them and increase the rate at which electrical impulses (called action potentials) are passed along the axon. Cholesterol is an essential lipid component of myelin, without which myelin fails to form. Cholesterol is a necessary nutrient for the myelin sheath, along with vitamin B12. These myelin-like sheaths share several structural features with the sheaths found in vertebrates including multiplicity of membranes, condensation of membrane, and nodes. The axon is insulated by a myelin sheath. Myelin is typically composed of about 70 -75% lipids, and sulfatide comprises 4-7% of this 70-75%. Myelin acts as an insulating sheath that surrounds many nerve fibers and increases the speed at which impulses are conducted. (A myelin sheath is a lipid protective coating that covers and protects nerve cells (axons). 
Myelin sheaths play a role in action potential propagation. [SEP] In unmyelinated fibers, action potentials travel as continuous waves, but, in myelinated fibers, they "hop" or propagate by saltatory conduction. The axon is insulated by a myelin sheath. Myelin sheath reduces membrane capacitance and increases membrane resistance in the inter-node intervals, thus allowing a fast, saltatory movement of action potentials from node to node. Overview
Many vertebrate axons are surrounded by a myelin sheath, allowing rapid and efficient saltatory ("jumping") propagation of action potentials. They form myelin sheaths on the axons of a neuron, which are lipid-based insulation that increases the speed at which the action potential, can travel down the axon. It also includes the myelin sheath. Thus in a myelinated axon, action potentials effectively "jump" from node to node, bypassing the myelinated stretches in between, resulting in a propagation speed much faster than even the fastest unmyelinated axon can sustain. The sheath enables action potentials to travel faster than in unmyelinated axons of the same diameter, whilst using less energy. 
N348I mutations cause resistance to nevirapine. [SEP] More specifically, this protein is a member of the MRP subfamily, which is involved in multi-drug resistance. Substrates include anticancer drugs such as vinblastine; therefore, this protein appears to contribute to drug resistance in mammalian cells. It is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) and works by blocking the function of reverse transcriptase.Efavirenz was approved for medical use in the United States in 1998, and in the European Union in 1999. Mechanism of action
Anti-HIV effects
Efavirenz falls in the NNRTI class of antiretrovirals. Efavirenz is not effective against HIV-2, as the pocket of the HIV-2 reverse transcriptase has a different structure, which confers intrinsic resistance to the NNRTI class.As most NNRTIs bind within the same pocket, viral strains which are resistant to efavirenz are usually also resistant to the other NNRTIs, nevirapine and delavirdine. The most common mutation observed after efavirenz treatment is K103N, which is also observed with other NNRTIs. Nucleoside reverse-transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) and efavirenz have different binding targets, so cross-resistance is unlikely; the same is true with regard to efavirenz and protease inhibitors. Nevirapine should not be used with rifampicin. 
N348I mutations reduce resistance to nevirapine. [SEP] More specifically, this protein is a member of the MRP subfamily, which is involved in multi-drug resistance. Substrates include anticancer drugs such as vinblastine; therefore, this protein appears to contribute to drug resistance in mammalian cells. It is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) and works by blocking the function of reverse transcriptase.Efavirenz was approved for medical use in the United States in 1998, and in the European Union in 1999. Mechanism of action
Anti-HIV effects
Efavirenz falls in the NNRTI class of antiretrovirals. Efavirenz is not effective against HIV-2, as the pocket of the HIV-2 reverse transcriptase has a different structure, which confers intrinsic resistance to the NNRTI class.As most NNRTIs bind within the same pocket, viral strains which are resistant to efavirenz are usually also resistant to the other NNRTIs, nevirapine and delavirdine. The most common mutation observed after efavirenz treatment is K103N, which is also observed with other NNRTIs. Nucleoside reverse-transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) and efavirenz have different binding targets, so cross-resistance is unlikely; the same is true with regard to efavirenz and protease inhibitors. Nevirapine should not be used with rifampicin. 
NAC destabilizes NO to increase the effect of contrast agents on renal functions. [SEP] This increase is due to both a diuresis (increase in water excretion) and a natriuresis (increase in saline excretion); it is mediated via proximal tubular adenosine receptor blockade. Once in the brain, the principal mode of action is as a nonselective antagonist of adenosine receptors (in other words, an agent that reduces the effects of adenosine). As a competitive nonselective phosphodiesterase inhibitor, caffeine raises intracellular cyclic AMP, activates protein kinase A, inhibits TNF-alpha and leukotriene synthesis, and reduces inflammation and innate immunity. Theobromine (12%): Dilates blood vessels and increases urine volume. Nephrolithiasis is due to calcium oxalate or uric acid stones. They remain useful for identifying anatomical abnormalities when strictures of the colon are too small for a colonoscope to pass through, or in the detection of colonic fistulae (in this case contrast should be performed with iodate substances).CT and MRI scans are useful for evaluating the small bowel with enteroclysis protocols. MRI techniques such as diffusion-weighted imaging and high-resolution imaging are more sensitive in detecting ulceration and inflammation compared to CT. RNAi uptake and regulation is controlled by the kidneys. 
NAC inhibits the generation of angiotensin-converting enzyme. [SEP] Angiotensin-converting enzyme (EC 3.4.15.1), or ACE, is a central component of the renin–angiotensin system (RAS), which controls blood pressure by regulating the volume of fluids in the body. It converts the hormone angiotensin I to the active vasoconstrictor angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a potent vasoconstrictor in a substrate concentration-dependent manner. Angiotensin II binds to the type 1 angiotensin II receptor (AT1), which sets off a number of actions that result in vasoconstriction and therefore increased blood pressure. ACE inhibitors inhibit ACE competitively. Soluble ACE2 lowers blood pressure by catalyzing the hydrolysis of angiotensin II (a vasoconstrictor peptide) into angiotensin (1–7)  (a vasodilator) which in turns binds to MasR receptors creating localized vasodilation and hence decreasing blood pressure. ACE cleaves angiotensin I hormone into the vasoconstricting  angiotensin II which causes a cascade of hormonal reactions which is part of the body's harmful phase of RAAS, which ultimately leads to an increase in the body's blood pressure. ACE2 has an opposing effect to ACE, degrading angiotensin II into angiotensin (1-7), thereby lowering blood pressure.sACE2, as part of RAAS's protective phase, cleaves the carboxyl-terminal amino acid phenylalanine from angiotensin II (Asp-Arg-Val-Tyr-Ile-His-Pro-Phe) and hydrolyses it into the vasodilator angiotensin (1-7) (H-Asp-Arg-Val-Tyr-Ile-His-Pro-OH), which binds to Mas Receptors and ultimately leads to a decrease in blood pressure. 
NR5A2 does not play a role in development of endometrial tissues. [SEP] The combination allows for the benefits of estrogen with regard to relief of vasomotor symptoms without estrogenic stimulation of the endometrium. It has agonistic effects on bone and lipid metabolism but not on breast and uterine endometrium. Progesterone is anti-mitogenic in endometrial epithelial cells, and as such, mitigates the tropic effects of estrogen. The epithelium also has few rugae and is red in color before puberty. The female spotted hyena does not have an external vaginal opening. The two compounds do not differentiate in their ability to suppress endometrial hyperplasia, nor does either increase the risk of pulmonary embolism. These changes in the endometrium could, theoretically, prevent implantation. It is weakly bound to albumin and is not bound to sex hormone-binding globulin or corticosteroid-binding globulin. 
NR5A2 is important in reverse cholesterol transport in humans. [SEP] Study have shown that ABCA1 mediates transport of cholesterol from peripheral tissues to Apolipoprotein-1 and it is also important in the reverse cholesterol transport pathway, where cholesterol is delivered from peripheral tissue to the liver, where it can be excreted into bile or converted to bile acids prior to excretion. Low density lipoproteins (LDL) transport cholesterol from the liver to the rest of the body and therefore raise blood cholesterol levels. Discovery
The gene for apolipoprotein A5 (APOA5, gene ID 116519, OMIM accession number – 606368) was originally found by comparative sequencing of human and mice DNA as a last member of the gene cluster of apolipoproteins APOA1/APOC3/APOA4/APOA5, located on human chromosome 11 at position 11q23. Function
APOA5 mainly functions to influence plasma triglyceride levels. In addition to its TG-lowering effect, APOA5 also plays a significant role in modulating HDL maturation and cholesterol metabolism. Increased APOA5 levels were associated with skewed cholesterol distribution from VLDL to large HDL particles. Plasma lipids and cardiovascular disease
The major effect of the apolipoprotein A5 gene (and its variants) is on plasma triglyceride levels. Despite the very low plasma concentration, variants within apolipoprotein A5 are potent determinants of plasma triglyceride levels. 
Natriuretic peptides increase susceptibility to diabetes. [SEP] Type 2 diabetes is characterized by increased glucagon secretion which is unaffected by, and unresponsive to the concentration of blood glucose. Release of insulin is strongly inhibited by norepinephrine (noradrenaline), which leads to increased blood glucose levels during stress. In several species, oxytocin can stimulate sodium excretion from the kidneys (natriuresis), and, in humans, high doses can result in low sodium levels (hyponatremia). Leptin levels are paradoxically increased in obesity. Leptin level is increased by insulin. It also affects the kidneys including sodium transport, lipid and glucose metabolism, and natriuretic effects. This can lead to high levels of protein in the urine (proteinuria) and nephrotic syndrome. High adiponectin levels correlate with a lower risk of diabetes mellitus type 2. 
Natriuretic peptides protect against diabetes. [SEP] In terms of the mechanism of action for this purpose: prednisone, a glucocorticoid, can improve renal responsiveness to atrial natriuretic peptide by increasing the density of natriuretic peptide receptor type A in the renal inner medullary collecting duct, thereby inducing a potent diuresis.At high doses it may be used to prevent rejection following organ transplant. Porcine insulin is especially close to the human version, and was widely used to treat type 1 diabetics before human insulin could be produced in large quantities by recombinant DNA technologies.Insulin was the first peptide hormone discovered. It is also said to suppress glucagon.NeuroD1, also known as β2, regulates insulin exocytosis in pancreatic β cells by directly inducing the expression of genes involved in exocytosis. By increasing blood glucose, the hyperglycemic hormones prevent or correct life-threatening hypoglycemia. The authors noted these changes "may simply reflect contractile properties on reproductive tissue".Due to its similarity to vasopressin, it can reduce the excretion of urine slightly, and so it can be classified as an antidiuretic. In several species, oxytocin can stimulate sodium excretion from the kidneys (natriuresis), and, in humans, high doses can result in low sodium levels (hyponatremia). Treating risk factors, such as high blood pressure, blood lipids and diabetes is also beneficial. Fibrates lower the risk of cardiovascular and coronary events, but there is no evidence to suggest that they reduce all-cause mortality.Anti-diabetic medication may reduce cardiovascular risk in people with Type 2 diabetes, although evidence is not conclusive. 
Neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) antigens may contain the targeted autoantigens PR3 and MPO. [SEP] Neutrophils have three methods for directly attacking micro-organisms: phagocytosis (ingestion), degranulation (release of soluble anti-microbials), and generation of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs). Phagocytosis
Neutrophils are phagocytes, capable of ingesting microorganisms or particles. Neutrophil extracellular traps
In 2004, Brinkmann and colleagues described a striking observation that activation of neutrophils causes the release of web-like structures of DNA; this represents a third mechanism for killing bacteria. These neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) comprise a web of fibers composed of chromatin and serine proteases  that trap and kill extracellular microbes. Neutrophil antigens
There are five (HNA 1–5) sets of neutrophil antigens recognized. It also localizes to neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs), via its high affinity for DNA, an unusual property for serine proteases.As with other serine proteinases it contains a charge relay system composed of the catalytic triad of histidine, aspartate, and serine residues that are dispersed throughout the primary sequence of the polypeptide but that are brought together in the three dimensional conformation of the folded protein. Non-microbial non-self antigens can include pollen, egg white, and proteins from transplanted tissues and organs or on the surface of transfused blood cells. Exogenous antigens
Exogenous antigens are antigens that have entered the body from the outside, for example, by inhalation, ingestion or injection. 
Neutrophils produce IL-1β in response to large particles. [SEP] During the beginning (acute) phase of inflammation, particularly as a result of bacterial infection, environmental exposure, and some cancers, neutrophils are one of the first responders of inflammatory cells to migrate toward the site of inflammation. Neutrophils express and release cytokines, which in turn amplify inflammatory reactions by several other cell types. In addition to recruiting and activating other cells of the immune system, neutrophils play a key role in the front-line defense against invading pathogens. Phagocytosis
Neutrophils are phagocytes, capable of ingesting microorganisms or particles. Both IL-1β and IL-18 secreted in response to inflammasome activation are involved in the recruitment of neutrophils. This role is important in chronic inflammation, as the early stages of inflammation are dominated by neutrophils, which are ingested by macrophages if they come of age (see CD31 for a description of this process).The neutrophils are at first attracted to a site, where they perform their function and die, before they or their neutrophil extracellular traps are phagocytized by the macrophages. Locally, IL-1β and TNF-α cause vasodilation, where the gaps between blood vessel epithelial cells widen, and upregulation of cell surface adhesion molecules on epithelial cells to induce leukocyte extravasation.Neutrophils are among the first immune cells recruited by macrophages to exit the blood via extravasation and arrive at the infection site. Neutrophils have granules that fuse with the phagosome. 
Nigerian physicians constitue the largest component of sub-Saharan Africa-trained physicians in the United States. [SEP] Africans also were represented on the Lagos Legislative Council, a largely appointed assembly. Healthcare in Nigeria is a concurrent responsibility of the three tiers of government in the country. Nigeria has better health personnel than most other African countries. Cancer care
About 80,000 Nigerians die of cancer annually and over 100,000 are diagnosed with cancer annually. As the era of Sustainable Development Goals is commenced and the target of 2030 begins to come into focus, the statistics are far from providing reassurance.There are 4000 Nigeria doctors practicing in the United States and 8000 practicing in the United Kingdom. The brain drain cut across all healthcare professionals; thousands of Nigerian pharmacists and nurses are practicing in the UK and USA as well and so on.===Privatization and commercialization of public health service ===
The public health services in Nigeria is of poor quality and it is not adequately available, accessible, and affordable to many people who need these services. in Zambia and Tanzania), licensed medical professionals (e.g. In Ghana, from 2012, the nomenclature Medical Assistant had been changed to Physician Assistant.. 
Nonhuman primates are incapable of producing neutralizing antibodies in reponse to the Eilat virus (EILV) produced in mosquitos. [SEP] Non-human primates are not classified as persons in most jurisdictions, which largely means their individual interests have no formal recognition or protection. Eilat virus (EILV) is a unique Alphavirus which is known mainly for its host range restriction generally to insects (primarily to mosquitoes) by means of RNA replication. However, the Eilat virus can replicate consummately in an insect host and fails completely to even enter the cells of vertebrates. [1]

Areas of infection
When tested on four different mosquito species the Eilat virus had similar effects on certain organs of the mosquitos and did not infect other organs. Oral transmission
The Eilat virus is unable to infect its host in low doses orally. When a few species of mosquito were fed ( a blood meal) containing the Eilat virus in high doses, all test species did in fact get infected; however, when the dose range was lowered, the species would fail to get infected. Anopheles coustani's aid in natural maintenance
The Eilat virus was first isolated from the specified species Anopheles coustani (mosquito species) located at the Negrev desert. The EILV is not just restricted to the genomic RNA replication level but it also is unable to gain entry into vertebrate cells. 
Nonhypertensive people who are 55 years old have a 90% chance of developing hypertension during their lifetime. [SEP] The high pulse pressure in elderly people with hypertension or isolated systolic hypertension is explained by increased arterial stiffness, which typically accompanies aging and may be exacerbated by high blood pressure.Many mechanisms have been proposed to account for the rise in peripheral resistance in hypertension. Classification in adults
In people aged 18 years or older, hypertension is defined as either a systolic or a diastolic blood pressure measurement consistently higher than an accepted normal value (this is above 129 or 139 mmHg systolic, 89 mmHg diastolic depending on the guideline). The 2020 International Society of Hypertension guidelines define hypertension based on office blood pressure ≥140/90 mmHg or home monitoring blood pressure ≥135/85 mmHg, or 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure average ≥130/80 mmHg (daytime average ≥135/85 mmHg or nighttime average BP ≥120/70 mmHg). Blood pressure rises with age in childhood and, in children, hypertension is defined as an average systolic or diastolic blood pressure on three or more occasions equal or higher than the 95th percentile appropriate for the sex, age and height of the child. Epidemiology
Adults
As of 2014, approximately one billion adults or ~22% of the population of the world have hypertension. In 1995 it was estimated that 43 million people (24% of the population) in the United States had hypertension or were taking antihypertensive medication. Hypertension is also a risk factor for cognitive impairment and dementia. In the US 80% of people with hypertension are aware of their condition, 71% take some antihypertensive medication, but only 48% of people aware that they have hypertension adequately control it. 
Noninvasive positive pressure ventilation is not predictive of acute respiratory failure after solid organ transplantation. [SEP] If non-invasive ventilation or negative-pressure ventilation is used, then an airway adjunct is not needed. The positive pressure allows air to flow into the airway until the ventilator breath is terminated. Positive airway pressure ventilators (PAP) — These ventilators are specifically designed for non-invasive ventilation. Noninvasive positive pressure ventilation delivers end-expiratory pressure with a volume control setting. Noninvasive positive pressure ventilation should not be administered to people who are hemodynamically unstable, gastric emptying impaired, bowel obstructed or pregnant. People who should not use noninvasive positive pressure ventilation include obtunded patients or ones with secretions. Respiratory stimulants such as doxapram are now rarely used.There is tentative evidence that in those with respiratory failure identified before arrival in hospital, continuous positive airway pressure can be helpful when started before conveying to hospital. "Blood transfusion and the development of acute respiratory distress syndrome: more evidence that blood transfusion in the intensive care unit may not be benign". 
Nonsteroidal antinflammatory drugs are ineffective as cancer treatments. [SEP] Medication
Medications can be used to prevent cancer in a few circumstances. Selenium supplementation has not been shown to reduce the risk of cancer. Chemotherapy is curative for some cancers, such as some leukemias, ineffective in some brain tumors, and needless in others, such as most non-melanoma skin cancers. Most complementary and alternative medicines for cancer have not been studied or tested using conventional techniques such as clinical trials. Some alternative treatments have been investigated and shown to be ineffective but still continue to be marketed and promoted. Cancer researcher Andrew J. Vickers stated, "The label 'unproven' is inappropriate for such therapies; it is time to assert that many alternative cancer therapies have been 'disproven'." Angiogenesis inhibitors were once incorrectly thought to have potential as a "silver bullet" treatment applicable to many types of cancer. Most chemotherapy medications work by destroying fast-growing and/or fast-replicating cancer cells, either by causing DNA damage upon replication or by other mechanisms. 
Nonsteroidal antinflammatory drugs show potential anticancer indications. [SEP] Below is a non-comprehensive list of common anticancer genes. Following the success of these drugs, semi-synthetic vinca alkaloids were produced: vinorelbine (used in the treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer), vindesine, and vinflunine. These approaches can help control solitary or limited metastases, but they are by definition not systemic, and, therefore, do not treat distributed metastases or micrometastases.Topical chemotherapies, such as 5-fluorouracil, are used to treat some cases of non-melanoma skin cancer.If the cancer has central nervous system involvement, or with meningeal disease, intrathecal chemotherapy may be administered. Quinolones show effective prophylaxis mainly with hematological cancer. In lung cancer, the transcription factor NFκB is thought to play a role in resistance to chemotherapy, via inflammatory pathways. Other uses
Some chemotherapy drugs are used in diseases other than cancer, such as in autoimmune disorders, and noncancerous plasma cell dyscrasia. The pharmacist didn't have any other risk factor for cancer, and therefore, her cancer was attributed to the exposure to the antineoplastic drugs, although a cause-and-effect relationship has not been established in the literature. Studies have reported elevated risk of breast cancer, nonmelanoma skin cancer, and cancer of the rectum among nurses who are exposed to these drugs. 
Normal expression of RUNX1 causes tumorsupressing effects. [SEP] RUNX1 knockouts also produce morphological changes in the AGM, with excessive crowding of mesenchymal cells. As mesenchymal cells differentiate into endothelial cells, the absence of RUNX1 may impact on the ability of mesenchymal cells to differentiate into haemogenic endothelial cells. Runx1 has also been implicated in the activation of haemogenic endothelium. This suggests that Runx1 plays a critical role in the signalling pathway for haemogenic cell activation and its production from mesenchymal cells. Nitric oxide
Nitric oxide signalling has also been shown to play a role in haemogenic endothelial cell production and activation, possibly by regulating the expression of Runx1. As Runx1 is also crucial for haemogenic endothelial cell activation, it is possible that NO regulates both of these downstream effects. Experiments have been shown that decreased Notch1 expression also affects the expression of Runx1, resulting in its downregulation. As Runx1 expression is proportional to haematopoietic cell production, these results suggest that Notch1 is also involved in regulating Runx1. 
Normal granulomas form in the absence of TNF in Zebrafish. [SEP] In the aquarium
Zebrafish are hardy fish and considered good for beginner aquarists. Aquaculture research
Zebrafish are common models for research into fish farming, including pathogens and parasites causing yield loss and/or spread to adjacent wild populations. Medical research
Cancer
Zebrafish have been used to make several transgenic models of cancer, including melanoma, leukemia, pancreatic cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma. Zebrafish expressing mutated forms of either the BRAF or NRAS oncogenes develop melanoma when placed onto a p53 deficient background. Immune system
In programmes of research into acute inflammation, a major underpinning process in many diseases, researchers have established a zebrafish model of inflammation, and its resolution. Infectious diseases
As the immune system is relatively conserved between zebrafish and humans, many human infectious diseases can be modeled in zebrafish. Zebrafish models for a wide range of bacterial, viral and parasitic pathogens have already been established; for example, the zebrafish model for tuberculosis provides fundamental insights into the mechanisms of pathogenesis of mycobacteria. Bone physiology and pathology
Zebrafish have been used as model organisms for bone metabolism, tissue turnover, and resorbing activity. 
Normal granulomas form in the presence of TNF in Zebrafish. [SEP] Aquaculture research
Zebrafish are common models for research into fish farming, including pathogens and parasites causing yield loss and/or spread to adjacent wild populations. Medical research
Cancer
Zebrafish have been used to make several transgenic models of cancer, including melanoma, leukemia, pancreatic cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma. Zebrafish expressing mutated forms of either the BRAF or NRAS oncogenes develop melanoma when placed onto a p53 deficient background. Immune system
In programmes of research into acute inflammation, a major underpinning process in many diseases, researchers have established a zebrafish model of inflammation, and its resolution. Infectious diseases
As the immune system is relatively conserved between zebrafish and humans, many human infectious diseases can be modeled in zebrafish. Zebrafish models for a wide range of bacterial, viral and parasitic pathogens have already been established; for example, the zebrafish model for tuberculosis provides fundamental insights into the mechanisms of pathogenesis of mycobacteria. Bone physiology and pathology
Zebrafish have been used as model organisms for bone metabolism, tissue turnover, and resorbing activity. Environmental toxicology
Zebrafish have been used as a model system in environmental toxicology studies. 
Notch signaling occurs between tumor cells and stromal cells. [SEP] The Notch signaling pathway is a highly conserved cell signaling system present in most animals. Notch and most of its ligands are transmembrane proteins, so the cells expressing the ligands typically must be adjacent to the notch expressing cell for signaling to occur. Ligand interactions
Notch signaling is initiated when Notch receptors on the cell surface engage ligands presented in trans on opposing cells. Function
The Notch signaling pathway is important for cell-cell communication, which involves gene regulation mechanisms that control multiple cell differentiation processes during embryonic and adult life. Role in embryogenesis
The Notch signaling pathway plays an important role in cell-cell communication, and further regulates embryonic development. Several key components of the Notch signaling pathway help coordinate key steps in this process. Angiogenesis
Endothelial cells use the Notch signaling pathway to coordinate cellular behaviors during the blood vessel sprouting that occurs sprouting angiogenesis.Activation of Notch takes place primarily in "connector" cells and cells that line patent stable blood vessels through direct interaction with the Notch ligand, Delta-like ligand 4 (Dll4), which is expressed in the endothelial tip cells. Urothelial bladder cancer
Loss of Notch activity is a driving event in urothelial cancer. 
Nuclear transfer from adult human fibroblasts to human oocytes can give rise to blastocysts containing expandable pluripotent cells. [SEP] The aim of carrying out this procedure is to obtain pluripotent cells from a cloned embryo. Using MII oocytes from volunteers and their improved SCNT procedure, human clone embryos were successfully produced. Methods to reprogram normal body cells into pluripotent stem cells were developed in humans in 2007. In human embryonic development the blastocyst stage is reached 4–5 days after fertilization, at which time it consists of 50–150 cells. However, reprogramming allows for the creation of pluripotent cells, induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), from adult cells. Subsequent work used these factors to induce pluripotency in human fibroblast cells. Female infertility: oocytes made from embryonic stem cells. Induced pluripotent stem cells are those derived from adult somatic cells and have the potential to provide an alternative for stem cell research that does not require the destruction of human embryos. 
Oat tolerant coeliac patients may have oat specific inflammatory cells in their small bowel mucosa. [SEP] Determining whether oat consumption is safe is critical because people with poorly controlled celiac disease may develop multiple severe health complications, including cancers.Use of pure oat products is an option, with the assessment of a health professional, when the celiac person has been on a gluten-free diet for at least 6 months and all celiac symptoms have disappeared clinically. Screening with serum antibodies for celiac disease is not sensitive enough to detect people who react to pure oats and the absence of digestive symptoms is not an accurate indicator of intestinal recovery because up to 50% of people with active celiac disease have no digestive symptoms. Coeliac disease (British English) or celiac disease (American English) is a long-term autoimmune disorder, primarily affecting the small intestine, where individuals develop intolerance to gluten, present in foods such as wheat, rye and barley. Cause
Coeliac disease is caused by an inflammatory reaction to gliadins and glutenins (gluten proteins) found in wheat and to similar proteins found in the crops of the tribe Triticeae (which includes other common grains such as barley and rye) and to the tribe Aveneae (oats). Wheat subspecies (such as spelt, durum, and Kamut) and wheat hybrids (such as triticale) also cause symptoms of coeliac disease.A small number of people with coeliac disease react to oats. Oat toxicity in coeliac people depends on the oat cultivar consumed because the prolamin genes, protein amino acid sequences, and the immunoreactivities of toxic prolamins are different in different oat varieties. Coeliac people who choose to consume oats need a more rigorous lifelong follow-up, possibly including periodic intestinal biopsies. Avenin's toxicity in people with coeliac disease depends on the oat cultivar consumed, as prolamin genes, protein amino acid sequences, and the immunoreactivities of toxic prolamins vary among oat varieties. 
Obesity decreases life quality. [SEP] Obesity is a risk factor for many chronic physical and mental illnesses. People who are obese also experience fewer educational and career opportunities, on average earn a lesser income, and generally receive poorer health care and treatment than individuals who are "normal" weight. Effects on health
Obesity increases a person's risk of developing various metabolic diseases, cardiovascular disease, osteoarthritis, Alzheimer disease, depression, and certain types of cancer. Depending on the degree of obesity and the presence of comorbid disorders, obesity is associated with an estimated 2–20 year shorter life expectancy. Mortality
Obesity is one of the leading preventable causes of death worldwide. On average, obesity reduces life expectancy by six to seven years, a BMI of 30–35 kg/m2 reduces life expectancy by two to four years, while severe obesity (BMI ≥ 40 kg/m2) reduces life expectancy by ten years. Morbidity
Obesity increases the risk of many physical and mental conditions. Obesity
Studies show that obesity affects the quality of the ovum. 
Obesity raises life quality. [SEP] Obesity. Effects on health
Obesity increases a person's risk of developing various metabolic diseases, cardiovascular disease, osteoarthritis, Alzheimer disease, depression, and certain types of cancer. Depending on the degree of obesity and the presence of comorbid disorders, obesity is associated with an estimated 2–20 year shorter life expectancy. Mortality
Obesity is one of the leading preventable causes of death worldwide. On average, obesity reduces life expectancy by six to seven years, a BMI of 30–35 kg/m2 reduces life expectancy by two to four years, while severe obesity (BMI ≥ 40 kg/m2) reduces life expectancy by ten years. Morbidity
Obesity increases the risk of many physical and mental conditions. In 2000, the World Health Organization (WHO) stated that overweight and obesity were replacing more traditional public health concerns such as undernutrition and infectious diseases as one of the most significant cause of poor health.The rate of obesity also increases with age at least up to 50 or 60 years old and severe obesity in the United States, Australia, and Canada is increasing faster than the overall rate of obesity. Obesity during adolescence has been found to increase mortality rates during adulthood.A 2008 study has found that children who are obese have carotid arteries which have prematurely aged by as much as thirty years as well as abnormal levels of cholesterol. 
Occipital activation levels are associated with auditory spatial performance in parietal regions of the brain. [SEP] Primary sensory areas include the visual cortex of the occipital lobe, the auditory cortex in parts of the temporal lobe and insular cortex, and the somatosensory cortex in the parietal lobe. Recent neuroimaging research has provided insight into the processes behind audiospatial attention, suggesting functional overlap with portions of the brain previously shown to be responsible for visual attention. Current research suggests that auditory spatial attention overlaps functionally with many areas previously shown to be associated with visual attention. Comparing the pitch and spatial judgements revealed increased activation in primary auditory cortices and right inferior frontal gyrus during the pitch task, and increased activation in bilateral posterior temporal areas, and inferior and superior parietal cortices during the spatial task. In the auditory domain, comparing activation following peripheral right and left cues to central cues revealed significant activation in the posterior parietal cortex (PPC,) frontal eye fields (FEF), and supplementary motor area (SMA.) The comparison of the spatial location task to the temporal order task showed greater activation in areas previously found to be associated with attention in the visual domain, including the bilateral temporal parietal junction, bilateral superior frontal areas near FEF, bilateral intraparietal sulcus, and bilateral occipital temporal junction, suggesting an attentional network that operates supra-modally across vision and audition. The spatial attention vs. control comparison further revealed increased activity in auditory cortex, increases which were contralateral to the side of audiospatial attention, which may reflect top-down biasing of early sensory areas as has been seen with visual attention. additionally observed that audiospatial attention was associated with increased activation in areas thought to process visual information, namely the cuneus and lingual gyrus, despite participants having completed the task with eyes closed. 
Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegans. [SEP] An omnivore () is an animal that has the ability to eat and survive on both plant and animal matter. Obtaining energy and nutrients from plant and animal matter, omnivores digest carbohydrates, protein, fat, and fiber, and metabolize the nutrients and energy of the sources absorbed. "vegans do not participate in the omnivore based diet.") In the fields of nutrition, sociology and psychology the terms “omnivore” & “omnivory” is often used to distinguish prototypical highly diverse human diet patterns from restricted diet patterns that exclude major categories of food. The term "omnivory" is also not always comprehensive because it does not deal with mineral foods such as salt licks and the consumption of plant and animal material for medical purposes which would not otherwise be consumed (i.e. From a behavioral aspect, this would make them omnivores, but from the physiological standpoint, this may be due to zoopharmacognosy. Omnivorous species
General
Although cases exist of herbivores eating meat and carnivores eating plant matter, the classification "omnivore" refers to the adaptation and main food source of the species in general, so these exceptions do not make either individual animals or the species as a whole omnivorous. Many do not eat food from animal sources to varying degrees (e.g. 
Omnivores produce more trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegans. [SEP] An omnivore () is an animal that has the ability to eat and survive on both plant and animal matter. Obtaining energy and nutrients from plant and animal matter, omnivores digest carbohydrates, protein, fat, and fiber, and metabolize the nutrients and energy of the sources absorbed. Being omnivores gives these animals more food security in stressful times or makes possible living in less consistent environments. "vegans do not participate in the omnivore based diet.") In the fields of nutrition, sociology and psychology the terms “omnivore” & “omnivory” is often used to distinguish prototypical highly diverse human diet patterns from restricted diet patterns that exclude major categories of food. "humans are omnivores due to their capability to obtain energy and nutrients from both plant and animal materials. From a behavioral aspect, this would make them omnivores, but from the physiological standpoint, this may be due to zoopharmacognosy. Omnivorous species
General
Although cases exist of herbivores eating meat and carnivores eating plant matter, the classification "omnivore" refers to the adaptation and main food source of the species in general, so these exceptions do not make either individual animals or the species as a whole omnivorous. 
Omnivores produce more trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. [SEP] An omnivore () is an animal that has the ability to eat and survive on both plant and animal matter. Obtaining energy and nutrients from plant and animal matter, omnivores digest carbohydrates, protein, fat, and fiber, and metabolize the nutrients and energy of the sources absorbed. Being omnivores gives these animals more food security in stressful times or makes possible living in less consistent environments. "vegans do not participate in the omnivore based diet.") In the fields of nutrition, sociology and psychology the terms “omnivore” & “omnivory” is often used to distinguish prototypical highly diverse human diet patterns from restricted diet patterns that exclude major categories of food. "humans are omnivores due to their capability to obtain energy and nutrients from both plant and animal materials. From a behavioral aspect, this would make them omnivores, but from the physiological standpoint, this may be due to zoopharmacognosy. Omnivorous species
General
Although cases exist of herbivores eating meat and carnivores eating plant matter, the classification "omnivore" refers to the adaptation and main food source of the species in general, so these exceptions do not make either individual animals or the species as a whole omnivorous. 
One in five surgical randomized controlled trials are discontinued early. [SEP] These results have been mirrored in trials in surgery, where although industry funding did not affect the rate of trial discontinuation it was however associated with a lower odds of publication for completed trials. Ethically it may be necessary to abort the RCT prematurely, and getting ethics approval (and patient agreement) to withhold the innovation from the control group in future RCT's may not be feasible. Gelband H. The impact of randomized clinical trials on health policy and medical practice: background paper. Response rates, calculated using various cutoff values for symptom reduction, are low, and their interpretation is complicated by high placebo response rates and selective publication of clinical trial results. In spite of the relatively high rates of adverse effects associated with these drugs, some evidence, including higher dropout rates in placebo arms compared to treatment arms in randomized clinical trials, suggests that most patients who discontinue treatment do so because of suboptimal efficacy. Following the fourth planned interim analysis the trial was ended due to futility. While randomized controlled trials of bariatric surgery exist, they are limited by short follow-up periods. There is also a lack of high quality randomized controlled trials in this area making it difficult to difficult to make specific recommendations for this procedure in adolescent patients when observational studies have shown long-term re-operation rates. 
One in two surgical randomized controlled trials are discontinued early. [SEP] Sales of the drugs then decreased. These results have been mirrored in trials in surgery, where although industry funding did not affect the rate of trial discontinuation it was however associated with a lower odds of publication for completed trials. Ethically it may be necessary to abort the RCT prematurely, and getting ethics approval (and patient agreement) to withhold the innovation from the control group in future RCT's may not be feasible. Gelband H. The impact of randomized clinical trials on health policy and medical practice: background paper. Response rates, calculated using various cutoff values for symptom reduction, are low, and their interpretation is complicated by high placebo response rates and selective publication of clinical trial results. In spite of the relatively high rates of adverse effects associated with these drugs, some evidence, including higher dropout rates in placebo arms compared to treatment arms in randomized clinical trials, suggests that most patients who discontinue treatment do so because of suboptimal efficacy. Following the fourth planned interim analysis the trial was ended due to futility. While randomized controlled trials of bariatric surgery exist, they are limited by short follow-up periods. 
Origin gross domestic product(GDP) is negatively related to dengue virus (DENV-1) diffusion in air traffic shipments. [SEP] Dengue virus (DENV) is the cause of dengue fever. Mechanism of infection
Dengue virus' (DENV) E envelope protein binds to a cellular receptor. Dengue fever is a mosquito-borne tropical disease caused by the dengue virus. Cause
Virology
Dengue fever virus (DENV) is an RNA virus of the family Flaviviridae; genus Flavivirus. Dengue fever, which was once confined to Southeast Asia, has now spread to southern China in East Asia, countries in the Pacific Ocean and the Americas, and might pose a threat to Europe. Dengue virus (DENV) is the cause of dengue fever. Mechanism of infection
Dengue virus' (DENV) E envelope protein binds to a cellular receptor. Present-day dengue has become a major public health problem. 
Origin gross domestic product(GDP) is positively related to dengue virus (DENV-1) diffusion in air traffic shipments. [SEP] Dengue virus (DENV) is the cause of dengue fever. Mechanism of infection
Dengue virus' (DENV) E envelope protein binds to a cellular receptor. Dengue fever is a mosquito-borne tropical disease caused by the dengue virus. Cause
Virology
Dengue fever virus (DENV) is an RNA virus of the family Flaviviridae; genus Flavivirus. Transmission
Dengue virus is primarily transmitted by Aedes mosquitos, particularly A. aegypti. Dengue virus (DENV) is the cause of dengue fever. Mechanism of infection
Dengue virus' (DENV) E envelope protein binds to a cellular receptor. Present-day dengue has become a major public health problem. 
Osteocytes have an essential role in G-CSF induced HSPC mobilization. [SEP] Under normal conditions, osteocytes express high amounts of TGF-β and thus repress bone resorption, but when bone grows old, the expression levels of TGF-β decrease, and the expression of osteoclast-stimulatory factors, such as RANKL and M-CSF increases, bone resorption is then enhanced, leading to net bone loss.Mechanical stimulation of osteocytes results in opening of hemichannels to release PGE2 and ATP, among other biochemical signaling  molecules, which play a crucial role in maintaining the balance between bone formation and resorption. Osteocytes have important functions in skeletal maintenance. Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF or GCSF), also known as colony-stimulating factor 3 (CSF 3), is a glycoprotein that stimulates the bone marrow to produce granulocytes and stem cells and release them into the bloodstream.Functionally, it is a cytokine and hormone, a type of colony-stimulating factor, and is produced by a number of different tissues. White blood cells
The G-CSF-receptor is present on precursor cells in the bone marrow, and, in response to stimulation by G-CSF, initiates proliferation and differentiation into mature granulocytes. G-CSF stimulates the survival, proliferation, differentiation, and function of neutrophil precursors and mature neutrophils. G-CSF regulates them using Janus kinase (JAK)/signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) and Ras/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (Akt) signal transduction pathway.Hematopoietic System
G-CSF is also a potent inducer of hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) mobilization from the bone marrow into the bloodstream, although it has been shown that it does not directly affect the hematopoietic progenitors that are mobilized.Neurons
G-CSF can also act on neuronal cells as a neurotrophic factor. G-CSF stimulates the production of granulocytes, a type of white blood cell. The treatment was well tolerated and a dose-dependent rise in circulating neutrophils was noted.A study in mice has shown that G-CSF may decrease bone mineral density.G-CSF administration has been shown to attenuate the telomere loss associated with chemotherapy. 
Osteoparthritis (OA) is characterized by degeneration of articular cartilage, joint edge, and subchondral bone hyperplasia. [SEP] Places
Oa (Attica), a deme of ancient Attica
Ocean Acres, New Jersey, United States
Orakzai Agency, Pakistan
The Oa, Scotland, United Kingdom

Honors
Order of Australia, a formal honour
Order of the Arrow, the honor society of the Boy Scouts of America

Science and technology
Office automation
Oleic acid, a fatty acid
Open access, the free online availability of digital content from scholarly sources
Operational amplifier, an electronic component
Operational analysis, more generally called "operational research", a branch of applied mathematics
Osteoarthritis, a disease
Length overall (also o/a, o.a. or oa), an abbreviation for overall, used when describing the length of a ship
Oxford Archaeology

Other uses
Oa (digraph)
Obituaries Australia, an online database of obituaries
Office Action, a communication from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
Old Alleynian, an old boy of Dulwich College
Old Albanian, an old boy of St Alban School, St Albans
Order of Appearance, a synonym for Order of battle
Output area, an area of approximately 100 households, derived from the UK Census

See also
0A (disambiguation)
OOA (disambiguation) Chondrodystrophies are a group of diseases, characterized by the disturbance of growth and subsequent ossification of cartilage. Osteoarthritis: Osteoarthritis is a disease of the whole joint, however, one of the most affected tissues is the articular cartilage. The cartilage covering bones (articular cartilage—a subset of hyaline cartilage) is thinned, eventually completely wearing away, resulting in a "bone against bone" within the joint, leading to reduced motion, and pain. Osteoarthritis affects the joints exposed to high stress and is therefore considered the result of "wear and tear" rather than a true disease. The articular cartilage extracellular matrix (ECM) has a highly specialized architecture that is zonally organized: the superficial zone consists mostly of collagen II fibers aligned parallel to the articular surface to resist shear forces, whereas the deep zone consists of the same fibers aligned perpendicularly to the bone interface to absorb compressive loads.The biochemical breakdown of the articular cartilage results in osteoarthritis – the most common type of joint disease. Osteoarthritis affects over 30 million individuals in the United States alone, and is the leading cause of chronic disability amongst the elderly. 
Over half of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. [SEP] See also
Index of Gabon-related articles
Outline of Gabon
Lambaréné
Hôpital Albert Schweitzer

References
Bibliography
External links

Official website
Gabon. Schimmelpenning syndrome is a neurocutaneous condition characterized by one or more sebaceous nevi, usually appearing on the face or scalp, associated with anomalies of the central nervous system, ocular system, skeletal system, cardiovascular system and genitourinary system.Synonyms include: "Linear nevus sebaceous syndrome (LNSS)", "Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome", "Feuerstein-Mims syndrome", "sebaceous nevus syndrome", "Solomon syndrome", and "Jadassohn's nevus phakomatosis". The condition was first reported by Gustav Schimmelpenning in 1957 and independently reported by Feuerstein and Mims in 1962. The most common structural central nervous system abnormalities in Schimmelpenning syndrome are hemimegalencephaly and ipselateral gyral malformations.The major ocular abnormalities are colobomas and choristomas.Skeletal abnormalities may include dental irregularities, scoliosis, vitamin D-resistant rickets and hypophosphatemia. Genetic
Schimmelpenning syndrome appears to be sporadic rather than inherited, in almost all cases. Epidermal nevus syndrome (also known as "Feuerstein and Mims syndrome", and "Solomon's syndrome": 775 ) is a rare disease that was first described in 1968 and consists of extensive epidermal nevi with abnormalities of the central nervous system (CNS), skeleton, skin, cardiovascular system, genitourinary system and eyes. SFM Entertainment is an American television syndicator, film distributor, production company, and licensing firm established on September 29, 1969. Causes of high anion gap metabolic acidosis (HAGMA):

Lactic acidosis
Ketoacidosis
Diabetic ketoacidosis
Hazardous alcohol use
Toxins:
Methanol
Ethylene glycol
Propylene glycol
Lactic acid
Uremia
Aspirin
Phenformin (no longer on market in U.S. since 1978 due to severe lactic acidosis, but still a problem globally. 
Overexpressing Cnp1 N-tail variants exacerbates the temperature-sensitive growth defect of scm3-139. [SEP] CNP Assurances S.A. is a major French insurance corporation. CNP stands for Caisse Nationale de Prévoyance. C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP) primarily interacts with NPR-B, which triggers an increase in the concentration of cGMP in the cell. CNP is highly concentrated in vascular endothelial cells and plays a crucial role in regulating vascular tone through its vasodilatory action. C-type Natriuretic Peptide (CNP)
The natriuretic peptide CNP was initially discovered in pig brain extracts. The human gene for CNP (NPPC), in contrast to the genes for ANP and BNP, is located on chromosome 2 and consists of just two exons and one intron. The CNP gene is also located on chromosome 2 in mice. The 126 amino acids long protein produced by NPPC has a signal sequence of 23 amino acids and then a proCNP segment with 103 amino acids. 
Overexpressing Cnp1 N-tail variants rescues the temperature-sensitive growth defect of scm3-139. [SEP] CNP Assurances S.A. is a major French insurance corporation. CNP stands for Caisse Nationale de Prévoyance. C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP) primarily interacts with NPR-B, which triggers an increase in the concentration of cGMP in the cell. CNP is highly concentrated in vascular endothelial cells and plays a crucial role in regulating vascular tone through its vasodilatory action. C-type Natriuretic Peptide (CNP)
The natriuretic peptide CNP was initially discovered in pig brain extracts. The human gene for CNP (NPPC), in contrast to the genes for ANP and BNP, is located on chromosome 2 and consists of just two exons and one intron. The CNP gene is also located on chromosome 2 in mice. The 126 amino acids long protein produced by NPPC has a signal sequence of 23 amino acids and then a proCNP segment with 103 amino acids. 
Oxidative DNA damage activates STING signalling. [SEP] Necrotic wounds have also resulted from the stings of Vespa mandarinia.Pathological conditions are characterized by inadequate secretion of cytokines. The accumulation of reactive oxygen species like that cited above and hydroxyl radicals, superoxide radicals and hydrogen peroxides causes aberrant gene expression at low concentrations and lesions of lipids, proteins and DNA in higher concentrations which eventually lead to cellular death. In a rat animal model, urine levels of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (as a biomarker of DNA damage byreactive oxygen species) were measured after treatment with DMA(V). mTOR inhibition of ZFP36L1 prevents this protein from degrading transcripts of numerous components of SASP factors.Ribosomal DNA (rDNA) is more vulnerable to DNA damage than DNA elsewhere in the genome such than rDNA instability can lead to cellular senescence, and thus to SASP 
The high-mobility group proteins (HMGA) can induce senescence and SASP in a p53-dependent manner.Activation of the retrotransposon LINE1 can result in cytosolic DNA that activates the cGAS–STING cytosolic DNA sensing pathway upregulating SASP by induction of interferon type I. cGAS is essential for induction of cellular senescence by DNA damage. DNA damage and cellular stress induces the p53 pathway, which results in cell apoptosis. During times of environmental stress, levels of reactive oxygen species can increase dramatically, which can damage cell structures and produce oxidative stress.While all the reaction mechanisms of these species within the body are not yet fully understood, one of the most reactive products of oxidative stress is the hydroxyl radical (·OH), which can initiate a damaging chain reaction of lipid peroxidation in the unsaturated lipids within cell membranes. High concentrations of oxygen also increase the formation of other free radicals, such as nitric oxide, peroxynitrite, and trioxidane, which harm DNA and other biomolecules. Redness—An insect's sting will trigger the classic inflammatory response. 
Oxidative DNA damage inhibits STING signalling. [SEP] Toxins and pathogens may cause necrosis; toxins such as snake venoms may inhibit enzymes and cause cell death. Necrotic wounds have also resulted from the stings of Vespa mandarinia.Pathological conditions are characterized by inadequate secretion of cytokines. Dimethylarsinic acid, DMA(V), caused DNA single strand breaks resulting from inhibition of repair enzymes at levels of 5 to 100 mM in human epithelial type II cells.MMA(III) and DMA(III) were also shown to be directly genotoxic by effectuating scissions in supercoiled ΦX174 DNA. The accumulation of reactive oxygen species like that cited above and hydroxyl radicals, superoxide radicals and hydrogen peroxides causes aberrant gene expression at low concentrations and lesions of lipids, proteins and DNA in higher concentrations which eventually lead to cellular death. In a rat animal model, urine levels of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (as a biomarker of DNA damage byreactive oxygen species) were measured after treatment with DMA(V). This LOH happens by the same mechanisms, such as oxidative DNA damage, that causes mutations in other cells. mTOR inhibition of ZFP36L1 prevents this protein from degrading transcripts of numerous components of SASP factors.Ribosomal DNA (rDNA) is more vulnerable to DNA damage than DNA elsewhere in the genome such than rDNA instability can lead to cellular senescence, and thus to SASP 
The high-mobility group proteins (HMGA) can induce senescence and SASP in a p53-dependent manner.Activation of the retrotransposon LINE1 can result in cytosolic DNA that activates the cGAS–STING cytosolic DNA sensing pathway upregulating SASP by induction of interferon type I. cGAS is essential for induction of cellular senescence by DNA damage. Redness—An insect's sting will trigger the classic inflammatory response. 
Oxidative phosphorylation is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. [SEP] Oxidative phosphorylation (UK , US  ) or electron transport-linked phosphorylation or terminal oxidation is the metabolic pathway in which cells use enzymes to oxidize nutrients, thereby releasing chemical energy in order to produce adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Almost all aerobic organisms carry out oxidative phosphorylation. Oxidative phosphorylation uses these molecules and O2 to produce ATP, which is used throughout the cell whenever energy is needed. Although oxidative phosphorylation is a vital part of metabolism, it produces reactive oxygen species such as superoxide and hydrogen peroxide, which lead to propagation of free radicals, damaging cells and contributing to disease and, possibly, aging and senescence. Oxidative phosphorylation in the eukaryotic mitochondrion is the best-understood example of this process. In E. coli, for example, oxidative phosphorylation can be driven by a large number of pairs of reducing agents and oxidizing agents, which are listed below. Most of the ATP produced by aerobic cellular respiration is made by oxidative phosphorylation. : 87

Glycolysis
Glycolysis is a metabolic pathway that takes place in the cytosol of cells in all living organisms. 
PCSK9 inhibitors decrease plasma Lp(a) levels. [SEP] Therefore, blocking PCSK9 can lower blood LDL-particle concentrations.PCSK9 has medical importance because it acts in lipoprotein homeostasis. Agents that block PCSK9 can lower LDL particle concentrations. Thus, PCSK9 lowers cell surface expression of LDLR and thereby decreases metabolism of LDL-particles, which in turn may lead to hypercholesterolemia. Accordingly, it is now very clear that PCSK9 has pro-atherosclerotic effects and regulates lipoprotein synthesis.As PCSK9 binds to LDLR, which prevents the removal of LDL-particles from the blood plasma, several studies have determined the potential use of PCSK9 inhibitors in the treatment of hyperlipoproteinemia (commonly called hypercholesterolemia). Inhibitors
Several studies have determined the potential use of PCSK9 inhibitors in the treatment of hyperlipoproteinemia (commonly called hypercholesterolemia). Furthermore, loss-of-function mutations in the PCSK9 gene result in lower levels of LDL and protection against cardiovascular disease.PCSK9 inhibitor drugs are now approved by the FDA to treat familial hypercholesterolemia. As a drug target
Drugs can inhibit PCSK9, leading to lowered circulating LDL particle concentrations. PCSK9 inhibitors are promising therapeutics for the treatment of people who exhibit statin intolerance, or as a way to bypass frequent dosage of statins for higher LDL concentration reduction.A review published in 2015 concluded that these agents, when used in patients with high LDL-particle concentrations (thus at greatly elevated risk for cardiovascular disease) seem to be safe and effective at reducing all-cause mortality, cardiovascular mortality, and heart attacks. 
PD-1 triggering on monocytes enhances IL-10 production by monocytes. [SEP] Function
Several lines of evidence suggest that PD-1 and its ligands negatively regulate immune responses. Triggering PD-1, expressed on monocytes and up-regulated upon monocytes activation, by its ligand PD-L1 induces IL-10 production which inhibits CD4 T-cell function.In mice, expression of this gene is induced in the thymus when anti-CD3 antibodies are injected and large numbers of thymocytes undergo apoptosis. IL-10 can be produced by monocytes upon PD-1 triggering in these cells. Extensive IL-10 locus remodeling is observed in monocytes upon stimulation of TLR or Fc receptor pathways. showed that TNF causes an IL-10-dependent inhibition of CD4 T-cell expansion and function by up-regulating PD-1 levels on monocytes which leads to IL-10 production by monocytes after binding of PD-1 by PD-L.The research of Pedersen et al. It has been shown that inflammatory cytokines cause an IL-10-dependent inhibition of T-cell expansion and function by up-regulating PD-1 levels on monocytes, which leads to IL-10 production by monocytes after binding of PD-1 by PD-L. IL-10 suppresses Th1 cells differentiation and function of dendritic cells. Triggering PD-1 expressed on activated monocytes by its ligand PD-L1, induces IL-10 production which inhibits CD4 T-cell function. 
PGE 2 suppresss intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. [SEP] Cancer
COX-2 appears to be related to cancers and abnormal growths in the intestinal tract. Overexpression of COX-2 produces excess prostaglandins which have been shown to increase the possibility of colorectal cancer. COX inhibitors have been shown to reduce the occurrence of cancers and pre-cancerous growths. The National Cancer Institute has done some studies on COX-2 and cancer. . COX-2 can act as an anti-tumor enzyme, but only in specific cases. However, when the ability of all these compounds to kill tumor cells in cell culture was investigated, it turned out that the antitumor potency did not at all depend on whether or not the respective compound could inhibit COX-2, showing that inhibition of COX-2 was not required for the anticancer effects. These studies report that overexpression of the COX-2 enzyme has an adverse effect on the tumor suppressor, p53. Two of the metabolites of COX-2, prostaglandin A2 (PGA2) and A1 (PGA1), when present in high quantities, bind to p53 in the cytosol and inhibit its ability to cross into the nucleus. After treatment with a COX-2 inhibitor, the restored p53 function allows DNA damaged neuroblastoma cells to commit suicide through apoptosis reducing the size of growth of the tumor. 
PKG-la does not have a large impact on expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. [SEP] Experiments in both animals and humans have established that NMDA antagonists such as ketamine and dextromethorphan can alleviate neuropathic pain and reverse opioid tolerance. Proposed mechanistic basis for neuropathic pain
The underlying pathophysiology of neuropathic pain remains a contested topic. Broadly speaking in neuropathic pain, neurons are hypersensitized, glia become activated and there is a loss of inhibitory tone. The theory predicts that the activation of central pain inhibitory neurons by non-pain sensing neurons prevents the transmission of non-harmful stimuli to pain centers in the brain. Glia
During neuropathic pain, glia become "activated" leading to the release of proteins that modulate neural activity. Central sensitization
Central sensitization is a potential component of neuropathic pain. Molecules such as substance P may be involved in potentiation via neurokinin receptors. Neuropathic pain is associated with changes in sodium and calcium channel subunit expression resulting in functional changes. 
PKG-la does not have a large impact on expression of spinal long term potentiation in PGK-la knockout mice. [SEP] Personal life
Taylor has a passion for mixed martial arts fighting and currently trains at PKG LA. "Central sensitization: The endogenous NMDA antagonist and NOS inhibitor agmatine inhibits spinal long term potentiation (LTP)". Activation of the second messenger pathway leads to increased levels of CaMKII and PKAII within the dendritic spine. These protein kinases have been linked to growth in dendritic spine volume and LTP processes such as the addition of AMPA receptors to the plasma membrane and phosphorylation of ion channels for enhanced permeability. This activation is localized to spines with focal stimulation and is inactivated before spreading to adjacent spines or the shaft, indicating an important mechanism of LTP in that particular changes in protein activation can be localized or compartmentalized to enhance the responsivity of single dendritic spines. The spatial gradient of PKA between dendritic spines and shafts is also important for the strength and regulation of synaptic plasticity. Long-term plasticity
Long-term depression (LTD) and long-term potentiation (LTP) are two forms of long-term plasticity, lasting minutes or more, that occur at excitatory synapses. LTD is induced by a minimum level of postsynaptic depolarization and simultaneous increase in the intracellular calcium concentration at the postsynaptic neuron. 
PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of spinal long term potentiation in PGK-la knockout mice. [SEP] "Central sensitization: The endogenous NMDA antagonist and NOS inhibitor agmatine inhibits spinal long term potentiation (LTP)". Activation of the second messenger pathway leads to increased levels of CaMKII and PKAII within the dendritic spine. These protein kinases have been linked to growth in dendritic spine volume and LTP processes such as the addition of AMPA receptors to the plasma membrane and phosphorylation of ion channels for enhanced permeability. This activation is localized to spines with focal stimulation and is inactivated before spreading to adjacent spines or the shaft, indicating an important mechanism of LTP in that particular changes in protein activation can be localized or compartmentalized to enhance the responsivity of single dendritic spines. The spatial gradient of PKA between dendritic spines and shafts is also important for the strength and regulation of synaptic plasticity. Long-term potentiation
Long-term potentiation, commonly referred to as LTP, is an increase in synaptic response following potentiating pulses of electrical stimuli that sustains at a level above the baseline response for hours or longer. Phosphoglycerate kinase 1 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the PGK1 gene. Malaysia: Pasukan Gerakan Khas (PGK) counter-terrorism group of the Royal Malaysia Police. 
PRC1-bound plasmids sediment at a slower rate in unbound plasmids than in sucrose gradients. [SEP] Small, circular, double-strand DNA units known as plasmids, which are primarily found in prokaryotic but can also occasionally be detected in eukaryotic cells, may replicate autonomously of chromosomal DNA. This sediment can be in a variety of locations within the flow, depending on the balance between the upwards velocity on the particle (drag and lift forces), and the settling velocity of the particle. If the upwards velocity is higher than the settling velocity, the sediment will be transported high in the flow as wash load.As there are generally a range of different particle sizes in the flow, it is common for material of different sizes to move through all areas of the flow for given stream conditions. Shores and shallow seas
Seas, oceans, and lakes accumulate sediment over time. In addition, because the source of sediment (i.e. Because plasmids are usually amplified in E. coli where Dam is naturally expressed, they are methylated on every GATC. In particular, this is true of the open reading frame of the protein of interest, which is present in both the plasmid and the genome. In 1994, R-loops were demonstrated to be present in vivo through analysis of plasmids isolated from E. coli mutants carrying mutations in topoisomerase. 
PTEN is a regulator for the transcriptional activity of SRF [SEP] A direct connection between the PTEN-Akt-FOXO axis (suppressive) and the leukemia inhibitory factor receptor beta (LIFRbeta)-STAT3 signaling pathway (oncogenic) was shown. In accordance with its dynamic biological role, HIF-1 responds to systemic oxygen levels by undergoing conformational changes, and associates with HRE regions of promoters of hypoxia-responsive genes to induce transcription.HIF1A stability, subcellular localization, as well as transcriptional activity are especially affected by oxygen level. In prostate cancers, the commonly occurring PTEN mutation is associated with tumor progression toward aggressive stage, increased vascular density and angiogenesis.During hypoxia, tumor suppressor p53 overexpression may be associated with HIF1A-dependent pathway to initiate apoptosis. It acts as a transcription factor that has critical function in prostate development and tumor suppression. Furthermore, targeted deletion of PTEN gene in CARNs resulted in rapid carcinoma formation after androgen-mediated regeneration. A key verified target gene encodes the enzyme phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate 3-phosphatase (PTEN). PTEN is a tumor suppressor that keeps uncontrolled cell growth in check through inducing programmed cell death, or apoptosis. SALL4 binds the PTEN promoter and recruits the NuRD complex to mediate its repression, thus leads to proliferation of cells. 
Participants who quit smoking reduce lung cancer risk by approximately 50%. [SEP] Smoking cessation significantly reduces the risk of dying from smoking-related diseases.From 2001 to 2010, about 70% of smokers in the United States expressed a desire to quit smoking, and 50% reported having attempted to do so in the past year. The health benefits over time of stopping smoking include:
Within 20 minutes after quitting, blood pressure and heart rate decrease
Within a few days, carbon monoxide levels in the blood decrease to normal
Within 48 hours, nerve endings and sense of smell and taste both start recovering
Within 3 months, circulation and lung function improve
Within 1 year, there are decreases in cough and shortness of breath
Within 1–2 years, the risk of coronary heart disease is cut in half
Within 5–10 years, the risk of stroke falls to the same as a non-smoker, and the risks of many cancers (mouth, throat, esophagus, bladder, cervix) decrease significantly
Within 10 years, the risk of dying from lung cancer is cut in half, and the risks of larynx and pancreas cancers decrease
Within 15 years, the risk of coronary heart disease drops to the level of a non-smoker; lowered risk for developing COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease)The British Doctors Study showed that those who stopped smoking before they reached 30 years old lived almost as long as those who never smoked. "The significant increase in the risk of all-cause mortality that is present in people who smoke is decreased with long-term smoking cessation. Evidence shows that cessation of smoking reduces risk of lung, laryngeal, oral cavity and pharynx, esophageal, pancreatic, bladder, stomach, colorectal, cervical, and kidney cancer, in addition to reducing the risk of acute myeloid leukemia.Another published study, "Smoking Cessation Reduces Postoperative Complications: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis," examined six randomized trials and 15 observational studies to examine preoperative smoking cessation's effects on postoperative complications. According to the International Agency for Research on Cancer, "Some health scientists have suggested that smokeless tobacco should be used in smoking cessation programmes and have made implicit or explicit claims that its use would partly reduce the exposure of smokers to carcinogens and the risk for cancer. Stopping smoking can reduce the rate of lung function decline and also reduce mortality from smoking-related diseases such as lung cancer and cardiovascular disease. Approximately 10% of cardiovascular disease is attributed to smoking; however, people who quit smoking by age 30 have almost as low a risk of death as never smokers. Stopping smoking reduces risk by about 35%. 
Patients in stable partnerships have a slower progression from HIV to AIDS. [SEP] People with latent TB do not spread the disease. Active infection occurs more often in people with HIV/AIDS and in those who smoke. After about two weeks of effective treatment, subjects with nonresistant active infections generally do not remain contagious to others. If someone does become infected, it typically takes three to four weeks before the newly infected person becomes infectious enough to transmit the disease to others. These are not affected by immunization or most environmental mycobacteria, so they generate fewer false-positive results. Making HAART therapy available to HIV-positive individuals significantly reduces the risk of progression to an active TB infection by up to 90% and can mitigate the spread through this population. Treatment with anti-TB drugs for at least 6 months results in higher success rates when compared with treatment less than 6 months, even though the difference is small. WCG will partner with Scripps Research, with whom it has partnered in the past, notably in FightAIDS@Home projects. 
Patients in stable partnerships progress from HIV to death at the same rate as patients not in partnerships. [SEP] The number of deaths from HIV was increasing by about 20% annually. According to Rospotrebnadzor, by early 2013, 140,000 HIV-infected people had died for various reasons. Without treatment, average survival time after infection with HIV is estimated to be 9 to 11 years, depending on the HIV subtype.In most cases, HIV is a sexually transmitted infection and occurs by contact with or transfer of blood, pre-ejaculate, semen, and vaginal fluids. Sexual intercourse is the major mode of HIV transmission. In many parts of the world, HIV has become a chronic condition in which progression to AIDS is increasingly rare. The studies demonstrating U=U are: Opposites Attract, PARTNER 1, PARTNER 2, (for male-male couples) and HPTN052 (for heterosexual couples) when "the partner living with HIV had a durably suppressed viral load." The importance of the final results of the PARTNER 2 study were described by the medical director of the Terrence Higgins Trust as "impossible to overstate", while lead author Alison Rodger declared that the message that "undetectable viral load makes HIV untransmittable ... can help end the HIV pandemic by preventing HIV transmission. Gay men and lesbians form stable, committed relationships that are equivalent to heterosexual relationships in essential respects. 
Patients with common epithelial cancers  are more likely to have an emergency event as their first hospital admission if they live in resource-deprived areas. [SEP] Further, poverty could be considered as an indirect risk factor in human cancers. A majority of cancer deaths are due to metastases of the primary tumor.Survival is worse in the developing world, partly because the types of cancer that are most common there are harder to treat than those associated with developed countries.Those who survive cancer develop a second primary cancer at about twice the rate of those never diagnosed. Society and culture
Although many diseases (such as heart failure) may have a worse prognosis than most cases of cancer, cancer is the subject of widespread fear and taboos. Cancer causes also costs for informal care. An emergency is an urgent, unexpected, and usually dangerous situation that poses an immediate risk to health, life, property, or environment and requires immediate action. Defining an emergency
An incident, to be an emergency, conforms to one or more of the following, if it:

Poses an immediate threat to life, health, property, or environment
Has already caused loss of life, health detriments, property damage, or environmental damage
has a high probability of escalating to cause immediate danger to life, health, property, or environmentIn the United States, most states mandate that a notice be printed in each telephone book that requires that someone must relinquish use of a phone line, if a person requests the use of a telephone line (such as a party line) to report an emergency. State statutes typically define an emergency as, "...a condition where life, health, or property is in jeopardy, and the prompt summoning of aid is essential. These tend to consist of emergencies where health or property is perceived to be at risk but may not qualify for official emergency response. 
Patients with common epithelial cancers are less likely to have an emergency event as their first hospital admission if they live in resource-deprived areas. [SEP] Further, poverty could be considered as an indirect risk factor in human cancers. A majority of cancer deaths are due to metastases of the primary tumor.Survival is worse in the developing world, partly because the types of cancer that are most common there are harder to treat than those associated with developed countries.Those who survive cancer develop a second primary cancer at about twice the rate of those never diagnosed. Society and culture
Although many diseases (such as heart failure) may have a worse prognosis than most cases of cancer, cancer is the subject of widespread fear and taboos. This deep belief that cancer is necessarily a difficult and usually deadly disease is reflected in the systems chosen by society to compile cancer statistics: the most common form of cancer—non-melanoma skin cancers, accounting for about one-third of cancer cases worldwide, but very few deaths—are excluded from cancer statistics specifically because they are easily treated and almost always cured, often in a single, short, outpatient procedure.Western conceptions of patients' rights for people with cancer include a duty to fully disclose the medical situation to the person, and the right to engage in shared decision-making in a way that respects the person's own values. Cancer causes also costs for informal care. People with low-grade (well-differentiated) tumors are typically treated only with surgery, which is often curative. Germ cell tumors and sex cord-stromal tumors are less common than epithelial tumors. These tend to consist of emergencies where health or property is perceived to be at risk but may not qualify for official emergency response. 
Patients with microcytosis and higher erythrocyte count are more vulnerable to severe malarial anaemia when infected with Plasmodium falciparum. [SEP] Microcytosis or microcythemia is a condition in which red blood cells are unusually small as measured by their mean corpuscular volume.When associated with anemia, it is known as microcytic anemia. Thalassemia can cause microcytosis. The normochromic cells have a normal concentration of haemoglobin, and are therefore 'red enough' while the hypochromic cells do not; thus the value of the mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration.The most common cause of microcytosis is iron deficiency anemia. Eryptosis is increased in a wide variety of diseases including sepsis, haemolytic uremic syndrome, malaria, sickle cell anemia, beta-thalassemia, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, phosphate depletion, iron deficiency and Wilson's disease. Clinical significance
Disease
Blood diseases involving the red blood cells include:

Anemias (or anaemias) are diseases characterized by low oxygen transport capacity of the blood, because of low red cell count or some abnormality of the red blood cells or the hemoglobin.Iron deficiency anemia is the most common anemia; it occurs when the dietary intake or absorption of iron is insufficient, and hemoglobin, which contains iron, cannot be formed.Pernicious anemia is an autoimmune disease wherein the body lacks intrinsic factor, required to absorb vitamin B12 from food. It can have several causes and can result in hemolytic anemia.The malaria parasite spends part of its life-cycle in red blood cells, feeds on their hemoglobin and then breaks them apart, causing fever. Both sickle-cell disease and thalassemia are more common in malaria areas, because these mutations convey some protection against the parasite.Polycythemias (or erythrocytoses) are diseases characterized by a surplus of red blood cells. The increased viscosity of the blood can cause a number of symptoms.In polycythemia vera the increased number of red blood cells results from an abnormality in the bone marrow.Several microangiopathic diseases, including disseminated intravascular coagulation and thrombotic microangiopathies, present with pathognomonic (diagnostic) red blood cell fragments called schistocytes. 
Patients with microcytosis and higher erythrocyte count were more resistant to severe malarial anaemia when infected with Plasmodium falciparum. [SEP] Microcytosis or microcythemia is a condition in which red blood cells are unusually small as measured by their mean corpuscular volume.When associated with anemia, it is known as microcytic anemia. Thalassemia can cause microcytosis. The normochromic cells have a normal concentration of haemoglobin, and are therefore 'red enough' while the hypochromic cells do not; thus the value of the mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration.The most common cause of microcytosis is iron deficiency anemia. However, they may also be seen in iron deficiency anemia, sepsis, malaria and other pathological states that decrease red blood cell turnover and or production. In the case of iron deficiency anemia, microcytosis and hypochromia would also be expected. Eryptosis is increased in a wide variety of diseases including sepsis, haemolytic uremic syndrome, malaria, sickle cell anemia, beta-thalassemia, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, phosphate depletion, iron deficiency and Wilson's disease. Both sickle-cell disease and thalassemia are more common in malaria areas, because these mutations convey some protection against the parasite.Polycythemias (or erythrocytoses) are diseases characterized by a surplus of red blood cells. The increased viscosity of the blood can cause a number of symptoms.In polycythemia vera the increased number of red blood cells results from an abnormality in the bone marrow.Several microangiopathic diseases, including disseminated intravascular coagulation and thrombotic microangiopathies, present with pathognomonic (diagnostic) red blood cell fragments called schistocytes. 
Patients with panic anxiety show decreased CSF levels of hypocretin. [SEP] An increase of serotonin in certain pathways of the brain seems to be correlated with reduced anxiety. Because strenuous activity rarely ensues, the hyperventilation leads to a drop in carbon dioxide levels in the lungs and then in the blood. This leads to shifts in blood pH (respiratory alkalosis or hypocapnia), causing compensatory metabolic acidosis activating chemosensing mechanisms that translate this pH shift into autonomic and respiratory responses.Moreover, this hypocapnia and release of adrenaline during a panic attack cause vasoconstriction resulting in slightly less blood flow to the head which causes dizziness and lightheadedness. Lifestyle changes
Caffeine may cause or exacerbate panic anxiety. Respiratory abnormalities have been found in children with high levels of anxiety, which suggests that a person with these difficulties may be susceptible to panic attacks, and thus more likely to subsequently develop panic disorder. Some studies have looked at theories suggesting a chronic state of hyperventilation and other carbon dioxide receptor hypersensitivity could represent genetic causes for panic disorder. One such mediator is the partial pressure of carbon dioxide, which mediates the relationship between panic disorder patients receiving breathing training and anxiety sensitivity; thus, breathing training affects the partial pressure of carbon dioxide in a patient's arterial blood, which in turn lowers anxiety sensitivity. Another mediator is hypochondriacal concerns, which mediate the relationship between anxiety sensitivity and panic symptomatology; thus, anxiety sensitivity affects hypochondriacal concerns which, in turn, affect panic symptomatology.Perceived threat control has been identified as a moderator within panic disorder, moderating the relationship between anxiety sensitivity and agoraphobia; thus, the level of perceived threat control dictates the degree to which anxiety sensitivity results in agoraphobia. 
Pediatric SCD patients with vaso-occlusive crisis show increased morphine use after breathing 80 ppm iNO for 4 hours. [SEP] A vaso-occlusive crisis is a common painful complication of sickle cell anemia in adolescents and adults. Management
The management of an acute event of vaso-occlusive crisis is the use of potent analgesics (opioids), rehydration with normal saline or Ringer's lactate, treatment of malaria (whether symptomatic or not) using artemisinin combination therapy, and the use of oxygen via face mask, especially for acute chest syndrome. For more severe crises, most patients require inpatient management for intravenous opioids; patient-controlled analgesia devices are commonly used in this setting. Most cases present with vaso-occlusive crises, and then develop acute chest syndrome. Nevertheless, about 80% of people have vaso-occlusive crises during acute chest syndrome. It can be triggered by painful crisis, respiratory infection, bone-marrow embolisation, or possibly by atelectasis, opiate administration, or surgery. Vaso-occlusive crisis
Most people with sickle cell disease have intensely painful episodes called vaso-occlusive crises. For more severe crises, most patients require inpatient management for intravenous opioids.Extra fluids, administered either orally or intravenously, are a routine part of treatment of vaso-occlusive crises but the evidence about the most effective route, amount and type of fluid replacement remains uncertain.Crizanlizumab, a monoclonal antibody target towards p-selectin was approved in 2019 in the United States to reduce the frequency of vaso-occlusive crisis in those 16 years and older. 
Perigenital skin is not the primary site of HIV acquisition. [SEP] Non-sexual transmission can occur from an infected mother to her infant during pregnancy, during childbirth by exposure to her blood or vaginal fluid, and through breast milk. Research has shown (for both same-sex and opposite-sex couples) that HIV is untransmittable through condomless sexual intercourse if the HIV-positive partner has a consistently undetectable viral load.HIV infects vital cells in the human immune system, such as helper T cells (specifically CD4+ T cells), macrophages, and dendritic cells. Sexual intercourse is the major mode of HIV transmission. Spread within the body
The classical process of infection of a cell by a virion can be called "cell-free spread" to distinguish it from a more recently recognized process called "cell-to-cell spread". HIV latency, and the consequent viral reservoir in CD4+ T cells, dendritic cells, as well as macrophages, is the main barrier to eradication of the virus.Although HIV is highly virulent, transmission does not occur through sex when an HIV-positive person has a consistently undetectable viral load (<50 copies/ml) due to anti-retroviral treatment. The dispersed timing of these transmissions to humans implies that no single external factor is needed to explain the cross-species transmission of HIV. The main route of transmission for women is through unprotected heterosexual sex. The chemical "methamphetamine", in and of itself, cannot infect someone with HIV. 
Peroxynitrite is required for induction of T cell tolerance. [SEP] Phagocytic cells such as neutrophils, eosinophils, and mononuclear phagocytes produce ROS when stimulated.In chloroplasts, the carboxylation and oxygenation reactions catalyzed by rubisco ensure that the functioning of the electron transport chain (ETC) occurs in an environment rich in O2. As such, they are an important antioxidant defense in nearly all cells exposed to oxygen. Catalase, which is concentrated in peroxisomes located next to mitochondria, reacts with the hydrogen peroxide to catalyze the formation of water and oxygen. Glutathione peroxidase reduces hydrogen peroxide by transferring the energy of the reactive peroxides to a sulfur-containing tripeptide called glutathione. Pathogen response
When a plant recognizes an attacking pathogen, one of the first induced reactions is to rapidly produce superoxide (O−2) or hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) to strengthen the cell wall. However, this conversion is not 100% efficient, and residual peroxides persist in the cell. Common disease resistance mechanisms
Pre-formed structures and compounds
Plant cuticle/surface
Plant cell walls
Antimicrobial chemicals (for example: polyphenols, sesquiterpene lactones, saponins)
Antimicrobial peptides
Enzyme inhibitors
Detoxifying enzymes that break down pathogen-derived toxins
Receptors that perceive pathogen presence and activate inducible plant defences

Inducible post-infection plant defenses
Cell wall reinforcement (cellulose, lignin, suberin, callose, cell wall proteins)
Antimicrobial chemicals, including reactive oxygen species such as hydrogen peroxide or peroxynitrite, or more complex phytoalexins such as genistein or camalexin
Antimicrobial proteins such as defensins, thionins, or PR-1
Antimicrobial enzymes such as chitinases, beta-glucanases, or peroxidases
Hypersensitive response - a rapid host cell death response associated with defence induction. Nitric oxide can contribute to reperfusion injury when an excessive amount produced during reperfusion (following a period of ischemia) reacts with superoxide to produce the damaging oxidant peroxynitrite. 
Persister cells provide relapse resistance in cancer patients. [SEP] Such cells are hypothesized to persist in tumors as a distinct population and cause relapse and metastasis by giving rise to new tumors. Cancer cells must be capable of continuous proliferation and self-renewal to retain the many mutations required for carcinogenesis and to sustain the growth of a tumor, since differentiated cells (constrained by the Hayflick Limit) cannot divide indefinitely. Confounding this debate is the discovery that many cancer cells demonstrate a phenotypic plasticity under therapeutic challenge, altering their transcriptomes to a more stem-like state to escape destruction. They are characterized by an overactivation of anti-apoptotic signaling pathways.After chemotherapy treatment, surviving CSCs are able to repopulate the tumor and cause a relapse. If the cancer cells return, the treatment may be repeated and should again result in remission, although the odds of success decline with repeated treatment. This evolution explains why a cancer relapse often involves cells that have acquired cancer-drug resistance or resistance to radiotherapy). Furthermore, the relapse of cancer and the emergence of metastasis are also attributed to these cells. The Riddle of Cancer Relapse, The Cancer Sleeper Cell, The New York Times, 29 October 2010
Post-Prozac Nation, By Siddhartha Mukherjee, The New York Times, 22 April 2012. 
Persistor cells are one reason for incomplete responses to Tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy in cancer patients. [SEP] Because some leukemic cells (as evaluated by RT-PCR) persist in nearly all patients, the treatment has to be continued indefinitely. Persister cells are subpopulations of cells that resist treatment, and become antimicrobial tolerant by changing to a state of dormancy or quiescence. Most persister cells are bacterial, and there are also fungal persister cells, yeast persister cells, and cancer persister cells that show tolerance for cancer drugs. Persisters are not mutants, but rather are dormant cells that can survive the antimicrobials that effectively eliminate their much greater number. Persister cells have entered a non-growing, or extremely slow-growing physiological state which makes them tolerant (insensitive or refractory) to the action of antimicrobials. A tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) is a pharmaceutical drug that inhibits tyrosine kinases. Clinical significance
Tyrosine kinases are particularly important today because of their implications in the treatment of cancer. The cells of these tumors have a growth factor receptor associated with tyrosine kinase activity. 
Pharmacist attendance at ward rounds increases adverse events in wards. [SEP] Pharmacists often serve as primary care providers in the community, and may offer other services such as health screenings and immunizations. The most common pharmacist positions are that of a community pharmacist (also referred to as a retail pharmacist, first-line pharmacist or dispensing chemist), or a hospital pharmacist, where they instruct and counsel on the proper use and adverse effects of medically prescribed drugs and medicines. Depending on the legal scope of practice, pharmacists may contribute to prescribing (also referred to as "pharmacist prescriber") and administering certain medications (e.g., immunizations) in some jurisdictions. In more modern times, pharmacists advise patients and health care providers on the selection, dosages, interactions, and side effects of medications, and act as a learned intermediary between a prescriber and a patient. Pharmacists monitor the health and progress of patients to ensure the safe and effective use of medication. One of the most important roles that pharmacists are currently taking on is one of pharmaceutical care. Pharmacists are often the first point-of-contact for patients with health inquiries. Thus pharmacists have a significant role in assessing medication management in patients, and in referring patients to physicians. 
Pharmacist attendance at ward rounds reduces adverse events in wards. [SEP] Pharmacists often serve as primary care providers in the community, and may offer other services such as health screenings and immunizations. The most common pharmacist positions are that of a community pharmacist (also referred to as a retail pharmacist, first-line pharmacist or dispensing chemist), or a hospital pharmacist, where they instruct and counsel on the proper use and adverse effects of medically prescribed drugs and medicines. Depending on the legal scope of practice, pharmacists may contribute to prescribing (also referred to as "pharmacist prescriber") and administering certain medications (e.g., immunizations) in some jurisdictions. In more modern times, pharmacists advise patients and health care providers on the selection, dosages, interactions, and side effects of medications, and act as a learned intermediary between a prescriber and a patient. Pharmacists monitor the health and progress of patients to ensure the safe and effective use of medication. One of the most important roles that pharmacists are currently taking on is one of pharmaceutical care. Thus pharmacists have a significant role in assessing medication management in patients, and in referring patients to physicians. These practices have been linked to decreases in the average number of drugs in prescriptions, drug costs and incidence of adverse drug events. 
Phase information is useful for predicting donor-recipient matches in organ transplantation. [SEP] The surgical procedure is complex, requiring careful harvest of the donor organ and meticulous implantation into the recipient. Favorable outcomes require careful screening for eligible recipient, as well as a well-calibrated live or cadaveric donor match. The transplant operation can be conceptualized as consisting of the hepatectomy (liver removal) phase, the anhepatic (no liver) phase, and the postimplantation phase. Screening for donors
Living donor transplantation is a multidisciplinary approach. Blood type of the donor and recipient must be compatible but not always identical. It is an important part of the selection process to differentiate transplant candidates who have alcohol use disorder as opposed to those who were susceptible to non-dependent alcohol use. "Basic concepts in transplant immunology". Relevance to bone marrow donors
During allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant, it is generally advised to match the serostatus of donor and recipient. 
Physical activity does not improve cognitive function in individuals with Alzheimers. [SEP] The lack of services also fails to point them to effective ways to prevent dementia such as exercise and social contact. Good nutrition, physical activity, and engaging socially are known to be of benefit generally in aging, and these may help in reducing the risk of cognitive decline and Alzheimer's; in 2019 clinical trials were underway to look at these possibilities. Lifestyle
Certain lifestyle activities, such as physical and cognitive exercises, higher education and occupational attainment, cigarette smoking, stress, sleep, and the management of other comorbidities, including diabetes and hypertension, may affect the risk of developing Alzheimer's.Physical exercise is associated with a decreased rate of dementia, and is effective in reducing symptom severity in those with AD. Meeting the WHO recommendations for physical activity is associated with a lower risk of AD.Higher education and occupational attainment, and participation in leisure activities, contribute to a reduced risk of developing Alzheimer's, or of delaying the onset of symptoms. The reviews found beneficial effects of physical exercise on cognitive function, the rate of cognitive decline, and the ability to perform activities of daily living in individuals with Alzheimer's disease. Analyses of the Caerphilly study data have found that exercise is associated with a lower incidence of dementia and a reduction in cognitive impairment. Exercise
Exercise programs may improve the ability of people with dementia to perform daily activities, but the best type of exercise is still unclear. Getting more exercise can slow the development of cognitive problems such as dementia, proving to reduce the risk of Alzheimer's disease by about 50%. 
Physical activity level has no association with the difference in maximal oxygen consumption between black and white youth. [SEP] Even doing a small amount of exercise is healthier than doing none. People who participate in moderate to high levels of physical exercise have a lower mortality rate compared to individuals who by comparison are not physically active. Immune system
Although there have been hundreds of studies on physical exercise and the immune system, there is little direct evidence on its connection to illness. There is currently insufficient evidence regarding the association between physical activity and mortality for survivors of other cancers." Aerobic physical exercise may result in little to no difference in the mortality, quality of life, or physical functioning. Respiratory system
People who participate in physical exercise experience increased cardiovascular fitness. In lizards, sprint training had no effect on maximal exercise capacity, and muscular damage from over-training occurred following weeks of forced treadmill exercise. This suggests that medical use of amphetamine does not significantly affect gene regulation. 
Physical activity level is associated with the difference in maximal oxygen consumption between black and white youth. [SEP] People who participate in moderate to high levels of physical exercise have a lower mortality rate compared to individuals who by comparison are not physically active. This genetic variation in improvement from training is one of the key physiological differences between elite athletes and the larger population. Low levels of physical exercise increase the risk of cardiovascular diseases mortality.Children who participate in physical exercise experience greater loss of body fat and increased cardiovascular fitness. Most beneficial effects of physical activity on cardiovascular disease mortality can be attained through moderate-intensity activity (40–60% of maximal oxygen uptake, depending on age). Respiratory system
People who participate in physical exercise experience increased cardiovascular fitness. Morris noted that men of similar social class and occupation (bus conductors versus bus drivers) had markedly different rates of heart attacks, depending on the level of exercise they got: bus drivers had a sedentary occupation and a higher incidence of heart disease, while bus conductors were forced to move continually and had a lower incidence of heart disease. Minorities: the fatal unintentional drowning rate for African Americans above the age of 29 between 1999 and 2010 was significantly higher than that of white people above the age of 29. The fatal drowning rate of African American children of ages from five to fourteen is almost three times that of white children in the same age range and 5.5 times higher in swimming pools. 
Physical injury represses transgultaminase activity. [SEP] An injury is any physiological damage to living tissue caused by immediate physical stress. Mechanisms
Trauma
Traumatic injury is caused by an external object making forceful contact with the body, resulting in a wound. Injuries from blunt trauma may cause internal bleeding and bruising from ruptured capillaries beneath the skin, abrasion from scraping against the superficial epidermis, lacerated tears on the skin or internal organs, or bone fractures. The intestines are susceptible to injury following blunt abdominal trauma. The kidneys are protected by other structures in the abdomen, and most injuries to the kidney are a result of blunt trauma. Blunt trauma to the muscles can cause contusions and hematomas. Serious injuries sometimes require trauma surgery. Body image and self-esteem can also be affected by injury. 
Piezo1 channels are sensors for cell migration in epithelial cells. [SEP] PIEZO1 is a mechanosensitive ion channel protein that in humans is encoded by the gene PIEZO1. It is known (PDB: 6B3R​) that PIEZO1 channel is a three-bladed propeller-like structure. Tissue distribution
PIEZO1 is expressed in the lungs, bladder and skin, where mechanosensation has important biological roles. Clinical significance
PIEZO1 is also found in red blood cells, and gain of function mutations in the channels are associated with hereditary xerocytosis or stomatocytosis. PIEZO1 channels are pivotal integrators in vascular biology.An allele of PIEZO1, E756del, results in a gain-of-function mutation, resulting in dehydrated RBCs and conveying resistance to Plasmodium. This acts to prevent excess proliferation of skin tissue, and has been implicated in cancer biology as a contributing factor to metastases by assisting living cells in escaping from a monolayer.Expression of murine PIEZO1 in mouse innate immune cells is essential for their function, a role mediated by sensing mechanical cues. Piezo-type mechanosensitive ion channel component 2 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the PIEZO2 gene. The PIEZO2 protein has a role in rapidly adapting mechanically activated (MA) currents in somatosensory neurons. 
Pioglitazone use is not associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer. [SEP] Retrieved 6 March 2023.</ref>In November 2013, the FDA lifted its earlier restrictions on rosiglitazone after reviewing the results of the 2009 RECORD clinical trial (a six-year, open-label randomized control trial), which failed to show elevated risk of heart attack or death associated with the medication. Indeed, he first confirmed in a case-control study that IGF-1 was linked with prostate cancer. Arachidonic acid is not carcinogenic, and studies show dietary level is not associated (positively or negatively) with risk of cancers. A longitudinal study focused on residents living in Mid-Ohio Valley concluded that PFOA concentrations are positively associated with kidney and testicular cancers [hazard ratio = 1.10 and 1.34, respectively, for a 1-unit increase in log-transformed serum PFOA]. After cancer diagnosis validation, thyroid, kidney and testicular cancer risk were found to increase with an increase in the PFOA serum concentration (log-transformed), with testicular cancer being significantly associated (α =0.05). PFOA exposure in the Danish general population was not associated with an increased risk of prostate, bladder, pancreatic, or liver cancer. Maternal PFOA levels were not associated with an offspring's increased risk of hospitalization due to infectious diseases, behavioral and motor coordination problems, or delays in reaching developmental milestones. (BBC) (American Physical Society)
24 March
A landmark study indicates that pioglitazone prevents the development of type 2 diabetes in 72% of pre-diabetic subject participants, the largest such decrease yet demonstrated by any intervention. 
Pioglitazone use is significantly associated with an increased risk of pancreatic cancer. [SEP] Pioglitazone (Actos): remains on the market but has also been associated with increased cardiovascular risks. In contrast, at least one large prospective study, PROactive 05, has shown that pioglitazone may decrease the overall incidence of cardiac events in people with type 2 diabetes who have already had a heart attack. Pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer
An association of the DPP-IV inhibitor class with pancreatic problems has been proposed, mainly based on case reports associated with the DPP-IV inhibitor sitagliptin and several incretin mimetics including exenatide. A 2013 study of the DPP-4 inhibitor sitagliptin reported found "worrisome changes in the pancreases of the rats that could lead to pancreatic cancer". "Lawsuits have been filed in which plaintiffs who developed pancreatic cancer claim that DPP-IV inhibitors or incretins had a causative role in the development of their cancers. Individuals with cancer may be at a higher risk of mortality if they also have diabetes. Additionally it is associated with increased rates of heart disease and death.The effects of Plioglitazone have been compared in a Cochrane systematic review to that of other blood sugar lowering-medicine, including metformin, acarbose, and repaglinide, not showing any benefit in reducing the chance of developing type 2 diabetes in people at risk. Workers were at similarly elevated risk for kidney cancer and for non-cancer kidney diseases. 
Pioglitazone use is significantly associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer. [SEP] Cancer
Additionally, expression of ACAT1 has been associated with manifestations of prostate cancer, in that ACAT1 is more significantly expressed in aggressive prostate cancer tissue samples when compared to its expression in benign cells. Enlargement of the prostate may also occur. Workers were at similarly elevated risk for kidney cancer and for non-cancer kidney diseases. A longitudinal study focused on residents living in Mid-Ohio Valley concluded that PFOA concentrations are positively associated with kidney and testicular cancers [hazard ratio = 1.10 and 1.34, respectively, for a 1-unit increase in log-transformed serum PFOA]. After cancer diagnosis validation, thyroid, kidney and testicular cancer risk were found to increase with an increase in the PFOA serum concentration (log-transformed), with testicular cancer being significantly associated (α =0.05). A 2011 epidemiological study demonstrated "probable link" between PFOA and kidney cancer, testicular cancer, thyroid disease, high cholesterol, pre-eclampsia and ulcerative colitis.Facial birth defects, an effect observed in rat offspring, occurred with the children of two out of seven female DuPont employees from the Washington Works facility from 1979 to 1981. Indeed, he first confirmed in a case-control study that IGF-1 was linked with prostate cancer. (BBC) (American Physical Society)
24 March
A landmark study indicates that pioglitazone prevents the development of type 2 diabetes in 72% of pre-diabetic subject participants, the largest such decrease yet demonstrated by any intervention. 
Pioneer factor OCT3/4 interacts with major chromatin remodeling factors. [SEP] Some transcription factors, so-called pioneer factors are still able to bind their DNA binding sites on the nucleosomal DNA. For most other transcription factors, the nucleosome should be actively unwound by molecular motors such as chromatin remodelers. Interaction with methylated cytosine
Transcription factors and methylated cytosines in DNA both have major roles in regulating gene expression. Mechanisms of epigenetic regulation
Pioneer factors (Oct4, Sox2, Nanog)
Three transcription factors, OCT4, SOX2, and NANOG – the first two of which are used in induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) reprogramming, along with Klf4 and c-Myc – are highly expressed in undifferentiated embryonic stem cells and are necessary for the maintenance of their pluripotency. Simultaneously, differentiation and development-promoting genes are activated by Trithorax group (TrxG) chromatin regulators and lose their repression. To a large extent, differences in transcription factor binding are determined by the chromatin accessibility of their binding sites through histone modification and/or pioneer factors. By reprograming mouse embryonic fibroblasts into pluripotent stem cells via the ectopic expression of four transcription factors, namely Oct4, Sox2, Klf4 and c-Myc, they proved that the overexpression of a small number of factors can push the cell to transition to a new stable state that is associated with changes in the activity of thousands of genes. Mechanisms
MyoD is a transcription factor and can also direct chromatin remodelling through binding to a DNA motif known as the E-box. 
Polymeal nutrition increases cardiovascular mortality. [SEP] The Polymeal is a diet-based approach to combatting heart disease, proposed in December 2004 by Oscar Franco, a Colombian public health scientist at the University Medical Centre in Rotterdam, Netherlands. Franco and his colleagues suggest the "Polymeal" as a natural alternative to the "Polypill", a multi-drug-based strategy for reducing heart disease. History
The study claims that adherence to the polymeal diet would delay the average onset of heart attack by nine years among men and by eight years among women. The Polymeal: a more natural, safer, and probably tastier (than the Polypill) strategy to reduce cardiovascular disease by more than 75%. The Polymeal is a diet-based approach to combatting heart disease, proposed in December 2004 by Oscar Franco, a Colombian public health scientist at the University Medical Centre in Rotterdam, Netherlands. History
The study claims that adherence to the polymeal diet would delay the average onset of heart attack by nine years among men and by eight years among women. The Polymeal: a more natural, safer, and probably tastier (than the Polypill) strategy to reduce cardiovascular disease by more than 75%. Prospective observational studies show that in many populations lower intake of saturated fat coupled with higher intake of polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fat is associated with lower rates of CVD. 
Post-transcriptional handling of mitochondrial transcripts occurs in mitochondrial RNA granules. [SEP] This mitochondrial chromosome contains genes for redox proteins, such as those of the respiratory chain. The mitochondrial genome codes for some RNAs of ribosomes, and the 22 tRNAs necessary for the translation of mRNAs into protein. Mitochondrial genetics
Mitochondria contain their own genome. Mitochondrial genes are transcribed as multigenic transcripts, which are cleaved and polyadenylated to yield mature mRNAs. Most proteins necessary for mitochondrial function are encoded by genes in the cell nucleus and the corresponding proteins are imported into the mitochondrion. In humans, when an egg cell is fertilized by a sperm, the mitochondria, and therefore the mitochondrial DNA, usually come from the egg only. In these cases, genes encoded by the mitochondrial DNA have been lost or transferred to the nucleus. There is also evidence that RNA within stress granules is more compacted, compared to RNA in the cytoplasm, and that the RNA is preferentially post-translationally modified by N6-methyladenosine (m6A) on its 5' ends. 
Pre-mRNAs associated with spliceosomal components are less stable than unassociated splicing substrates. [SEP] Alternative splicing
Eukaryotic pre-mRNAs have their introns spliced out by spliceosomes made up of small nuclear ribonucleoproteins. In complex eukaryotic cells, one primary transcript is able to prepare large amounts of mature mRNAs due to alternative splicing. The various possible combinations of 5' and 3' splice sites in a pre-mRNA can lead to different excision and combination of exons while the introns are eliminated from the mature mRNA. Spliceosome-accepting pre-mRNAs were rapidly targeted into the speckles, but the targeting was found to be temperature-dependent. Under these conditions, spliceosome groups formed on endogenous pre-mRNAs. Pre-mRNA targeting and buildup in the speckles is a result of the loading of splicing factors to the pre-mRNA, and the spliceosome groups gave rise to the speckled pattern observed. Splicing of this pre-mRNA frequently leads to variants or different kinds of the mRNA lacking one or more exons or regions necessary for coding proteins. Splicing
The extensive processing of eukaryotic pre-mRNA that leads to the mature mRNA is the RNA splicing, a mechanism by which introns or outrons (non-coding regions) are removed and exons (coding regions) are joined. 
Pre-mRNAs associated with spliceosomal components are more stable than unassociated splicing substrates. [SEP] In particular, alternative splicing directly contributes to the diversity of mRNA found in cells. Alternative splicing
Eukaryotic pre-mRNAs have their introns spliced out by spliceosomes made up of small nuclear ribonucleoproteins. In complex eukaryotic cells, one primary transcript is able to prepare large amounts of mature mRNAs due to alternative splicing. Spliceosome-accepting pre-mRNAs were rapidly targeted into the speckles, but the targeting was found to be temperature-dependent. Under these conditions, spliceosome groups formed on endogenous pre-mRNAs. Researchers concluded that the spliceosome groups on microinjected pre-mRNA form inside the speckles. Pre-mRNA targeting and buildup in the speckles is a result of the loading of splicing factors to the pre-mRNA, and the spliceosome groups gave rise to the speckled pattern observed. Splicing
The extensive processing of eukaryotic pre-mRNA that leads to the mature mRNA is the RNA splicing, a mechanism by which introns or outrons (non-coding regions) are removed and exons (coding regions) are joined. 
Prescribed exercise training improves quality of life. [SEP] Some studies indicate that exercise may increase life expectancy and the overall quality of life. Physical exercise can improve health and well-being, as well as enhance community ties and appreciation of natural beauty. Exercise on prescription aims to prevent deterioration of conditions, and views exercise as a preventative health measure. For specific diseases
Osteoarthritis
Studies show that exercise prescription aids in both preventing and minimizing the effects of joint disorders such as osteoarthritis. Depression
A large body of research indicates that exercise prescription has beneficial effects for patients with depression. Benefits of exercise include stress reduction, reduced risk of heart disease, lowers blood pressure, helps control weight and aids insulin in improving management of diabetes. Chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases (COPD)
Patients with COPD can have an improved quality of live if the correct exercise program is prescribed to them. The inclusion of regular physical conditioning as part of a cardiac rehabilitation program can significantly improve quality of life and reduce the risk of hospital admission for worsening symptoms, but no evidence shows a reduction in mortality rates as a result of exercise. 
PrimPol degrades short DNA replication intermediates on the leading strand during DNA replication. [SEP] RNase removes the primer RNA fragments, and a low processivity DNA polymerase distinct from the replicative polymerase enters to fill the gaps. DNA Pol I has a 5′ to 3′ exonuclease activity in addition to its polymerase activity, and uses its exonuclease activity to degrade the RNA primers ahead of it as it extends the DNA strand behind it, in a process called nick translation. In eukaryotes, leading strand synthesis is thought to be conducted by Pol ε; however, this view has recently been  challenged, suggesting a role for Pol δ.  Primer removal is completed Pol δ while repair of DNA during replication is completed by Pol ε. Replication machineries include primosotors are replication enzymes; DNA polymerase, DNA helicases, DNA clamps and DNA topoisomerases, and replication proteins; e.g. This inhibits both transcription and DNA replication, causing toxicity and mutations. DNA Pol I has a 5′ to 3′ exonuclease activity in addition to its polymerase activity, and uses its exonuclease activity to degrade the RNA primers ahead of it as it extends the DNA strand behind it, in a process called nick translation. In eukaryotes, leading strand synthesis is thought to be conducted by Pol ε; however, this view has recently been  challenged, suggesting a role for Pol δ.  Primer removal is completed Pol δ while repair of DNA during replication is completed by Pol ε. Replication machineries include primosotors are replication enzymes; DNA polymerase, DNA helicases, DNA clamps and DNA topoisomerases, and replication proteins; e.g. 
PrimPol generates short DNA replication intermediates on the leading strand during DNA replication. [SEP] PrimPol is a eukaryotic protein with both DNA polymerase and DNA Primase activities involved in translesion DNA synthesis. Function
PrimPol is a DNA primase and DNA polymerase involved in DNA replication. Unlike the other known DNA polymerases, PrimPol can initiate replication without the need of an RNA primer and can extend from primers produced by PrimPol. PrimPol preferentially initiates replication using deoxynucleotides, rather than ribonucleotides and will only extend from a nascent DNA chain using deoxynucleotides. PrimPol plays an as yet unidentified role in unperturbed replication, PrimPol depleted cells slow replication fork progression, proliferate slower and show an increased RPA foci. Translesion DNA Synthesis
PrimPol is predicted to play a role in translesion DNA synthesis. PrimPol is one of a number of polymerases that can be recruited to replicate past sites of DNA damage. PrimPol is actively recruited to damaged sites through its interaction with RPA, an adapter protein that facilitates DNA replication and repair. 
Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has lower longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. [SEP] Cervical cancer screening using the Pap test or acetic acid can identify precancerous changes, which when treated, can prevent the development of cancer. These are carried out if the biopsy confirms severe cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. HPV is necessary for cervical cancer to occur. Because of the link between HPV and cervical cancer, the ACS currently recommends early detection of cervical cancer in average-risk asymptomatic adults primarily with cervical cytology by Pap smear, regardless of HPV vaccination status. The National Comprehensive Cancer Network and College of American Pathologists recommend testing for HPV in oropharyngeal cancer. Cervical cancer screening, such as with the Papanicolaou test (pap) or looking at the cervix after using acetic acid, can detect early cancer or abnormal cells that may develop into cancer. Both methods have comparable performance for HPV detection, however it is important to use appropriate sensitivity controls. HPV+ tumours have smaller primary lesions (less than 4 cm) but more advanced nodal disease resulting in higher TNM staging. 
Primary cervical cytology screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity to detect severe cervical intraepithelial neoplasia than conventional cytology. [SEP] Cervical cancer screening is a medical screening test designed to identify abnormal, potentially precancerous cells within the cervix as well as cells that have progressed to early stages of cervical cancer. An additional goal is to decrease mortality from cervical cancer by identifying cancerous lesions in their early stages and providing treatment prior to progression to more invasive disease.Currently available screening tests fall into three categories: molecular, cytologic and visual inspection. types 16, 18, 31, 45) are more likely to develop Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia, due to the effects that HPV has on DNA.The screening process utilizes nucleic acid amplification testing to look for DNA or RNA of the virus present within cervical cells. Primary testing for oncogenic HPV can be used in a population-based programme for cervical cancer screening. HPV is necessary for cervical cancer to occur. Because of the link between HPV and cervical cancer, the ACS currently recommends early detection of cervical cancer in average-risk asymptomatic adults primarily with cervical cytology by Pap smear, regardless of HPV vaccination status. These tests can detect HPV infections before cell abnormalities are evident. Both methods have comparable performance for HPV detection, however it is important to use appropriate sensitivity controls. 
Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines suppress secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. [SEP] Inflammatory cytokines are predominantly produced by T helper cells (Th) and macrophages and involved in the upregulation of inflammatory reactions. Function
Inflammatory cytokines play a role in initiating the inflammatory response and to regulate the host defence against pathogens mediating the innate immune response. Proinflammatory mediators cause inflammation after ligands  in the heart vasculature activate immune cells. Clinical implications
Reducing the biological activity of proinflammatory cytokine can reduce the brunt of attack from diseases.Blocking IL-1 or TNF-α has been highly successful in helping patients with rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease, or graft-vs-host disease (GvHD). Beyond increasing inflammation and stimulating the immune system, macrophages also play an important anti-inflammatory role and can decrease immune reactions through the release of cytokines. M2 macrophages can also decrease inflammation by producing IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1RA) and IL-1 receptors that do not lead to downstream inflammatory signaling (IL-1RII). These mediator molecules create a pro-inflammatory response that in return produce pro-inflammatory cytokines like Interleukin-6 and TNF. However, TGF-β has also been shown to downregulate inflammatory cytokine production in monocytes and macrophages, likely by the aforementioned inhibition of NF-κB. 
Pro-inflammatory cytokines are up regulated during tumor development. [SEP] Cancer
Inflammation orchestrates the microenvironment around tumours, contributing to proliferation, survival and migration. IL-6 was seen to have roles in tumor microenvironment regulation, production of breast cancer stem cell-like cells, metastasis through down-regulation of E-cadherin, and alteration of DNA methylation in oral cancer.Advanced/metastatic cancer patients have higher levels of IL-6 in their blood. Furthermore, these cells secrete an abundance of factors that help regulate tumor development. Cancer
Macrophages can contribute to tumor growth and progression by promoting tumor cell proliferation and invasion, fostering tumor angiogenesis and suppressing antitumor immune cells. Recent study findings suggest that by forcing IFN-α expression in tumor-infiltrating macrophages, it is possible to blunt their innate protumoral activity and reprogram the tumor microenvironment toward more effective dendritic cell activation and immune effector cell cytotoxicity. Tumors can influence the microenvironment by releasing extracellular signals, promoting tumor angiogenesis and inducing peripheral immune tolerance, while the immune cells in the microenvironment can affect the growth and evolution of cancerous cells. Inflammation can encourage angiogenesis, speed the cell cycle and prevent cell death, all of which augments tumor growth. TAMs are recruited to the tumor as a response to cancer-associated inflammation. 
Pro-inflammatory cytokines are up repressed during tumor development. [SEP] These cytokines are first to respond to viral infection and are also important in immunosurveillance for malignant cells. and known tumor suppressors (e.g. Additionally, overexpression of PIAS3 inhibited human lung cancer cell growth in vitro and rendered cancer cells up to twelve times more sensitive to chemotherapeutic drugs. While inhibition of PIAS by siRNAs led cancer cells to accelerate cell proliferation and demonstrate higher levels of resistance to chemotherapy drugs. Inhibition of PIAS3 resulted in increased glioblastoma propagation, while PIAS3 overexpression inhibited STAT-3 signaling and cell proliferation . Given the preliminary evidence and their effects on important signaling pathways involved in cancer, PIAS proteins may be interesting targets for the development of treatments for cancers or as sensitizers for chemotherapeutic drugs and radiation in BRCA-deficient cancers.In addition to its importance in various cancers, the JAK-STAT signaling pathway plays an important part in the human immune response and in particular with regards to adaptive immunity. As seen in myasthenia gravis patients with downregulated lethal (let)-7 lncRNA, it was also found that the level of let-7 lncRNA was negatively correlated with levels of interleukin (IL)-10, a gene responsible for inhibiting cytokine secretion/activation, antigen presentation, and macrophage activity, but also for exhibiting anti-tumor effects. In mouse smooth muscle cells, the protein up-regulates expression of interleukin 6 (IL-6) and cyclooxygenase-2. 
Progerin induces premature aging in stem cells. [SEP] Progerin activates genes that regulate stem cell differentiation via the Notch signaling pathway. Premature Aging
The defective gene in HGPS Progerin has effects on accelerated aging effects due to the conformational stress Progerin has on the cell membrane. The insertion of Progerin protein rather than the normal functioning matured Lamin A results in DNA damage along the cellular membrane causing stress which activates the protein p53 resulting in premature cellular senescence causing the rapid aging effects you see in HGPS. Other Information
Recently, rapamycin has been shown to prevent Progerin aggregates in cells and hence delay premature aging. Progeroid syndromes (PS) are a group of rare genetic disorders that mimic physiological aging, making affected individuals appear to be older than they are. Progeroid means "resembling premature aging," a definition that can apply to a broad range of diseases. Progeroid syndromes have been widely studied in the fields of aging, regeneration, stem cells, and cancer. Progeroid syndromes are all examples of aging diseases where cell senescence appears to be implicated. 
Propriospinal interneurons that play a role in the plastic reorganization of spinal circuits are integral for recovery from spinal cord injury. [SEP] A CPG-activating drug treatment called Spinalon, active centrally upon oral administration, has also been shown to partially reactivate spinal locomotor neurons in complete or motor-complete spinal cord-injured patients. It is also the location of groups of spinal interneurons that make up the neural circuits known as central pattern generators. From the levels of L2 to T1, proprioceptive information enters the spinal cord and ascends ipsilaterally, where it synapses in Clarke's nucleus. From above T1, proprioceptive primary axons enter the spinal cord and ascend ipsilaterally until reaching the accessory cuneate nucleus, where they synapse. Usually, victims of spinal cord injuries will suffer loss of feeling in certain parts of their body. Damage to upper motor neuron axons in the spinal cord results in a characteristic pattern of ipsilateral deficits. Regeneration is facilitated by maintaining electric transmission in neural elements. Potential for spinal injury repair  Retrieved February 6, 2008. 
Pseudogene PTENP1 encodes a transcript that regulates PTEN expression. [SEP] The PTEN pseudogene, PTENP1 is a processed pseudogene that is very similar in its genetic sequence to the wild-type gene. In spite of that, PTENP1 appears to play a role in oncogenesis. The PTEN pseudogene, PTENP1 is a processed pseudogene that is very similar in its genetic sequence to the wild-type gene. In spite of that, PTENP1 appears to play a role in oncogenesis. Phosphatase and tensin homolog (mutated in multiple advanced cancers 1), pseudogene 1, also known as PTENP1, is a human pseudogene. which has a partial reactivated function as a competing endogenous RNA regulating  the tumor suppressor gene PTEN. The PTEN pseudogene, PTENP1 is a processed pseudogene that is very similar in its genetic sequence to the wild-type gene. In spite of that, PTENP1 appears to play a role in oncogenesis. 
Pseudoknots are not evolutionarily conserved in most eukaryotes. [SEP] Crystallographic work has shown that there are no ribosomal proteins close to the reaction site for polypeptide synthesis. However, on the sequence level, they are much closer to eukaryotic ones than to bacterial ones. Every extra ribosomal protein archaea have compared to bacteria has a eukaryotic counterpart, while no such relation applies between archaea and bacteria. In contrast, plant mitoribosomes have both extended rRNA and additional proteins as compared to bacteria, in particular, many pentatricopetide repeat proteins.The cryptomonad and chlorarachniophyte algae may contain a nucleomorph that resembles a vestigial eukaryotic nucleus. A noteworthy counterexample, however, includes the antineoplastic antibiotic chloramphenicol, which successfully inhibits bacterial 50S and eukaryotic mitochondrial 50S ribosomes. Much of the RNA is highly organized into various tertiary structural motifs, for example pseudoknots that exhibit coaxial stacking. RNase MRP is restricted to eukaryotes. The best characterised variant is an A-to-G transition at nucleotide 70 that is in a loop region two bases 5' of a conserved pseudoknot. 
Pure neural progenitor cell (NPC) populations can only be obtained from cell cultures that undergo passaging, filtration, or other isolation and cell sorting methods. [SEP] Neural stem cells (NSCs) are self-renewing, multipotent cells that firstly generate the radial glial progenitor cells that generate the neurons and glia of the nervous system of all animals during embryonic development. Development
In vivo origin
There are two basic types of stem cell: adult stem cells, which are limited in their ability to differentiate, and embryonic stem cells (ESCs), which are pluripotent and have the capability of differentiating into any cell type.Neural stem cells are more specialized than ESCs because they only generate radial glial cells that give rise to the neurons and to glia of the central nervous system (CNS). During disease
NSCs have an important role during development producing the enormous diversity of neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes in the developing CNS. NSCs can be cultured in vitro as neurospheres. These neurospheres are composed of neural stem cells and progenitors (NSPCs) with growth factors such as EGF and FGF. The neurosphere culture system has previously been used to isolate and expand CNS stem cells by its ability to aggregate and proliferate hmNPCs under serum-free media conditions as well as with the presence of epidermal growth factor (EGF) and fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2). Assays
Neural stem cells are routinely studied in vitro using a method referred to as the Neurosphere Assay (or Neurosphere culture system), first developed by Reynolds and Weiss. Since then, neural progenitor and stem cells have been isolated from various areas of the adult central nervous system, including non-neurogenic areas, such as the spinal cord, and from various species including humans. 
Pyridostatin decreases telomere fragility in BRCA2-deficient cells. [SEP] The steady shortening of telomeres with each replication in somatic (body) cells may have a role in senescence and in the prevention of cancer. In the Long Island Breast Cancer Study Project (LIBCSP), authors found a moderate increase in breast cancer risk among women with the shortest telomeres and lower dietary intake of beta carotene, vitamin C or E. These results  suggest that cancer risk due to telomere shortening may interact with other mechanisms of DNA damage, specifically oxidative stress. This carries implications on the importance of preserving telomeres in human health. Research on disease risk
Telomeres are critical for maintaining genomic integrity and may be factors for age-related diseases. The function of telomeres is widely accepted as a buffer against tumor growth, to protect chromosome structure, and prevent the loss of vital genetic information during replication. Clinical implications
Aging
Telomerase restores short bits of DNA known as telomeres, which are otherwise shortened after repeated division of a cell via mitosis. Telomerase activation has been observed in ~90% of all human tumors, suggesting that the immortality conferred by telomerase plays a key role in cancer development. High BRCA1 may protect cancer cells by acting in a pathway that removes the damages in DNA introduced by the platinum drugs. 
Pyridostatin deregulates G2/M progression. [SEP] CyclinE:Cdk2 plays an additional important phosphorylation role in the G1-to-S transition. The G1 phase cyclin-dependent kinase works together with S phase cyclin-dependent kinase targeting p27 for degradation. To maintain the arrest, another response is initiated, by which Chk2 or Chk1 phosphorylate p53, a tumor suppressor, and this stabilizes p53 by preventing it from binding Mdm2, a ubiquitin ligase which inhibits p53 by targeting it for degradation. G2 checkpoint
Following DNA replication in S phase, the cell undergoes a growth phase known as G2. Multiple mechanistic checkpoints are involved in this transition from G2 to M, with a common uniting factor of cyclin-Cdk activity. Similar to S Phase, G2 experiences a DNA damage checkpoint. As the cell progresses through G2 and reaches the G2/M transition, the kinase Plk1 phosphorylates Wee1, which targets Wee1 for degradation via the SCF ubiquitin ligase complex. G2–M transition in Xenopus oocytes
At the end of G2, the cell transitions into mitosis, where the nucleus divides. 
Pyridostatin encourages proliferation of homologous recombination - defective cells. [SEP] Since their dysfunction has been strongly associated with increased susceptibility to several types of cancer, the proteins that facilitate homologous recombination are topics of active research. In eukaryotes
Homologous recombination (HR) is essential to cell division in eukaryotes like plants, animals, fungi and protists. Left unrepaired, these double-strand breaks can cause large-scale rearrangement of chromosomes in somatic cells, which can in turn lead to cancer.In addition to repairing DNA, homologous recombination also helps produce genetic diversity when cells divide in meiosis to become specialized gamete cells—sperm or egg cells in animals, pollen or ovules in plants, and spores in fungi. Homologous recombination repairs DNA before the cell enters meiosis (M phase). Effects of dysfunction
Without proper homologous recombination, chromosomes often incorrectly align for the first phase of cell division in meiosis. : 1236 Decreased rates of homologous recombination cause inefficient DNA repair,: 310  which can also lead to cancer. Cancer therapy
Homologous recombination proficient (HRP) cancer cells are able to repair the DNA damage, which is caused by chemotherapy such as cisplatin. Cancer cells with BRCA mutations have deficiencies in homologous recombination, and drugs to exploit those deficiencies have been developed and used successfully in clinical trials. 
Pyridostatin induces checkpoint activation. [SEP] Cell cycle checkpoints are control mechanisms in the eukaryotic cell cycle which ensure its proper progression. The main mechanism of action of the cell cycle checkpoints is through the regulation of the activities of a family of protein kinases known as the cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs), which bind to different classes of regulator proteins known as cyclins, with specific cyclin-CDK complexes being formed and activated at different phases of the cell cycle. Cancer
DNA repair processes and cell cycle checkpoints have been intimately linked with cancer due to their functions regulating genome stability and cell progression, respectively. Another regulator of checkpoint activation is kinetochore tension. Nevertheless, BUBR1 is still required for checkpoint activation.The mechanism of formation for the MCC is unclear and there are competing theories for both kinetochore-dependent and kinetochore-independent formation. Usually the various checkpoints in the cell cycle take care of genomic integrity via highly conserved redundant mechanisms that are important for maintaining cellular homeostasis and preventing tumorigenesis. Key tumor suppressors such as p53 also play a role in the spindle checkpoint. Absence of p53, the most commonly mutated gene in human cancer, has a major effect on cell cycle checkpoint regulators and has been shown to act at the G1 checkpoint in the past, but now appears to be important in regulating the spindle checkpoint as well. 
Pyridostatin induces double-strand breaks accumulation. [SEP] Ionizing radiation such as that created by radioactive decay or in cosmic rays causes breaks in DNA strands. Double-strand breaks
Double-strand breaks, in which both strands in the double helix are severed, are particularly hazardous to the cell because they can lead to genome rearrangements. In fact, when a double-strand break is accompanied by a cross-linkage joining the two strands at the same point, neither strand can be used as a template for the repair mechanisms, so that the cell will not be able to complete mitosis when it next divides, and will either die or, in rare cases, undergo a mutation. In the final step, there is crossover by means of RecA-dependent homologous recombination.Topoisomerases introduce both single- and double-strand breaks in the course of changing the DNA's state of supercoiling, which is especially common in regions near an open replication fork. Another type of DNA double-strand breaks originates from the DNA heat-sensitive or heat-labile sites. The accumulation of damage, to be specific, double-strand breaks or adducts stalling the replication forks, are among known stimulation signals for a global response to DNA damage. Epigenetic alterations can accompany DNA repair of oxidative damage or double-strand breaks. In human cells, oxidative DNA damage occurs about 10,000 times a day and DNA double-strand breaks occur about 10 to 50 times a cell cycle in somatic replicating cells (see DNA damage (naturally occurring)). 
Pyridostatin prevents double-strand breaks accumulation. [SEP] Double-strand breaks
Double-strand breaks, in which both strands in the double helix are severed, are particularly hazardous to the cell because they can lead to genome rearrangements. In fact, when a double-strand break is accompanied by a cross-linkage joining the two strands at the same point, neither strand can be used as a template for the repair mechanisms, so that the cell will not be able to complete mitosis when it next divides, and will either die or, in rare cases, undergo a mutation. Another type of DNA double-strand breaks originates from the DNA heat-sensitive or heat-labile sites. The accumulation of damage, to be specific, double-strand breaks or adducts stalling the replication forks, are among known stimulation signals for a global response to DNA damage. Olaparib is combined with chemotherapeutics to inhibit single-strand break repair induced by DNA damage caused by the co-administered chemotherapy. Epigenetic alterations can accompany DNA repair of oxidative damage or double-strand breaks. With respect to the gene that was broken by the double-strand break, half of the progeny cells express that gene at a high level and in the other half of the progeny cells expression of that gene is repressed. A double-strand break repair model refers to the various models of pathways that cells undertake to repair double strand-breaks (DSB). 
Pyridostatin reduces proliferation of homologous recombination - defective cells. [SEP] Since their dysfunction has been strongly associated with increased susceptibility to several types of cancer, the proteins that facilitate homologous recombination are topics of active research. In eukaryotes
Homologous recombination (HR) is essential to cell division in eukaryotes like plants, animals, fungi and protists. Left unrepaired, these double-strand breaks can cause large-scale rearrangement of chromosomes in somatic cells, which can in turn lead to cancer.In addition to repairing DNA, homologous recombination also helps produce genetic diversity when cells divide in meiosis to become specialized gamete cells—sperm or egg cells in animals, pollen or ovules in plants, and spores in fungi. Homologous recombination repairs DNA before the cell enters meiosis (M phase). : 1236 Decreased rates of homologous recombination cause inefficient DNA repair,: 310  which can also lead to cancer. Cancer therapy
Homologous recombination proficient (HRP) cancer cells are able to repair the DNA damage, which is caused by chemotherapy such as cisplatin. Studies suggest that homologous recombination can be targeted via c-Abl inhibition. Cancer cells with BRCA mutations have deficiencies in homologous recombination, and drugs to exploit those deficiencies have been developed and used successfully in clinical trials. 
Pyridostatin stabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. [SEP] With the abundance of G-quadruplexes in vivo, these structures hold a biologically relevant role through interactions with the promoter regions of oncogenes and the telomeric regions of DNA strands. Telomeres, rich in guanine and with a propensity to form g-quadruplexes, are located at the terminal ends of chromosomes and help maintain genome integrity by protecting these vulnerable terminal ends from instability. The formation of these quadruplexes in telomeres has been shown to decrease the activity of the enzyme telomerase, which is responsible for maintaining length of telomeres and is involved in around 85% of all cancers. The potential positive and negative roles of quadruplexes in telomere replication and function remains controversial. T-loops and G-quadruplexes are described as the two tertiary DNA structures that protect telomere ends and regulate telomere length. For therapeutic advances, stabilizing the G-quadruplexes of cancerous cells can inhibit cell growth and replication leading to the cell's death. Promoter Regions
Along with the association of G-quadruplexes in telomeric regions of DNA, G-quadruplex structures have been identified in various human proto-oncogene promoter regions. Therapeutics
Telomeres are generally made up of G-quadruplexes and remain important targets for therapeutic research and discoveries. 
R2D2 stops miRNA production by increasing the selectivity of Dcr2 for long dsRNA. [SEP] R2-D2 or R2D2 may also refer to:

R2d2 (mouse gene)
Right 2 Dream Too, a homeless people's organization in Portland, Oregon, US
Phalanx CIWS, a naval defensive weapon system, nicknamed R2-D2
Staatstrojaner, a German state-sponsored trojan horse computer program, nicknamed R2-D2
"R2D2" Reverb device, manufactured by EMTR2D2 German Swiss audio company, famed for reverb devices, known as Elektromesstechnik (EMT). In this disorder, the miRNAs have a dual role working as both tumor suppressors and oncogenes. Transcription
miRNA genes are usually transcribed by RNA polymerase II (Pol II). In this complex, DGCR8 orients the catalytic RNase III domain of Drosha to liberate hairpins from pri-miRNAs by cleaving RNA about eleven nucleotides from the hairpin base (one helical dsRNA turn into the stem). dsRNAs targeting gene promoters can induce potent transcriptional activation of associated genes. microRNA maturation can be inhibited at several points by steric-blocking oligos. Reduction of XRN1 under d-flow conditions therefore leads to the accumulation of miR-712. miRNA modulation reagents to enable up-regulation or suppression of endogenous mature microRNA function 
RA activation of DIF2 and NB4 cells induces hallmarks of transcriptionally active promoters. [SEP] Ra (; Ancient Egyptian: rꜥ; also transliterated rꜥw /ˈɾiːʕuw/; cuneiform: 𒊑𒀀 ri-a or 𒊑𒅀ri-ia; Phoenician: 𐤓𐤏, romanized: rʿ) or Re (; Coptic: ⲣⲏ, romanized: Rē) was the ancient Egyptian deity of the sun. Ra ruled in all parts of the created world: the sky, the earth, and the underworld. The holiday of "The Receiving of Ra" was celebrated on May 26 in the Gregorian calendar.Ra's local cult began to grow from roughly the Second Dynasty, establishing him as a sun-deity. By the Fourth Dynasty, pharaohs were seen as Ra's manifestations on Earth, referred to as "Sons of Ra". The rulers of the Fifth Dynasty told their followers that they were sons of Ra himself and the wife of the high priest of Heliopolis. To prevent her from killing all humanity, Ra orders that beer be dyed red and poured out on the land. DIF is a greenhouse technique involving temperature control for the purpose of controlling plant internode length and thus elongation rates. Once at the lysosome, mTOR can be activated by Rheb, a small, lysosomal-resident GTPase, in its GTP-bound state. 
RAD52 is involved in break-induced DNA replication (BIR). [SEP] A protein called Rad52 then binds each of the repeat sequences on either side of the break, and aligns them to enable the two complementary repeat sequences to anneal. BIR pathway
During DNA replication, double-strand breaks can sometimes be encountered at replication forks as DNA helicase unzips the template strand. These defects are repaired in the break-induced replication (BIR) pathway of homologous recombination. Double-strand DNA breaks in bacteria are repaired by the RecBCD pathway of homologous recombination. RecBCD pathway
The RecBCD pathway is the main recombination pathway used in many bacteria to repair double-strand breaks in DNA, and the proteins are found in a broad array of bacteria. Such a situation causes what is known as a collapsed replication fork and is fixed by several pathways of homologous recombination including the RecBCD pathway.In this pathway, a three-subunit enzyme complex called RecBCD initiates recombination by binding to a blunt or nearly blunt end of a break in double-strand DNA. When the RecBCD pathway is inactivated by mutations and additional mutations inactivate the SbcCD and ExoI nucleases, the RecF pathway can also repair DNA double-strand breaks. The regulation of double-strand break repair pathways
DNA damage response
DNA damage response (DDR) is the overarching mechanism which mediates the cell's detection and response to DNA damage. 
RANK-RANKL pathway signalling has no known association with development of Aire-expressing medullary thymic epithelial cells. [SEP] RANKL is expressed in several tissues and organs including: skeletal muscle, thymus, liver, colon, small intestine, adrenal gland, osteoblast, mammary gland epithelial cells, prostate and pancreas. High protein expression of RANKL is commonly detected in the lungs, thymus and lymph nodes. In addition to directly signaling through RANK for macrophage differentiation, RANKL activates the adjacent lymphatic endothelial cells to create a niche environment for these specialized immune cells. Deficient mice, with an inactivation of RANKL or its receptor RANK, exhibited defects in early differentiation of T and B lymphocytes, and failed to form lobulo-alveolar mammary structures during pregnancy. It was observed that during pregnancy, RANK-RANKL signaling played a critical role in regulating skeletal calcium release; in which contributed to the hormone response that stimulated proliferation in the mammary cells. Some studies suggest the expression of RANKL allows sufficient micro environmental conditions to influence cancer cell migration (i.e. MPA causes a substantial induction of RANKL in mammary-gland epithelial cells while deletion of RANKL decreases the incidence MPA-induced breast cancer. Activation of RANK by RANKL promotes the maturation of pre-osteoclasts into osteoclasts. 
RANK-RANKL pathway signalling is linked to development of Aire-expressing medullary thymic epithelial cells. [SEP] High protein expression of RANKL is commonly detected in the lungs, thymus and lymph nodes. In addition to directly signaling through RANK for macrophage differentiation, RANKL activates the adjacent lymphatic endothelial cells to create a niche environment for these specialized immune cells. Deficient mice, with an inactivation of RANKL or its receptor RANK, exhibited defects in early differentiation of T and B lymphocytes, and failed to form lobulo-alveolar mammary structures during pregnancy. Some studies suggest the expression of RANKL allows sufficient micro environmental conditions to influence cancer cell migration (i.e. Maturation
Medullary thymic epithelial cells' maturation
Maturation of mTEC leads to expression of high levels of MHCII, CD80, autoimmune regulator Aire and tissue restricted antigens (TRAs). The most important transcription factor for all stages of TEC development in embryonic and postnatal thymus is a Foxn1. Aire mediates negative selection of auto-reactive T-cells and organ-specific antigens' expression on mTECs. Cortical thymic epithelial cells (cTECs) form unique parenchyma cell population of the thymus which critically contribute to the development of T cells. 
RTEL1 interacts with TRF2 through a C4C4 motif [SEP] This TRFH domain also allows TERF2 to bind to and act as a dock for many other types of proteins. The TRFH domain is responsible for other binding events, including RTEL1, and proteins that contain a TBD site. The TRFH domain contains a F120 residue, which is the binding site of TERF2 where it recruits client proteins. TERF1 also demonstrates similar client protein recruitment mechanism as TERF2, except that it diverges at two concepts: 1) the TRFH of TERF1 contains a F142 residue, 2) the client proteins specific for TERF1 contain the TRFH binding motif sequence of FxLxP, where the amino acid Y (tyrosine) is replaced with F (phenylalanine). This TRFH domain also allows TERF2 to bind to and act as a dock for many other types of proteins. The TRFH domain is responsible for other binding events, including RTEL1, and proteins that contain a TBD site. The TRFH domain contains a F120 residue, which is the binding site of TERF2 where it recruits client proteins. TERF1 also demonstrates similar client protein recruitment mechanism as TERF2, except that it diverges at two concepts: 1) the TRFH of TERF1 contains a F142 residue, 2) the client proteins specific for TERF1 contain the TRFH binding motif sequence of FxLxP, where the amino acid Y (tyrosine) is replaced with F (phenylalanine). 
RUNX is not expressed in skin tissue. [SEP] Gene and protein
In humans, the gene RUNX1 is 260 kilobases (kb) in length, and is located on chromosome 21 (21q22.12). The protein RUNX1 is composed of 453 amino acids. However, the function of human RUNX1 was not established. purified Runx2, the homolog of Runx1. Participation in hair follicle development
Runx1 was first discovered to be expressed in mouse embryonic skin. In addition to hair follicle development, Runx1 is also implicated in skin and epithelial cancer development. Genetic suppression of the NOXA gene is mediated by the transcription factor RUNX1. In the osteon, where matrix is separated from extracellular fluid by tight junctions, this cannot occur. 
RUNX1 is downregulated or mutated in TLX1 T-ALL. [SEP] Regulation
Hox genes and their associated microRNAs are highly conserved developmental master regulators with tight tissue-specific, spatiotemporal control. The regulation of Hox genes is highly complex and involves reciprocal interactions, mostly inhibitory. Polycomb-group proteins can silence the Hox genes by modulation of chromatin structure. The linear order of Hox genes within a cluster is directly correlated to the order they are expressed in both time and space during development. Specific members of the Hox family have been implicated in vascular remodeling, angiogenesis, and disease by orchestrating changes in matrix degradation, integrins, and components of the ECM. HoxA5 also upregulates the tumor suppressor p53 and Akt1 by downregulation of PTEN. Other genes considered Hox-like include EVX1, EVX2; GBX1, GBX2; MEOX1, MEOX2; and MNX1. Additionally, post-translational phosphorylation can be affected by mutations in FBXO11. 
Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre increases thyroid volume. [SEP] It is a common cause of hyperthyroidism in which there is excess production of thyroid hormones from functionally autonomous thyroid nodules, which do not require stimulation from thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH).Toxic multinodular goiter is the second most common cause of hyperthyroidism (after Graves' disease) in the developed world, whereas iodine deficiency is the most common cause of hypothyroidism in developing-world countries where the population is iodine-deficient. However, iodine deficiency can cause goiter (thyroid enlargement); within a goitre, nodules can develop. Signs and symptoms
Symptoms of toxic multinodular goitre are similar to that of hyperthyroidism, including:
heat intolerance
muscle weakness/wasting
hyperactivity
fatigue
tremor
irritability
weight loss
osteoporosis
increased appetite
non-painful goitre (swelling of the thyroid gland)
tachycardia (high heart rate - above 100 beats per minute at rest in adults)
tracheal compression
exophthalmos

Causes
Sequence of events:
Iodine deficiency leading to decreased T4 production. Treatments
Toxic multinodular goiter can be treated with antithyroid medications such as propylthiouracil or methimazole, radioactive iodine, or with surgery. In this review it was found that the recombinant human thyrotropin-aided radioactive iodine appeared to lead to a greater of thyroid volume at the increased risk of hypothyroidism. It is used to manipulate endocrine function of thyroid-derived cells, as part of the diagnosis and treatment of thyroid cancer.A Cochrane review compared treatments using recombinant human thyrotropin-aided radioactive iodine to radioactive iodine alone. In this review it was found that the recombinant human thyrotropin-aided radioactive iodine appeared to lead to a greater of thyroid volume at the increased risk of hypothyroidism. After total thyroidectomy or high-dose radioiodine therapy (e.g. 
Rapamycin delays aging in fruit flies. [SEP] 2009 A second pharmacological agent (namely, rapamycin) was shown to be capable to increase the lifespan of mice. 2014 Establishment of the Dog Aging Project at the University of Washington, a decade-long study of aging in dogs which includes clinical trials of rapamycin in some of them to test its effects on lifespan, with the project's ultimate goal being to translate the results into further understanding aging in humans and ways to target it. By combining doses of lithium, trametinib and rapamycin into a single treatment, researchers extend the lifespan of fruit flies (Drosophila) by 48%. A study reports that in model animals, treatment with rapamycin – which typically has negative side-effects – for a limited timespan extended lifespan as much as life-long administration started at the same age and that it was most effective during early adulthood. based on the responsiveness of mTORC1 activity to nutrient availability; the fact that mTOR activity is inhibited by CR; the fact that genetically inhibiting mTOR signaling extends maximum lifespan in invertebrate animals, and pharmacologically inhibiting mTOR with rapamycin extends maximum lifespan in both invertebrates and mice. While knocking out elements of the mTOR cascade seems to block the lifespan effects of rapamycin in invertebrate animals, surprisingly the effects of CR and rapamycin on metabolism and gene expression exhibit substantial differences in mice, with evidence suggesting that the mechanisms of the two anti-aging therapies may be in large part distinct and possibly additive.Other candidate CRM are:

Glucosamine or its derivative n-acetylglucosamine have extended the life of both nematodes and mice. Widely recognized methods of extending maximum lifespan in model organisms such as nematodes, fruit flies, and mice include caloric restriction, gene manipulation, and administration of pharmaceuticals. Genetic editing
Genome editing, in which nucleic acid polymers are delivered as a drug and are either expressed as proteins, interfere with the expression of proteins, or correct genetic mutations, has been proposed as a future strategy to prevent aging.A large array of genetic modifications have been found to increase lifespan in model organisms such as yeast, nematode worms, fruit flies, and mice. 
Rapamycin increases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. [SEP] Atherosclerosis
Rapamycin can accelerate degradation of oxidized LDL cholesterol in endothelial cells, thereby lowering the risk of atherosclerosis. Applications in biology research
Rapamycin is used in biology research as an agent for chemically induced dimerization. In this way, rapamycin can be used to control and study protein localization and interactions. However, early testing revealed that rapamycin also had potent immunosuppressive and cytostatic anti-cancer activity. Rapamycin inhibits mTOR by associating with its intracellular receptor FKBP12. mTOR in plants
Plants express the mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) and have a TOR kinase complex. Inhibition by rapamycin
Rapamycin inhibits mTORC1, and this appears to provide most of the beneficial effects of the drug (including life-span extension in animal studies). Interactions
Mechanistic target of rapamycin has been shown to interact with:

References
Further reading
Saxton RA, Sabatini DM (March 2017). 
Rapid phosphotransfer rates are correlated with histidine kinase regulator specificity. [SEP] Discovery
By the early 1950s it was known from metabolic labeling studies using radioactive phosphate that phosphate groups attached to phosphoproteins inside cells can sometimes undergo rapid exchange of new phosphate for old. In order to perform experiments that would allow isolation and characterization of the enzymes involved in attaching and removing phosphate from proteins, there was a need for convenient substrates for protein kinases and protein phosphatases. By the late 1960s, cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase had been purified, and most attention was centered on kinases and phosphatases that could regulate the activity of important enzymes. The family members have the highest homology in their kinase domains (53%–98% identical) and differ from most other protein kinases by the presence of the sequence S-I-N instead of A-P-E in kinase domain VIII. One consensus phosphorylation site is S/Tp-X-X-S/T, where S/Tp refers to a phospho-serine or phospho-threonine, X refers to any amino acid, and the underlined residues refer to the target site. Roles
Casein kinase activity was found to be present in most cell types and to be associated with multiple enzymes. The effects of phosphorylation are two-fold. Similarly, length variations in the CK1ε phosphorylation site of PER3 have been found to correlate with 'morningness' and 'eveningness'; longer alleles are associated with early risers while shorter alleles are associated with late risers. 
Recognition of start codons depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. [SEP] Initiation involves the small subunit of the ribosome binding to the 5' end of mRNA with the help of initiation factors (IF). While start codons need nearby sequences or initiation factors to start translation, a stop codon alone is sufficient to initiate termination. Initiation
Initiation of translation in bacteria involves the assembly of the components of the translation system, which are: the two ribosomal subunits (50S and 30S subunits); the mature mRNA to be translated; the tRNA charged with N-formylmethionine (the first amino acid in the nascent peptide); guanosine triphosphate (GTP) as a source of energy, and the three prokaryotic initiation factors IF1, IF2, and IF3, which help the assembly of the initiation complex. Two studies have independently shown that 17 or more non-AUG start codons may initiate translation in E. coli.There are three modes of initiation: the canonical 30S binding model, the 70S scanning mode, and leaderless initiation. IF3 then replaces the deacylated tRNA releasing the mRNA. Gene annotation
The identification of RBSs is used to determine the site of translation initiation in an unannotated sequence. The ribosome recognizes the start codon by using the Shine-Dalgarno sequence of the mRNA in prokaryotes and Kozak box in eukaryotes. Functional aspects
Translation initiation
Protein synthesis is primarily regulated at the stage of translation initiation. 
Reduced levels of lipolysis leads to higher P38 phosphorylation in adipose tissue. [SEP] Phosphorylation of perilipin is essential for the mobilization of fats in adipose tissue. It handles essential functions in the regulation of basal and hormonally stimulated lipolysis and also rises the formation of large LDs which implies an increase in the synthesis of triglycerides.In humans, Perilipin A is the most abundant protein associated with the adipocyte LDs and lower PLIN1 expression is related with higher rates of lipolysis.Under basal conditions, Perilipin acts as a protective coating of LDs from the body's natural lipases, such as hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL) and adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL), which break triglycerides into glycerol and free fatty acids for use in lipid metabolism.In times of energy deficit, Perilipin is hyperphosphorylated by PKA following β-adrenergic receptor activation. Phosphorylated perilipin changes conformation, exposing the stored lipids to hormone-sensitive lipase-mediated lipolysis. Modulator of adipocyte lipid metabolism
Specifically, in the basal state Perilipin A allows a low level of basal lipolysis by reducing the access of cytosolic lipases to stored triacylglycerol in LDs. These findings affirm a new primary form of inherited lipodystrophy and emphasize on the severe metabolic consequences of a defect in the formation of lipid droplets in adipose tissue. Activates adipocyte plasma membrane type A guanylyl cyclase receptors NPR-A
Increases intracellular cGMP levels that induce the phosphorylation of a hormone-sensitive lipase and perilipin A via the activation of a cGMP-dependent protein kinase-I (cGK-I)
Does not modulate cAMP production or PKA activity

Measurement
BNP and NT-proBNP are measured by immunoassay. Phosphorylation by PKA enables lipolysis probably by promoting the release of ABHD5 from the perilipin scaffold. THC did also decrease NAPE-PLD, the enzyme that catalyzes and converts ordinary lipids into chemical signals like NAE 20:4 (AEA) and NAE 18:1 (OEA), in preadipocytes and increased adiponectin and TGFβ transcription in adipocytes, results that show the ECS interferes with adipocyte biology and may contribute to adipose tissue (AT) remodeling. 
Reduced phosphorylation of PP2A increases HDAC4 dephosphorylation by enhancing PP2A-HDAC4 interaction. [SEP] An increase in blood glucose levels causes phosphorylation of PDX1, which leads it to undergo nuclear translocation and bind the A3 element within the insulin promoter. At the same time, insulin inhibits the enzyme glucose-6-phosphatase, which removes the phosphate group. Phosphorylation also allows for binding of transcriptional coactivators, like p300 and PCAF, which then acetylate the carboxy-terminal end of p53, exposing the DNA binding domain of p53, allowing it to activate or repress specific genes. activation domain 2 (AD2) important for apoptotic activity: residues 43–63. Rapamycin induces dephosphorylation of 4EBP1 as well, resulting in an increase in p27 and a decrease in cyclin D1 expression. Typically, these reactions are catalyzed by enzymes with histone acetyltransferase (HAT) or histone deacetylase (HDAC) activity, although HATs and HDACs can modify the acetylation status of non-histone proteins as well.The regulation of transcription factors, effector proteins, molecular chaperones, and cytoskeletal proteins by acetylation and deacetylation is a significant post-translational regulatory mechanism These regulatory mechanisms are analogous to phosphorylation and dephosphorylation by the action of kinases and phosphatases. Increased H4K16ac in old yeast cells is associated with the decline in levels of the HDAC Sir2, which can increase the life span when overexpressed. Typically, these reactions are catalyzed by enzymes with histone acetyltransferase (HAT) or histone deacetylase (HDAC) activity, although HATs and HDACs can modify the acetylation status of non-histone proteins as well.The regulation of transcription factors, effector proteins, molecular chaperones, and cytoskeletal proteins by acetylation and deacetylation is a significant post-translational regulatory mechanism These regulatory mechanisms are analogous to phosphorylation and dephosphorylation by the action of kinases and phosphatases. 
Reduced phosphorylation of PP2A suppresses HDAC4 dephosphorylation. [SEP] This enzyme converts a phospholipid in the cell membrane by the name of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2), into phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-triphosphate (PIP3), which, in turn, activates protein kinase B (PKB). PKB also phosphorylates glycogen synthase kinase (GSK), thereby inactivating this enzyme. At the same time, insulin inhibits the enzyme glucose-6-phosphatase, which removes the phosphate group. Ectopic expression of hNaa10p increased cell proliferation and up regulation of gene involved in cell survival proliferation and metabolism. Typically, these reactions are catalyzed by enzymes with histone acetyltransferase (HAT) or histone deacetylase (HDAC) activity, although HATs and HDACs can modify the acetylation status of non-histone proteins as well.The regulation of transcription factors, effector proteins, molecular chaperones, and cytoskeletal proteins by acetylation and deacetylation is a significant post-translational regulatory mechanism These regulatory mechanisms are analogous to phosphorylation and dephosphorylation by the action of kinases and phosphatases. While HIF-1α stabilizes p53, HIF-2α suppresses it. Phosphorylation also allows for binding of transcriptional coactivators, like p300 and PCAF, which then acetylate the carboxy-terminal end of p53, exposing the DNA binding domain of p53, allowing it to activate or repress specific genes. activation domain 2 (AD2) important for apoptotic activity: residues 43–63. 
Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. [SEP] This disparity has led to the idea that human autoimmune disease is in most cases (with probable exceptions including type I diabetes) based on a loss of B cell tolerance which makes use of normal T cell responses to foreign antigens in a variety of aberrant ways. Although this route to autoimmune disease may underlie various degenerative disease states, no diagnostics for this disease mechanism exist at present, and thus its role in human autoimmunity is currently unknown.The roles of specialized immunoregulatory cell types, such as regulatory T cells, NKT cells, γδ T-cells in the pathogenesis of autoimmune disease are under investigation. Research has demonstrated an association between low serum vitamin D and autoimmune diseases, including multiple sclerosis, type 1 diabetes, and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (commonly referred to simply as lupus). Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
Psoriasis patients are at increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) (~1.5 odds ratio). NK cell dysregulation has been implicated in a number of autoimmune disorders including multiple sclerosis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and type I diabetes mellitus.Evidence suggests that targeting ILCs may be beneficial in the design of therapeutics for autoimmune disorders. In patients with Crohn’s disease, the increase of ILC1 at the expense of ILC3 possibly by the production of IL-2 from T regulatory cell, leading to a pathogenic state and inflammatory events. Type 1 diabetes T1D
T1D is an autoimmune disease where β cells of the pancreas, which produce insulin, are damaged by autoreactive T cells. In the presence of autoreactive T cells, a chronic autoimmune disease may be the consequence. 
Reducing H3k4me3 methylation induces mouse epiblast stem cells to naive pluripotency efficiently. [SEP] H3K4me3 is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein Histone H3 that indicates tri-methylation at the 4th lysine residue of the histone H3 protein and is often involved in the regulation of gene expression. H3K4me3 also plays an important role in the genetic regulation of stem cell potency and lineage. Epigenetic marker
H3K4me3 is a commonly used histone modification. H3K4me3 is one of the least abundant histone modifications; however, it is highly enriched at active promoters near transcription start sites (TSS)  and positively correlated with transcription. Role in stem cells and embryogenesis
Regulation of gene expression through H3K4me3 plays a significant role in stem cell fate determination and early embryo development. Pluripotent cells have distinctive patterns of methylation that can be identified through ChIP-seq. A way of finding indicators of successful pluripotent induction is through comparing the epigenetic pattern to that of embryonic stem cells.In bivalent chromatin, H3K4me3 is co-localized with the repressive modification H3K27me3 to control gene regulation. H3K4me3 in embryonic cells is part of a bivalent chromatin system, in which regions of DNA are simultaneously marked with activating and repressing histone methylations. 
Reduction of Rpl38 alters the composition of the Hox gene mRNAs translation in mice without lowering overall protein synthesis. [SEP] The protein product of each Hox gene is a transcription factor. Production of Hox gene products at wrong location in the body is associated with metaplasia and predisposes to oncological disease, e.g. Hox proteins are a subset of transcription factors, which are proteins that are capable of binding to specific nucleotide sequences on DNA called enhancers through which they either activate or repress hundreds of other genes. The same Hox protein can act as a repressor at one gene and an activator at another. In Drosophila and some insects (but not most animals), Hox genes are regulated by gap genes and pair-rule genes, which are in their turn regulated by maternally-supplied mRNA. One of these, HOTAIR, silences in trans (it is transcribed from the HOXC cluster and inhibits late HOXD genes) by binding to Polycomb-group proteins (PRC2).The chromatin structure is essential for transcription but it also requires the cluster to loop out of the chromosome territory.In higher animals including humans, retinoic acid regulates differential expression of Hox genes along the anteroposterior axis. In mouse embryos, the HOX10 genes, which is one of the genes that lie in the tail portion of the animal, turn the “rib-building” system off when the gene is activated. "The Function of Hox Genes". 
Reduction of purity of cytoplasmic membranes isolated from overexpressors is indicated by stronger spots for OmpA in 2D BN-PAGE gels. [SEP] See the Membrane potential article. The cell membrane (also known as the plasma membrane (PM) or cytoplasmic membrane, and historically referred to as the plasmalemma) is a biological membrane that separates and protects the interior of all cells from the outside environment (the extracellular space). These two membranes differ in many aspects. The cell membrane consists primarily of a thin layer of amphipathic phospholipids that spontaneously arrange so that the hydrophobic "tail" regions are isolated from the surrounding water while the hydrophilic "head" regions interact with the intracellular (cytosolic) and extracellular faces of the resulting bilayer. Membranes serve diverse functions in eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells. If a cell's nucleus is more active in transcription, its membrane will have more pores. "Cytoarchitecture and physical properties of cytoplasm: volume, viscosity, diffusion, intracellular surface area". Microcompartmentation and Phase Separation in Cytoplasm (PDF). 
Reduction of purity of cytoplasmic membranes isolated from overexpressors is indicated by stronger spots for OmpF in 2D BN-PAGE gels. [SEP] See the Membrane potential article. The cell membrane (also known as the plasma membrane (PM) or cytoplasmic membrane, and historically referred to as the plasmalemma) is a biological membrane that separates and protects the interior of all cells from the outside environment (the extracellular space). These two membranes differ in many aspects. The cell membrane consists primarily of a thin layer of amphipathic phospholipids that spontaneously arrange so that the hydrophobic "tail" regions are isolated from the surrounding water while the hydrophilic "head" regions interact with the intracellular (cytosolic) and extracellular faces of the resulting bilayer. Membranes serve diverse functions in eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells. In eukaryotic cells, the nuclear membrane separates the contents of the nucleus from the cytoplasm of the cell. "Cytoarchitecture and physical properties of cytoplasm: volume, viscosity, diffusion, intracellular surface area". Microcompartmentation and Phase Separation in Cytoplasm (PDF). 
Removal of H3K9me3 by ectopic expression of other H3K9 demethylases decreases reprogramming efficiency in SCNT experiments. [SEP] H3K9me3 is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein Histone H3. Nomenclature
H3K9me3  indicates trimethylation of lysine 9 on histone H3 protein subunit:

Lysine Methylation
This diagram shows the progressive methylation of a lysine residue. Demethylases are enzymes that remove methyl (CH3) groups from nucleic acids, proteins (particularly histones), and other molecules. Demethylases are important epigenetic proteins, as they are responsible for transcriptional regulation of the genome by controlling the methylation of DNA and histones, and by extension, the chromatin state at specific gene loci. H3K9me2 is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein Histone H3. H3K9me2 is strongly associated with transcriptional repression. H3K9me2 represses gene expression both passively, by prohibiting acetylation as therefore binding of RNA polymerase or its regulatory factors, and actively, by recruiting transcriptional repressors. H3K9me2 can be removed by a wide range of histone lysine demethylases (KDMs) including KDM1, KDM3, KDM4 and KDM7 family members. 
Removal of H3K9me3 by ectopic expression of other H3K9 demethylases improves reprogramming efficiency in SCNT experiments. [SEP] H3K9me3 is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein Histone H3. Nomenclature
H3K9me3  indicates trimethylation of lysine 9 on histone H3 protein subunit:

Lysine Methylation
This diagram shows the progressive methylation of a lysine residue. Demethylases are enzymes that remove methyl (CH3) groups from nucleic acids, proteins (particularly histones), and other molecules. Demethylases are important epigenetic proteins, as they are responsible for transcriptional regulation of the genome by controlling the methylation of DNA and histones, and by extension, the chromatin state at specific gene loci. H3K9me2 is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein Histone H3. H3K9me2 is strongly associated with transcriptional repression. H3K9me2 can be removed by a wide range of histone lysine demethylases (KDMs) including KDM1, KDM3, KDM4 and KDM7 family members. H3K9me2 is important for various biological processes including cell lineage commitment, the reprogramming of somatic cells to induced pluripotent stem cells, regulation of the inflammatory response, and addiction to drug use. 
Removal of H3K9me3 improves reprogramming efficiency in human somatic cell nuclear transfer experiments. [SEP] Somatic cell nuclear transfer is a cloning method that can be used to create a cloned embryo for the use of its embryonic stem cells in stem cell therapy. As a result of the success of these experiments, Ian Wilmut, who helped create the first cloned animal Dolly the Sheep, has announced that he will abandon somatic cell nuclear transfer as an avenue of research.IPSCs has helped the field of medicine significantly by finding numerous ways to cure diseases. Thus, manipulation of relevant genes can maintain pluripotency and reprogram somatic cells to an induced pluripotent state. Three techniques are widely recognized:
Transplantation of nuclei taken from somatic cells into an oocyte (egg cell) lacking its own nucleus (removed in lab)
Fusion of somatic cells with pluripotent stem cells and
Transformation of somatic cells into stem cells, using the genetic material encoding reprogramming protein factors, recombinant proteins; microRNA, a synthetic, self-replicating polycistronic RNA and low-molecular weight biologically active substances. Induced totipotent cells
SCNT-mediated
Induced totipotent cells can be obtained by reprogramming somatic cells with somatic-cell nuclear transfer (SCNT). The process involves sucking out the nucleus of a somatic (body) cell and injecting it into an oocyte that has had its nucleus removedUsing an approach based on the protocol outlined by Tachibana et al., hESCs can be generated by SCNT using dermal fibroblasts nuclei from both a middle-aged 35-year-old male and an elderly, 75-year-old male, suggesting that age-associated changes are not necessarily an impediment to SCNT-based nuclear reprogramming of human cells. Such reprogramming of somatic cells to a pluripotent state holds huge potentials for regenerative medicine. So, this chemical reprogramming strategy has potential use in generating functional desirable cell types for clinical applications.In 2015 a robust chemical reprogramming system was established with a yield up to 1,000-fold greater than that of the previously reported protocol. 
Replacement of OCT4 and SOX2 genes with GATA3 has the ability to reprogram human cells. [SEP] Such reprogramming of somatic cells to a pluripotent state holds huge potentials for regenerative medicine. By reprograming mouse embryonic fibroblasts into pluripotent stem cells via the ectopic expression of four transcription factors, namely Oct4, Sox2, Klf4 and c-Myc, they proved that the overexpression of a small number of factors can push the cell to transition to a new stable state that is associated with changes in the activity of thousands of genes. So, this chemical reprogramming strategy has potential use in generating functional desirable cell types for clinical applications.In 2015 a robust chemical reprogramming system was established with a yield up to 1,000-fold greater than that of the previously reported protocol. Initial epigenetic activation phase approach
Somatic cells are first transfected with pluripotent reprogramming factors temporarily (Oct4, Sox2, Nanog, etc.) Role in reprogramming
Oct-4 is one of the transcription factors used to create induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), together with Sox2,  Klf4 and often c-Myc (OSKM) in mouse, demonstrating its capacity to induce an embryonic stem cell-like state. This reprogramming effect has also been seen with the Thomson reprogramming factors, reverting human fibroblast cells to iPSCs through Oct-4, along with Sox2, Nanog, and Lin28. Sox2 binds to DNA cooperatively with Oct4 at non-palindromic sequences to activate transcription of key pluripotency factors. However, a group of researchers concluded that the primary role of Sox2 in embryonic stem cells is controlling Oct4 expression, and they both perpetuate their own expression when expressed concurrently.In an experiment involving mouse embryonic stem cells, it was discovered that Sox2 in conjunction with Oct4, c-Myc and Klf4 were sufficient for producing induced pluripotent stem cells. 
Replacement of OCT4 and SOX2 genes with GATA3 is not capable of reprogramming human cells. [SEP] A team headed by Hans Schöler (who discovered the Oct4 gene back in 1989) showed that Oct4 overexpression drives massive off-target gene activation during reprogramming deteriorating the quality of iPSCs. Furthermore, partial reprogramming of cells toward pluripotency in vivo in mice demonstrates that incomplete reprogramming entails epigenetic changes (failed repression of Polycomb targets and altered DNA methylation) in cells that drive cancer development. CRCs do not express high levels of proteins characteristic of iPSCs or embryonic stem cells (ESCs) (e.g., Sox2, Oct4, Nanog, or Klf4). However, the efficiency of such reprogramming turned out to be very low and the phenotype of received cardiomyocyte-like cells does not resemble those of a mature normal cardiomyocyte. Cell reprogramming often disrupts enucleation. Initial epigenetic activation phase approach
Somatic cells are first transfected with pluripotent reprogramming factors temporarily (Oct4, Sox2, Nanog, etc.) Non-Muse cells do not exhibit tissue reparation when infused into the blood stream. In contrast, non-Muse cells did not show elevation in Sox2 and Nanog, master genes of pluripotent stem cells, even after receiving the four Yamanaka factors. 
Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z accelerates gene activation in yeasts by destabilizing +1 nucleosomes. [SEP] Histone H2A is one of the five main histone proteins involved in the structure of chromatin in eukaryotic cells. H2A.Z is a variant that exchanges with conventional H2A core protein; this variant is important for gene silencing.Physically, there are small changes on the surface area of the nucleosome that make the histone differ from H2A. Other functions of H2A have been seen in the histone variant H2A.Z. Histone H2A variant H2A.Z is associated with the promoters of actively transcribed genes and also involved in the prevention of the spread of silent heterochromatin. In budding yeast, the candidate gene for activation of histone gene expression is SBF. Histone H2A.Z is a protein that in humans is encoded by the H2AZ1 gene. H2A.Z is a variant that exchanges with conventional H2A core protein; this variant is important for gene silencing.Physically, there are small changes on the surface area of the nucleosome that make the histone differ from H2A. Other functions of H2A have been seen in the histone variant H2A.Z. 
Repressing IL-18 has negative effects on atherosclerotic lesion composition and progression. [SEP] IL-18, IL 18 or IL18 may refer to:

Interleukin 18, a protein encoded in humans by the IL18 gene
Ilyushin Il-18, a Cold War–era Soviet airliner and military transport
Illinois's 18th congressional district, a defunct U.S. House district
Illinois Route 18, a rural east–west state road in central Illinois Atherosclerosis is associated with inflammatory processes in the endothelial cells of the vessel wall associated with retained low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particles. Misrepair-accumulation aging theory suggests that misrepair mechanisms play an important role in the focal development of atherosclerosis. Medical management of atherosclerosis first involves modification to risk factors–for example, via smoking cessation and diet restrictions. Diet
Changes in diet may help prevent the development of atherosclerosis. For example, statins help to lower cholesterol. Immunomodulation of atherosclerosis is the term for techniques that modulate immune system function to suppress this macrophage action.Involvement of lipid peroxidation chain reaction in atherogenesis triggered research on the protective role of the heavy isotope (deuterated) polyunsaturated fatty acids (D-PUFAs) that are less prone to oxidation than ordinary PUFAs (H-PUFAs). Microorganisms
The microbiota – all the microorganisms in the body, can contribute to atherosclerosis in many ways: modulation of the immune system, changes in metabolism, processing of nutrients and production of certain metabolites that can get into blood circulation. 
Retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor gamma (RORγ) is a therapeutic target for castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) [SEP] In some cells, one of the target genes is the gene for the retinoic acid receptor itself (RAR-beta in mammals), which amplifies the response. The retinoic acid receptor (RAR) is a type of nuclear receptor which can also act as a ligand-activated transcription factor that is activated by both all-trans retinoic acid and 9-cis retinoic acid the retinoid active derivatives of Vitamin A . There are three retinoic acid receptors (RAR), RAR-alpha, RAR-beta, and RAR-gamma, encoded by the RARA, RARB, RARG genes, respectively. As with other type II nuclear receptors, RAR heterodimerizes with RXR and in the absence of ligand, the RAR/RXR dimer binds to hormone response elements known as retinoic acid response elements (RAREs) complexed with corepressor protein. Due to RAR/RXR heterodimers acting as subtrates to the non steroid hormone ligand retinoid they are extensively involved in cell differentiation, proliferation, and apoptosis. RAR-related orphan receptor gamma (RORγ) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the RORC (RAR-related orphan receptor C) gene. RORγ is a member of the nuclear receptor family of transcription factors. LYC-55716 is an oral, selective RORγ (RORgamma) agonist in clinical trials on patients with solid tumors. 
Rhythmic expression of Cry1 translates directly into a circadian regulation of cAMP signaling in gluconeogenesis. [SEP] CRY1 is a circadian photoreceptor whereas CRY2 is a clock repressor which represses Clock/Cycle (Bmal1) complex in insects and vertebrates. Due to the role of the SCN as the primary mammalian pacemaker as well as the rhythmic fluctuations in cry1 expression, researchers concluded cry1 was also necessary for the entrainment of mammalian circadian rhythms. Thus, CRY expression is regulated by the clock at the transcriptional level and by light at the translational and posttranslational level.Overexpression of Cry also affects circadian light responses. This light regulation of CRY protein levels suggests that CRY has a circadian role upstream of other clock genes and components. Cry1
Cry1 encodes the CRY1 protein which is a mammalian circadian photoreceptor. In mice, Cry1 expression displays circadian rhythms in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, a brain region involved in the generation of circadian rhythms, with mRNA levels peaking during the light phase and reaching a minimum in the dark. However, some recent studies indicate that human CRY1 may mediate light response in peripheral tissues.Normal mammalian circadian rhythm relies critically on delayed expression of Cry1 following activation of the Cry1 promoter. Transfection of these cells with both the promoter and the first intron is required for restoration of circadian rhythms in these cells.There is evidence that CRY1 can play a role in how sleep-wake patterns can be inherited through families. 
Rhythmic expression of Cry1 translates directly into a circadian regulation of cAMP signaling in hepatic glucose metabolism. [SEP] It has been suggested that the CREB in peripheral tissues such as the liver is involved in circadian phosphorylation and appetite regulation. CRY1 is a circadian photoreceptor whereas CRY2 is a clock repressor which represses Clock/Cycle (Bmal1) complex in insects and vertebrates. Thus, CRY expression is regulated by the clock at the transcriptional level and by light at the translational and posttranslational level.Overexpression of Cry also affects circadian light responses. This light regulation of CRY protein levels suggests that CRY has a circadian role upstream of other clock genes and components. Cry1
Cry1 encodes the CRY1 protein which is a mammalian circadian photoreceptor. In mice, Cry1 expression displays circadian rhythms in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, a brain region involved in the generation of circadian rhythms, with mRNA levels peaking during the light phase and reaching a minimum in the dark. However, some recent studies indicate that human CRY1 may mediate light response in peripheral tissues.Normal mammalian circadian rhythm relies critically on delayed expression of Cry1 following activation of the Cry1 promoter. Animated model of murine circadian pathway, including role of Cry
Overview of all the structural information available in the PDB for UniProt: P97784 (Mouse Cryptochrome-1) at the PDBe-KB. 
Ribosomal protein (RP) expression is controlled in part by stress-activated regulators. [SEP] RNA polymerase I is responsible for transcription of ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes. Regulation
p53 acts as a cellular stress sensor. The mRNA molecules found in stress granules are stalled translation pre-initiation complexes associated with 40S ribosomal subunits, translation initiation factors, poly(A)+ mRNAs and RNA-binding proteins (RBPs). Stress granules have long been proposed to have a function to protect RNAs from harmful conditions, thus their appearance under stress. These data imply that the stress granule transcriptome is influenced the valency of RNA (for proteins or other RNAs) and by the rates of RNA run-off from polysomes. In vitro, these stressors can include heat, cold, oxidative stress (sodium arsenite), endoplasmic reticulum stress (thapsigargin), proteasome inhibition (MG132), hyperosmotic stress, ultraviolet radiation, inhibition of eIF4A (pateamine A, hippuristanol, or RocA), nitric oxide accumulation after treatment with 3-morpholinosydnonimine (SIN-1), perturbation of pre-mRNA splicing, and other stressors, like puromycin, which result in disassembled polysomes. Many of these stressors result in the activation of particular stress-associated kinases (HRI, PERK, PKR, and GCN2), translational inhibition and stress granule formation.Stress granule formation is often downstream of the stress-activated phosphorylation of eukaryotic translation initiation factor eIF2α; this does not hold true for all types of stressors that induce stress granules, for instance, eIF4A inhibition. Tau interacts specifically with several ribosomal proteins, including the crucial regulator of translation rpS6. 
Ribosome-inactivating protein-2 (RIP-2) interacts with the p75 NTR death domain [SEP] A ribosome-inactivating protein (RIP) is a protein synthesis inhibitor that acts at the eukaryotic ribosome. They inactivate 60S ribosomal subunits by an N-glycosidic cleavage, which releases a specific adenine base from the sugar-phosphate backbone of 28S rRNA. ricin, agglutinin, and abrin) ribosome inactivating proteins (RIPs). In plants, they are thought to defend against pathogens and insects.Ribosome-inactivating proteins (RIPs) are separated into the following types based on protein domain composition:
Type I (A): RIPs-I are polypeptides composed of an A domain. Each of these toxins contain a second protein subunit, which inserts the RIP into a cell, enabling it to enzymatically inactivate the ribosomes, shutting down protein synthesis, stopping basic cell functions, resulting in cell death, and eventually causing death of the victim. The enzymatic activity of RIPs is unusually specific: a single adenine base is removed from the ribosomal RNA of the large subunit of the ribosome. RIP uses the User Datagram Protocol (UDP) as its transport protocol, and is assigned the reserved port number 520. Netgear routers commonly offer a choice of two implementations of RIPv2; these are labelled RIP_2M and RIP_2B. 
Ribosomopathies have a high degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. [SEP] Ribosomopathies are diseases caused by abnormalities in the structure or function of ribosomal component proteins or rRNA genes, or other genes whose products are involved in ribosome biogenesis. Ribosomopathies can arise from abnormalities of either rRNA or the various RPs.The nomenclature of rRNA subunits is derived from each component's Svedberg unit, which is an ultracentrifuge sedimentation coefficient, that is affected by mass and also shape. Diseases
Abnormal ribosome biogenesis is linked to several human genetic diseases.Ribosomopathy has been linked to skeletal muscle atrophy, and underpins most Diamond–Blackfan anemia (DBA), the X-linked subtype of dyskeratosis congenita (DKCX),  Treacher Collins syndrome  (TCS), Shwachman–Diamond syndrome (SDS) and 5q- myelodysplastic syndrome. p53
The p53 pathway is central to the ribosomopathy phenotype. Cancer
Cancer cells have irregularly shaped, large nucleoli, which may correspond ribosomal gene transcription up-regulation, and hence high cell proliferation. Ribosomopathy has been linked to the pathology of various malignancies. Several ribosomopathies are associated with an increased rate of cancer. Ribosomal diseases and cancer
Ribosomopathies are congenital human disorders resulting from defects in ribosomal protein or rRNA genes, or other genes whose products are implicated in ribosome biogenesis. 
Risedronate increases risk of vertebral and non-vertebral fractures. [SEP] Complication
As well as susceptibility to breaks and fractures, osteoporosis can lead to other complications. Anticoagulants – long-term use of heparin is associated with a decrease in bone density, and warfarin (and related coumarins) have been linked with an increased risk in osteoporotic fracture in long-term use. There is concern that many people do not receive appropriate pharmacological therapy after a low-impact fracture.For those with osteoporosis but who have not had a fracture, evidence does not support a reduction in fracture risk with risedronate or etidronate. Prognosis
Although people with osteoporosis have increased mortality due to the complications of fracture, the fracture itself is rarely lethal. Bisphosphonates are beneficial in reducing the risk of vertebral fracture in steroid induced osteoporosis. Risedronate has also been shown to reduce the risk of hip fractures.After five years of medications by mouth or three years of intravenous medication among those at low risk, bisphosphonate treatment can be stopped. In a 2013 double-blind trial of children with mild OI, oral risedronate increased bone mineral densities, and reduced nonvertebral fractures. In 2008, the EMA's Pharmacovigilance Working Party (PhVWP) noted that alendronic acid was associated with an increased risk of atypical fracture of the femur that developed with low or no trauma. 
Rising temperatures caused by global warming increases risk of dengue fever transmission. [SEP] Scientists found in 2022 that rising temperatures are increasing the areas where dengue fever, malaria and other mosquito-carried diseases are able to spread. The rise in temperatures is anticipated to enable the transmission of diseases throughout Japan, including vector-borne illnesses like dengue, which tend to thrive in warmer climates. Climate change and Dengue, Zika and Malaria
The effects of climate change are expected to widen the geographic range and environmental conditions suitable for various vector-borne infectious diseases, including dengue. The likelihood of dengue transmission is amplified by rising temperatures, as the development and proliferation of mosquitoes are substantially impacted by factors such as temperature, precipitation, and humidity. Dengue incidence has increased in the last few decades and is projected to continue to do so with changing climate conditions. Climate change has created conditions favorable to the spread of the dengue virus. The recent spread of this primary vector of dengue is attributed to globalization, trade, travel, demographic trends, and warming temperatures.Dengue is ranked as the most important vector-borne viral disease in the world. In addition to Zika virus transmission, mosquito-borne diseases such as yellow fever and dengue fever are also predicted to be more prevalent due to climate change. 
Rising temperatures caused by global warming lowers the risk of dengue fever transmission. [SEP] Scientists found in 2022 that rising temperatures are increasing the areas where dengue fever, malaria and other mosquito-carried diseases are able to spread. Infectious diseases whose transmission can be impacted by climate change include dengue fever, malaria, tick-borne diseases, leishmaniasis and Ebola virus disease. Mosquitoes are sensitive to temperature changes and the warming of their environment will boost their rates of production. Dengue incidence has increased in the last few decades and is projected to continue to do so with changing climate conditions. Climate change has created conditions favorable to the spread of the dengue virus. Another influence is the changing El Nino effects that are affecting the climate to change in different areas of the world, causing dengue fever to be able to spread. In addition to Zika virus transmission, mosquito-borne diseases such as yellow fever and dengue fever are also predicted to be more prevalent due to climate change. It is thought that climate change could lead to dengue fever epidemics in Europe by 2100 if Aedes mosquito vectors become established. 
Risk of cardiovascular events can be cut by a third by using antihypertensive drug therapy among hemodialysis patients. [SEP] Aggressive blood pressure lowering decreases people's risk of death. A 2021 Cochrane review of controlled trials in people with CKD at any stage, including those on dialysis, found high-certainty evidence that reduced salt intake may help to lower both systolic and diastolic blood pressure, as well as albuminuria. Omega-3 fatty acid supplementation
In people with CKD who require hemodialysis, there is a risk that vascular blockage due to clotting, may prevent dialysis therapy from being possible. Administration of antihypertensive drugs generally halts disease progression in white populations but has little effect in slowing kidney disease among black people, and additional treatment such as bicarbonate therapy is often required. This combination is synergistic in lowering blood pressure. Later, they were found useful for other cardiovascular and kidney diseases including:

Acute myocardial infarction (heart attack)
Heart failure (left ventricular systolic dysfunction)
Kidney complications of diabetes mellitus (diabetic nephropathy) by means of decreasing the blood pressure and increasing perfusion in glomerular arterioles.In treating high blood pressure, ACE inhibitors are often the first drug choice, particularly when diabetes is present, but age can lead to different choices and it is common to need more than one drug to obtain the desired improvement. This decreases blood volume, leading to decreased blood pressure.Epidemiological and clinical studies have shown ACE inhibitors reduce the progress of diabetic nephropathy independently from their blood pressure-lowering effect. The use of a maximum dose of ACE inhibitors in such patients (including for prevention of diabetic nephropathy, congestive heart failure, and prophylaxis of cardiovascular events) is justified, because it improves clinical outcomes independently of the blood pressure-lowering effect of ACE inhibitors. 
Risk-adjusted mortality rates are similar in teaching and non-teaching hospitals. [SEP] Risk factors
Hospitals are primary transmission sites for CRE-based infections. The CRE strains in the sinks and the strains infecting the ICU patients were identical per genetic analysis. 58% of community hospitals in the U.S. are non-profit, 21% are government-owned, and 21% are for-profit. The nonprofit hospitals share of total hospital capacity has remained relatively stable (about 70%) for decades. A 2008 study found that 101,000 people a year die in the US that would not if the healthcare system were as effective as that of France, Japan, or Australia. One recent study has found that when minority and white patients use the same hospital, they are given the same standard of care.Medical devices are expensive because the process of designing and approving them is long and costly, requiring that they be sold at higher than market price. The city's overdose mortality rated remained the same as it was pre-pandemic, providing an indication that more naloxone was being administered to overdose victims. Finally, standardized training programs for anaesthesiologists and nurse anaesthetists emerged during this period. 
Rotator cuff exercises are more effective than general exercise therapy in reducing pain and improving function of the shoulder. [SEP] Pain management
Treatment for a rotator cuff tear can include rest, ice, physical therapy, and/or surgery. Manual therapy
A systematic review and Meta-analysis study shows manual therapy may help to reduce pain for patient with Rotator cuff tendiopathy, based on low- to moderate-quality evidence. If a surgical option is selected, the rehabilitation of the rotator cuff is necessary in order to regain maximum strength and range of motion within the shoulder joint. Orthotherapy exercises
Patients that suffer from pain in the rotator cuff may consider utilizing orthotherapy into their daily lives. (See external links)
The recommendations usually include:

regular shoulder exercises to maintain strength and flexibility
using proper form when lifting or moving heavy weights
resting the shoulder when experiencing pain
application of cold packs and heat pads to a painful, inflamed shoulder
strengthening program to include the back and shoulder girdle muscles as well as the chest, shoulder and upper arm
adequate rest periods in occupations that require repetitive lifting and reaching

Size
According to a study which measured tendon length against the size of the injured rotator cuff, researchers learned that as rotator cuff tendons decrease in length, the average rotator cuff tear severity is proportionally decreased, as well. Exercise decreases shoulder pain, strengthens the joint, and improves range of motion. There is no irrefutable evidence that rotator cuff surgery benefits more than non-surgical management and a percentage of individuals never regain full range of motion after surgery.Arthroscopic procedures produce "satisfactory results" more than 90 percent of the time. Subacromial corticosteroid injections can be effective for people with shoulder pain related to injury/inflammation of the rotator cuff region. 
Roughly 55% of women with chronic pelvic pain have no underlying pathology. [SEP] Another female sexual pain disorder is vulvodynia, or vulvar vestibulitis when localized to the Vulval vestibule. It has an incidence estimated at 0.4–3% or more, is most common in men 40–70, and has no certain cause. Pelvic floor dysfunction
Pelvic floor dysfunction can be an underlying cause of sexual dysfunction in both women and men, and is treatable by pelvic floor physical therapy, a type of physical therapy designed to restore the health and function of the pelvic floor and surrounding areas. Pelvic pain might also occur especially during urinating and sex. In other words, these cancers are not detected usually because they do not cause pain or discomfort when they are discovered. Pelvic weakness can also cause a Trendelenburg's sign. Women are less likely to be symptomatic, and if symptomatic have less severe manifestations.Remaining variations in disease course are attributed to unknown environmental factors. Often episodes have no symptoms. 
Satellite cell dysfunction is a key factor in sarcopenia development. [SEP] Sarcopenia is considered a component of frailty syndrome. Sarcopenia can lead to reduced quality of life, falls, fracture, and disability.Sarcopenia is a factor in changing body composition associated with aging populations; and certain muscle regions are expected to be affected first, specifically the anterior thigh and abdominal muscles. Sarcopenia may also cause reduced strength, functional decline and increased risk of falling. Other factors that can increase rate of progression of sarcopenia include decreased nutrient intake, low physical activity, or chronic disease. Pathophysiology
There are multiple theories proposed to explain the mechanisms of muscle changes of sarcopenia including changes in satellite cell recruitment, changes in anabolic signalling, protein oxidation, inflammation, and developmental factors. Sarcopenia is a predictor of many adverse outcomes including increased disability, falls and mortality. Sarcopenia is commonly an age-related process that can cause frailty and its consequences. While the exact cause of sarcopenia is unknown, it may be induced by a combination of a gradual failure in the satellite cells which help to regenerate skeletal muscle fibers, and a decrease in sensitivity to or the availability of critical secreted growth factors which are necessary to maintain muscle mass and satellite cell survival. 
ScPif1p has higher binding ability to G-rich ssDNA than to non-G-rich ssDNA. [SEP] DNA with high GC-content is more stable than DNA with low GC-content. ssDNA vs. dsDNA
As noted above, most DNA molecules are actually two polymer strands, bound together in a helical fashion by noncovalent bonds; this double-stranded (dsDNA) structure is maintained largely by the intrastrand base stacking interactions, which are strongest for G,C stacks. These proteins are important in bending arrays of nucleosomes and arranging them into the larger structures that make up chromosomes.A distinct group of DNA-binding proteins is the DNA-binding proteins that specifically bind single-stranded DNA. These binding proteins seem to stabilize single-stranded DNA and protect it from forming stem-loops or being degraded by nucleases. In contrast, other proteins have evolved to bind to particular DNA sequences. ssDNA viruses have the same manner of transcription as dsDNA viruses. The unassigned families Anelloviridae and Spiraviridae are ssDNA virus families. Viruses in the family Finnlakeviridae contain ssDNA genomes. 
ScPif1p has reduced binding ability to G-rich ssDNA compared to non-G-rich ssDNA. [SEP] Reduced affect can be symptomatic of autism,  schizophrenia, depression, posttraumatic stress disorder, depersonalization disorder, schizoid personality disorder or brain damage. Brain structures
Individuals with schizophrenia with blunted affect show different regional brain activity in fMRI scans when presented with emotional stimuli compared to individuals with schizophrenia without blunted affect. There is some evidence that blunted affect symptoms in schizophrenia patients are not a result of just amygdala responsiveness, but a result of the amygdala not being integrated with other areas of the brain associated with emotional processing, particularly in amygdala-prefrontal cortex coupling. Failure to activate the PFC is possibly involved in impaired emotional processing in individuals with schizophrenia with blunted affect. Another study found that when speaking, individuals with schizophrenia with flat affect demonstrate less inflection than normal controls and appear to be less fluent. Feet were bound to their smallest in the northern provinces of Hebei, Shandong, Shanxi, and Shaanxi, but was less extreme and less common in the southern provinces of Guangdong, Guangxi, Yunnan, and Guizhou, where not all daughters of the wealthy had bound feet. He subsequently served as assistant chief of staff of the XXI Corps, and assistant chief of staff for personnel (G-1). Family
In 1935, Rich married Lucile Elizabeth Schalker. 
Scapular stabilizer exercises are more effective than general exercise therapy in reducing pain and improving function of the shoulder. [SEP] (See external links)
The recommendations usually include:

regular shoulder exercises to maintain strength and flexibility
using proper form when lifting or moving heavy weights
resting the shoulder when experiencing pain
application of cold packs and heat pads to a painful, inflamed shoulder
strengthening program to include the back and shoulder girdle muscles as well as the chest, shoulder and upper arm
adequate rest periods in occupations that require repetitive lifting and reaching

Size
According to a study which measured tendon length against the size of the injured rotator cuff, researchers learned that as rotator cuff tendons decrease in length, the average rotator cuff tear severity is proportionally decreased, as well. When the shoulder muscle is exercised in all directions, such as external rotation, flexion, and extension, or vertical abduction, it is less likely to develop a tear of the tendon. The empty can and full can exercises are amongst the most effective at isolating and strengthening the supraspinatus.Following arthroscopic rotator-cuff repair surgery, individuals need rehabilitation and physical therapy. Exercise decreases shoulder pain, strengthens the joint, and improves range of motion. In some studies, those who received earlier and more aggressive therapy reported reduced shoulder pain, less stiffness and better range of motion. Other research has shown that accelerated rehab results in better shoulder function. The strengthening focuses on the rotator cuff and the upper back/scapular stabilizers. References
This article contains text from the public domain document "Questions and Answers about Shoulder Problems" (PDF). 
Self-advocacy training is effective at decreasing homelessness. [SEP] Alleviation of poverty, as a result, plays an essential role in eliminating homelessness. This study shows that a proper approach to poverty could effectively eliminate this factor as part of a solution to homelessness. They have sought to counteract the causes and reduce the consequences by starting initiatives that help homeless people transition to self-sufficiency. In September 2010, it was reported that the Housing First Initiative had significantly reduced the chronic homeless single person population in Boston, Massachusetts, although homeless families were still increasing in number. Multiple studies have demonstrated success in reducing the homeless population as well as its harmful financial and societal effects by providing these individuals with a combination of housing without preconditions and supportive care. Education of homeless youth is thought to be essential in breaking the cycle of poverty. Studies have found that the tailored approach is good at engaging homeless persons seeking health care for the first time. In September 2019, the Council of Economic Advisers released a report in which they stated that deregulation of the housing markets would reduce homelessness in some of the most constrained markets by estimates of 54% in San Francisco, 40 percent in Los Angeles,: 1  and 38 percent in San Diego, because rents would fall by 55 percent, 41 percent, and 39 percent respectively. 
Sepsis related mortality has remained stable between 2009-2014. [SEP] The Age of Degenerative and Man-Made Diseases: Mortality continues to decline and eventually approaches stability at a relatively low level. Medical and public health improvements have reduced mortality, while the birth rate remains high. Worldwide, mortality rates have decreased as both technological and medical advancements have led to a tremendous decrease in infectious diseases. The prevalence varies from country to country but all of the subtypes are continuously circulating in swine herds. The mortality rate is less than 10% for swine flu, unless there are complications like hog cholera. 2009 Northern Ireland
Since November 2009, 14 deaths as a result of swine flu in Northern Ireland have been reported. 1,090 people died of swine flu in India in 2019 until August 31, 2019. This strain has remained as a stable flu strain until now. 
Sepsis related mortality has risen from 2009 to 2014. [SEP] The rate of SMM has increased almost 200% between 1993 (49.5 per 100,000 live births) and 2014 (144.0 per 100,000 live births). This can be seen with the increased rate of blood transfusions given during delivery, which increased from 1993 (24.5 per 100,000 live births) to 2014 (122.3 per 100,000 live births).In the United States, severe maternal morbidity has increased over the last several years, impacting greater than 50,000 women in 2014 alone. This is up from 49,000 in 1990. The change in trend of maternal mortality can be attributed with the widespread use of antibiotics along with the progression of medical technology, more extensive physician training, and less medical interference with normal deliveries.Since the US began recording childbirth statistics in 1915, the US has had historically poor maternal mortality rates in comparison to other developed countries. The affected person's respiratory rate often increases in the presence of respiratory distress. Sepsis also increases the risk of developing new-onset atrial fibrillation. In sepsis, fever is associated with reduced mortality. Up to 50,000 deaths each year in the U.S. are linked to S. aureus infections. 
Sequence conservation in gene regulatory regions between species is a high-accuracy predictor of conserved functionality. [SEP] In evolutionary biology, conserved sequences are identical or similar sequences in nucleic acids (DNA and RNA) or proteins across species (orthologous sequences), or within a genome (paralogous sequences), or between donor and receptor taxa (xenologous sequences). The study of sequence conservation overlaps with the fields of genomics, proteomics, evolutionary biology, phylogenetics, bioinformatics and mathematics. Identification
Conserved sequences are typically identified by bioinformatics approaches based on sequence alignment. The conservation of a sequence may then be inferred by detection of highly similar homologs over a broad phylogenetic range. Multiple sequence alignment
Multiple sequence alignments can be used to visualise conserved sequences. Genome alignment
Whole genome alignments (WGAs) may also be used to identify highly conserved regions across species. The GERP (Genomic Evolutionary Rate Profiling) framework scores conservation of genetic sequences across species. To detect conservation, a probability distribution is calculated for a subset of the multiple sequence alignment, and compared to the background distribution using a statistical test such as a likelihood-ratio test or score test. 
Sequence conservation in gene regulatory regions between species is a poor predictor of conserved functionality. [SEP] Highly conserved DNA sequences are thought to have functional value, although the role for many highly conserved non-coding DNA sequences is poorly understood. Non-coding
Non-coding sequences important for gene regulation, such as the binding or recognition sites of ribosomes and transcription factors, may be conserved within a genome. However, sequence conservation in ncRNAs is generally poor compared to protein-coding sequences, and base pairs that contribute to structure or function are often conserved instead. Although conservation is variable among selected species’ genomes, orthologous gene deserts function similarly. This may hold true, as given the low numbers of essential genes within them, these regions would have been less conserved. In virtually every organism analyzed, methylation in promoter regions correlates negatively with gene expression. However, further investigations into vertebrate lncRNAs revealed that while lncRNAs are conserved in sequence, they are not conserved in transcription. In other words, even when the sequence of a human lncRNA is conserved in another vertebrate species, there is often no transcription of a lncRNA in the orthologous genomic region. 
Side effects associated with antidepressants do not represent a mortality risk to postmenopausal women. [SEP] There is no evidence that coffee stunts a child's growth. Two reviews indicate that increased consumption of coffee and caffeine may reduce the risk of depression.Some textbooks state that caffeine is a mild euphoriant, while others state that it is not a euphoriant.Caffeine-induced anxiety disorder is a subclass of the DSM-5 diagnosis of substance/medication-induced anxiety disorder. These cardiovascular side effects were not seen with smaller amounts of caffeine consumption in energy drinks (less than 200 mg). For example, when additional caffeine is added, the drug effect produced by alcohol is not reduced. Caffeine antagonizes the activational aspect of behavioral control, but has no effect on the inhibitory behavioral control. However the European Union does not have mandatory folic acid fortification. NTDs are not to be confused with spina bifida, which does not involve neural elements. Sex and age also plays a role, with premenopausal females being less sensitive to choline deficiency than either males or postmenopausal females. 
Side effects associated with antidepressants increases risk of stroke. [SEP] Risk of death
A 2017 meta-analysis found that antidepressants including SSRIs were associated with significantly increased risk of death (+33%) and new cardiovascular complications (+14%) in the general population. Antidepressants are a class of medications used to treat major depressive disorder, anxiety disorders, chronic pain, and addiction.Common side effects of antidepressants include dry mouth, weight gain, dizziness, headaches, sexual dysfunction, and emotional blunting. Adverse effects
Antidepressants can cause various adverse effects, depending on the individual and the drug in question.Almost any medication involved with serotonin regulation has the potential to cause serotonin toxicity (also known as serotonin syndrome) — an excess of serotonin that can induce mania, restlessness, agitation, emotional lability, insomnia, and confusion as its primary symptoms. Risk of death
A 2017 meta-analysis found that antidepressants were associated with a significantly increased risk of death (+33%) and new cardiovascular complications (+14%) in the general population. Long-term complications may include pneumonia and loss of bladder control.The biggest risk factor for stroke is high blood pressure. Drugs, most commonly amphetamines and cocaine, can induce stroke through damage to the blood vessels in the brain and acute hypertension. Blood pressure
High blood pressure accounts for 35–50% of stroke risk. Diabetes mellitus
Diabetes mellitus increases the risk of stroke by 2 to 3 times. 
Side effects associated with antidepressants lower risk of myocardial infarction. [SEP] Our results show that the harmful effects of SSRIs versus placebo for major depressive disorder seem to outweigh any potentially small beneficial effects". Thrombosis risk is reduced because SSRIs limit serotonin availability to platelets, so benefits, such as stroke recovery, of reduced clotting go up, with SSRIs. Cardiac
SSRIs do not appear to affect the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) in those without a previous diagnosis of CHD. Risk of death
A 2017 meta-analysis found that antidepressants including SSRIs were associated with significantly increased risk of death (+33%) and new cardiovascular complications (+14%) in the general population. conducted meta-analyses which have shown that after antidepressant treatment the levels of cytokines associated with inflammation are decreased. Tricyclic antidepressants also have a higher risk of serious cardiovascular side effects, which SSRIs lack. The heart disease risk may be lower than with other NSAIDs. Thromboembolism
Myocardial infarction
Stroke

Long-term effects
Some studies have found decreased life expectancy associated with the use of antipsychotics, and argued that more studies are needed. 
Sildenafil worsens erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. [SEP] SSRI antidepressants are a common pharmaceutical culprit, as they can delay orgasm or eliminate it entirely. Post SSRI sexual dysfunction
Sexual problems are common with SSRIs, which can cause anorgasmia, erectile dysfunction, diminished libido, genital numbness, and sexual anhedonia (pleasureless orgasm). Side effects
Side effects vary among the individual drugs of this class and may include:

increased risk of bone fractures
akathisia
suicidal ideation (thoughts of suicide) and other risks (see below)

Sexual dysfunction
SSRIs can cause various types of sexual dysfunction such as anorgasmia, erectile dysfunction, diminished libido, genital numbness, and sexual anhedonia (pleasureless orgasm). Sexual problems are common with SSRIs. On the 11th of June 2019 the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee of the European Medicines Agency concluded that a possible relationship exists between SSRI use and persistent sexual dysfunction after cessation of use. Management strategies include: for erectile dysfunction the addition of a PDE5 inhibitor such as sildenafil; for decreased libido, possibly adding or switching to bupropion; and for overall sexual dysfunction, switching to nefazodone.A number of non-SSRI drugs are not associated with sexual side effects (such as bupropion, mirtazapine, tianeptine, agomelatine, tranylcypromine and moclobemide). Several studies have suggested that SSRIs may adversely affect semen quality.While trazodone (an antidepressant with alpha adrenergic receptor blockade) is a notorious cause of priapism, cases of priapism have also been reported with certain SSRIs (e.g. Sexual Dysfunction
SNRIs, similarly to SSRIs, can cause several types of sexual dysfunction, such as erectile dysfunction, decreased libido, sexual anhedonia, and anorgasmia. 
Smc5/6 engagment halts the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. [SEP] Structural maintenance of chromosomes protein 5 is a protein encoded by the SMC5 gene in human.The structural maintenance of chromosomes' complex underlying mechanisms involved in the dynamics of chromatin dynamics is unknown, and new discoveries are shedding light on the various functions. The SMC complex has an ATPase activity, a conserved kleisin, as well as regulatory subunits. Structure
The Smc5/6 complex was discovered in fission yeast. Nse1-Nse3-Nse4 subunits bridge the Smc5 head Smc6 and allow the binding of DNA.It is involved in the Alternative lengthening of telomeres cancer mechanism. Nse1-Nse3-Nse4 subunits bridge the Smc5 head Smc6 and allow the binding of DNA.It is potentially involved in the Alternative lengthening of telomeres cancer mechanism. SUMOylation is a post-translational modification involved in various cellular processes, such as nuclear-cytosolic transport, transcriptional regulation, apoptosis, protein stability, response to stress, and progression through the cell cycle.SUMO proteins are similar to ubiquitin and are considered members of the ubiquitin-like protein family. Function
SUMO modification of proteins has many functions. It is thought that the E3 ligase promotes the efficiency of SUMOylation and in some cases has been shown to direct SUMO conjugation onto non-consensus motifs. 
Sn is present on mature DCs during inflammation in vivo. [SEP] Binding occurs late in the apoptotic process and enhances cytokine production by DCs. ), inflammation (e.g. Its cellular component involves primarily monocyte/macrophages, granulocytes, and dendritic cells (DCs), which are activated upon sensing of conserved pathogen structures (PAMPs) by pattern recognition receptors such as Toll-like receptors ((TLRs)). The production of IL-6 in response to SeV infection is restricted to conventional dendritic cells (DCs) subsets, such as CD4+ and double negative (dnDC).The UV-inactivated SeV (and likely the alive virus as well) can stimulate dendritic cells to secrete chemokines and cytokines such as interleukin-6, interferon-beta, chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 5, and chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 10. SeV stimulation of dendritic cells
UV-inactivated SeV can cause dendritic cells (DCs) to maturate and to infiltrate a tumor. Ex vivo infection of DCs with recombinant non-transmissible SeV induces maturation and activation of DCs within 60 minutes. Most important observation is that SeV infection triggers DC maturation, which is manifested in DC cell surface markers composition. SeV can replicate to high titers in human monocyte-derived DCs. 
Specialized functional cell types can be derived from human pluripotent stem cells. [SEP] Using genetic reprogramming with protein transcription factors, pluripotent stem cells with ESC-like capabilities have been derived. They thus have great differentiation potential; theoretically, they could produce any cell within the human body (if reprogramming to pluripotency was "complete"). Pluripotent stem cells have shown promise in treating a number of varying conditions, including but not limited to: spinal cord injuries, age related macular degeneration, diabetes, neurodegenerative disorders (such as Parkinson's disease), AIDS, etc. Utilizations
According to a 2002 article in PNAS, "Human embryonic stem cells have the potential to differentiate into various cell types, and, thus, may be useful as a source of cells for transplantation or tissue engineering." For human treatment, there is a need for patient specific pluripotent cells. "In 2007, it was shown that pluripotent stem cells, highly similar to embryonic stem cells, can be induced by the delivery of four factors (Oct3/4, Sox2, c-Myc, and Klf4) to differentiated cells. Utilizing the four genes previously listed, the differentiated cells are "reprogrammed" into pluripotent stem cells, allowing for the generation of pluripotent/embryonic stem cells without the embryo. These cells are referred to as pluripotent.Pluripotent stem cells undergo further specialization into multipotent progenitor cells that then give rise to functional cells. 
Splenomegaly is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. [SEP] Splenomegaly is an enlargement of the spleen. Splenomegaly is one of the four cardinal signs of hypersplenism which include: some reduction in number of circulating blood cells affecting granulocytes, erythrocytes or platelets in any combination; a compensatory proliferative response in the bone marrow; and the potential for correction of these abnormalities by splenectomy. It is therefore not surprising that splenomegaly is associated with any disease process that involves abnormal red blood cells being destroyed in the spleen. Causes
The most common causes of splenomegaly in developed countries are infectious mononucleosis, splenic infiltration with cancer cells from a hematological malignancy and portal hypertension (most commonly secondary to liver disease, and sarcoidosis). Splenomegaly also occurs in mammals parasitized by Cuterebra fontinella.The possible causes of moderate splenomegaly (spleen <1000 g) are many, and include:

The causes of massive splenomegaly (spleen >1000 g) are

chronic myelogenous leukemia
myelofibrosis
malaria
splenic marginal zone lymphoma

Pathophysiology
Splenomegaly can be classified based on its pathophysiologic mechanism:

Congestive, by pooled blood (e.g., portal hypertension)
Infiltrative, by invasion by cells foreign to the splenic environment (e.g., metastases, myeloid neoplasms, lipid storage diseases)
Immune, by an increase in immunologic activity and subsequent hyperplasia (e.g., endocarditis, sarcoidosis, rheumatoid arthritis)
Neoplastic, when resident immune cells originate a neoplasm (e.g., lymphoma). See also
References
External links
Splenomegaly and hypersplenism at patient.info The tropical splenomegaly syndrome. Neelam Raval, Neela Shah and S. N. Vani: Tropical splenomegaly syndrome, Indian Journal of Pediatrics, Volume 58, Number 5, 679–681, doi:10.1007/BF02820190 
Stacking is more stable when a purine is present in the +5 position (C1698). [SEP] Purine is a heterocyclic aromatic organic compound that consists of two rings (pyrimidine and imidazole) fused together. When purines are formed, they inhibit the enzymes required for more purine formation. Properties
Purine is both a very weak acid (pKa 8.93) and an even weaker base (pKa 2.39). Purine is aromatic, having four tautomers each with a hydrogen bonded to a different one of the four nitrogen atoms. Notable purines
There are many naturally occurring purines. Purines are biologically synthesized as nucleosides (bases attached to ribose). The source of the carbon and nitrogen atoms of the purine ring, 5 and 4 respectively, come from multiple sources. Formyl groups build carbon-2 and carbon-8 in the purine ring system, which are the ones acting as bridges between two nitrogen atoms. 
Stiff substrates encourage mesodermal differentiation by degrading beta-catenin in an integrin-dependent manner. [SEP] Beta-catenin acts as a co-factor that alters the activity of the transcription factor tcf-3 from repressing to activating, which initiates the synthesis of gene products critical for mesoderm differentiation and gastrulation. The lateral plate mesoderm gives rise to the heart, blood vessels, and blood cells of the circulatory system, as well as to the mesodermal components of the limbs.Some of the mesoderm derivatives include the muscle (smooth, cardiac, and skeletal), the muscles of the tongue (occipital somites), the pharyngeal arches muscle (muscles of mastication, muscles of facial expressions), connective tissue, the dermis and subcutaneous layer of the skin, bone and cartilage, dura mater, the endothelium of blood vessels, red blood cells, white blood cells, microglia, the dentin of teeth, the kidneys, and the adrenal cortex. Development
During the third week, a process called gastrulation creates a mesodermal layer between the endoderm and the ectoderm. Molecular regulation of somite differentiation
Surrounding structures such as the notochord, neural tube, epidermis and lateral plate mesoderm send signals for somite differentiation Notochord protein accumulates in presomitic mesoderm destined to form the next somite and then decreases as that somite is established. However, there are still some doubts in how the prospective mesodermal cells integrate the various signals they receive and how they regulate their morphogenic behaviours and cell-fate decisions. They are also able to remodel and contract collagen and were induced to express muscle actin. "The formation of mesoderm and muscle in Xenopus". "Early Embryonic Mesoderm Development". 
Stiff substrates inhibit mesodermal differentiation by degrading beta-catenin in an integrin-dependent manner. [SEP] Beta-catenin acts as a co-factor that alters the activity of the transcription factor tcf-3 from repressing to activating, which initiates the synthesis of gene products critical for mesoderm differentiation and gastrulation. The lateral plate mesoderm gives rise to the heart, blood vessels, and blood cells of the circulatory system, as well as to the mesodermal components of the limbs.Some of the mesoderm derivatives include the muscle (smooth, cardiac, and skeletal), the muscles of the tongue (occipital somites), the pharyngeal arches muscle (muscles of mastication, muscles of facial expressions), connective tissue, the dermis and subcutaneous layer of the skin, bone and cartilage, dura mater, the endothelium of blood vessels, red blood cells, white blood cells, microglia, the dentin of teeth, the kidneys, and the adrenal cortex. Development
During the third week, a process called gastrulation creates a mesodermal layer between the endoderm and the ectoderm. Molecular regulation of somite differentiation
Surrounding structures such as the notochord, neural tube, epidermis and lateral plate mesoderm send signals for somite differentiation Notochord protein accumulates in presomitic mesoderm destined to form the next somite and then decreases as that somite is established. However, there are still some doubts in how the prospective mesodermal cells integrate the various signals they receive and how they regulate their morphogenic behaviours and cell-fate decisions. They are also able to remodel and contract collagen and were induced to express muscle actin. "The formation of mesoderm and muscle in Xenopus". "Early Embryonic Mesoderm Development". 
Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a higher risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. [SEP] Anticoagulation drugs
Oral anticoagulants such as warfarin have been the mainstay of stroke prevention for over 50 years. The most widely used anticoagulant to prevent thromboembolic stroke in people with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation is the oral agent warfarin while a number of newer agents including dabigatran are alternatives which do not require prothrombin time monitoring.Anticoagulants, when used following stroke, should not be stopped for dental procedures.If studies show carotid artery stenosis, and the person has a degree of residual function on the affected side, carotid endarterectomy (surgical removal of the stenosis) may decrease the risk of recurrence if performed rapidly after stroke. Newer non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants appear to have fewer life-threatening bleeding events compared to warfarin. Anticoagulant therapy can decrease the relative risk of ischemic stroke in those with atrial fibrillation by 67% Warfarin is a common anticoagulant used, but direct acting oral anticoagulants (DOACs), such as apixaban, have been shown to be equally effective while also conferring a lower risk of bleeding. In contrast, those with a high risk of stroke derive most benefit from anticoagulant treatment with warfarin or similar drugs. However, in the case of warfarin, if someone with AF has a yearly risk of stroke that is less than 2%, then the risks associated with taking warfarin outweigh the risk of getting a stroke from AF. With the likely availability of new oral anticoagulants that avoid the limitations of warfarin (and may even be safer), more widespread use of oral anticoagulation therapy for stroke prevention in AF is likely. Chronic anticoagulation
Among patients with nonvalvular AF, anticoagulation with warfarin can reduce stroke by 60% while antiplatelet agents can reduce stroke by 20%. 
Students who perform poorly in the early years of medical school are at increased risk for professional misconduct later in their careers. [SEP] There were some reports of corruption in student assessment such as staff changing marks, favouring their relatives and selectively leaking questions. Girls' attempts to cope with the educational system may increase their risk of violence and sexual abuse. Abused girls are more likely to have low attainment, more grade repetition and a higher drop-out rate than non-abused girls.Most teachers (79%), students (69%) and some parents (55%) were aware of rules to stop violence against girls. This contributes to low achievement, dismissal and dropping out. Research had indicated that among U.S. academic medical faculty members, about 30% of women and 4% of men have reported experiencing sexual harassment, and it has been noted that medical staff who complain often receive negative consequences to their careers. Effects of early maltreatment of children
Children with histories of maltreatment, such as physical and psychological neglect, physical abuse, and sexual abuse, are at risk of developing psychiatric problems. Mass recruitment of poorly skilled applicants occurs, and some of these are trained at substandard facilities. The "publish or perish" system has been argued to contribute to many low quality journals and articles that are infrequently cited and also to plagiarism and fraud. 
Students who perform poorly in the early years of medical school are less likely to commit professional misconduct later in their careers. [SEP] Medicine
MeToo has encouraged discussion about sexual harassment in the medical field. Other evidence has indicated 60% of medical trainees and students experienced harassment or discrimination during training, though most do not report the incidents. She sympathized with them but stressed the importance of punishing misconduct regardless of whether the perpetrator is viewed as "a bad guy" overall. Fear of retribution is considered one reason some law-enforcement officers are not subjected to significant consequences for known misconduct. Civil Service, as an institution, was traditionally used to prevent nepotism and the influence of politics in appointments to the position. Hence, they are less likely to encounter the first risk they described at the outset of their review: clinicians and researchers are not simply avoiding use of the PD construct in youth. These traits correlate with a low risk of developing personality disorders later on in life. The crime rate among the mentally ill is lower than among so-called 'normal' people. 
Suboptimal nutrition is a leading cause of premature death [SEP] This report contained three main findings: 

Premature birth has many different causes, and prevention is challenging,
Prematurity is the most common cause of neonatal death in many countries, totaling as many as 1 million infants annually due to complications of preterm birth, and
the number of preterm births is currently estimated to be 15 million, and increasing. Feeding practices
Inadequate complementary child feeding and a general lack of vital nutrients beside pure caloric intake is one cause for stunted growth. Maternal nutrition
Poor maternal nutrition during pregnancy and breastfeeding can lead to stunted growth of their children. Prenatal causes of child stunting are associated with maternal undernutrition. A study by the Institute of Development Studies has stressed that: "The first two should be prioritized because they have strong impacts yet are farthest below their desired levels".The goal of UN agencies, governments and NGO is now to optimise nutrition during the first 1000 days of a child's life, from pregnancy to the child's second birthday, in order to reduce the prevalence of stunting. When a child dies of pneumonia, malaria or diarrhea (some of the causes of child mortality in the world), it may well be that malnutrition is a key contributing factor that prevents the body from successfully fighting the infection and recovering from these diseases.In the follow up series in 2013, the focus on undernutrition is expanded to the increasing burden of obesity in both high, middle and low income countries. In developing countries, formula is frequently prepared improperly, resulting in high infant mortality due to malnutrition and diseases such as diarrhea and pneumonia. Unfortunately, poor sanitation led to steeply increased mortality rates among infants fed formula prepared with contaminated water. 
Sudden death can occur in patients with complex ventricular arrhythmias. [SEP] Ventricular tachycardia may turn into ventricular fibrillation and can result in cardiac arrest. This is followed by sudden cardiac death in the absence of treatment. There are many different types of arrhythmias, but the ones most frequently recorded in sudden cardiac arrest are ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation. Others may result in sudden death.Arrhythmias are often categorized into four groups: extra beats, supraventricular tachycardias, ventricular arrhythmias and bradyarrhythmias. About 80% of sudden cardiac death is the result of ventricular arrhythmias. Sudden arrhythmic death syndrome
Sudden arrhythmic death syndrome (SADS), is a term used as part of sudden unexpected death syndrome to describe sudden death because of cardiac arrest occasioned by an arrhythmia in the presence or absence of any structural heart disease on autopsy. There are many inherited conditions and heart diseases that can affect young people which can subsequently cause sudden death without advance symptoms.Causes of SADS in young people include viral myocarditis, long QT syndrome, Brugada syndrome, Catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia. Problems with the electrical pathway of the heart can cause very fast or even deadly arrhythmias. 
Sudden death can occur in patients with orthostatic hypertension without cardiac conduction abnormalities. [SEP] Moderate evidence was found that high salt intake increases cardiovascular mortality; and some evidence was found for an increase in overall mortality, strokes, and left ventricular hypertrophy. In those at risk, but without a history of cardiovascular disease (primary prevention), statins decrease the risk of death and combined fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular disease. Epidemiology
Cardiovascular diseases are the leading cause of death worldwide and in all regions except Africa. Cardiac complications
Anorexia nervosa increases the risk of sudden cardiac death, though the precise cause is unknown. Electrolyte abnormalities, particularly hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia, can cause anomalies in the electrical activity of the heart, and result in life-threatening arrhythmias. Orthostatic hypotension, a marked decrease in blood pressure when standing from a supine position, may also occur. Orthostasis in anorexia nervosa indicates worsening cardiac function and may indicate a need for hospitalization. It has been suggested that there is an association between mitral valve prolapse and sudden cardiac death, but it has not been proven to be causative, either in patients with anorexia nervosa or in the general population. 
Surfactin producing cells and exopolymer producing cells cooperate to generate "Van Gogh" bundles that have sliding abilities on specialized media. [SEP] Surfactin accomplishes this effect by occupying the intermolecular space between water molecules, decreasing the attractive forces between adjacent water molecules, mainly hydrogen bonds, to increase the solution's fluidity. Molecular mechanisms
There are three prevailing hypotheses for how surfactin works. When surfactin penetrates the outer sheet, its fatty acid chain interacts with the acyl chains of the phospholipids, orienting its headgroup toward the phospholipids' polar heads. It requires surfactin to self-associate inside the membrane since it cannot span across the cellular membrane. Insertion of several surfactin molecules into the membrane can lead to the formation of mixed micelles by self-association and bilayer influenced by fatty chain hydrophobicity ultimately leading to bilayer solubilization. Their free-floating characteristic sets TEPs aside from other extracellular polymeric substance subgroups where exopolymers exists as cell coating, dissolved slime or as part of biofilm matrices.The formation of Transparent Exopolymer Particles(TEP) is mainly due to the abiotic coagulation of dissolved carbohydrates, which is secreted by the phytoplankton communities. Transparent Exopolymer Particles ((TEP) have the ability to form larger aggregates because of their strong surface active properties or “stickiness”. Transparent exopolymer particles (TEPs) are extracellular acidic polysaccharides produced by phytoplankton and bacteria in saltwater, freshwater, and wastewater. 
Surgical treatment is not superior to non-surgical in treating adults with displaced fractures of the proximal humerus. [SEP] Less commonly surgery is recommended.Proximal humerus fractures are common. Treatment
There are both non-surgical and surgical options for treatment of proximal humerus fractures. Non-Surgical
Most proximal humerus fractures are stable and can be treated without surgery. This can be done with the assistance of a physical therapist.When properly indicated, non-surgical treatment options for proximal humerus fractures have good outcomes in terms of fracture healing and restoration of arm function. Surgical
Surgical options for unstable proximal humerus fractures include:
Closed reduction with percutaneous pinning (CRPP)
Open reduction with internal fixation (ORIF)
Intramedullary rod fixation
Shoulder arthroplasty
Reverse shoulder arthroplasty

Epidemiology
Proximal humerus fractures account for approximately 4-7% of all fractures in adults. In older children and adolescents proximal humerus fractures frequently occur in the setting of sports or trauma.Proximal humerus fractures in children can commonly be treated non-operatively due to the large amount of bone growth that occurs at the proximal humerus. Most humerus fractures do not require surgical intervention. Compared with non-surgical treatment, surgery does not result in a better outcome for the majority of people with displaced proximal humeral fractures and is likely to result in a greater need for subsequent surgery. 
Sweet taste receptors on the tongue are deactivated by between 1 and 10 mM glucose. [SEP] Sweet taste signals the presence of carbohydrates in solution. At least two different variants of the "sweetness receptors" must be activated for the brain to register sweetness. One class of these inhibits the perception of sweet tastes, whether from sugars or from highly potent sweeteners. It is proposed that the presence of sweet taste receptors in the GI tract controls the feeling of hunger and satiety. Uptake
Ingested glucose initially binds to the receptor for sweet taste on the tongue in humans. The binding of glucose to the sweet receptor on the tongue induces a release of various hormones of energy metabolism, either through glucose or through other sugars, leading to an increased cellular uptake and lower blood sugar levels. The sweet taste is the sensitivity of gustatory cells to the presence of glucose (or sugar substitutes) dissolved in the saliva. These receptors sense "sweetness" on the tongue and sense glucose in the enteric nervous system. 
Sympathetic nerve activity is elevated throughout normal pregnancy. [SEP] Pelvic exams are also performed during pregnancy, and women with high risk pregnancies have exams more often. It has also been shown to be linked in patients with acute stressors such as pregnancy, recent surgery, or recent trauma. It is well known that Parasympathetic (Vagal) over-activation may cause secondary Sympathetic over-activation. Estrogen from the maternal circulation is relatively ineffective, partly because of the high circulating levels of steroid-binding proteins in pregnancy.Sex steroids are not the only important influences upon hypothalamic development; in particular, pre-pubertal stress in early life (of rats) determines the capacity of the adult hypothalamus to respond to an acute stressor. Stress and development
Prenatal stress
There is evidence that prenatal stress can influence HPA regulation. In animal experiments, exposure to prenatal stress has been shown to cause a hyper-reactive HPA stress response. In humans, prolonged maternal stress during gestation is associated with mild impairment of intellectual activity and language development in their children, and with behaviour disorders such as  attention deficits, schizophrenia, anxiety and depression; self-reported maternal stress is associated with a higher irritability, emotional and attentional problems.There is growing evidence that prenatal stress can affect HPA regulation in humans. There may be a critical period during development during which the level of stress hormones in the bloodstream contribute to the permanent calibration of the HPA axis. 
Sympathetic nerve activity is reduced throughout normal pregnancy. [SEP] Because of the fewer nerve endings in the vagina, childbirth pain is significantly more tolerable.Pleasure can be derived from the vagina in a variety of ways. Sympathetic nerve receptors are classified as adrenergic, based on their responsiveness to adrenaline. Intrauterine devices could have dangerous complications that could go undetected if sensation is reduced. This loss constitutes an 80–90% reduction of islet sympathetic nerve endings, happens early in the progression of the disease, and is persistent though the life of the patient. Early in the autoimmune event, the axon pruning is activated in islet sympathetic nerves. Stress hormone release tends to decline gradually after a stressor occurs. In humans, prolonged maternal stress during gestation is associated with mild impairment of intellectual activity and language development in their children, and with behaviour disorders such as  attention deficits, schizophrenia, anxiety and depression; self-reported maternal stress is associated with a higher irritability, emotional and attentional problems.There is growing evidence that prenatal stress can affect HPA regulation in humans. Whereas maternal care improves cardiac response, sleep/wake rhythm, and growth hormone secretion in the neonate, it also suppresses HPA axis activity. 
Systemic immunosuppressive (IS) therapy does not enhance the chance of cancer mortality in patients with inflammatory eye disease (IED) [SEP] In addition, the medications used to treat SLE can cause eye disease: long-term glucocorticoid use can cause cataracts and secondary open-angle glaucoma, and long-term hydroxychloroquine treatment can cause vortex keratopathy and maculopathy. CD27-/IgD- memory B cells are associated with increased disease activity and renal lupus. Cell death signaling
Apoptosis is increased in monocytes and keratinocytes
Expression of Fas by B cells and T cells is increased
There are correlations between the apoptotic rates of lymphocytes and disease activity. Unlike immunosuppressives and corticosteroids, IVIGs do not suppress the immune system, so there is less risk of serious infections with these drugs. Muromonab-CD3 can cause excessive immunosuppression. Side effects
A common side-effect of many immunosuppressive drugs is immunodeficiency, because the majority of them act non-selectively, resulting in increased susceptibility to infections, decreased cancer immunosurveillance and decreased ability to produce antibodies after vaccination. Archived from the original on 29 October 2013. a brief history of immunosuppressive drugs. "Immunosuppressive drug therapy". 
Systemic immunosuppressive (IS) therapy increases the chance of cancer mortality in patients with inflammatory eye disease (IED) [SEP] These are most commonly anti-nuclear antibodies and they result in inflammation. Atherosclerosis also occurs more often and advances more rapidly than in the general population.Steroids are sometimes prescribed as an anti-inflammatory treatment for lupus; however, they can increase one's risk for heart disease, high cholesterol, and atherosclerosis. The most common diseases are dry eye syndrome and secondary Sjögren's syndrome, but episcleritis, scleritis, retinopathy (more often affecting both eyes than one), ischemic optic neuropathy, retinal detachment, and secondary angle-closure glaucoma may occur. In addition, the medications used to treat SLE can cause eye disease: long-term glucocorticoid use can cause cataracts and secondary open-angle glaucoma, and long-term hydroxychloroquine treatment can cause vortex keratopathy and maculopathy. CD27-/IgD- memory B cells are associated with increased disease activity and renal lupus. Cell death signaling
Apoptosis is increased in monocytes and keratinocytes
Expression of Fas by B cells and T cells is increased
There are correlations between the apoptotic rates of lymphocytes and disease activity. Recently, there is increasing evidence HMGB1 contributes to the pathogenesis of chronic inflammatory and autoimmune diseases due to its inflammatory and immune stimulating properties. Unlike immunosuppressives and corticosteroids, IVIGs do not suppress the immune system, so there is less risk of serious infections with these drugs. 
Systemic lupus erythematosus is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. [SEP] Lupus, technically known as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), is an autoimmune disease in which the body's immune system mistakenly attacks healthy tissue in many parts of the body. SLE significantly increases the risk of cardiovascular disease with this being the most common cause of death. Atherosclerosis also occurs more often and advances more rapidly than in the general population.Steroids are sometimes prescribed as an anti-inflammatory treatment for lupus; however, they can increase one's risk for heart disease, high cholesterol, and atherosclerosis. Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease is more prevalent in African Americans with lupus than in Caucasians with lupus. 70% of lupus cases diagnosed are systemic lupus erythematosus. Lupus nephritis  is an inflammation of the kidneys caused by systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), an autoimmune disease. Men with SLE tend to have more aggressive forms of lupus nephritis as well with a higher risk of progression to end stage kidney disease and higher risk of concurrent cardiovascular disease. Systemic Lupus Erythematosus. 
T cell receptor /CD3 microdomains are required to induce the immunologic synapse. [SEP] It has been proposed that they are specialized membrane microdomains which compartmentalize cellular processes by serving as organising centers for the assembly of signaling molecules, allowing a closer interaction of protein receptors and their effectors to promote kinetically favorable interactions necessary for the signal transduction. It has been proposed that these microdomains spatially organize signaling molecules to promote kinetically favorable interactions which are necessary for signal transduction. The function of such receptors located at synapses is to convert the chemical signal of presynaptically released neurotransmitter directly and very quickly into a postsynaptic electrical signal. The threshold for positive and negative selection of developing T cells is regulated by the bound between the Lck and co-receptors.There are two main pools of T cells which mediate adaptive immune responses: CD4+ T cells (or helper T cells), and CD8+ T-cells (or cytotoxic T cells) which are MHCII-and MHCI restricted respectively. Cytotoxic T cells are directly involved in the individuation and in the removal of infected cells, whereas helper T cells modulate other immune cells to supply the response.The initiation of immune response takes place when T cells encounter and recognize their cognate antigen. This binding leads to the activation of TCR signaling cascade in which the immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs (ITAM) located in the CD3-zeta chains (ζ-chains) of the TCR complex, are phosphorylated by Lck and less extended by Fyn. In the case of CD8+ T cells, once ZAP70 binds CD3, the coreceptor associated with Lck binds the MHC stabilizing the TCR-MHC-peptide interaction. The phosphorylated form of ZAP-70 recruits another molecule in the signaling cascade called LAT (Linker for activation of T cells), a transmembrane protein. 
TMEM27 is a marker for beta cells. [SEP] Expression
Based on human expressed sequence tag (EST) profiles, TMEM239 appears to be expressed in the testis and the brain. TMEM239 appears to be expressed at moderate levels in the testes, with low expression in a variety of other tissues, including the brain and submaxillary gland. Interactions
TMEM239 protein interactions appear to be implicated in cell signaling, membrane transport and immunology. A number of other cell signaling proteins physically associated with TMEM239, including Cyclic AMP-dependent transcription factor (ATF-7), FYVE, RhoGEF and PH domain-containing protein 2 (FGD2) and Syndecan binding protein (SDCBP). Lastly, the protein Alpha-N-methyltransferease (TAE1) was found to interact with TMEM239. Structure
The structure of TMEM171 consists of approximately 25% beta strands and 15% alpha helices, with coils and disordered regions making up the rest of the structure. TMEM171 is phosphorylated by unspecified kinases at several sites. There is very little known about TMEM132C and all publications related to the protein are mass genome screens. 
TNFAIP3 is a glioblastoma tumor enhancer. [SEP] Tumor necrosis factor, alpha-induced protein 3 or A20 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNFAIP3 gene.This gene was identified as a gene whose expression is rapidly induced by the tumor necrosis factor (TNF). Using knockout mouse models of TNFAIP3 and its transcriptional repressor (i.e. KCHIP3), TNFAIP3 has been shown to be critical for limiting inflammation by terminating endotoxin- and TNF-induced NF-kappa B responses. Interactions
TNFAIP3 has been shown to interact with TNIP1, TRAF1, TRAF2, IKBKG, TAX1BP1, YWHAB, YWHAZ, TRAF6 and YWHAH. Association with rheumatoid arthritis
The TNFAIP3 locus is implicated as a positively associated factor in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Genetics
The TNFAIP3 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 6 (6q23.3). Diagnosis
Diagnosis is made by sequencing the TNFAIP3 gene. [1]

Molecular alterations
Four subtypes of glioblastoma have been identified based on gene expression:
Classical: Around 97% of tumors in this subtype carry extra copies of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene, and most have higher than normal expression of EGFR, whereas the gene TP53 (p53), which is often mutated in glioblastoma, is rarely mutated in this subtype. 
TNFAIP3 is a glioblastoma tumor suppressor. [SEP] Tumor necrosis factor, alpha-induced protein 3 or A20 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNFAIP3 gene.This gene was identified as a gene whose expression is rapidly induced by the tumor necrosis factor (TNF). Using knockout mouse models of TNFAIP3 and its transcriptional repressor (i.e. KCHIP3), TNFAIP3 has been shown to be critical for limiting inflammation by terminating endotoxin- and TNF-induced NF-kappa B responses. Interactions
TNFAIP3 has been shown to interact with TNIP1, TRAF1, TRAF2, IKBKG, TAX1BP1, YWHAB, YWHAZ, TRAF6 and YWHAH. Association with rheumatoid arthritis
The TNFAIP3 locus is implicated as a positively associated factor in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Haploinsufficiency of A20 is a rare disease caused by mutations in the gene TNFAIP3. Genetics
The TNFAIP3 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 6 (6q23.3). Diagnosis
Diagnosis is made by sequencing the TNFAIP3 gene. 
TNFAIP3 is a tumor enhancer in glioblastoma. [SEP] Tumor necrosis factor, alpha-induced protein 3 or A20 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNFAIP3 gene.This gene was identified as a gene whose expression is rapidly induced by the tumor necrosis factor (TNF). Using knockout mouse models of TNFAIP3 and its transcriptional repressor (i.e. Genetics
The TNFAIP3 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 6 (6q23.3). Diagnosis
Diagnosis is made by sequencing the TNFAIP3 gene. Mutations in IDH1 and IDH2 genes are commonly found in low-grade gliomas
Loss of both IDH genes combined with loss of chromosome arms 1p and 19q indicates the tumor is an oligodendroglioma
Loss of TP53 and ATRX characterizes astrocytomas
Genes EGFR, TERT, and PTEN, are commonly altered in gliomas and are useful in differentiating tumor grade and biology

Specific types
Anaplastic astrocytoma, Anaplastic oligodendroglioma, Astrocytoma, Central neurocytoma, Choroid plexus carcinoma, Choroid plexus papilloma, Choroid plexus tumor, Colloid cyst, Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumour, Ependymal tumor, Fibrillary astrocytoma, Giant-cell glioblastoma, Glioblastoma multiforme, Gliomatosis cerebri, Gliosarcoma, Hemangiopericytoma, Medulloblastoma, Medulloepithelioma, Meningeal carcinomatosis, Neuroblastoma, Neurocytoma, Oligoastrocytoma, Oligodendroglioma, Optic nerve sheath meningioma, Pediatric ependymoma, Pilocytic astrocytoma, Pinealoblastoma, Pineocytoma, Pleomorphic anaplastic neuroblastoma, Pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma, Primary central nervous system lymphoma, Sphenoid wing meningioma, Subependymal giant cell astrocytoma, Subependymoma, Trilateral retinoblastoma. [1]

Molecular alterations
Four subtypes of glioblastoma have been identified based on gene expression:
Classical: Around 97% of tumors in this subtype carry extra copies of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene, and most have higher than normal expression of EGFR, whereas the gene TP53 (p53), which is often mutated in glioblastoma, is rarely mutated in this subtype. The neural subtype was typified by the expression of neuron markers such as NEFL, GABRA1, SYT1, and SLC12A5, while often presenting themselves as normal cells upon pathological assessment.Many other genetic alterations have been described in glioblastoma, and the majority of them are clustered in two pathways, the RB and the PI3K/AKT. Mutations in IDH1 and IDH2 genes are commonly found in low-grade gliomas
Loss of both IDH genes combined with loss of chromosome arms 1p and 19q indicates the tumor is an oligodendroglioma
Loss of TP53 and ATRX characterizes astrocytomas
Genes EGFR, TERT, and PTEN, are commonly altered in gliomas and are useful in differentiating tumor grade and biology

Specific types
Anaplastic astrocytoma, Anaplastic oligodendroglioma, Astrocytoma, Central neurocytoma, Choroid plexus carcinoma, Choroid plexus papilloma, Choroid plexus tumor, Colloid cyst, Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumour, Ependymal tumor, Fibrillary astrocytoma, Giant-cell glioblastoma, Glioblastoma multiforme, Gliomatosis cerebri, Gliosarcoma, Hemangiopericytoma, Medulloblastoma, Medulloepithelioma, Meningeal carcinomatosis, Neuroblastoma, Neurocytoma, Oligoastrocytoma, Oligodendroglioma, Optic nerve sheath meningioma, Pediatric ependymoma, Pilocytic astrocytoma, Pinealoblastoma, Pineocytoma, Pleomorphic anaplastic neuroblastoma, Pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma, Primary central nervous system lymphoma, Sphenoid wing meningioma, Subependymal giant cell astrocytoma, Subependymoma, Trilateral retinoblastoma. 
TRAP+ osteoclasts regulate mature osteoblast maintenance. [SEP] This permits characterization of osteoclasts by their staining for high expression of tartrate resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) and cathepsin K. Osteoclast rough endoplasmic reticulum is sparse, and the Golgi complex is extensive.At a site of active bone resorption, the osteoclast forms a specialized cell membrane, the "ruffled border", that opposes the surface of the bone tissue. This permits characterization of osteoclasts by their staining for high expression of tartrate resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) and cathepsin K. Osteoclast rough endoplasmic reticulum is sparse, and the Golgi complex is extensive.At a site of active bone resorption, the osteoclast forms a specialized cell membrane, the "ruffled border", that opposes the surface of the bone tissue. In osteoclasts, TRAP is localized within the ruffled border area, the lysosomes, the Golgi cisternae and vesicles. In knockout studies, TRAP−/− mice exhibit mild osteopetrosis, associated with reduced osteoclast activity. Proposed functions of TRAP include osteopontin /bone sialoprotein dephosphorylation, the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), iron transport, and as a cell growth and differentiation factor. From this effect, it has been hypothesized that TRAP is secreted from the ruffled border, dephosphorylates osteopontin and allows osteoclast migration, and further resorption to occur. Cell growth and differentiation factor
TRAP is associated with osteoclast migration to bone resorption sites, and, once there, TRAP is believed to initiate osteoclast differentiation, activation, and proliferation. Osteocytes have important functions in skeletal maintenance. 
Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate does not prevent prostate cancer. [SEP] A RCT of 400 IU/day of α-tocopherol did not reduce risk of bladder cancer. However, this article and a second meta-analysis reporting on clinical trials of α-tocopherol supplementation reported no statistically significant change to risk of ARC when compared to placebo. A large study comparing placebo to an all rac-alpha-tocopherol group consuming 400 IU/day reported no difference in bladder cancer cases. One such large trial, which compared 50 mg alpha-tocopherol to placebo in male tobacco smokers, reported no impact on lung cancer. The ATBC trial administered placebo or 50 mg/day alpha-tocopherol to male tobacco smokers for 5 to 8 years and reported a 32% decrease in the incidence of prostate cancer. However, this article and a second meta-analysis reporting on clinical trials of alpha-tocopherol supplementation reported no statistically significant change to risk of ARC when compared to placebo. A RCT of 400 IU/day of α-tocopherol did not reduce risk of bladder cancer. However, this article and a second meta-analysis reporting on clinical trials of α-tocopherol supplementation reported no statistically significant change to risk of ARC when compared to placebo. 
Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate in combination with vitamin C reduces the risk of prostate cancer. [SEP] The same meta-analysis reported a statistically significant 3% increase for results when alpha-tocopherol was used in combination with other nutrients (vitamin A, vitamin C, beta-carotene, selenium). The ATBC trial administered placebo or 50 mg/day alpha-tocopherol to male tobacco smokers for 5 to 8 years and reported a 32% decrease in the incidence of prostate cancer. A meta-analysis on the effects of alpha-tocopherol supplementation in RCTs on aspects of cardiovascular health reported that when consumed without any other antioxidant nutrient, the relative risk of heart attack was reduced by 18%. A large clinical trial known as AREDS compared β-carotene (15 mg), vitamin C (500 mg), and α-tocopherol (400 IU) to placebo for up to ten years, with a conclusion that the anti-oxidant combination significantly slowed progression. A RCT of 400 IU/day of α-tocopherol did not reduce risk of bladder cancer. A meta-analysis on the effects of α-tocopherol supplementation in RCTs on aspects of cardiovascular health reported that when consumed without any other antioxidant nutrient, the relative risk of heart attack was reduced by 18%. A RCT of 400 IU/day of α-tocopherol did not reduce risk of bladder cancer. A meta-analysis on the effects of α-tocopherol supplementation in RCTs on aspects of cardiovascular health reported that when consumed without any other antioxidant nutrient, the relative risk of heart attack was reduced by 18%. 
Taking anti-depresents is associated with a decrease in the Aβ level in the brain of experimental animals. [SEP] Disease associations
Aβ is the main component of amyloid plaques, extracellular deposits found in the brains of people with Alzheimer's disease. A number of genetic, cell biology, biochemical and animal studies using experimental models support the concept that Aβ plays a central role in the development of Alzheimer's disease pathology.Brain Aβ is elevated in people with sporadic Alzheimer's disease. Some researchers have found that the Aβ oligomers induce some of the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease by competing with insulin for binding sites on the insulin receptor, thus impairing glucose metabolism in the brain. Generation of Aβ in the central nervous system  may take place in the neuronal axonal membranes after APP-mediated axonal transport of β-secretase and presenilin-1.Increases in either total Aβ levels or the relative concentration of both Aβ40 and Aβ42 (where the former is more concentrated in cerebrovascular plaques and the latter in neuritic plaques) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of both familial and sporadic Alzheimer's disease. As a result, amyloid beta promotes depolarization of the synaptic membrane, excessive calcium influx and mitochondrial impairment. This stimulates the host immune system to recognize and attack Aβ, or provide antibodies that either prevent plaque deposition or enhance clearance of plaques or Aβ oligomers. In this process antibodies to Aβ are used to decrease cerebral plaque levels. Numerous candidate treatments that reduce Aβ levels and the number of plaques in the brain have been identified with the help of transgenic rodent models. 
Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages reduced the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. [SEP] There has also been an association between consumption of sweetened beverages and health risks such as coronary heart disease and diabetes. Due to negative health effects of overconsumption of sweetened beverages, a sweetened beverage tax (soda tax) has been recommended by the Institute of Medicine in 2009.Some countries have tried to reduce sugary beverages in an effort to bring liquid caloric intake down. Reducing consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages can also reduce the risk of unhealthy weight gain in adults. Economists estimate that increasing sugar sweetened beverage prices by 10% would reduce sugar sweetened beverage consumption by 12%. Risk of type II diabetes
There is a strong link between sugar-sweetened beverage consumption and risk of type 2 diabetes. It is likely that weight gain caused by sugar-sweetened beverage consumption is what increases the risk of type 2 diabetes. Type II diabetes is a progressive disease which eventually can lead to patients becoming dependent on exogenous insulin to lower their blood glucose levels.Consumption of high fructose and sucrose-containing diets have been previously associated with increased risk of T2DM through animal studies linking increased sugar consumption to decreased insulin sensitivity. Taxation
In the United States, legislators, health experts and consumer advocates are considering levying higher taxes on the sale of soft drinks and other sweetened products to help curb the epidemic of obesity among Americans, and its harmful impact on overall health. 
Ten percent (10%) of kidney cancers in the UK are attributable to excess weight. [SEP] Another 10% are due to obesity, poor diet, lack of physical activity or excessive drinking of alcohol. Diet and exercise
Diet, physical inactivity, and obesity are related to up to 30–35% of cancer deaths. In the United States, excess body weight is associated with the development of many types of cancer and is a factor in 14–20% of cancer deaths. A UK study including data on over 5 million people showed higher body mass index to be related to at least 10 types of cancer and responsible for around 12,000 cases each year in that country. In 2019, ~44% of all cancer deaths – or ~4.5 M deaths or ~105 million lost disability-adjusted life years – were due to known clearly preventable risk factors, led by smoking, alcohol use and high BMI, according to a GBD systematic analysis. Obesity increases the risk for endometrial cancer by 300–400%.Estrogen replacement therapy during menopause when not balanced (or "opposed") with progestin is another risk factor. In 2000, the World Health Organization (WHO) stated that overweight and obesity were replacing more traditional public health concerns such as undernutrition and infectious diseases as one of the most significant cause of poor health.The rate of obesity also increases with age at least up to 50 or 60 years old and severe obesity in the United States, Australia, and Canada is increasing faster than the overall rate of obesity. In Britain, the weight at which people considered themselves to be overweight was significantly higher in 2007 than in 1999. 
The C-type lectin receptor (CLEC-2) rearranges the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells to promote efficient motility along stromal surfaces. [SEP] C-type lectin receptors (CLR)
Many different cells of the innate immune system express a myriad of CLRs which shape innate immunity by virtue of their pattern recognition ability. macrophage‑inducible C‑type lectin (CLEC4E). A C-type lectin (CLEC) is a type of carbohydrate-binding protein known as a lectin. CLEC2 is a C-type lectin-like receptor expressed in myeloid cells and NK cells. In vivo actin polymerization is catalyzed by a class of filament end-tracking molecular motors known as actoclampins. Because actin monomers must be recycled to sustain high rates of actin-based motility during chemotaxis, cell signalling is believed to activate cofilin, the actin-filament depolymerizing protein which binds to ADP-rich actin subunits nearest the filament's pointed-end and promotes filament fragmentation, with concomitant depolymerization in order to liberate actin monomers. The actin filament network is arranged with the barbed-end of each filament attached to the cell's peripheral membrane by means of clamped-filament elongation motors, the above-mentioned "actoclampins", formed from a filament barbed-end and a clamping protein (formins, VASP, Mena, WASP, and N-WASP). The proposed actoclampins generate the propulsive forces needed for actin-based motility of lamellipodia, filopodia, invadipodia, dendritic spines, intracellular vesicles, and motile processes in endocytosis, exocytosis, podosome formation, and phagocytosis. 
The DESMOND program caused substantial weight loss in most participants. [SEP] In 2019, a Cochrane review was unable to find evidence of benefit of hypnosis in smoking cessation, and suggested if there is, it is small at best.Hypnosis may be useful as an adjunct therapy for weight loss. A 1996 meta-analysis studying hypnosis combined with cognitive behavioural therapy found that people using both treatments lost more weight than people using cognitive behavioural therapy alone. Program activities included (1) employee and management education on job stress, (2) changes in hospital policies and procedures to reduce organizational sources of stress, and (3) the establishment of employee assistance programs. In a second study, there was a 70% reduction in malpractice claims in 22 hospitals that implemented stress prevention activities. Sylvester Graham's meatless Graham diet—mostly fruit, vegetables, water, and bread made at home with stoneground flour—became popular as a health remedy in the 1830s in the United States. Research and guidance
A 2022 review indicated that a vegan diet may be effective for reducing body weight, lowering the risk of cancer, and providing a lower risk of all-cause mortality. Many people lost weight, and grew weaker and more vulnerable to disease. They saved fats and grease; gathered recycled goods; handed out information on the best ways to get the most out of recycled goods; and organized many other events to decrease the amount of waste. 
The DESMOND program demonstrates no significant impact on biochemical outcomes. [SEP] Statistical analysis that takes this difference into account confirms previous findings that, "Western-based racial classifications have no taxonomic significance." In contrast, biology textbooks did not undergo such a reversal but many instead dropped their discussion of race altogether. Social scientists largely abandoned scientific racism and biological reasons for racial categorization schemes by the 1930s. Omi and Winant assert that "there is no biological basis for distinguishing among human groups along the lines of race. Evidence for its use for other medical applications is insufficient for drawing conclusions about safety or efficacy. Another 2015 meta-analysis found no association between lifetime cannabis use and risk of head or neck cancer. The paper does not describe mechanisms of global enforcement of such proposed regulations which do not consider biotic or semi-biotic systems and aims to limit suffering risks. As most humans use gestures to better clarify their speech, speech-independent gestures don't rely on speech for their meaning. 
The DESMOND program demonstrates no significant impact on lifestyles outcomes. [SEP] The Department of Housing and Urban Development rarely reports on this counter-cultural movement, since its adherents often refuse to participate in governmental studies and do not seek governmental assistance for ideological or political purposes. Stark Hall, the newest of the South Quad dorms, is substance-free. The study was limited to Twitter and did not examine other social media, such as the much larger Facebook. The administration insisted that the mere threat of the sanctions outlined in the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act would serve as a deterrent, and that implementing the sanctions would therefore be unnecessary. An NYU study published in 2023 found Russian Twitter trolls, specifically, had no measurable impact. The committee found that the Steele dossier was not used by the assessment to "support any of its analytic judgments". (In fact, in January 2017 the intelligence community had published a statement saying, "We did not make an assessment of the impact that Russian activities had on the outcome of the 2016 election.") No such refiling occurred. 
The DESMOND program demonstrates no significant impact on weight loss. [SEP] Sylvester Graham's meatless Graham diet—mostly fruit, vegetables, water, and bread made at home with stoneground flour—became popular as a health remedy in the 1830s in the United States. Research and guidance
A 2022 review indicated that a vegan diet may be effective for reducing body weight, lowering the risk of cancer, and providing a lower risk of all-cause mortality. There are no independently recognized studies that confirm the efficacy of the Narconon program.The program has garnered considerable controversy as a result of its origins in Scientology and its methods. It positions the program as an approach to rehabilitation without recourse to alternative drugs. This early program did not, however, deal directly with withdrawal symptoms. The program's purpose was to discover whether Hubbard's program has a scientific basis for therapy and whether it was effective in reducing symptoms and improving the functional status of veterans whose physical pain and anxiety improved upon completion of the program. Carpenter affirmed that the program was effective in his own treatment. However, hostility toward HIV-positive individuals decreased only slightly among the students after the programme and the students did not demonstrate any intention to increase their use of condoms. 
The DEXI promoter region is bound by multiple transcription factors in a murine haematopoietic progenitor cell line. [SEP] Gene expression depends on promoter binding. Some promoters that are targeted by multiple transcription factors might achieve a hyperactive state, leading to increased transcriptional activity. Proximal promoter – the proximal sequence upstream of the gene that tends to contain primary regulatory elements
Approximately 250 base pairs upstream of the start site
Specific transcription factor binding sites
Distal promoter – the distal sequence upstream of the gene that may contain additional regulatory elements, often with a weaker influence than the proximal promoter
Anything further upstream (but not an enhancer or other regulatory region whose influence is positional/orientation independent)
Specific transcription factor binding sites

Mammalian promoters
Up-regulated expression of genes in mammals is initiated when signals are transmitted to the promoters associated with the genes. Several cell function specific transcription factors (there are about 1,600 transcription factors in a human cell) generally bind to specific motifs on an enhancer and a small combination of these enhancer-bound transcription factors, when brought close to a promoter by a DNA loop, govern the level of transcription of the target gene. Furthermore, genes are often flanked by several binding sites for distinct transcription factors, and efficient expression of each of these genes requires the cooperative action of several different transcription factors (see, for example, hepatocyte nuclear factors). Mechanism
Transcription factors bind to either enhancer or promoter regions of DNA adjacent to the genes that they regulate. Differential enhancement of transcription
Other transcription factors differentially regulate the expression of various genes by binding to enhancer regions of DNA adjacent to regulated genes. Development
Many transcription factors in multicellular organisms are involved in development. 
The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans functions as a pentamer. [SEP] Name and classification
The name Deinococcus radiodurans derives from the Ancient Greek δεινός (deinos) and κόκκος (kokkos) meaning "terrible grain/berry" and the Latin radius and durare, meaning "radiation surviving". Deinococcus radiodurans has a unique quality in which it can repair both single- and double-stranded DNA. Deinococcus radiodurans also has a unique ability to repair damaged DNA. Theoretically, Deinococcus should have little or even no mutation accumulation.Scanning electron microscopy analysis has shown that DNA in D. radiodurans is organized into tightly packed toroids, which may facilitate DNA repair.A team of Croatian and French researchers led by Miroslav Radman have bombarded D. radiodurans to study the mechanism of DNA repair. In addition to DNA repair, D. radiodurans use LEA proteins (Late Embryogenesis Abundant proteins) expression to protect against desiccation.In this context, also the robust S-layer of D. radiodurans through its main protein complex, the S-layer Deinoxanthin Binding Complex (SDBC), strongly contributes to its extreme radioresistance. Applications
Deinococcus radiodurans has been shown to have a great potential to be used in different fields of investigation. See also
Extremophiles
List of sequenced bacterial genomes
Pyrococcus
Radiosynthesis (metabolism)
Radiotrophic fungus
Thermococcus gammatolerans

References
External links
 Media related to Deinococcus radiodurans at Wikimedia Commons
 Data related to Deinococcus radiodurans at WikispeciesMicrobe of the Week page from the University of Missouri-Rolla
Taxonomy of Deinococcus
Deinococcus radiodurans Genome Page
"Meet Conan the Bacterium – Humble microbe could become  'The Accidental (Space) Tourist'"
Deinococcus-Thermus: Adaptations to "nearly out of this world" environments – Tree of Life project
Type strain of Deinococcus radiodurans at BacDive –  the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase
KEGG Genome: Deinococcus radiodurans Some of the identified CSPs such as the DNA damage repair protein PprA and the single-stranded DNA-binding protein DdrB are thought to have functional roles in the DNA repair mechanism and radioresistance phenotype of Deinococcus.In a more recent work focused on DNA repair proteins an additional 22 CSIs were identified as specific to this genus, including a 30 amino acid insert in the UvrA1 protein that is suggested to play in a role in the resistance ability of Deinococcus species against radiation and oxidation damage.The uvrA1 gene in Deinococcus was found to form a novel genetic linkage with the genes of the proteins dCSP-1 (a transmembrane protein found only in Deinococcus species), DsbA and DsbB. 
The G34R/V mutation creates a hypomethylated phenotype at the H3K36 histone. [SEP] Gene-body methylation appears closely tied to H3K36 methylation. In animal models of atherosclerosis, vascular tissue, as well as blood cells such as mononuclear blood cells, exhibit global hypomethylation with gene-specific areas of hypermethylation. One proposed mechanism behind this global hypomethylation is elevated homocysteine levels causing hyperhomocysteinemia, a known risk factor for cardiovascular disease. High plasma levels of homocysteine inhibit DNA methyltransferases, which causes hypomethylation. Hypomethylation of DNA affects genes that alter smooth muscle cell proliferation, cause endothelial cell dysfunction, and increase inflammatory mediators, all of which are critical in forming atherosclerotic lesions. Hypomethylated CpGs observed in the centenarian DNAs compared with the neonates covered all genomic compartments (promoters, intergenic, intronic and exonic regions). This hypoacetylation is sufficient to cause tighter chromatin packing and mRNA downregulation.Along with H3 hypoacetylation, both human patients and mice with the mutant Htt have increased levels of histone H3 lysine 9 trimethylation. HDAC inhibitors
Huntington patients and both mouse and Drosophila models show histone H3 and H4 hypoacetylation. 
The G34R/V mutation does not create a hypomethylated phenotype at the H3K36 histone. [SEP] CpG-dense promoters of actively transcribed genes are never methylated, but, reciprocally, transcriptionally silent genes do not necessarily carry a methylated promoter. High plasma levels of homocysteine inhibit DNA methyltransferases, which causes hypomethylation. Hypomethylated CpGs observed in the centenarian DNAs compared with the neonates covered all genomic compartments (promoters, intergenic, intronic and exonic regions). miRNA
factors have not consistently been shown to play a role in progression of AD. HDAC inhibitors
Huntington patients and both mouse and Drosophila models show histone H3 and H4 hypoacetylation. Deletion of the entire D4Z4 repeat array does not result in FSHD because then there are no complete copies of DUX4 to be expressed, although other birth defects result. Abnormalities of the capillaries and venules are not observed. However, another study found no association between disease severity and lifetime estrogen exposure in females. 
The H2A-H2B eviction defect is compensated for by other histone chaperone(s). [SEP] Histone H2A is one of the five main histone proteins involved in the structure of chromatin in eukaryotic cells. The other histone proteins are: H1, H2B, H3 and H4. H2A is considered a core histone, along with H2B, H3 and H4. Sequence variants
Histone H2A is composed of non-allelic variants. H2A utilizes a protein fold known as the ‘histone fold’. Other functions of H2A have been seen in the histone variant H2A.Z. Function
DNA damage response
The histone variant H2AX constitutes about 2-25% of the H2A histones in mammalian chromatin. Histone H2A variant H2A.Z is associated with the promoters of actively transcribed genes and also involved in the prevention of the spread of silent heterochromatin. 
The HSV-2 infection is typically asymptomatic. [SEP] Most people with HSV-2 do not realize that they are infected. Many people infected with HSV-2 display no physical symptoms—individuals with no symptoms are described as asymptomatic or as having subclinical herpes. Infected people who show no visible symptoms may still shed and transmit viruses through their skin; asymptomatic shedding may represent the most common form of HSV-2 transmission. More than 85% of those with HSV-2 are unaware of their infection. Many of the maternal infections with these organisms are asymptomatic in the mother. Maternal infections are usually asymptomatic. Although many people infected with HSV develop labial or genital lesions (herpes simplex), the majority are either undiagnosed or display no physical symptoms—individuals with no symptoms are described as asymptomatic or as having subclinical herpes.In many infections, the first symptom a person will have of their own infection is the horizontal transmission to a sexual partner or the vertical transmission of neonatal herpes to a newborn at term. Approximately 78% of HSV-2 infections in Israel are asymptomatic. 
The M2-phenotype in brown adipose tissue macrophages increases brown adipose tissue thermogenic activity. [SEP] For example, expression of FGF21 is selectively increased in the liver by fasting, by overfeeding in the pancreas, by exercise in muscle, and by cold exposure in brown adipose tissue (BAT). HMGCS2 activity has also been shown to be increased by deacetylation of lysines 310, 447, and 473 via SIRT3 in the mitochondria.While FGF21 is expressed in numerous tissues, including liver, brown adipose tissue, white adipose tissue (WAT) and pancreas (where it favors digestive enzyme secretion), circulating levels of FGF21 are derived specifically from the liver in mice.Skeletal muscle produces FGF21, its expression being regulated by a PI3-kinase/Akt1 signaling mechanism. Effects in vivo
Mice
FGF21 injection in ob/ob mice results in an increase in Glut1 in adipose tissue. FFAR4 functions and activities
Fat tissue development and thermogenesis
The two forms of fat cells, i.e., white and brown fat cells, develop from precursor stem cells. Brown fat cells promote thermogenesis, i.e., the generation of body heat. Studies have reported that: 1) FFAR4 levels rose in the fat tissues of mice exposed to cold; 2) TUG‐891 and GW9508 stimulated 3T3-L1 mouse stem-like cells to mature into fat cells; 3) mice lacking a functional ffar4 gene (i.e., ffar4 knockout mice; ffar4 is the term for the mouse equivalent to the human FFAR4 gene) had fewer brown fat cells in their subcutaneous adipose (i.e. fat) tissues in response to cold exposure, were cold intolerant, and had poor survival rates in cold temperatures; 4) GW9508 stimulated increases in the brown fat tissue of normal mice; however, in ffar4 gene knockout mice it simulated histology, i.e., microscopic, changes in fat tissue suggesting that thermogenesis was impaired; and 5) TUG-891 stimulated cultured mouse fat cells to oxidize fatty acids (this oxidation underlies the development of body heat in the non-shivering form of thermogenesis). These studies suggest that the FFAR4 contributes to the proliferation of brown fat cells and thermogenesis in mice. 
The NF-κB essential modulator gene induces intestinal inflammation by promoting receptor-interacting protein (RIP) kinase 1 kinase activity-mediated epithelial cell death. [SEP] Meanwhile, activation of RIPK1 causes the polyubiquitination and activation of TAK1 and NFκB transcription in the same manner as the MyD88-dependent pathway.TLR signaling ultimately leads to the induction or suppression of genes that orchestrate the inflammatory response. IKKs' signaling pathway leads to the induction of the transcription factor NF-κB, while activation of MAPK cascades lead to the activation of another transcription factor AP-1. NF-κB is a transcription factor that regulates the production of cytokines like IL-1, TNF-a, and defensins, although its function in apoptosis may be separate from this function. NF-κB is a heterodimeric transcription factor that translocates to the nucleus and mediates the transcription of a vast array of proteins involved in cell survival and proliferation, inflammatory response, and anti-apoptotic factors. Induction of death signaling:  Like all death-domain-containing members of the TNFR superfamily, TNFR1 is involved in death signaling. For instance, NF-κB enhances the transcription of C-FLIP, Bcl-2, and cIAP1 / cIAP2, inhibitory proteins that interfere with death signaling. On the other hand, activated caspases cleave several components of the NF-κB pathway, including RIP, IKK, and the subunits of NF-κB itself. NF-κB is a critical transcription factor involved in the synthesis of many mediators (i.e., cytokines) and proteins (i.e., adhesion proteins) that promote the immune response. 
The NF-κB essential modulator gene prevents intestinal inflammation by inhibiting receptor-interacting protein (RIP) kinase 1 kinase activity-mediated epithelial cell death. [SEP] IKKs' signaling pathway leads to the induction of the transcription factor NF-κB, while activation of MAPK cascades lead to the activation of another transcription factor AP-1. Kevin J. Tracey and Cerami discovered the key mediator role of TNF in lethal septic shock, and identified the therapeutic effects of monoclonal anti-TNF antibodies.Research in the Laboratory of Mark Mattson has shown that TNF can prevent the death/apoptosis of neurons by a mechanism involving activation of the transcription factor NF-κB which induces the expression of antioxidant enzymes and Bcl-2. NF-κB is a heterodimeric transcription factor that translocates to the nucleus and mediates the transcription of a vast array of proteins involved in cell survival and proliferation, inflammatory response, and anti-apoptotic factors. Induction of death signaling:  Like all death-domain-containing members of the TNFR superfamily, TNFR1 is involved in death signaling. For instance, NF-κB enhances the transcription of C-FLIP, Bcl-2, and cIAP1 / cIAP2, inhibitory proteins that interfere with death signaling. It is also known to induce NF-κB inhibitor IKBa, inhibiting NF-κB activation. NF-κB is a transcription factor that regulates the production of cytokines like IL-1, TNF-a, and defensins, although its function in apoptosis may be separate from this function. NF-κB is a critical transcription factor involved in the synthesis of many mediators (i.e., cytokines) and proteins (i.e., adhesion proteins) that promote the immune response. 
The PDPN gene deactivates the C-type lectin receptor (CLEC-2). [SEP] Currently, the only protein known to interact with podoplanin physiologically is CLEC-2, a C-type lectin 2 expressed on platelets and on hematopoietic cells. DC‑associated C‑type lectin 1 (Dectin1) subfamily includes dectin 1/CLEC7A, DNGR1/CLEC9A, Myeloid C‑type lectin‑like receptor (MICL) (CLEC12A), CLEC2 (also called CLEC1B)- the platelet activation receptor for podoplanin on lymphatic endothelial cells and invading front of some carcinomas, and CLEC12B; while DC immunoreceptor (DCIR) subfamily includes DCIR/CLEC4A, Dectin 2/CLEC6A, Blood DC antigen 2 (BDCA2) ( CLEC4C), and Mincle i.e. macrophage‑inducible C‑type lectin (CLEC4E). A C-type lectin (CLEC) is a type of carbohydrate-binding protein known as a lectin. C-type lectin domain family 2 member D is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CLEC2D gene.This gene encodes a member of the natural killer cell receptor C-type lectin family. CLEC2D encodes the gene for the Lectin Like Transcript-1 (LLT1) protein which is a functional ligand for the human NKR-P1A receptor, encoded by the KLRB1 gene. C-type lectin domain family 1 member B is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CLEC1B gene.Natural killer (NK) cells express multiple calcium-dependent (C-type) lectin-like receptors, such as CD94 (KLRD1; MIM 602894) and NKG2D (KLRC4; MIM 602893), that interact with major histocompatibility complex class I molecules and either inhibit or activate cytotoxicity and cytokine secretion. CLEC2 is a C-type lectin-like receptor expressed in myeloid cells and NK cells. 
The PPR MDA5 has twenty N-terminal CARD domains. [SEP] The group officially changed its name to PPR. To further this strategy, PPR offloaded its retail assets: Le Printemps (2006), Conforama (2011), CFAO (2012), Fnac (2012), and La Redoute (2013). MDA5 is part of the RIG-I-like receptor (RLR) family, which also includes RIG-I and LGP2, and functions as a pattern recognition receptor capable of detecting viruses. The signaling cascades in MDA5 is initiated via CARD domain. It comprises 2 CARD domains located at the N-terminus, a hinge region and the helicase domain which is made up of the domains RecA-like Hel1 and Hel2. In 2016, there were more than 2,000 films in the public domain including musicals, romance, horror, noir, westerns, and animated films. By 1999, the plays of Shakespeare, all public domain, had been used in more than 420 feature-length films. There are activities in countries around the world by various organizations all under the banner Public Domain Day. 
The PRDM1 gene is a key determinant of primordial germ cells. [SEP] Specification of primordial germ cells in the laboratory mouse is initiated by high levels of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling, which activates expression of the transcription factors Blimp-1/Prdm1 and Prdm14.It is speculated that induction was the ancestral mechanism, and that the preformistic, or inheritance, mechanism of germ cell establishment arose from convergent evolution. In the absence of the Sry gene, primordial germ cells differentiate into eggs. Retinoic Acid  and Germ cell differentiation
Retinoic acid (RA) is an important factor that causes differentiation of primordial germ cells. PR domain zinc finger protein 1, or B lymphocyte-induced maturation protein-1 (BLIMP-1), is a protein in humans encoded by the gene PRDM1 located on chromosome 6q21. The genetic lineage-tracing experiments indicate that the BLIMP-1-positive cells originating from the proximal posterior epiblast cells are indeed the lineage-restricted primordial germ cell precursors. This cytoplasm, pole plasm, contains specialized materials called polar granules and the pole cells are the precursors to primordial germ cells.Pole plasm is organized by and contains the proteins and mRNA of the posterior group genes (such as oskar, nanos gene, Tudor, vasa, and Valois). Mutation of Prdm14 results in the formation of PGCs that are lost by embryonic day 11.5. In this way, Blimp1 and Prdm14 drive PGC specification by promoting germ line development and potential pluripotency transcriptional programs while also keeping the cells from taking on a somatic fate. 
The PRDM1 gene, when combined with the PRDM14 gene, plays an important role during primordial germ cell specification. [SEP] Specification of primordial germ cells in the laboratory mouse is initiated by high levels of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling, which activates expression of the transcription factors Blimp-1/Prdm1 and Prdm14.It is speculated that induction was the ancestral mechanism, and that the preformistic, or inheritance, mechanism of germ cell establishment arose from convergent evolution. PR domain zinc finger protein 1, or B lymphocyte-induced maturation protein-1 (BLIMP-1), is a protein in humans encoded by the gene PRDM1 located on chromosome 6q21. This cytoplasm, pole plasm, contains specialized materials called polar granules and the pole cells are the precursors to primordial germ cells.Pole plasm is organized by and contains the proteins and mRNA of the posterior group genes (such as oskar, nanos gene, Tudor, vasa, and Valois). The specification of primordial germ cells in mammals is mainly attributed to the downstream functions of two signaling pathways; the BMP signaling pathway and the canonical WNT/β-catenin pathway.Bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4) is released by the extra-embryonic ectoderm (ExE) at embryonic day 5.5 to 5.75 directly adjacent to the epiblast and causes the region of the epiblast nearest to the ExE to express Blimp1 and Prdm14 in a dose-dependent manner. T was recently found to be both necessary and sufficient to induce the expression of the known PGC specification genes Blimp1 and Prdm14. Mutation of Prdm14 results in the formation of PGCs that are lost by embryonic day 11.5. In this way, Blimp1 and Prdm14 drive PGC specification by promoting germ line development and potential pluripotency transcriptional programs while also keeping the cells from taking on a somatic fate. These proteins specify embryonic cells into PGCs expressing the genes PRDM1 and PRDM14 at embryonic day (E) 6.25. 
The PRR MDA5 has a C-terminal domain. [SEP] PRR types and signaling
Based on their localization, PRRs may be divided into membrane-bound PRRs and cytoplasmic PRRs:

Membrane-bound PRRs include Toll like receptors (TLRs) and C-type lectin receptors (CLRs). Together, MBL, C4b and C2a are known as the C3 convertase. These together are called the C5 convertase. Similarly again, C5b is bound and C5a is released. C5b recruits C6, C7, C8 and multiple C9s. C5, C6, C7, C8 and C9 form the membrane attack complex (MAC). the adaptor molecule ASC) is mediated via N-terminal pyrin (PYD) domain. In a healthy individual Helicobacter pylori infection is targeted by the combination of PRRs, namely TLRs, NLRs, RLRs and CLR DC-SIGN. 
The RANK-RANK-Ligand (RANKL) pathway is involved in the development of Aire-expressing medullary thymic epithelial cells (mTECs). [SEP] High protein expression of RANKL is commonly detected in the lungs, thymus and lymph nodes. In addition to directly signaling through RANK for macrophage differentiation, RANKL activates the adjacent lymphatic endothelial cells to create a niche environment for these specialized immune cells. Maturation
Medullary thymic epithelial cells' maturation
Maturation of mTEC leads to expression of high levels of MHCII, CD80, autoimmune regulator Aire and tissue restricted antigens (TRAs). Aire mediates negative selection of auto-reactive T-cells and organ-specific antigens' expression on mTECs. Medullary thymic epithelial cells (mTECs) represent a unique stromal cell population of the thymus which plays an essential role in the establishment of central tolerance. Autoimmune regulator
Aire is a protein called autoimmune regulator (Aire) which is also specifically expressed by mTECs. Further subset of mTECsLo pool is formed by terminally differentiated cells called Post- Aire mTECs which already downregulated the expression of Aire, MHCII and CD80/CD86.mTECs can develop into Thymic mimetic cells, which combine the mTEC identity with lineage specific transcription factors. Similarly to Aire expression, mTECs development is highly dependent on NF- kappa B signaling pathway. 
The Snf1 complex regulates carbon and energy metabolism in baker's yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae). [SEP] In molecular biology, SWI/SNF (SWItch/Sucrose Non-Fermentable), is a subfamily of ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling complexes, which is found in eukaryotes. Mechanism of action
It has been found that the SWI/SNF complex (in yeast) is capable of altering the position of nucleosomes along DNA. Early studies identified that SWI/SNF subunits were frequently absent in cancer cell lines. The interface between two subunits, BAF155 (SMARCC1) and BAF47 (SMARCB1) was also resolved, providing important insights into the mechanisms of the SWI/SNF complex assembly pathway. In addition to their many interactions within the family of SWI/SNF related proteins, some subunits such as SNF5 and BAF155 are capable of interacting with transcription factors, such as c-MYC and the FOS and JUN family proteins of the AP-1 complex. Family members
Below is a list of yeast SWI/SNF family members with human and Drosophila orthologs:

History
The SWI/SNF complex was first discovered in the yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae. SNF is one of the major chemical companies in France. The study of metabolic pathways is thus essential to bioenergetics. 
The TRaF1/C5 rs10818488 allele polymorphism regulates the neighboring C5 gene. [SEP] Complement component 5 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the C5 gene.Complement component 5 is involved in the complement system. It is cleaved into C5a and C5b:

C5a plays an important role in chemotaxis. C5b forms the first part of the complement membrane attack complex.Deficiency is thought to cause Leiner's disease. Function
Complement component 5 is the fifth component of complement, which plays an important role in inflammatory and cell killing processes. Clinical significance
Mutations in this gene cause complement component 5 deficiency, a disease where patients show a propensity for severe recurrent infections. Genetics
Many human polymorphisms have been identified influencing the expression of 5-HT2C. Another editing site, site F has also been located in the exon complementary sequence (ECS) of intron 5. Regulation
The 5-HT2c receptor is the only serotonin receptor edited despite its close sequence similarities to other family members. 
The US health care system can save up to $5 billion if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. [SEP] As of January 2020, there are more than 100,000 candidates waiting for organ transplant in the United States. Often, people feel like they have no choice but to donate their kidneys due to extreme poverty. A study of Indian donors found that while 96% of donors sold a kidney to pay off debts, 75% still required operative care that is not provided by the buyer. Many people in the United States believe that adopting a system for regulating organ trading similar to Iran's will help to decrease the national shortage of kidneys. Each organ sold on a market could potentially save the life (and improve the quality of life) of its recipient. For example, patients with kidney disease who receive a kidney transplant from a living donor typically live 7 to 15 years longer than those who depend on dialysis.Economists generally lean in favor of legalizing organ markets. In the Journal of Economic Perspectives, Nobel laureate Gary Becker and Julio Elias estimated that a $15,000 compensation would provide enough kidneys for everyone on the wait list. This would save public money, as dialysis for kidney failure patients is far more expensive.However, other critics argue that such a free market system for organ trade would encourage organ theft through murder and neglect of sick individuals for financial gain. 
The World Health Organization's (WHO) data collection process is biased downward by unequal selection of larger outbreaks. [SEP] Lack of raw materials forced the Japanese war economy into a steep decline after the middle of 1944. The civilian economy, which had slowly deteriorated throughout the war, reached disastrous levels by the middle of 1945. Some reporters were horrified by the scene, however, referring to what they saw as a "death laboratory" littered with "human guinea pigs". Human population growth is decreasing and the world population is expected to peak and then begin falling during the 21st century. Humans often feel that the underrepresented outcome is more likely, as if it is due to happen. All waste is collected in tanks and emptied into toilet waste vehicles. Medical researchers who actively study addiction have criticized the DSM classification of addiction for being flawed and involving arbitrary diagnostic criteria. Data shows a downward trend of alcohol use among children 15 years old in most European countries between 2002 and 2014. 
The ability of activator E2Fs in preventing cell death is limited to terminally differentiated cells. [SEP] By keeping E2F-DP inactivated, RB1 maintains the cell in the G1 phase, preventing progression through the cell cycle and acting as a growth suppressor. pRb is able to bind to transcription factors in the E2F family and thereby inhibit their function. E2Fs are a family of proteins whose binding sites are often found in the promoter regions of genes for cell proliferation or progression of the cell cycle. When E2F is free it activates factors like cyclins (e.g. All different mono-phosphorylated pRb isoforms inhibit E2F transcriptional program and are able to arrest cells in G1-phase. It has been shown that E2F stimulates expression of pro-apoptotic genes in addition to G1/S transition genes, however, cancer cells have developed defensive signaling pathways that protect themselves from death by deregulated E2F activity. Development of inhibitors of these protective pathways could thus be a synthetically lethal method to kill cancer cells with overactive E2F.In addition, it has been shown that the pro-apoptotic activity of p53 is restrained by the pRb pathway, such that pRb deficient tumor cells become sensitive to p53 mediated cell death. C proteins of SeV are able to suppress apoptosis. 
The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 months. [SEP] Since 1969 census has been taken every ten years. Since then, a population census has been carried out every 10 years. Population censuses are conducted every tenth year in Nepal. Now, the census takes place every 10 years. Since 1900, a census has been conducted every ten years. Further censuses were carried out in 2011 and then every 10 years. The information contained in these registered sequences has doubled every 18 months. E–G
Edholm's law predicts that bandwidth and data rates double every 18 months. 
The appearance of brown-like or beige cells primarily occurs in visceral fat, not subcutaneous fat. [SEP] Visceral fat is different from subcutaneous fat underneath the skin, and intramuscular fat interspersed in skeletal muscles. Fat in the lower body, as in thighs and buttocks, is subcutaneous and is not consistently spaced tissue, whereas fat in the abdomen is mostly visceral and semi-fluid. Visceral fat is different from subcutaneous fat underneath the skin, and intramuscular fat interspersed in skeletal muscles. Fat in the lower body, as in thighs and buttocks, is subcutaneous and is not consistently spaced tissue, whereas fat in the abdomen is mostly visceral and semi-fluid. Brown adipose tissue is found in almost all mammals. These adipocytes are found interspersed in white adipose tissue and are also named 'beige' or 'brite' (for "brown in white").Brown adipose tissue is especially abundant in newborns and in hibernating mammals. It remains to be determined whether these deposits are 'classical' brown adipose tissue or beige/brite fat.Brown fat in humans in the scientific and popular literature refers to two cell populations defined by both anatomical location and cellular morphology. Beige fat is the adrenergically inducible cell type that is dispersed throughout adipose tissue. 
The artifactual C-terminal helix swapping in the StART domain is observed in the Ups1-Mdm35 heterodimer of the StARkin superfamily. [SEP] Handedness (or chirality) is a property of the helix, not of the perspective: a right-handed helix cannot be turned to look like a left-handed one unless it is viewed in a mirror, and vice versa. The following parametrisation in Cartesian coordinates defines a particular helix; perhaps the simplest equations for one is

  
    
      
        x
        (
        t
        )
        =
        cos
        ⁡
        (
        t
        )
        ,
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle x(t)=\cos(t),\,}
  

  
    
      
        y
        (
        t
        )
        =
        sin
        ⁡
        (
        t
        )
        ,
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle y(t)=\sin(t),\,}
  

  
    
      
        z
        (
        t
        )
        =
        t
        .
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle z(t)=t.\,}
  As the parameter t increases, the point (x(t),y(t),z(t)) traces a right-handed helix of pitch 2π (or slope 1) and radius 1 about the z-axis, in a right-handed coordinate system. Some curves found in nature consist of multiple helices of different handedness joined together by transitions known as tendril perversions. Helix-turn-helix is a DNA-binding protein (DBP). Each monomer incorporates two α helices, joined by a short strand of amino acids, that bind to the major groove of DNA. The recognition and binding to DNA by helix-turn-helix proteins is done by the two α helices, one occupying the N-terminal end of the motif, the other at the C-terminus. A fragment of Engrailed homeodomain encompassing only the two helices and the turn was found to be an ultrafast independently folding protein domain. Other modified helix-turn-helix motifs
Other derivatives of the helix-turn-helix motif include the DNA-binding domain found in MarR, a regulator of multiple antibiotic resistance, which forms a winged helix-turn-helix with an additional C-terminal alpha helix. 
The combination of physical examinations with C-reactive protein values do not improve the accuracy of radiographic verified pneumonia predictions. [SEP] Diagnosis
Pneumonia is typically diagnosed based on a combination of physical signs and often a chest X-ray. For those with CRP less than 20 mg/L without convincing evidence of pneumonia, antibiotics are not recommended.Procalcitonin may help determine the cause and support decisions about who should receive antibiotics. Radiologic findings may not be present in the early stages of the disease, especially in the presence of dehydration, or may be difficult to interpret in the obese or those with a history of lung disease. Laterolateral chest radiographs can increase the diagnostic accuracy of lung consolidation and pleural effusion.A CT scan can give additional information in indeterminate cases and provide more details in those with an unclear chest radiograph (for example occult pneumonia in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease). The utility of chest physiotherapy in pneumonia has not yet been determined. Over-the-counter cough medicine has not been found to be effective, nor has the use of zinc supplementation in children. The use of antibiotics in viral pneumonia is recommended by some experts, as it is impossible to rule out a complicating bacterial infection. A subsequent trial however failed to find that CRP was useful for determining statin benefit.In a meta-analysis of 20 studies involving 1,466 patients with coronary artery disease, CRP levels were found to be reduced after exercise interventions. 
The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the A isoform to the B isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. [SEP] Virtually all eukaryotic cells contain myosin isoforms. The structure and function of myosin is globally conserved across species, to the extent that rabbit muscle myosin II will bind to actin from an amoeba. The nomenclature can therefore be somewhat confusing when attempting to compare the functions of myosin proteins within and between organisms. Analysis of the amino acid sequences of different myosins shows great variability among the tail domains, but strong conservation of head domain sequences. Myosin II
Myosin II (also known as conventional myosin) is the myosin type responsible for producing muscle contraction in muscle cells in most animal cell types. Thus, myosin II has two heads. Myosin VIII
Myosin VIII is a plant-specific myosin linked to cell division; specifically, it is involved in regulating the flow of cytoplasm between cells and in the localization of vesicles to the phragmoplast. NM-IIB is dephosphorylated by a myosin phosphatase.Detailed kinetic studies on NM-IIB show that this isoform of non-muscle myosin II has a slower actomyosin ATPase cycle relative to other myosin II isoforms, and that the markedly high affinity of NM-IIB head for ADP as well as the slow rate of ADP release can mechanistically explain affinity this finding. 
The cytokine receptor which regulates chemotaxis and formation of lymph nodes is involved in production of myeloperoxidase in the left atrium. [SEP] Cytokines are produced by a broad range of cells, including immune cells like macrophages, B lymphocytes, T lymphocytes and mast cells, as well as endothelial cells, fibroblasts, and various stromal cells; a given cytokine may be produced by more than one type of cell. Lymphokines: produced by lymphocytes
Monokines: produced exclusively by monocytes
Interferons: involved in antiviral responses
Colony stimulating factors: support the growth of cells in semisolid media
Chemokines: mediate chemoattraction (chemotaxis) between cells. There are both pro-inflammatory and  anti-inflammatory cytokines that regulate this pathway. Cytokines are released from the blastocyst, and are also expressed in the endometrium, and have critical roles in the stages of zona hatching, and implantation. The aberrant chemotaxis of leukocytes and lymphocytes also contribute to inflammatory diseases such as atherosclerosis, asthma, and arthritis. The main classes of chemotaxis receptors are triggered by:

Formyl peptides - formyl peptide receptors (FPR),
Chemokines - chemokine receptors (CCR or CXCR), and
Leukotrienes - leukotriene receptors (BLT).However, induction of a wide set of membrane receptors (e.g., cyclic nucleotides, amino acids, insulin, vasoactive peptides) also elicit migration of the cell. This family of agonists stimulates chemotactic responses in human eosinophils, neutrophils, and monocytes by binding to the Oxoeicosanoid receptor 1, which like the receptors for leukotriene B4, is a G protein-coupled receptor. It elicits chemotactic responses in eosinophils, basophils, and T helper cells of the Th2 subtype. 
The deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA can inactivate the viral genome by inducing G-to-A mutations. [SEP] Deamination is the removal of an amino group from a molecule. Deamination reactions in DNA
Cytosine
Spontaneous deamination is the hydrolysis reaction of cytosine into uracil, releasing ammonia in the process. In DNA, this spontaneous deamination is corrected for by the removal of uracil (product of cytosine deamination and not part of DNA) by uracil-DNA glycosylase, generating an abasic (AP) site. Cytosine deamination increases C-To-T mutations
A known result of cytosine methylation is the increase of C-to-T transition mutations through the process of deamination. Additional proteins performing this function
APOBEC1
APOBEC3A-H, APOBEC3G - affects HIV
Activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AICDA)
Cytidine deaminase (CDA)
dCMP deaminase (DCTD)
AMP deaminase (AMPD1)
Adenosine Deaminase acting on tRNA (ADAT)
Adenosine Deaminase acting on dsRNA (ADAR)
Double-stranded RNA-specific editase 1 (ADARB1)
Adenosine Deaminase acting on mononucleotides (ADA)
Guanine Deaminase (GDA)

See also
Adenosine monophosphate deaminase deficiency type 1
Hofmann elimination


== References == Cytidine is a component of RNA. In humans, dietary cytidine is converted into uridine, which is probably the compound behind cytidine's metabolic effects. Biological actions
In addition to its role as a pyrimidine component of RNA, cytidine has been found to control neuronal-glial glutamate cycling, with supplementation decreasing midfrontal/cerebral glutamate/glutamine levels. 
The density of cytokine receptor bearing cells affects the distance over which cytokines act. [SEP] The increased concentration of ICAM-1 on the cells surface increases the vulnerability of these cells to natural killer cells. These molecules activate both CD8+ T cells as well as natural killer cells and attract them to the tumor. The blocking mechanism is associated with the stimulation of SeV inactivated virions of interleukin 6 (IL-6) secretion by mature DCs. The receptor attachment is cooperative with respect to receptor density. The activities of the receptor binding hemagglutinin-neuraminidase protein is solely responsible for inducing close interaction between the virus envelope and the cellular membrane. The cellular immune response instead refers to the direct activity of blood cells (hemocytes) in Drosophila, which are analogous to mammalian monocytes/macrophages. Hemocytes also possess a significant role in mediating humoral immune responses such as the melanization reaction.The immune response to infection can involve up to 2,423 genes, or 13.7% of the genome. The cellular response to infection
Circulating hemocytes are key regulators of infection. 
The density of cytokine receptor bearing cells has no effect on the distance over which cytokines act. [SEP] Not all cancer cells have cell entry receptors for the virus and not all cancer cells express virus processing serine proteases. The receptor attachment is cooperative with respect to receptor density. However, an infectious virus was not produced in these ovine cells. Cells of the imaginal disks are set aside during embryogenesis and continue to grow and divide during the larval stages—unlike most other cells of the larva, which have differentiated to perform specialized functions and grow without further cell division. Their close relatives, the genus Coquillettidia, lay their eggs similarly, but not attached to plants. Firstly, they have rigid lungs which do not expand and contract during the breathing cycle. Birds also do not have diaphragms or pleural cavities. Diffusion of gases is effective over small distances but not over larger ones, this is one of the reasons insects are all relatively small. 
The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in chronic infectious conditions. [SEP] Monocytes are a type of leukocyte or white blood cell. Monocytes are also capable of killing infected host cells via antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity. Specific functions of monocyte subpopulations
Aside from their differentiation capacity, monocytes can also directly regulate immune responses. Non-classical monocytes produce high amounts of pro-inflammatory cytokines like tumor necrosis factor and interleukin-12 after stimulation with microbial products. Other microbial products can directly activate monocytes and this leads to production of pro-inflammatory and, with some delay, of anti-inflammatory cytokines. Monocytic cells may contribute to the severity and disease progression in COVID-19 patients. Examples of processes that can increase a monocyte count include:

chronic inflammation
diabetes
stress response
Cushing's syndrome (hyperadrenocorticism)
immune-mediated disease
granulomatous disease
atherosclerosis
necrosis
red blood cell regeneration
viral fever
sarcoidosis
chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML)A high count of CD14+CD16++ monocytes is found in severe infection (sepsis).In the field of atherosclerosis, high numbers of the CD14++CD16+ intermediate monocytes were shown to be predictive of cardiovascular events in populations at risk.CMML is characterized by a persistent monocyte count of > 1000/microL of blood. Specific white blood cells, called monocytes, are tasked with ingesting foreign material and become activated during certain inflammatory events. 
The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes improves inflammatory disease outcomes. [SEP] Monocytes are a type of leukocyte or white blood cell. As a part of the vertebrate innate immune system monocytes also influence adaptive immune responses and exert tissue repair functions. Differentiation into other effector cells
Monocytes can migrate into tissues and replenish resident macrophage populations. Specific functions of monocyte subpopulations
Aside from their differentiation capacity, monocytes can also directly regulate immune responses. Non-classical monocytes produce high amounts of pro-inflammatory cytokines like tumor necrosis factor and interleukin-12 after stimulation with microbial products. Other microbial products can directly activate monocytes and this leads to production of pro-inflammatory and, with some delay, of anti-inflammatory cytokines. Monocytic cells may contribute to the severity and disease progression in COVID-19 patients. Examples of processes that can increase a monocyte count include:

chronic inflammation
diabetes
stress response
Cushing's syndrome (hyperadrenocorticism)
immune-mediated disease
granulomatous disease
atherosclerosis
necrosis
red blood cell regeneration
viral fever
sarcoidosis
chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML)A high count of CD14+CD16++ monocytes is found in severe infection (sepsis).In the field of atherosclerosis, high numbers of the CD14++CD16+ intermediate monocytes were shown to be predictive of cardiovascular events in populations at risk.CMML is characterized by a persistent monocyte count of > 1000/microL of blood. 
The effect of Lipopolysaccharides on kidney barrier function is dependent on inflammation levels. [SEP] Sepsis caused by gram-negative bacteria is thought to be largely due to a response by the host to the lipid A component of lipopolysaccharide, also called endotoxin. Sepsis caused by gram-positive bacteria may result from an immunological response to cell wall lipoteichoic acid. This forced receptor interaction induces the production of pro-inflammatory chemical signals (cytokines) by T-cells.There are a number of microbial factors that may cause the typical septic inflammatory cascade. IL-1β seems to be an amplifier of inflammation by recruitment of macrophages in the context of sterile inflammation. This occurs, for instance, after exposure of macrophages and dendritic cells to lipopolysaccharide (LPS), which binds to TLR4 and acts as pathogen-associated molecular pattern, which is another group of alarmins.The synthesis of IL-1β precursor (and IL-18) is induced by stimulation of innate immune cells by Toll-like receptors (TLRs) or RIG-like receptors (RLRs), but to gain the ability to bind to IL-1 receptor, the IL-1β precursor has to be cleaved by a cysteine protease called caspase-1. It also inhibits the release of leukotriene B4 from monocytes after stimulation with bacterial lipopolysaccharides. Further investigation has shown that IL-10 predominantly inhibits lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and bacterial product mediated induction of the pro-inflammatory cytokines TNFα, IL-1β, IL-12, and IFNγ secretion from Toll-Like Receptor (TLR) triggered myeloid lineage cells. As a result, TNFα levels rise and result in inflammation. 
The first MBT repeat of the four malignant brain tumor (4MBT) domain of Drosophila's Sfmbt and of the orthologous mammalian L3MBTL2 is required for the interaction with the spacer region of Drosophila's Pleiohomeotic (Pho) or its human ortholog YY1. [SEP] Primary tumors of the glial cells are called gliomas and often are malignant by the time they are diagnosed.The thalamus and hypothalamus are major divisions of the diencephalon, with the pituitary gland and pineal gland attached at the bottom; tumors of the pituitary and pineal gland are often benign.The brainstem lies between the large cerebral cortex and the spinal cord. Brain tumors have similar characteristics and obstacles when it comes to diagnosis and therapy with tumors located elsewhere in the body. A primary tumor is one that has started in the brain, as opposed to a metastatic tumor, which is one that has spread to the brain from another area of the body. Primary
The most common primary brain tumors are:
Gliomas (50.4%)
Meningiomas (20.8%)
Pituitary adenomas (15%)
Nerve sheath tumors (10%)These common tumors can also be organized according to tissue of origin as shown below:

Secondary
Secondary tumors of the brain are metastatic and have invaded the brain from cancers originating in other organs. Conventional external beam "whole-brain radiotherapy treatment" (WBRT) or "whole-brain irradiation" may be suggested if there is a risk that other secondary tumors will develop in the future. Medulloblastoma has a good prognosis with chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and surgical resection while glioblastoma multiforme has a median survival of only 12 months even with aggressive chemoradiotherapy and surgery. Glioblastoma multiforme
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most aggressive (grade IV) and most common form of a malignant brain tumor. A brain tumor is an abnormal growth of cells within the brain or inside the skull, and can be cancerous (malignant) or non-cancerous (benign). 
The gene daf-16, which encodes forkhead Box O (FOXO), is required for all phenotypes associated with reduced insulin/insulin-like growth factor (Igf) signaling. [SEP] Forkhead box protein O4 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the FOXO4 gene. Structure and function
FOXO4 is a member of the forkhead family transcription factors O subclass, which is characterized by a winged helix domain used for DNA binding. Clinical significance
Associations with longevity
FOXO transcription factors have been shown to be the down downstream effector molecules of insulin-like growth factor (IGF) signaling pathway. In the absence of insulin, PI3K is inactive, so the FOXO homolog daf-16 is able to translocate to the nucleus and turn on many genetic pathways associated with longevity in the roundworm Caenorhabditis elegans. FOXO (Forkhead box protein O)
DAF-16 encodes FOXO (Forkhead box protein O), which binds to gene promoters that contain the sequence TTGTTTAC in their regulatory region – this is the DAF-16 binding element (DBE). FOXO is involved in the Insulin / IGF1 signalling pathway (IIS) which affects longevity, lipogenesis, dauer formation, heat shock and oxidative stress responses, by activating proteins such as MnSOD and Catalase. Therefore, a reduction in insulin signalling generally leads to an increase in FOXO expression, as DAF-16 is no longer inhibited by AKT. In C. elegans, the insulin/IGF-1/FOXO pathway is initiated by changes in IGF-1 levels which cause IGF-1 receptors to start a phosphorylation cascade that deactivates the FOXO transcription factor, DAF-16. 
The generation of reactive oxygen species by activated oncogenes contributes to the increased genomic instability of leukaemia cells. [SEP] Thus, drugs that knock out these oncogenes (and thereby kill cancer cells) may also damage normal cells, inducing significant illness. Specific examples include stroke and heart attack.In general, the harmful effects of reactive oxygen species on the cell are the damage of DNA or RNA, oxidation of polyunsaturated fatty acids in lipids (lipid peroxidation), oxidation of amino acids in proteins, and oxidative deactivation of specific enzymes by oxidation co-factors. But under oxidative stress conditions, excessive ROS can damage cellular proteins, lipids and DNA, leading to fatal lesions in the cell that contribute to carcinogenesis. Cancer cells exhibit greater ROS stress than normal cells do, partly due to oncogenic stimulation, increased metabolic activity and mitochondrial malfunction. The resulting genomic instability directly contributes to carcinogenesis. Cancer cells with elevated ROS levels depend heavily on the antioxidant defense system. Many forms of cancer are thought to be the result of reactions between radicals and DNA, potentially resulting in mutations that can adversely affect the cell cycle and potentially lead to malignancy. Oncogenes play an important role in the regulation or synthesis of proteins linked to tumorigenic cell growth. 
The innate immune response struggles to remove small numbers of parasites. [SEP] Instead, it is more likely it was caused by human parasites such as fleas and lice. The effective population is usually smaller than the total population since it takes into account factors such as the level of inbreeding and the stage of the lifecycle in which the population is the smallest. Viruses, bacteria, fungi and cancers evolve to be resistant to host immune defences, as well as to pharmaceutical drugs. On an even smaller scale, the somatic cells that make up the body of an animal limit their reproduction so they can maintain a stable organism, which then supports a small number of the animal's germ cells to produce offspring. For two invasive pests which have significantly reduced grower earnings see § Avocado Thrips and § Persea Mite. The virus population here has an unusually low amount of genetic diversity. Studies of the Medfly invasion here show that there have been many almost-invasions at the state's airports and other ports, most of which have failed to establish including a small infestation in 1975 in Los Angeles which was eradicated using SIT. Weeds
Rejmanek & Pitcairn 2002 overview 53 weed eradication campaigns in the state, and find that any infestation smaller than 2.5 acres (1.0 ha) was usually successfully eradicated, while anything which had already reached 2,500 acres (1,000 ha) was essentially impossible to do. 
The latent infection of myeloid cells with human cytomegalovirus induces a number of changes in gene expression. [SEP] The virus induces defects in the ability of cytotoxic T cells to kill other EBV-infected cells and causes them to overproduce pro-inflammatory cytokines. Mutations in other genes of the infected cell may promote its malignancy, e.g. The NK cells expression relatively high levels of the LMP1 viral protein; this protein may activate the NF-κB cell signaling pathway and thereby stimulate EBV-infected cells to proliferate. Cytopathic effects on the host cell
The range of structural and biochemical effects that viruses have on the host cell is extensive. SeV stimulation of production of inflammatory cytokines, infammasomes and beta-defensins
Cytokines
Sendai virus can induce the production of many cytokines that enhance cellular immune responses. It has been shown in the Namalwa cells that SeV virus stimulates an expression of many genes involved in immune defense pathways, such as type I and type II IFN signaling, as well as cytokine signaling. The virus increases the expression of class I and class II molecules of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) (HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C and HLADR), CD83, as well as costimulatory molecules CD40 and CD86. It has been shown that for efficient virion production SeV induces the β-cytoplasmic actin remodeling in its host cell. 
The mean suicide rate in women is higher after miscarriage than live birth. [SEP] Teenage women who are pregnant or mothers are seven times more likely to commit suicide than other teenagers.According to the National Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy, nearly 1 in 4 teen mothers will experience another pregnancy within two years of having their first. Abortions and ethnicity
Abortion rates tend to be higher among minority women in the U.S. Safety of abortions
The risk of death from carrying a child to term in the U.S. is approximately 14 times greater than the risk of death from a legal abortion. The risk of abortion-related mortality increases with gestational age, but remains lower than that of childbirth through at least 21 weeks' gestation. Postpartum depression can also occur in women who have suffered a miscarriage. Postpartum depression in men leads to an increase risk of suicide, while also limiting healthy infant-father attachment. Anyone who procured a miscarriage for a woman was liable to imprisonment for life, while a woman who procured a miscarriage for herself was liable to imprisonment for two years.As in other countries, illegal abortions were still performed, and some cases charged that this led to the deaths of women. Stillbirth and miscarriage can happen for various reasons, while abortion is carried out purposely. 
The mean suicide rate in women is lower after miscarriage than live birth. [SEP] Teenage women who are pregnant or mothers are seven times more likely to commit suicide than other teenagers.According to the National Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy, nearly 1 in 4 teen mothers will experience another pregnancy within two years of having their first. Abortions and ethnicity
Abortion rates tend to be higher among minority women in the U.S. Safety of abortions
The risk of death from carrying a child to term in the U.S. is approximately 14 times greater than the risk of death from a legal abortion. The risk of abortion-related mortality increases with gestational age, but remains lower than that of childbirth through at least 21 weeks' gestation. From 1940 through 1970, deaths of pregnant women during abortion fell from nearly 1,500 to a little over 100. Postpartum depression can also occur in women who have suffered a miscarriage. Stillbirth and miscarriage can happen for various reasons, while abortion is carried out purposely. Reductions of these factors, caesarean sections when risks are present, and early detection of birth defects have lowered the rate of stillbirth. 
The microtubule-dependent delivery and secretion of matrix metalloproteases (MMPs) is partially responsible for the disassembly of adhesion sites. [SEP] The microtubule grows from discrete assembly sites in the cells called Microtubule organizing centers (MTOCs), which are a network of microtubule associated proteins (MAP).Two molecules of energy rich guanosine triphosphate (GTP) are also important components of the microtubule structure. The hydrolysis of GTP permits the disassembly and the regulation of the microtubule system; however, the activation of tubulin by paclitaxel results in permanent stabilization of the microtubule. Microtubules are dynamic structures, which means that they are permanently in a state of assembly and disassembly. Well known metalloendopeptidases include ADAM proteins and matrix metalloproteinases, and M16 metalloproteinases such as Insulin Degrading Enzyme and Presequence ProteaseIn the MEROPS database peptidase families are grouped by their catalytic type, the first character representing the catalytic type: A, aspartic; C, cysteine; G, glutamic acid; M, metallo; S, serine; T, threonine; and U, unknown. Metalloprotease inhibitors are cellular inhibitors of the  Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). MMPs belong to a family of zinc-dependent neutral endopeptidases. One mechanism to inhibit MMP activity is by dislodging the enzymes from their receptors. TIMPs bind noncovalently to the active site of MMPs. 
The minor G allele of FOXO3 downregulates pro-inflammatory cytokines. [SEP] Forkhead box O3, also known as FOXO3 or FOXO3a, is a human protein encoded by the FOXO3 gene. Function
FOXO3 belongs to the O subclass of the forkhead family of transcription factors which are characterized by a distinct fork head DNA-binding domain. The use of FOXO3a knockout mice has revealed a diverse range of functions in both health and disease, namely infertility, lymphoproliferation, adenoma, organ inflammation, metabolism etc. It is thought that FOXO3a is also involved in protection from oxidative stress by upregulating antioxidants such as catalase and MnSOD. Clinical significance
Deregulation of FOXO3a is involved in tumorigenesis, for example translocation of this gene with the MLL gene is associated with secondary acute leukemia. Downregulation of FOXO3a activity is often seen in cancer (e.g. FOXO3 is known as a tumour suppressor. Association with longevity
Genetic variation in FOXO3 has been shown to be associated with healthspan and longevity in humans. 
The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to less severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. [SEP] Forkhead box O3, also known as FOXO3 or FOXO3a, is a human protein encoded by the FOXO3 gene. The use of FOXO3a knockout mice has revealed a diverse range of functions in both health and disease, namely infertility, lymphoproliferation, adenoma, organ inflammation, metabolism etc. It is thought that FOXO3a is also involved in protection from oxidative stress by upregulating antioxidants such as catalase and MnSOD. Downregulation of FOXO3a activity is often seen in cancer (e.g. Association with longevity
Genetic variation in FOXO3 has been shown to be associated with healthspan and longevity in humans. Association with intelligence
In a meta-analysis of 78,308 individuals of European descent, a particular single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) (rs2490272) in an intronic region of FOXO3 and neighboring SNPs in the promoter region, had the strongest associations with intelligence. The University of Hawaii has found that the "longevity gene" FOXO3 that reduces the effects of aging is more commonly found in individuals of small body size. The University of Hawaii has found that the "longevity gene" FOXO3 that reduces the effects of aging is more commonly found in individuals of a small body size. 
The minor G allele of FOXO3 up-regulates IL-10. [SEP] Forkhead box O3, also known as FOXO3 or FOXO3a, is a human protein encoded by the FOXO3 gene. Function
FOXO3 belongs to the O subclass of the forkhead family of transcription factors which are characterized by a distinct fork head DNA-binding domain. The use of FOXO3a knockout mice has revealed a diverse range of functions in both health and disease, namely infertility, lymphoproliferation, adenoma, organ inflammation, metabolism etc. It is thought that FOXO3a is also involved in protection from oxidative stress by upregulating antioxidants such as catalase and MnSOD. Clinical significance
Deregulation of FOXO3a is involved in tumorigenesis, for example translocation of this gene with the MLL gene is associated with secondary acute leukemia. Downregulation of FOXO3a activity is often seen in cancer (e.g. FOXO3 is known as a tumour suppressor. Association with longevity
Genetic variation in FOXO3 has been shown to be associated with healthspan and longevity in humans. 
The morphology change from large white adipocytes to small brown adipocytes is a sign of decreased energy expenditure potential in white adipose tissue. [SEP] The enhanced expression of IRX3 and IRX5 resulting from this single nucleotide alteration promoted a shift from energy-dissipating beige adipocytes to energy-storing white adipocytes and a subsequent reduction in mitochondrial thermogenesis by a factor of 5. Brown adipose tissue (BAT) or brown fat makes up the adipose organ together with white adipose tissue (or white fat). These adipocytes are found interspersed in white adipose tissue and are also named 'beige' or 'brite' (for "brown in white").Brown adipose tissue is especially abundant in newborns and in hibernating mammals. The therapeutic targeting of brown fat for the treatment of human obesity is an active research field.In contrast to white adipocytes, which contain a single lipid droplet, brown adipocytes contain numerous smaller droplets and a much higher number of (iron-containing) mitochondria, which gives the tissue its color. Adults
It was believed that after infants grow up, most of the mitochondria (which are responsible for the brown color) in brown adipose tissue disappear, and the tissue becomes similar in function and appearance to white fat. Adipocytes, also known as lipocytes and fat cells, are the cells that primarily compose adipose tissue, specialized in storing energy as fat. There are two types of adipose tissue, white adipose tissue (WAT) and brown adipose tissue (BAT), which are also known as white and brown fat, respectively, and comprise two types of fat cells. Marrow adipose tissue response to exercise approximates that of white adipose tissue. 
The morphology change from large white adipocytes to small brown adipocytes is a sign of increased energy expenditure potential in white adipose tissue. [SEP] Brown adipose tissue (BAT) or brown fat makes up the adipose organ together with white adipose tissue (or white fat). These adipocytes are found interspersed in white adipose tissue and are also named 'beige' or 'brite' (for "brown in white").Brown adipose tissue is especially abundant in newborns and in hibernating mammals. The therapeutic targeting of brown fat for the treatment of human obesity is an active research field.In contrast to white adipocytes, which contain a single lipid droplet, brown adipocytes contain numerous smaller droplets and a much higher number of (iron-containing) mitochondria, which gives the tissue its color. Adults
It was believed that after infants grow up, most of the mitochondria (which are responsible for the brown color) in brown adipose tissue disappear, and the tissue becomes similar in function and appearance to white fat. Brown adipose tissue activation may play an important role in bone health and bone density. There are two types of adipose tissue, white adipose tissue (WAT) and brown adipose tissue (BAT), which are also known as white and brown fat, respectively, and comprise two types of fat cells. Marrow adipose tissue response to exercise approximates that of white adipose tissue. Analysis of their adipose tissue morphology revealed increases in both adipocyte size and number in most depots. 
The most prevalent adverse events to Semaglutide are cardiovascular. [SEP] In the trial, empagliflozin was shown to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death compared to a placebo when added to standard of care therapies for diabetes and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.For heart failure, the safety and effectiveness of empagliflozin were evaluated by the FDA as an adjunct to standard of care therapy in a randomized, double-blind, international trial comparing 2,997 participants who received empagliflozin, 10 mg, once daily to 2,991 participants who received the placebo. In Europe there were contraindications for use in heart failure and combination with insulin.A meta analysis of all trials from 2010 and 2019 confirmed a higher risk of heart failure and a double risk when rosiglitazone was administered as add-on therapy to insulin. Heart attacks
The relative risk of ischemic cardiac events seen in pre-approval trials of rosiglitazone was similar to that of comparable drugs, but there was increased LDL cholesterol, LDL/HDL cholesterol ratio, triglycerides and weight.In 2005, at the insistence of the World Health Organization, GSK performed a meta-analysis of all 37 trials involving use of rosiglitazone, finding a hazard ratio of 1.29 (0.99 to 1.89). Based on the 1.4x increased risk relative to control groups, FDA scientist David Graham presented an analysis suggesting that rosiglitazone had caused 83,000 excess heart attacks between 1999 and 2007.: 4  The advisory panel voted 20 : 3 that the evidence available indicated that rosiglitazone increased the risk of cardiovascular events and 22 : 1 that the overall risk:benefit ratio of rosiglitazone justified its continued marketing in the United States. The study suggests 170 excess myocardial infarctions, 649 excess cases of heart failure, and 431 excess deaths for every 100 000 patients who receive rosiglitazone rather than pioglitazone. The report noted the drug caused 500 avoidable heart attacks a month, and Glaxo officials sought to intimidate doctors who criticized the drug. Controversy and response
Following the reports in 2007 that Avandia can significantly increase the risk of heart attacks, the drug has been controversial. Dr Misbin was the first FDA reviewer for rosiglitazone (Avandia) and cautioned about its potential to increase the risk of cardiovascular disease. 
The most prevalent adverse events to Semaglutide are gastrointestinal. [SEP] Common adverse effects include diarrhea, nausea, and abdominal pain. The most common side effects are nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and decreased appetite.It is a glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist (GLP-1 agonist) consisting of GLP-1(7-37) covalently linked to an Fc fragment of human IgG4. Side effects
The most common side effects include gastrointestinal disorders, such as dyspepsia, decreased appetite, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhea. Some patients may experience serious adverse reactions: acute pancreatitis (symptoms include persistent severe abdominal pain, sometimes radiating to the back and accompanied by vomiting), hypoglycemia, renal impairment (which may sometimes require hemodialysis). The most commonly reported adverse events were nausea, diarrhea, and vomiting. Lixisenatide (Lyxumia) Sanofi Aventis
Semaglutide (Ozempic) (oral version is Rybelsus)
Dulaglutide (Trulicity) - once weekly
Albiglutide (Tanzeum) - once weeklyThese agents may also cause a decrease in gastric motility, responsible for the common side-effect of nausea, which tends to subside with time. The most frequent and severe adverse effect of pramlintide is nausea, which occurs mostly at the beginning of treatment and gradually reduces. Furthermore, there has been growing evidence that the effectiveness and safety of this drug class could depend on genetic variability of the patients.Examples include:

Dapagliflozin
Canagliflozin
Empagliflozin
RemogliflozinThe side effects of SGLT-2 inhibitors are derived directly from their mechanism of action; these include an increased risk of: ketoacidosis, urinary tract infections, candidal vulvovaginitis, and hypoglycemia. 
The myocardial cell lineage originally develops from cardiac progenitors of exclusively endodermal origin. [SEP] It thus selectively enhances the differentiation of uncommitted mesoderm to cardiomyocytes, but not to vascular smooth muscle and endothelial cells.One project seeded decellularized mouse hearts with human iPSC-derived multipotential cardiovascular progenitor cells. The introduced cells migrated, proliferated and differentiated in situ into cardiomyocytes, smooth muscle cells and endothelial cells to reconstruct the hearts. Cardiac muscle (also called heart muscle or myocardium) is one of three types of vertebrate muscle tissues, with the other two being skeletal muscle and smooth muscle. The cardiac muscle (myocardium) forms a thick middle layer between the outer layer of the heart wall (the pericardium) and the inner layer (the endocardium), with blood supplied via the coronary circulation. Structure
Gross anatomy
Cardiac muscle tissue or myocardium forms the bulk of the heart. Microanatomy
Cardiac muscle cells also called cardiomyocytes are the contractile myocytes of the cardiac muscle. Myocardial cells possess the property of automaticity or spontaneous depolarization. By using DNA samples from many hearts, the researchers estimated that a 4-year-old renews about 20% of heart muscle cells per year, and about 69 percent of the heart muscle cells of a 50-year-old were generated after he or she was born.One way that cardiomyocyte regeneration occurs is through the division of pre-existing cardiomyocytes during the normal aging process.In the 2000s, the discovery of adult endogenous cardiac stem cells was reported, and studies were published that claimed that various stem cell lineages, including bone marrow stem cells were able to differentiate into cardiomyocytes, and could be used to treat heart failure. 
The number of unfertilized oocytes in mated hermaphrodites increases with age. [SEP] Fresh eggs may be developing from the germinal epithelium throughout life. Ovuliparity
Ovuliparity means the female lays unfertilised eggs (ova), which must then be externally fertilised. Hermaphroditism allows for complex mating systems. Females remain large to accommodate fecundity, as is evidenced by their large ovaries and eggs. They also cause gamete duplication in unfertilized eggs causing them to develop into female offspring. During ovulation, the arrested secondary oocyte leaves the ovary and matures rapidly into an egg ready for fertilization. Mutation frequency during spermatogenesis increases with age. The mutations in spermatogenic cells of old mice include an increased prevalence of transversion mutations compared to young and middle-aged mice. 
The one-child policy has created a hospitable environment for female infants. [SEP] Korean spas have opened in the United States, also gender separated except the bathing areas. During women's weekly swim hours, simple one-piece suits were allowed and sometimes supplied by the facility to insure hygiene; towels were also supplied.Compared to the acceptance of boys being nude, an instance in 1947 where girls were given the same option lasted only six weeks in Highland Park, Michigan before a protest by mothers. His most ambitious project is to shatter this cultural prejudice and so give more space, freedom and equality to women – they would have the same rights as men. Current education policy
In September 2021, the government ordered primary schools to reopen for both sexes and announced plans to reopen secondary schools for male students, without committing to do the same for female students. In Nunavut, female representatives and ministers are as common as their male counterparts. These taboos informed the woman's behaviors and activities in order to prevent complications, promote a healthy birth, and ensure desired characteristics of the infant. Breastfeeding served as their only method of contraception and birth spacing. According to elders, the infant remained in nearly constant physical contact with their mother from the day of birth; sleeping on the family platform, riding in the amauti (baby carrier on the mother), or nestled in her parka for feeding. 
The origin of the CRF01_1b2k protein occurred between 1923 and 1956. [SEP] Corticotropin-releasing hormone receptor 1 (CRHR1) is a protein, also known as CRF1, with the latter (CRF1) now being the IUPHAR-recommended name. In humans, CRF1 is encoded by the CRHR1 gene at region 17q21.31, beside micrototubule-associated protein tau MAPT. Excision of exon 6 yields in the mRNA for the primary functional CRF1, which is a peptide composed of 415 amino acids, arranged in seven hydrophobic alpha-helices.The CRHR1 gene is alternatively spliced into a series of variants. Though the functions of these CRF1 receptors is yet unknown, they are suspected to be biologically significant.CRF1 is 70% homologous with the second human CRF receptor family, CRF2; the greatest divergence between the two lies at the N-terminus of the protein. Mechanism of activation
CRF1 is activated through the binding of CRF or a CRF-agonist. Alternate signaling pathways activated by CRF1 include PKC and MAPK. Evolution
Corticotrophin releasing hormone (CRH) evolved ~500 million years ago in an organism that subsequently gave rise to both chordates and arthropods. In vertebrates this gene was duplicated leading to the extant CRH1 and CRH2 forms. 
The peak incidence of fractures occurs during pubertal growth spurt in early adolescents. [SEP] Growth spurt
The physical development of girls during their teenage years can be broken down into three distinct stages. The peak period of physical growth occurs approximately one year later in concert with stage two of sexual maturity. The initial sign of sexual maturation in boys usually is the "fat spurt." There is facial hair on the chin and the upper lip, adult distribution and color of pubic and axillary hair, and a further increase in muscular strength.The adolescent growth spurt is a rapid increase in the individual's height and weight during puberty resulting from the simultaneous release of growth hormones, thyroid hormones, and androgens. During their peak height velocity (the time of most rapid growth), adolescents grow at a growth rate nearly identical to that of a toddler—about 10.3 cm (4 inches) per year for males and 9 cm (3.5 inches) per year for females. During puberty, bones become harder and more brittle. A significant majority of craniofacial changes occur during adolescence. The majority of people reach their peak bone mass (PBM) around 30 years of age, however, 40-50% of that mass is formed during puberty. 
The peak incidence of fractures occurs in toddlers. [SEP] Although she claimed that the death of the infant was accidental, the infant had suffered concussion to the head, fractures and lost blood through laceration, possibly caused by scissors or a stay. During puberty, bones become harder and more brittle. One-quarter of all new HIV cases occur in those under the age of 21. Elderly people are particularly vulnerable to the consequences of injuries caused by falls, since older individuals typically have greater bone fragility and poorer protective reflexes. Damage to the middle ear may include fracture and discontinuity of the ossicular chain. Damage to the inner ear (cochlea) may be caused by temporal bone fracture. and videos of soldiers breaking the bones were flashed round the world, one showing soldiers smashing a pinned-down stone-thrower's femur with a rock: some are still available on YouTube.In March 1988, since it was found that wooden cudgels were prone to shatter in beating Palestinians, plastic and fibre-glass truncheons were soon introduced. On 5 June 2001, Yehuda Shoham, a 5-month-old baby, was killed when a rock hurled by stone-throwing Palestinians crashed through the window of the car he was riding in, crushing his skull. 
The predominant localization of Linc00173 is in mononuclear macrophage nuclei. [SEP] Lymphocyte predominant (LP) ("popcorn") cells are present embedded in nodules consisting of B cells and other reactive cells (mainly reactive T cells). Long intergenic non-protein coding RNA 173 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the LINC00173 gene. SMN1 is located in a telomeric region of human chromosome 5 and also contains SMN2 in a centromeric region. In these cells the nuclei, termed myonuclei, are located along the inside of the cell membrane. However, considerable numbers of resident and infiltrating mononuclear cells are also present in skeletal muscles. However, in terms of nuclei present in skeletal muscle, myocyte nuclei may be only half of the nuclei present, while nuclei from resident and infiltrating mononuclear cells make up the other half.Considerable research on skeletal muscle is focused on the muscle fiber cells, the myocytes, as discussed in detail in the first sections, below. Mononuclear cells of skeletal muscle
Nuclei present in skeletal muscle are about 50% myocyte nuclei and 50% mononuclear cell nuclei. The majority (83%) of mononuclear cells in skeletal muscle are located within or adjacent to blood vessels. 
The proliferative capacity of neural progenitors differs across species. [SEP] Regeneration is different from reproduction. For example, hydra perform regeneration but reproduce by the method of budding. Echinoderms
Tissue regeneration is widespread among echinoderms and has been well documented in starfish (Asteroidea), sea cucumbers (Holothuroidea), and sea urchins (Echinoidea). Mammals
Mammals are capable of cellular and physiological regeneration, but have generally poor reparative regenerative ability across the group. In addition to these two species, subsequent studies demonstrated that Acomys cahirinus could regenerate skin and excised tissue in the ear pinna.Despite these examples, it is generally accepted that adult mammals have limited regenerative capacity compared to most vertebrate embryos/larvae, adult salamanders and fish. In mammals, most cells terminally differentiate, with only stem cells retaining the ability to differentiate into several cell types ("totipotency" and "multipotency"). In mammals, some stem cells continue producing newly differentiated cells throughout life, such as in neurogenesis, but mammals are not able to respond to loss of some tissues, for example, the inability to regenerate limbs, which some other animals are capable of. Epigenetic modifications regulate the transition from neural stem cells to glial progenitor cells (for example, differentiation into oligodendrocytes is regulated by the deacetylation and methylation of histones. 
The proliferative capacity of progenitors is regulated cell-autonomously. [SEP] Progenitors are obtained by so-called direct reprogramming or directed differentiation and are also called induced somatic stem cells. Conditionally reprogrammed cells
Schlegel and Liu demonstrated that the combination of feeder cells and a Rho kinase inhibitor (Y-27632)  induces normal and tumor epithelial cells from many tissues to proliferate indefinitely in vitro. Cell surface progenitor-associated markers are rapidly induced in normal mouse ME-CRCs relative to ME cells. Single-cell analysis revealed that, in vivo, proliferating macrophages can derepress a macrophage-specific enhancer repertoire associated with a gene network controlling self-renewal. The similar network also controls embryonic stem cell self-renewal but is associated with distinct embryonic stem cell-specific enhancers.Hence macrophages isolated from MafB- and c-Maf-double deficient mice divide indefinitely; the self-renewal depends on c-Myc and Klf4. The glycosylation change is apparently not just the result of the initialization of gene expression, but also performs as an important gene regulator involved in the acquisition and maintenance of the undifferentiated state.For example, activation of glycoprotein ACA, linking glycosylphosphatidylinositol on the surface of the progenitor cells in human peripheral blood induces increased expression of genes Wnt, Notch-1, BMI1 and HOXB4 through a signaling cascade PI3K/Akt/mTor/PTEN and promotes the formation of a self-renewing population of hematopoietic stem cells.Furthermore, dedifferentiation of progenitor cells induced by ACA-dependent signaling pathway leads to ACA-induced pluripotent stem cells, capable of differentiating in vitro into cells of all three germ layers. AhR activation in human hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPs) drives an unprecedented expansion of HPs, megakaryocyte- and erythroid-lineage cells. The forward programmed megakaryocytes proliferate and differentiate in culture for several months with megakaryocyte purity over 90% reaching up to 2x105 mature megakaryocytes per input hPSC. 
The proportion of people with visual difficulty is two times higher in low-income countries than in high-income countries. [SEP] 246 million had low vision and 39 million were blind. The majority of people with poor vision are in the developing world and are over the age of 50 years. Visual impairments have considerable economic costs both directly due to the cost of treatment and indirectly due to decreased ability to work. Additionally, the visually impaired also have greater difficulty walking a quarter mile (400 m) and walking up stairs, as compared to those with normal vision. Older adults with visual impairment have a 1.5-fold risk of reporting perceived discrimination and of these individuals, there was a 2-fold risk of loneliness and 4-fold risk of reporting a lower quality of life. Epidemiology
The WHO estimates that in 2012 there were 285 million visually impaired people in the world, of which 246 million had low vision and 39 million were blind.Of those who are blind 90% live in the developing world. Worldwide for each blind person, an average of 3.4 people have low vision, with country and regional variation ranging from 2.4 to 5.5.By age: Visual impairment is unequally distributed across age groups. More than 90% of the world's visually impaired live in developing countries.Since the estimates of the 1990s, new data based on the 2002 global population show a reduction in the number of people who are blind or visually impaired, and those who are blind from the effects of infectious diseases, but an increase in the number of people who are blind from conditions related to longer life spans.In 1987, it was estimated that 598,000 people in the United States met the legal definition of blindness. 
The recruitment of Wdr5 to its target loci depends on Kat8. [SEP] WD repeat-containing protein 5 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the WDR5 gene.This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. This protein contains 7 WD repeats. Interactions
WDR5 has been shown to interact with Host cell factor C1 and MLL. WDR5 is a key determinant for MYC recruitment to chromatin

References


== Further reading == Westdeutscher Rundfunk Köln (West German Broadcasting Cologne; WDR, pronounced [veːdeːˈʔɛʁ] (listen)) is a German public-broadcasting institution based in the Federal State of North Rhine-Westphalia with its main office in Cologne. WDR is a constituent member of the consortium of German public-broadcasting institutions, ARD. WDR 4 (motto: Melodien für ein gutes Gefühl, "Melodies for a good feeling") is a channel aimed chiefly towards an older audience. WDR 5 also carries children's programming from KiRaKa at 19.05–20.00 each evening as well as on Sundays at 7.05–8.00 and 14.05–15.00. 
The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is independent of the patient's genetic make-up. [SEP] Some of these environmental factors are part of the physical environment, while others (such as diet and number of pregnancies) are primarily part of the social, cultural, or economic environment.Although many epidemiological risk factors have been identified, the cause of any individual breast cancer is most often unknowable. Epidemiological research informs the patterns of breast cancer incidence across certain populations, but not in a given individual. The relative risk of breast cancer diagnosis associated with current and recent use of hormonal contraceptives did not appear to vary with family history of breast cancer. The P-1 preventative study demonstrated that tamoxifen can prevent breast cancer in high-risk individuals. The IBIS trial found benefit from tamoxifen. In 2006, the NSABP STAR trial demonstrated that raloxifene had equal efficacy in preventing breast cancer compared with tamoxifen, but that there were fewer side effects with raloxifene. Some studies suggest that the racial disparity in breast cancer outcomes may reflect cultural biases more than biological disease differences. However, the lack of diversity in clinical trials for breast cancer treatment may contribute to these disparities, with recent research indicating that black women are more likely to have estrogen receptor negative breast cancers, which are not responsive to hormone treatments that are effective for most white women. 
The removal of reactive oxygen species by activated oncogenes contributes to the increased genomic instability of leukaemia cells. [SEP] However, ROS can cause irreversible damage to DNA as they oxidize and modify some cellular components and prevent them from performing their original functions. Specific examples include stroke and heart attack.In general, the harmful effects of reactive oxygen species on the cell are the damage of DNA or RNA, oxidation of polyunsaturated fatty acids in lipids (lipid peroxidation), oxidation of amino acids in proteins, and oxidative deactivation of specific enzymes by oxidation co-factors. But under oxidative stress conditions, excessive ROS can damage cellular proteins, lipids and DNA, leading to fatal lesions in the cell that contribute to carcinogenesis. Carcinogenesis
ROS-related oxidation of DNA is one of the main causes of mutations, which can produce several types of DNA damage, including non-bulky (8-oxoguanine and formamidopyrimidine) and bulky (cyclopurine and etheno adducts) base modifications, abasic sites, non-conventional single-strand breaks, protein-DNA adducts, and intra/interstrand DNA crosslinks. The resulting genomic instability directly contributes to carcinogenesis. Cancer cells with elevated ROS levels depend heavily on the antioxidant defense system. Many forms of cancer are thought to be the result of reactions between radicals and DNA, potentially resulting in mutations that can adversely affect the cell cycle and potentially lead to malignancy. Activated oncogenes can cause those cells designated for apoptosis to survive and proliferate instead. 
The repeat-variable diresidue (RVD) in the loop of Transcription-Activator Like (TAL) effectors specifies the nucleotides-amino acid contact at the target promoter element. [SEP] TALE DNA-binding domain
TAL effectors are proteins that are secreted by Xanthomonas bacteria via their type III secretion system when they infect plants. The DNA binding domain contains a repeated highly conserved 33–34 amino acid sequence with divergent 12th and 13th amino acids. These two positions, referred to as the Repeat Variable Diresidue (RVD), are highly variable and show a strong correlation with specific nucleotide recognition. This straightforward relationship between amino acid sequence and DNA recognition has allowed for the engineering of specific DNA-binding domains by selecting a combination of repeat segments containing the appropriate RVDs. Notably, slight changes in the RVD and the incorporation of "nonconventional" RVD sequences can improve targeting specificity. This event is referred as Repeat Variable Diresidue (RVD). RVD is a ring name of Rob Van Dam (born 1970), American wrestler. RVD or RvD may also refer to:

Rijksvoorlichtingsdienst, the Netherlands Government Information Service
RVD, IATA airport code for Rio Verde Airport, Rio Verde, Brazil
Ryan vs. Dorkman, abbreviated RvD, a series of Star Wars fan films 
The risk of breast cancer among parous women decreases with placental weight of pregnancies. [SEP] Further, those with pre-eclampsia may have a lower risk of breast cancer. This workshop concluded that while some studies reported a statistical correlation between breast cancer and abortion, the strongest scientific evidence from large prospective cohort studies demonstrates that abortion is not associated with an increase in breast cancer risk, and that the positive findings were likely due to response bias.The ongoing promotion of a link between abortion and breast cancer is seen by others as part of the anti-abortion "woman-centered" strategy against abortion. More rigorous recent studies demonstrate no causal relationship between induced abortion and a subsequent increase in breast cancer risk." The Canadian Cancer Society stated in 2013: "The body of scientific evidence does not support an association between abortion and increased breast cancer risk." Russo and Russo have shown that mature breast cells have more time for DNA repair with longer cell cycles, accounting for the slightly reduced risk of breast cancer for parous women against the baseline risk for women who have never conceived and those who have conceived and terminated their pregnancies.Later on, Russo et al. independently observed a reduced breast cancer risk when women were injected with hCG for weight loss or infertility treatment. hypothesize since hCG plays a role in cellular differentiation and may activate apoptosis, as levels of hCG increase early on in human pregnancy, "an incomplete pregnancy of short duration might impart the benefits of a full-term pregnancy and thus reduce the risk of breast cancer." In-progress pregnancies, abortions, miscarriages and/or stillbirths account for parity values being less than the gravida number. 
The risk of cancer rises with level of alcohol consumption. [SEP] The US National Institutes of Health similarly estimates that 3.3 million deaths (5.9% of all deaths) were believed to be due to alcohol each year.Guidelines in the US and the UK advise that if people choose to drink, they should drink moderately.Even light and moderate alcohol consumption increases a person's cancer risk, especially the risk of developing squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus, cancers of the mouth and tongue, liver cancer, and breast cancer. However, even light and moderate alcohol consumption increase the risk for developing certain types of cancer. Alcohol is a leading cause of liver cancer in the Western world, accounting for 32-45% of hepatic cancers. Studies have found that people that consume alcohol were two times more likely to develop oral cancer in comparison to people who did not. In women, increased levels of estrogen due to excessive alcohol intake have been related to an increased risk of breast cancer. The World Cancer Research Fund panel report Food, Nutrition, Physical Activity and the Prevention of Cancer: a Global Perspective finds the evidence "convincing" that alcoholic drinks increase the risk of the following cancers: mouth, pharynx and larynx, oesophagus, colorectum (men), breast (pre- and postmenopause).Even light and moderate alcohol consumption increases cancer risk in individuals, especially with respect to squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus, oropharyngeal cancer, and breast cancer.Acetaldehyde, a metabolic product of alcohol, is suspected to promote cancer. However, it has also been associated with an increased risk of esophageal cancer in those who do drink. Lifestyle
Drinking alcoholic beverages increases the risk of breast cancer, even among very light drinkers (women drinking less than half of one alcoholic drink per day). 
The risk of female prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of male prisoners. [SEP] There is also a study that shows that rape victims are 4.1 times more likely to contemplate suicide and 13 times more likely to attempt suicide than non-crime victims.Males have a much higher rate of suicide than females. Over this period the female proportion of the incarcerated population has been increasing, at least partly due to compulsory sentencing. The exponential growth of female inmates reflects the "pervasive gender mandates" in America, as well as women's lower-ranking social and economic status. Almost two times as many women in correctional facilities report suffering from a mental illness as men. Incarcerated women suffer from past sexual trauma at a much higher rate than incarcerated men.One 2009 study found that 70% of incarcerated women have experience severe physical violence by a parental figure, 59% have experienced some form of sexual abuse as a child, and more than 75% have experienced physical violence by an intimate partner in adulthood. Bureau of Justice Statistics figures show that women are at higher risk than men of inmate-on-inmate sexual victimization, and lower risk of staff sexual victimization:

The same study shows that women are less likely than men to be forcibly abused, but more likely to be persuaded. In regard to inmate-on-inmate abuse in prison, males (16%) were more likely than females (6%) to have been victimized 11 or more times, to have been bribed or blackmailed (42% compared to 26%), offered protection (39% compared to 19%), or threatened with harm (48% compared to 30%). As for the gender, age, and racial demographics of mentally ill offenders, the 2017 Bureau of Justice Statistics report found that female inmates, when compared to male inmates, had statistically significantly higher rates of serious psychological distress (20.5% of female prisoners and 32.3% of female jail inmates had serious psychological distress, versus 14% of male prisoners and 25.5% of male jail inmates) and a history of a mental health problem (65.8% of female prisoners and 67.9% of female jail inmates compared to 34.8% of male prisoners and 40.8% of male jail inmates). 
The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) is decorated with VgrG and PAAR proteins. [SEP] The type VI secretion system (T6SS) is molecular machine used by a wide range of Gram-negative bacterial species to transport effectors from the interior (cytoplasm or cytosol) of a bacterial cell across the cellular envelope into an adjacent target cell. In P. aeruginosa, it has been observed that the GacS/Rsm two-component system is involved in type VI secretion system regulation. The prototypic Type IVA secretion system is the VirB complex of Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Type VI
Type VI secretion systems (T6SS) were discovered by the team of John Mekalanos at the Harvard Medical School in 2006 from Vibrio cholerae and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The type VI secretion system (T6SS) is molecular machine used by a wide range of Gram-negative bacterial species to transport effectors from the interior (cytoplasm or cytosol) of a bacterial cell across the cellular envelope into an adjacent target cell. There are at least six specialized secretion systems in gram-negative bacteria. The prototypic Type IVA secretion system is the VirB complex of Agrobacterium tumefaciens.Protein members of this family are components of the type IV secretion system. Type VI secretion system (T6SS)
Type VI secretion systems  were originally identified in 2006 by the group of John Mekalanos at the Harvard Medical School (Boston, USA) in two bacterial pathogens, Vibrio cholerae and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 
The tissue surrounding the granuloma in an immune cell induces an anti-inflammatory immune response. [SEP] Granulomatous inflammation: Characterised by the formation of granulomas, they are the result of a limited but diverse number of diseases, which include among others tuberculosis, leprosy, sarcoidosis, and syphilis. Microscopic examination shows amorphous granular debris enclosed within a distinctive inflammatory border. Beyond increasing inflammation and stimulating the immune system, macrophages also play an important anti-inflammatory role and can decrease immune reactions through the release of cytokines. Role in innate immune response
When a pathogen invades, tissue resident macrophages are among the first cells to respond. Two of the main roles of the tissue resident macrophages are to phagocytose incoming antigen and to secrete proinflammatory cytokines that induce inflammation and recruit other immune cells to the site. IL-3 and GM-CSF released by TH1 cells stimulate more monocyte production in the bone marrow.When intracellular pathogens cannot be eliminated, such as in the case of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the pathogen is contained through the formation of granuloma, an aggregation of infected macrophages surrounded by activated T cells. For example, they participate in the formation of granulomas, inflammatory lesions that may be caused by a large number of diseases. Following the inflammatory response, granulation tissue form. 
Therapeutics receiving accelerated approval encounter a lower frequency of post-marketing safety events [SEP] Increased public awareness of these reporting systems and the extra reporting requirements under US FDA Emergency Use Authorization rules have increased reported adverse events. Clobazam was approved for use in the United States in 2011. This included hospitalization, patient transfer, or death, and visits involving a combination of benzodiazepines and non-benzodiapine receptor agonists had almost four-times increased odds of a serious health outcome.In September 2020, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) required the boxed warning be updated for all benzodiazepine medicines to describe the risks of abuse, misuse, addiction, physical dependence, and withdrawal reactions consistently across all the medicines in the class. Also, the drugs can often be used at lower doses, reducing toxicity. For these regimens, in general, a better toxicity profile is expected. Reduced systemic toxicity means that they can also be used in people who are sicker and that they can carry new chemotherapeutic agents that would have been far too toxic to deliver via traditional systemic approaches.The first approved drug of this type was gemtuzumab ozogamicin (Mylotarg), released by Wyeth (now Pfizer). The drug was approved to treat acute myeloid leukemia. Two other drugs, trastuzumab emtansine and brentuximab vedotin, are both in late clinical trials, and the latter has been granted accelerated approval for the treatment of refractory Hodgkin's lymphoma and systemic anaplastic large cell lymphoma. 
There is a positive correlation between hip fractures and statin use. [SEP] Many of the more conservative treatments do lead to a whole hip replacement in the span of the patient's lifetime but there is promise of saving the dying bone or proper healing if caught early enough. The bone graft can help prevent osteoarthritis by helping restore some of the shape of the femoral head. Component enrollment and the primary findings are summarized in the following two tables, respectively, with additional detail following subsequently:

Hormone therapy
The design of the hormone therapy trial (HT) was approached with the hypothesis that estrogen therapy would result in a decrease in coronary heart disease and osteoporosis-related fractures. Unopposed estrogen did reduce the risk for osteoporotic fractures and, unlike the estrogen/progestin treatment, showed a decrease in breast cancer risk.As a consequence of the findings, which indicated that the incurred risks of HT outweigh the identified benefits, the study authors recommended that HT not be prescribed for the purpose of chronic disease prevention in postmenopausal women. CaD component findings
Among the intervention cohort, a small but significant improvement in hip bone density was observed, although a significant reduction in hip fractures was not observed. However, subgroup analysis revealed a possible benefit to older women in terms of a reduced risk of hip fractures, attributable to calcium plus vitamin D supplementation.It was also found that the intervention did not have an effect on the incidence of colorectal cancer, possibly owing to the long latency associated with colorectal cancers. Women in the diet intervention group were more likely to report changes in statin use (either cessation or initiation) post-randomization than women in the comparison group.Secondary analyses concluded that the dietary intervention did not increase risk of diabetes, but instead slowed progression. The dancers scored higher than the swimmers in seven out of ten areas of fitness.For those with hypercholesterolemia, dancing - in conjunction with diet and medication such as statins - can provide positive health benefits. 
There is a relation between Erythromycin use and hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. [SEP] Caucasian male babies with blood type B or O are more likely than other types to be affected.Infants exposed to erythromycin are at increased risk for developing hypertrophic pyloric stenosis, especially when the drug is taken around two weeks of life and possibly in late pregnancy and through breastmilk in the first two weeks of life. Erythromycin is an antibiotic used for the treatment of a number of bacterial infections. Cholestasis, Stevens–Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis are some other rare side effects that may occur.Studies have shown evidence both for and against the association of pyloric stenosis and exposure to erythromycin prenatally and postnatally. Exposure to erythromycin (especially long courses at antimicrobial doses, and also through breastfeeding) has been linked to an increased probability of pyloric stenosis in young infants. Erythromycin used for feeding intolerance in young infants has not been associated with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis.Erythromycin estolate has been associated with reversible hepatotoxicity in pregnant women in the form of elevated serum glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase and is not recommended during pregnancy. Pharmacology
Mechanism of action
Erythromycin displays bacteriostatic activity or inhibits growth of bacteria, especially at higher concentrations. In infants the use of erythromycin has been associated with pyloric stenosis.Some macrolides are also known to cause cholestasis, a condition where bile cannot flow from the liver to the duodenum. A new study found an association between erythromycin use during infancy and developing IHPS (Infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis) in infants. 
There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. [SEP] Clinical significance
Mutations in the HNF4A gene are associated with a form of diabetes called maturity onset diabetes of the young (MODY), specifically MODY 1. The genes are important, but they alone do not influence diabetes in this population. So, HbA1c levels in Japanese populations seem to not be affected by these other SNPs that influence HbA1c levels in European populations. This suggests that there’s no association or interaction with these three SNPs in the Japanese population. Polygenic
Genetic cause and mechanism of type 2 diabetes is largely unknown. As the risk of diabetes is combination of the gene regulations and the interplay between those gene products, certain genes may not pose a threat to increase the susceptibility. However, SNPs in TCF7L2 that would normally increase the risk of diabetes does not affect the susceptibility for Pima Indians. TCF7L2 rs290481T>C polymorphism, however, has shown no significant correlation to the susceptibility to gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) in a Chinese Han population, whereas the T alleles of rs7903146 and rs1799884 increase susceptibility to GDM in the Chinese Han population. 
There is no increased risk of hypospadias with clomiphene. [SEP] In most cases, hypospadias is not associated with any other condition. Hypospadias is not a serious medical condition. Clomifene, also known as clomiphene, is a medication used to treat infertility in women who do not ovulate, including those with polycystic ovary syndrome. Its introduction began the era of assisted reproductive technology.Clomifene (particularly the purified enclomiphene isomer) has also been found to have a powerful ability to boost or restore testosterone levels in hypogonadal men. It is not recommended by the manufacturer to use clomifene for more than 6 cycles.It is no longer recommended to perform an ultrasound examination to exclude any significant residual ovarian enlargement before each new treatment cycle. Rates of birth defects and miscarriages do not appear to change with the use of clomifene for fertility. In men with hypogonadism, clomifene has been found to increase testosterone levels by 293 to 362 ng/dL and estradiol levels by 5.5 to 13 pg/mL. days to months) did not raise the same concerns and clomifene continued to be studied for other indications. 
There is no known interaction between Pioneer factor OCT3/4 and major chromatin remodeling factors. [SEP] Some transcription factors, so-called pioneer factors are still able to bind their DNA binding sites on the nucleosomal DNA. It is unlikely, however, that a transcription factor will bind all compatible sequences in the genome of the cell. Mechanisms of epigenetic regulation
Pioneer factors (Oct4, Sox2, Nanog)
Three transcription factors, OCT4, SOX2, and NANOG – the first two of which are used in induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) reprogramming, along with Klf4 and c-Myc – are highly expressed in undifferentiated embryonic stem cells and are necessary for the maintenance of their pluripotency. Methylation is not as straightforward, as neither methylation nor demethylation consistently correlate with either gene activation or repression. While epigenetic regulation is necessary for driving cellular differentiation, they are certainly not sufficient for this process. However, a second study found no epigenetic differences in post-mortem brains from bipolar individuals. CRCs do not express high levels of proteins characteristic of iPSCs or embryonic stem cells (ESCs) (e.g., Sox2, Oct4, Nanog, or Klf4). iMPC-Heps did not form tumours, most probably because they never entered a pluripotent state. 
There is no relation between Erythromycin use and hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. [SEP] Pyloric stenosis generally has no long term side-effects or impact on the child's future. Caucasian male babies with blood type B or O are more likely than other types to be affected.Infants exposed to erythromycin are at increased risk for developing hypertrophic pyloric stenosis, especially when the drug is taken around two weeks of life and possibly in late pregnancy and through breastmilk in the first two weeks of life. Cholestasis, Stevens–Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis are some other rare side effects that may occur.Studies have shown evidence both for and against the association of pyloric stenosis and exposure to erythromycin prenatally and postnatally. Exposure to erythromycin (especially long courses at antimicrobial doses, and also through breastfeeding) has been linked to an increased probability of pyloric stenosis in young infants. Erythromycin used for feeding intolerance in young infants has not been associated with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis.Erythromycin estolate has been associated with reversible hepatotoxicity in pregnant women in the form of elevated serum glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase and is not recommended during pregnancy. Hence, erythromycin should not be administered to people using these drugs, or drugs that also prolong the QT interval. In infants the use of erythromycin has been associated with pyloric stenosis.Some macrolides are also known to cause cholestasis, a condition where bile cannot flow from the liver to the duodenum. A new study found an association between erythromycin use during infancy and developing IHPS (Infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis) in infants. 
There was an estimated 30 million cases of pneumonia in young children worldwide in 2010. [SEP] Epidemiology
Pneumonia is a common illness affecting approximately 450 million people a year and occurring in all parts of the world. Viral pneumonia accounts for about 200 million cases. Children
In 2008, pneumonia occurred in approximately 156 million children (151 million in the developing world and 5 million in the developed world). The World Health Organization estimates that one in three newborn infant deaths is due to pneumonia. Aggregate annual costs of treating pneumonia in Europe have been estimated at €10 billion. There are over 30,000 new cases per year and 12,000 deaths due to the disease. As recently as the early 1950s, an estimated 50 million cases of smallpox occurred in the world each year. Each year, there are approximately 350–500 million cases of malaria. 
Thiopurine active metabolites can be catabolized through dephosphorylation of thioguanine nucleotides. [SEP] The thiopurine drugs are purine antimetabolites widely used in the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia, autoimmune disorders (e.g., Crohn's disease, rheumatoid arthritis), and organ transplant recipients. Function
Thiopurine methyltransferase methylates thiopurine compounds. This enzyme metabolizes thiopurine drugs via S-adenosyl-L-methionine as the S-methyl donor and S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine as a byproduct. Clinical significance
Thiopurine drugs such as 6-mercaptopurine are used as chemotherapeutic agents and immunosuppressive drugs. Pharmacology
TPMT is best known for its role in the metabolism of the thiopurine drugs such as azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine and 6-thioguanine. TPMT catalyzes the S-methylation of thiopurine drugs. The prominent hydrolase subclass used in dephosphorylation is phosphatase, which removes phosphate groups by hydrolysing phosphoric acid monoesters into a phosphate ion and a molecule with a free hydroxyl (-OH) group. Function
Phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of hydroxyl groups belonging to neutral but polar amino acids such as serine, threonine, and tyrosine within specific target proteins is a fundamental part of the regulation of every physiologic process. 
Tirasemtiv has no effect on cardiac muscle. [SEP] Cardiac muscle (also called heart muscle or myocardium) is one of three types of vertebrate muscle tissues, with the other two being skeletal muscle and smooth muscle. Cardiac muscle contracts in a similar manner to skeletal muscle, although with some important differences. T-tubules in cardiac muscle are bigger and wider than those in skeletal muscle, but fewer in number. This difference can be illustrated by the observation that cardiac muscle fibers require calcium to be present in the solution surrounding the cell to contract, while skeletal muscle fibers will contract without extracellular calcium. Regeneration
It was commonly believed that cardiac muscle cells could not be regenerated. Smooth muscle is non-striated. Cardiac muscle
Cardiac muscle is involuntary, striated muscle that is found in the walls and histological foundation of the heart, specifically the myocardium. Cardiac muscle
Cardiac muscle is the muscle of the heart. 
Tirasemtiv targets cardiac muscle. [SEP] Troponin C is encoded by the TNNC1 gene in humans for both cardiac and slow skeletal muscle. Function
In cardiac muscle, cTnC binds to cardiac troponin I (cTnI) and cardiac troponin T (cTnT), whereas cTnC binds to slow skeletal troponin I (ssTnI) and troponin T (ssTnT) in slow-twitch skeletal muscle. There are already multiple troponin activators that bind to fast skeletal troponin C, of which tirasemtiv has been tested in multiple clinical trials. Troponin C is encoded by the TNNC1 gene in humans for both cardiac and slow skeletal muscle. Function
In cardiac muscle, cTnC binds to cardiac troponin I (cTnI) and cardiac troponin T (cTnT), whereas cTnC binds to slow skeletal troponin I (ssTnI) and troponin T (ssTnT) in slow-twitch skeletal muscle. There are already multiple troponin activators that bind to fast skeletal troponin C, of which tirasemtiv has been tested in multiple clinical trials. T-tubules in cardiac muscle are bigger and wider than those in skeletal muscle, but fewer in number. Cardiac muscle
Cardiac muscle is the muscle of the heart. 
Tirasemtiv targets fast-twitch muscle. [SEP] There are already multiple troponin activators that bind to fast skeletal troponin C, of which tirasemtiv has been tested in multiple clinical trials. There are already multiple troponin activators that bind to fast skeletal troponin C, of which tirasemtiv has been tested in multiple clinical trials. Some authors define a fast twitch fiber as one in which the myosin can split ATP very quickly. However, fast twitch fibers also demonstrate a higher capability for electrochemical transmission of action potentials and a rapid level of calcium release and uptake by the sarcoplasmic reticulum. Fast twitch muscles are much better at generating short bursts of strength or speed than slow muscles, and so fatigue more quickly.The slow twitch fibers generate energy for ATP re-synthesis by means of a long term system of aerobic energy transfer. Aerobic exercise will shift the proportions towards slow twitch fibers, while explosive powerlifting and sprinting will transition fibers towards fast twitch. Fast twitch fibers produce 30 to 70 contractions per second (30 to 70 Hz). The anaerobic activities predominately use Type II, fast-twitch, muscle fibers. 
Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling is involved in the pathogenesis of human MDS. [SEP] Toll-like receptors (TLRs) detect microorganisms by recognizing specific pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) and IL-1R family members respond the interleukin-1 (IL-1) family cytokines. TLRs and IL-1R members have a highly conserved amino acid sequence in their cytoplasmic domain called the Toll/Interleukin-1 (TIR) domain. Understanding the key players and their roles in the TLR/IL-1R pathway is important because the presence of mutations causing the abnormal regulation of Toll/IL-1R signaling leading to a variety of acute inflammatory and autoimmune diseases.IRAKs are membrane proximal putative serine-threonine kinases. IRAK-M negatively regulates TLR signaling by inhibiting the IRAK-4/IRAK-1 complex
The newest described IRAK family member, IRAK-4, has been found to be critical for the recruitment of IRAK-1 and for its activation/degradation. Toll-like receptor signaling
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are important innate immune receptors that recognize pathogen associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) and initiate the appropriate immune response to eliminate a particular pathogen. TLR4 recognizes bacterial LPS and triggers the transcription of IL-10, a cytokine regulating the inflammatory response. Autoimmune Disorders
Autoimmune disorders such as MS, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus and psoriasis are caused by innate immune system deregulation inducing chronic inflammation. These PAMPs bind to an important group of detection molecules of the innate immune system, called pattern recognition receptors (PRRs), including Toll-like receptors (TLRs). 
Tonic signaling from the scFv induces constitutive stimulation. [SEP] Tonic sol-fa (or tonic sol-fah) is a pedagogical technique for teaching sight-singing, invented by Sarah Ann Glover (1785–1867) of Norwich, England and popularised by John Curwen, who adapted it from a number of earlier musical systems. A single-chain variable fragment (scFv) is not actually a fragment of an antibody, but instead is a fusion protein of the variable regions of the heavy (VH) and light chains (VL) of immunoglobulins, connected with a short linker peptide of ten to about 25 amino acids. ScFvs have many uses, e.g., flow cytometry, immunohistochemistry, and as antigen-binding domains of artificial T cell receptors (chimeric antigen receptor). Some scFv can also be captured by protein A if they contain a human VH3 domain. Bivalent and trivalent scFvs
Divalent (or bivalent) single-chain variable fragments (di-scFvs, bi-scFvs) can be engineered by linking two scFvs. This can be done by producing a single peptide chain with two VH and two VL regions, yielding tandem scFvs. An scFv is a chimeric protein made up of the light (VL) and heavy (VH) chains of immunoglobins, connected with a short linker peptide. An ideal hinge enhances the flexibility of the scFv receptor head, reducing the spatial constraints between the CAR and its target antigen. 
Tonic signaling from the scFv is amplified by MyD88/CD40. [SEP] ScFvs have many uses, e.g., flow cytometry, immunohistochemistry, and as antigen-binding domains of artificial T cell receptors (chimeric antigen receptor). An scFv is a chimeric protein made up of the light (VL) and heavy (VH) chains of immunoglobins, connected with a short linker peptide. Function
The MYD88 gene provides instructions for making a protein involved in signaling within immune cells. The MyD88 protein acts as an adapter, connecting proteins that receive signals from outside the cell to the proteins that relay signals inside the cell. Subsequently, these proteins activate two important transcription factors:

NF-κB is a dimeric protein responsible for expression of various inflammatory cytokines, chemokines and adhesion and costimulatory molecules, which in turn triggers acute inflammation and stimulation of adaptive immunity
IRFs is a group of proteins responsible for expression of type I interferons setting the so-called antiviral state of a cell.TLR7 and TLR9 activate both NF-κB and IRF3 through MyD88-dependent and TRIF-independent pathway, respectively.The human ortholog MYD88 seems to function similarly to mice, since the  immunological phenotype of human cells deficient in MYD88 is similar to cells  from MyD88 deficient mice. Act1 used by CD40 receptor
Act1 activates NF-κB through the TAK1 and IKK proteins. Nevertheless, TRAF3 is also involved when the CD40 receptor is activated. When CD40 is stimulated by CD40L, Act1 binds to TRAF3, with the help of TRAF2 and 5 in order to activate the JNK proteins. 
Tonic signaling from the scFv prevents constitutive stimulation. [SEP] A-delta fibres carry cold, pressure and some pain signals, and are associated with acute pain that results in "pulling away" from noxious stimuli. Several genes involved in mammalian nociception, such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and the cannabinoid CB1 receptor are regulated in the fish brain after a nociceptive event.Somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) are weak electric responses in the CNS following stimulation of peripheral sensory nerves. This indicates the response is flexible and not simply a nociceptive reflex. Tonic sol-fa (or tonic sol-fah) is a pedagogical technique for teaching sight-singing, invented by Sarah Ann Glover (1785–1867) of Norwich, England and popularised by John Curwen, who adapted it from a number of earlier musical systems. In 1879 the Tonic Sol-Fa College was opened. In 1988, the single-chain variable fragment (scFv) was invented by the Huston team to minimize the refolding problems, which contains the incorrect domain pairing or aggregation of two-chain species. Blocking the interaction between the virus and endosomal proteins prevents viral escape from the endosome and further infection. This resulting sequence encodes the scFv. 
Traditional reviews are biased in their interpretations. [SEP] Market forces may also cause bias. Structural bias, when an actor or issue receives more or less favorable coverage as a result of newsworthiness and media routines, not as the result of ideological decisions (e.g. Or it may be intentionally or accidentally biased, using mistranslations and trigger words targeting particular groups. These factors mean that it is likely there is a significant publication bias, with only 'positive' or perceived favourable results being published. Systematic reviews of such a bias may amplify the effect, although it is important to note that the flaw is in the reporting of research generally, not in the systematic review method. It has been criticized for exhibiting systemic bias, particularly gender bias against women and ideological bias. He comments that some traditional sources of non-fiction suffer from systemic biases, and novel results, in his opinion, are over-reported in journal articles as well as relevant information being omitted from news reports. Potential shortcomings in the production of history
Many historians believe that the production of history is embedded with bias because events and known facts in history can be interpreted in a variety of ways. 
Trans-acting factors, such as lncRNAs, influence mRNA translation. [SEP] In translation
Many of the conserved, essential and abundant ncRNAs are involved in translation. Long non-coding RNA (lncRNA)
The family of long non-coding RNAs includes a variety of different kinds of RNA, including, but not limited to, circular RNA (circRNA), nuclear lncRNA, long intergenic non-coding RNA, and enhancer RNA. Editing and modifications to lncRNA have demonstrated to result in changes in RNA expression and rate of mutation. Modifications to the nucleotide structure are likely to impact the structure of lncRNAs and modulate their overall function. These modifications impact a variety of different qualities including the lncRNA's function and the initiation of translation. long non-coding RNA (lncRNA)
A class of non-coding RNA consisting of all transcripts of more than 200 nucleotides in length that are not translated. Role of lncRNAs
Long non-coding RNAs, or lncRNAs, are RNA transcripts produced by RNA polymerase II that are not translated but participate in the regulation of gene expression. Tsix and Xite have basic lncRNAs functions in addition to X-inactivation and regulate the X-X pair in the transorientation. 
Transcription factor EB induces transcription of pro-inflammatory cytokines in macrophages infected with Staphylococcus aureus. [SEP] Pathogenesis
Transcription factors can also be used to alter gene expression in a host cell to promote pathogenesis. The Transcription initiation by eukaryotic RNA polymerase II involves the following GTFs:
TFIIA - Stabilizes the interaction between the TATA box and TFIID/TATA binding protein (TBP)
TFIIB - recognizes the BRE element in promoters
TFIID – binds to TBP and recognizes TBP associated factors (TAFs), also adds promoter selectivity
TFIIE - attracts and regulates TFIIH
TFIIF - Stabilizes RNA polymerase interaction with TBP and TFIIB; helps attract TFIIE and TFIIH
TFIIH - Unwinds DNA at the transcription start point, phosphorylates Ser5 of the RNA polymerase CCTD, releases RNA polymerase from the promoter

Function and mechanism
In bacteria
A sigma factor is a protein needed only for initiation of RNA synthesis in bacteria. Among this constellation of elements, enhancers and their associated transcription factors have a leading role in the initiation of gene transcription. Production of EGR1 transcription factor proteins, in various types of cells, can be stimulated by growth factors, neurotransmitters, hormones, stress and injury. An  inflammatory cytokine or proinflammatory cytokine is a type of signaling molecule (a cytokine) that is secreted from immune cells like helper T cells (Th) and macrophages, and certain other cell types that promote inflammation. Inflammatory cytokines are predominantly produced by and involved in the upregulation of inflammatory reactions. Inflammatory cytokines are predominantly produced by T helper cells (Th) and macrophages and involved in the upregulation of inflammatory reactions. Function
Inflammatory cytokines play a role in initiating the inflammatory response and to regulate the host defence against pathogens mediating the innate immune response. 
Transcription rates in S. cerevisiae range between 0.7 and 2 kb/min. [SEP] During the period of exponential DNA increase at 37 °C, the rate was 749 nucleotides per second.DNA polymerase's ability to slide along the DNA template allows increased processivity. In 1992, the first eukaryotic chromosome, chromosome III of brewer's yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae (315 kb) was sequenced. One study tested the adjustability of synthetic transcription factors (sTFs) in areas of transcription output and cooperative ability among multiple transcription factor complexes. Despite years of study, there are many various varieties and numbers of promoters and terminators for Escherichia coli, but also for the well-researched model organism Saccharomyces cerevisiae, as well as for other organisms of interest, these tools are quite scarce. Over-expression constructs containing yeast genomic DNA were introduced into wild type yeast and the transformants were screened for growth on toxic levels of Al3+. A third ALR-like gene is present in S. cerevisiae and there are two homologous genes in both Schizosaccharomyces pombe and Neurospora crassa. Despite these problems, Alr1 activity was demonstrated to respond to Mg supply, suggesting that the activity of the protein is regulated directly, as was observed for some bacterial CorA proteins.A functional Alr1p (wild type) or Alr2p (overexpressed) is required for S. cerevisiae growth in standard conditions (4 mM Mg2+), and Alr1p can support normal growth at Mg2+ concentrations as low as 30 μM. MRS2
A bioinformatic search of the sequence databases identified one homologue of the MRS2 gene of yeast in a range of metazoans. 
Transcription rates in S. cerevisiae range between 7 and 12 kb/min. [SEP] During the period of exponential DNA increase at 37 °C, the rate was 749 nucleotides per second.DNA polymerase's ability to slide along the DNA template allows increased processivity. In these studies, the replication fork turnover rate was about 10s for Pol III*, 47s for the ß2 sliding clamp, and 15m for the DnaB helicase. In 1992, the first eukaryotic chromosome, chromosome III of brewer's yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae (315 kb) was sequenced. The following year a consortium of researchers from laboratories across North America, Europe, and Japan announced the completion of the first complete genome sequence of a eukaryote, S. cerevisiae (12.1 Mb), and since then genomes have continued being sequenced at an exponentially growing pace. Over-expression constructs containing yeast genomic DNA were introduced into wild type yeast and the transformants were screened for growth on toxic levels of Al3+. Despite these problems, Alr1 activity was demonstrated to respond to Mg supply, suggesting that the activity of the protein is regulated directly, as was observed for some bacterial CorA proteins.A functional Alr1p (wild type) or Alr2p (overexpressed) is required for S. cerevisiae growth in standard conditions (4 mM Mg2+), and Alr1p can support normal growth at Mg2+ concentrations as low as 30 μM. One study tested the adjustability of synthetic transcription factors (sTFs) in areas of transcription output and cooperative ability among multiple transcription factor complexes. Despite years of study, there are many various varieties and numbers of promoters and terminators for Escherichia coli, but also for the well-researched model organism Saccharomyces cerevisiae, as well as for other organisms of interest, these tools are quite scarce. 
Transplanted human glial progenitor cells can mature in their host animal. [SEP] In recent experiments, scientists have been able to coax embryonic stem cell to turn into beta cells in the lab. Human cortical glial tumors contain neural stem-like cells expressing astroglial and neuronal markers in vitro. Cancer stem cells isolated from adult human gliomas were shown to induce tumours that resembled the parent tumour when grafted into intracranial nude mouse models.In cancer research experiments, tumor cells are sometimes injected into an experimental animal to establish a tumor. AS their differentiation into neural and glial cells as well as hepatocyte precursors was observed. The spatial location and temporal attributes of neural progenitor cells can influence if the cells form neurons or glial cells. Humanized animals
Additionally, the "humanization" of animal models has been raised as a topic of concern in transplantation of human SC derived organoids into other animal models. For example, potential future concerns of this type were described when human brain tissue organoids were transplanted into baby rats, appearing to be highly functional, to mature and to integrate with the rat brain. In a mouse intracerebral hemorrhage model, topically injected human bone marrow-Muse cells spontaneously differentiate into neuronal cells. 
Treatment with a protein named FN impairs regenerative abilities of aged muscles. [SEP] Once formed, proteins only exist for a certain period and are then degraded and recycled by the cell's machinery through the process of protein turnover. Proteins also have structural or mechanical functions, such as actin and myosin in muscle and the proteins in the cytoskeleton, which form a system of scaffolding that maintains cell shape. Other proteins that serve structural functions are motor proteins such as myosin, kinesin, and dynein, which are capable of generating mechanical forces. This use of protein as a fuel is particularly important under starvation conditions as it allows the body's own proteins to be used to support life, particularly those found in muscle.In animals such as dogs and cats, protein maintains the health and quality of the skin by promoting hair follicle growth and keratinization, and thus reducing the likelihood of skin problems producing malodours. New protein was synthesized by using cell-free expression system i.e. FN may refer to:

Arts, entertainment, and media
Faking News, Indian news satire website
Financial News, UK financial newspaper and news website
Finding Nemo, a 2003 computer-animated adventure comedy film by Disney and Pixar
Fortnite, a game released in 2017 by Epic Games
Future Nostalgia, a 2020 album by Dua Lipa
"F.N" (song), a 2019 song by Lil Tjay

Businesses and brands
FN Herstal or Fabrique Nationale de Herstal, a Belgian arms factory
FN (automobile), cars produced by FN Herstal
FN (motorcycle), motorcycles produced by FN Herstal
Royal Air Maroc Express (IATA airline designator FN)

Organizations
Front National (France), a French political party
Front National (French Resistance), a World War II French Resistance group
Front National (Belgium), a Belgian political party
Fuerza Nueva, the name of a former succession of political parties in Spain
Forza Nuova, an Italian political party

Other uses
First Nations in Canada, the predominant indigenous peoples in Canada, south of the Arctic Circle
Fn key, a key found on some compact keyboards
Fibronectin, a glycoprotein involved in cell adhesion and growth
Function (computer science)
Fireman, an enlisted rate in the United States Navy and United States Coast Guard
Footnote, in texts Brazilian Army officially used the FAP (Fuzil Automático Pesado, or heavy automatic rifle) as its squad automatic weapon until 2013/2014, when the FN Minimi was adopted to replace it. Replaced by FN FNC. 
Treatment with a protein named FN restores regenerative abilities of aged muscles. [SEP] Proteins also have structural or mechanical functions, such as actin and myosin in muscle and the proteins in the cytoskeleton, which form a system of scaffolding that maintains cell shape. Other proteins that serve structural functions are motor proteins such as myosin, kinesin, and dynein, which are capable of generating mechanical forces. This use of protein as a fuel is particularly important under starvation conditions as it allows the body's own proteins to be used to support life, particularly those found in muscle.In animals such as dogs and cats, protein maintains the health and quality of the skin by promoting hair follicle growth and keratinization, and thus reducing the likelihood of skin problems producing malodours. New protein was synthesized by using cell-free expression system i.e. By using in vitro transcription and translation system, targeted and query protein was synthesized by the same extract. FN may refer to:

Arts, entertainment, and media
Faking News, Indian news satire website
Financial News, UK financial newspaper and news website
Finding Nemo, a 2003 computer-animated adventure comedy film by Disney and Pixar
Fortnite, a game released in 2017 by Epic Games
Future Nostalgia, a 2020 album by Dua Lipa
"F.N" (song), a 2019 song by Lil Tjay

Businesses and brands
FN Herstal or Fabrique Nationale de Herstal, a Belgian arms factory
FN (automobile), cars produced by FN Herstal
FN (motorcycle), motorcycles produced by FN Herstal
Royal Air Maroc Express (IATA airline designator FN)

Organizations
Front National (France), a French political party
Front National (French Resistance), a World War II French Resistance group
Front National (Belgium), a Belgian political party
Fuerza Nueva, the name of a former succession of political parties in Spain
Forza Nuova, an Italian political party

Other uses
First Nations in Canada, the predominant indigenous peoples in Canada, south of the Arctic Circle
Fn key, a key found on some compact keyboards
Fibronectin, a glycoprotein involved in cell adhesion and growth
Function (computer science)
Fireman, an enlisted rate in the United States Navy and United States Coast Guard
Footnote, in texts Brazilian Army officially used the FAP (Fuzil Automático Pesado, or heavy automatic rifle) as its squad automatic weapon until 2013/2014, when the FN Minimi was adopted to replace it. FN tried to recoup its losses immediately after liberation near the end of 1944 by refurbishing Allied weapons and producing cheap, easily produced spare parts such as tank tracks. 
Treatment with the EC uptake inhibitor AM404 resulted in a dose-dependent decrease in the expression of immobility. [SEP] AM404, also known as N-arachidonoylphenolamine, is an active metabolite of paracetamol (acetaminophen), responsible for all or part of its analgesic action and anticonvulsant effects. Earlier work on the mechanism of AM404 suggested that the inhibition of fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) by AM404 was responsible for all of its attributed reuptake properties, since intracellular FAAH hydrolysis of anandamide changes the intra/extracellular anandamide equilibrium. It is this mechanism which is inhibited by AM404. AM404 is also a TRPV1 agonist and inhibitor of cyclooxygenase COX-1 and COX-2, thus attenuating prostaglandin synthesis. AM404 is thought to induce its analgesic action through its activity on the endocannabinoid, COX, and TRPV systems, all of which are present in pain and thermoregulatory pathways. AM404 activates vanilloid receptors causing vasodilation which is inhibited by the vanilloid receptor antagonist capsazepine.The anticonvulsant action is mediated through CB1 receptors. AM404 is a weak agonist of cannabinoid receptors CB1 and CB2, an inhibitor of endocannabinoid transporter, and a potent activator of TRPV1 receptor. According to Suemaru et al., acetaminophen and its active metabolite AM404 show a dose-dependent anticonvulsant activity against pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures in mice. 
Tuberculosis incidence occurs at higher rates in more sparsely populated areas in the UK. [SEP] Settlements
With just 17 people per square mile (6.6 people/km2), New Mexico is one of the least densely populated states, ranking 45th out of 50; by contrast, the overall population density of the U.S. is 90 people per square mile (35 people/km2). Challenges include the state's size, sparse population, and numerous isolated communities. In 2007, the HIV infection rates stood at 2% of the population aged 15–49 whereas the incidence of tuberculosis was 420 per 100,000 people in 2008. Incidence rates of HIV and tuberculosis are higher in border towns such as El Paso and Ciudad Juárez than at the national level in both countries. The population is young and predominantly rural; Rwanda has one of the youngest populations in the world. The only sparsely populated area of the country is the savanna land in the former province of Umutara and Akagera National Park in the east. Between 2005 and 2013, life expectancy increased from 55.2 to 64.0, under-5 mortality decreased from 106.4 to 52.0 per 1,000 live births, and incidence of tuberculosis has dropped from 101 to 69 per 100,000 people. This population loss was further exacerbated by an extremely low birth rate. 
Tuberculosis-induced granulomas express different immune system protein signatures than the surrounding tissue. [SEP] Granulomatous inflammation: Characterised by the formation of granulomas, they are the result of a limited but diverse number of diseases, which include among others tuberculosis, leprosy, sarcoidosis, and syphilis. Tuberculosis generally affects the lungs, but it can also affect other parts of the body. Signs and symptoms
Tuberculosis may infect any part of the body, but most commonly occurs in the lungs (known as pulmonary tuberculosis). All parts of the body can be affected by the disease, though for unknown reasons it rarely affects the heart, skeletal muscles, pancreas, or thyroid.Tuberculosis is classified as one of the granulomatous inflammatory diseases. M. tuberculosis is characterized in tissue by caseating granulomas containing Langhans giant cells, which have a "horseshoe" pattern of nuclei. More recently,  M. tuberculosis  has been shown to secrete and cover itself in 1-tuberculosinyladenosine (1-TbAd), a special nucleoside that acts as an antacid, allowing it to neutralize pH and induce swelling in lysosomes.In M. tuberculosis infections, PPM1A levels were found to be upregulated, and this, in turn, would impact the normal apoptotic response of macrophages to clear pathogens, as PPM1A is involved in the intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic pathways. As a result of having apoptosis being suppressed, it provides M. tuberculosis with a safe replicative niche, and so the bacteria are able to maintain a latent state for a prolonged time.Granulomas, organized aggregates of immune cells, are a hallmark feature of tuberculosis infection. Granulomas play dual roles during infection: they regulate the immune response and minimize tissue damage, but also can aid in the expansion of infection.The ability to construct M. tuberculosis mutants and test individual gene products for specific functions has significantly advanced the understanding of its pathogenesis and virulence factors. 
Tumor development occurs in conjunction with suppression of pro-inflammatory cytokines. [SEP] Cancer
Inflammation orchestrates the microenvironment around tumours, contributing to proliferation, survival and migration. On the other hand, many cells of the immune system contribute to cancer immunology, suppressing cancer. Molecular intersection between receptors of steroid hormones, which have important effects on cellular development, and transcription factors that play key roles in inflammation, such as NF-κB, may mediate some of the most critical effects of inflammatory stimuli on cancer cells. Inflammatory mediators that contribute to neoplasia include prostaglandins, inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-15 and chemokines such as IL-8 and GRO-alpha. Some tumor cells also release products that inhibit the immune response; for example by secreting the cytokine TGF-β, which suppresses the activity of macrophages and lymphocytes. In addition, immunological tolerance may develop against tumor antigens, so the immune system no longer attacks the tumor cells.Paradoxically, macrophages can promote tumor growth when tumor cells send out cytokines that attract macrophages, which then generate cytokines and growth factors such as tumor-necrosis factor alpha that nurture tumor development or promote stem-cell-like plasticity. In addition, a combination of hypoxia in the tumor and a cytokine produced by macrophages induces tumor cells to decrease production of a protein that blocks metastasis and thereby assists spread of cancer cells. Suppression of angiogenesis
Angiogenesis (blood vessel formation) is an essential part of the formation of large tumour masses. 
Tumor development occurs in conjunction with upregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines. [SEP] Cancer
Inflammation orchestrates the microenvironment around tumours, contributing to proliferation, survival and migration. Molecular intersection between receptors of steroid hormones, which have important effects on cellular development, and transcription factors that play key roles in inflammation, such as NF-κB, may mediate some of the most critical effects of inflammatory stimuli on cancer cells. At present, chronic inflammation is estimated to contribute to approximately 15% to 25% of human cancers. Inflammatory mediators that contribute to neoplasia include prostaglandins, inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-15 and chemokines such as IL-8 and GRO-alpha. In addition, immunological tolerance may develop against tumor antigens, so the immune system no longer attacks the tumor cells.Paradoxically, macrophages can promote tumor growth when tumor cells send out cytokines that attract macrophages, which then generate cytokines and growth factors such as tumor-necrosis factor alpha that nurture tumor development or promote stem-cell-like plasticity. In addition, a combination of hypoxia in the tumor and a cytokine produced by macrophages induces tumor cells to decrease production of a protein that blocks metastasis and thereby assists spread of cancer cells. Anti-tumor M1 macrophages are recruited in early phases to tumor development but are progressively differentiated to M2 with pro-tumor effect, an immunosuppressor switch. Effects on tumor angiogenesis
Tumor angiogenesis rely on interactions between endothelial vascular growth factors which can all activate the PI3K/AKT/mTOR in endothelial cells, pericytes, or cancer cells. 
Two variants of chromosome 6q21 are associated with radiation therapy-induced second malignancies in pediatric Hodgkin lymphoma patients. [SEP] Malignant disorders associated with secondary HLH include T-cell lymphoma, B-cell lymphoma, acute lymphocytic leukemia, acute myeloid leukemia, and the myelodysplastic syndrome. Mutations in other genes of the infected cell may promote its malignancy, e.g. 3) Classic Hodgkin lymphoma: This HD malignancy is characterized by have EBV+ cells its lesions. In a small number of cases, the disease has an increased frequency in patients who have a family history of a hematological malignancy, particularly leukemia, or various autoimmune diseases such as Sjögren syndrome and lupus erythematosus. The cause for developing this lymphoma is unclear. Confirmed localized disease has been treated by surgery and radiotherapy with radiotherapy being the clearly preferred and most appropriate modality given this lymphoma's high sensitivity to radiation. The genomic abnormalities thought to contribute to this malignant transformation include:

Chromosome abnormalities such as: 1) deletions in the long (i.e. "q") arm of chromosome 7 (annotated as del7q) in 30-40% of cases (this deletion is rare in other lymphomas and therefore used as a marker for SMZL); 2) deletion of a region on the short (i.e. 
Type 1 Diabetes is associated with subtle perturbations in T reg development. [SEP] Type 1 diabetes (T1D), formerly known as juvenile diabetes, is an autoimmune disease that originates when cells that make insulin (beta cells) are destroyed by the immune system. Cause
Type 1 diabetes is caused by the destruction of β-cells – the only cells in the body that produce insulin – and the consequent progressive insulin deficiency. Many aspects of environment and life history are associated with slight increases in type 1 diabetes risk, however the connection between each risk and diabetes often remains unclear. Genetics
Type 1 diabetes is partially caused by genetics, and family members of type 1 diabetics have a higher risk of developing the disease themselves. Type 1 diabetics also tend to have reduced regulatory T cell function, which may exacerbate autoimmunity. The pancreases of people with type 1 diabetes tend to be smaller, lighter, and have abnormal blood vessels, nerve innervations, and extracellular matrix organization. Autoimmune disorders
People with type 1 diabetes are at an increased risk for developing several autoimmune disorders, particularly thyroid problems – around 20% of people with type 1 diabetes have hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism, typically caused by Hashimoto thyroiditis or Graves' disease respectiveley. "Pathophysiology of Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus". 
Ultrasound guidance significantly reduces the number of needle insertion attempts necessary for a given procedure. [SEP] The use of ultrasound for needle guidance can minimize the complication rate. In the case of catheterization of the internal jugular vein, the risk of pneumothorax is minimized by the use of ultrasound guidance. The location of the vein is identified by landmarks or with the use of a small ultrasound device. Within North American and Europe, ultrasound use now represents the gold standard for central venous access and skills, with diminishing use of landmark techniques. Recent evidence shows that ultrasound-guidance for subclavian vein catheterization leads to a reduction in adverse events.The line is then inserted using the Seldinger technique: a blunt guidewire is passed through the needle, then the needle is removed. pneumothorax, accidental arterial cannulation), and they are relatively easy to place under ultrasound guidance and cause less discomfort than central lines. A 19G puncture needle is used to obtain access to the vein under ultrasound guidance. Bang and A. Northeved's initiative to employ ultrasound technology to improve amniocentesis. 
Ultrasound guidance significantly reduces the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. [SEP] Using ultrasound to landmark may increase success.Lumbar puncture was first introduced in 1891 by the German physician Heinrich Quincke. Therefore, patients will ideally lie on their side if practitioners need to measure opening pressure.Reinsertion of the stylet may decrease the rate of post lumbar puncture headaches.Although not available in all clinical settings, use of ultrasound is helpful for visualizing the interspinous space and assessing the depth of the spine from the skin. Use of ultrasound reduces the number of needle insertions and redirections, and results in higher rates of successful lumbar puncture. In the case of catheterization of the internal jugular vein, the risk of pneumothorax is minimized by the use of ultrasound guidance. Fortunately, the incidence of these events is exceedingly rare, especially when lines are placed with ultrasound guidance. Within North American and Europe, ultrasound use now represents the gold standard for central venous access and skills, with diminishing use of landmark techniques. Recent evidence shows that ultrasound-guidance for subclavian vein catheterization leads to a reduction in adverse events.The line is then inserted using the Seldinger technique: a blunt guidewire is passed through the needle, then the needle is removed. pneumothorax, accidental arterial cannulation), and they are relatively easy to place under ultrasound guidance and cause less discomfort than central lines. 
Understanding epigenetic regulation of replication is essential for the reational design of episomally replicating vectors. [SEP] makes a copy of itself
DNA replication or DNA synthesis, the process of copying a double-stranded DNA molecule
Semiconservative replication, mechanism of DNA replication
Viral replication, the process by which viruses produce copies of themselves
Replication (metallography), the use of thin plastic films to duplicate the microstructure of a component
Self-replicating machines

Computing
Replication (computing), the use of redundant resources to improve reliability, fault-tolerance, or performance
Replication (optical media), the manufacture of CDs and DVDs by means other than burning writable discs

See also
Replicator (disambiguation) In molecular biology, DNA replication is the biological process of producing two identical replicas of DNA from one original DNA molecule. Replication process
DNA replication, like all biological polymerization processes, proceeds in three enzymatically catalyzed and coordinated steps: initiation, elongation and termination. An essential Noc3p dimerization cycle mediates ORC double-hexamer formation in replication licensing ORC and Noc3p are continuously bound to the chromatin throughout the cell cycle. Fixing of replication machineries as replication factories can improve the success rate of DNA replication. By firing of replication origins, controlled spatially and temporally, the formation of replication foci is regulated. In E. coli, the best-characterized bacteria, DNA replication is regulated through several mechanisms, including: the hemimethylation and sequestering of the origin sequence, the ratio of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to adenosine diphosphate (ADP), and the levels of protein DnaA. A certain number of DnaA proteins are also required for DNA replication — each time the origin is copied, the number of binding sites for DnaA doubles, requiring the synthesis of more DnaA to enable another initiation of replication. 
Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events speeds cancer progression. [SEP] The G2 checkpoint is mainly regulated by the tumor protein p53. If the DNA is damaged, p53 will either repair the DNA or trigger the apoptosis of the cell. If p53 is dysfunctional or mutated, cells with damaged DNA may continue through the cell cycle, leading to the development of cancer. p53 plays an important role in triggering the control mechanisms at both G1/S and G2/M checkpoints. In addition to p53, checkpoint regulators are being heavily researched for their roles in cancer growth and proliferation. This opens the door to research of compounds that could activate p53 activity in these cancer cells and induce apoptosis and reduce cell proliferation. High throughput whole transcriptome profiling of the FoxD1-Dicer knockout mouse model revealed ectopic upregulation of pro-apoptotic gene, Bcl2L11 (Bim) and dysregulation of the p53 pathway with increase in p53 effector genes including Bax, Trp53inp1, Jun, Cdkn1a, Mmp2, and Arid3a. They also limit viral spread by increasing p53 activity, which kills virus-infected cells by promoting apoptosis. 
Upon developing tyrosine-kinase inhibitor resistance, new mutations in epidermal growth factor receptors emerge and cause treatment failure. [SEP] Over 50% of resistance is caused by a mutation in the ATP binding pocket of the EGFR kinase domain involving substitution of a small polar threonine residue with a large nonpolar methionine residue (T790M).Approximately 20% of drug resistance is caused by amplification of the hepatocyte growth factor receptor, which drives ERBB3 dependent activation of PI3K. Erlotinib specifically targets the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase, which is highly expressed and occasionally mutated in various forms of cancer. Therefore, it is only effective in cancers with mutated and overactive EGFR, but resistances to gefitinib can arise through other mutations. Research on gefitinib-sensitive non-small cell lung cancers has shown that a mutation in the EGFR tyrosine kinase domain is responsible for activating anti-apoptotic pathways. These mutations tend to confer increased sensitivity to tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as gefitinib and erlotinib. Resistance
Gefitinib and other first-generation EGFR inhibitors reversibly bind to the receptor protein, effectively competing for the ATP binding pocket. As of 2008, the current hypothesized mechanism is that resistance to gefitinib is conveyed by increasing the ATP affinity of EGFR on an enzymatic level, meaning that the protein preferentially binds ATP over gefitinib.In order to combat this acquired resistance to gefitinib and other first-generation inhibitors, researchers have used irreversible EGFR inhibitors like neratinib or dacomitinib, called tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). Even if the mutated versions of EGFR have a higher affinity for ATP, they will eventually use the irreversible inhibitors as ligands, which effectively shuts down their activity. 
Upon viral challenge, influenza-specific memory CD4+ T cells greatly diminish the early production of inflammatory chemokines in the lung. [SEP] Human lung TRM CD4+ CD103+ cells express higher levels of CD103, CTLA4, KLRC1 and ICOS. CD4+ TRM cells provide better protection against repeated infection with influenza in comparison with circulating memory CD4+ T cells. Common cytokines include interleukins that are responsible for communication between white blood cells; chemokines that promote chemotaxis; and interferons that have anti-viral effects, such as shutting down protein synthesis in the host cell. However, IL-17A seems to be detrimental in viral infection such as influenza through promoting neutrophilic inflammation.The requirements of IL-17A and IL-17 receptor signaling in host defense were well documented and appreciated before the identification of Th17 cells as an independent T helper cell lineage. However, IL-17A is required for protection against primary infection with a different intracellular bacteria, Francisella tularensis.Mouse model studies using the IL-17RA knock out mice and the IL-17A knock out mice with the murine adapted influenza strain (PR8) as well as the 2009 pandemic H1N1 strain [93] both support that IL-17A plays a detrimental role in mediating the acute lung injury.The role of adaptive immune responses mediated by antigen specific Th17 has been investigated more recently. Antigen specific CD4 T cells also limit nasopharyngeal colonization of S. pneumoniae in mouse models. In particular, pathogenic GM-CSF-secreting T cells were shown to correlate with the recruitment of inflammatory IL-6-secreting monocytes and severe lung pathology in people with COVID‑19. Data collected from Jin Yin-tan Hospital in Wuhan, China indicates that patients who had more severe responses to COVID‑19 had greater amounts of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines in their system than patients who had milder responses. 
Upon viral challenge, influenza-specific memory CD4+ T cells greatly enhance the early production of inflammatory chemokines in the lung. [SEP] Human lung TRM CD4+ CD103+ cells express higher levels of CD103, CTLA4, KLRC1 and ICOS. CD4+ TRM cells provide better protection against repeated infection with influenza in comparison with circulating memory CD4+ T cells. This is also thought to support the formation of long-lasting immune memory through the initiation of Th1 immune responses.During wake periods, differentiated effector cells, such as cytotoxic natural killer cells and cytotoxic T lymphocytes, peak to elicit an effective response against any intruding pathogens. Vaccination
Long-term active memory is acquired following infection by activation of B and T cells. In addition, mast cells also release chemokines which result in the positive chemotaxis of other immune cells of both the innate and adaptive immune responses to the infected area.Due to the variety of mechanisms and links between the innate and adaptive immune response, an adjuvant-enhanced innate immune response results in an enhanced adaptive immune response. In particular, pathogenic GM-CSF-secreting T cells were shown to correlate with the recruitment of inflammatory IL-6-secreting monocytes and severe lung pathology in people with COVID‑19. Data collected from Jin Yin-tan Hospital in Wuhan, China indicates that patients who had more severe responses to COVID‑19 had greater amounts of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines in their system than patients who had milder responses. Influenza virus alters the lungs in ways that increase the adherence, invasion and induction of disease by pneumococcus, alters the immune response with weakened ability to clear pneumococcus or, alternately amplifying the inflammatory cascade. 
Upregulation of PD1 causes the downmodulation of Satb1. [SEP] In addition, PD-1 ligation up-regulates E3-ubiquitin ligases CBL-b and c-CBL that trigger T cell receptor down-modulation. SATB1 (special AT-rich sequence-binding protein-1) is a protein which in humans is encoded by the SATB1 gene. Function
SATB1, the global chromatin organizer and transcription factor, has emerged as a key factor integrating higher-order chromatin architecture with gene regulation. Recent studies have unraveled the role of SATB1 in organization of chromatin 'loopscape' and its dynamic nature in response to physiological stimuli. At genome-wide level, SATB1 seems to play a role in organization of the transcriptionally poised chromatin. Silencing of SATB1 mimics the effects of IFN-γ treatment on chromatin loop architecture of the MHC class I locus and altered expression of genes within the locus. SATB1 has also been shown to induce breast cancer tumor growth and metastasis through the altered expression of large numbers of genes. Interactions
SATB1 has been shown to interact with:

References


== Further reading == 
Upregulation of PD1 causes the upregulation of Satb1. [SEP] When complexed with the (SF-1) protein, SRY acts as a transcription factor that causes upregulation of other transcription factors, most importantly SOX9. The reentry of SOX9 into the nucleus is facilitated by autocrine or paracrine signaling conducted by PGD2. Part of this up-regulation is accomplished by SOX9 itself through a positive feedback loop; like SRY, SOX9 complexes with SF1 and binds to the TESCO enhancer, leading to further expression of SOX9 in the XY gonad. Experimental knockouts of the PITX2 gene are associated with the subsequent upregulation of related Pitx1, which is able to partially compensate for the loss of Pitx2. The Pitx2 gene is thus shown to be downstream of Pax3 and serve as an intermediate between Pax3 and MyoD. Increased expression of Pitx2 in renal cancer cells is associated with increased expression of ABCB1. BMAL1 and BMAL2 are positive regulators and activate transcription by binding to proximal (–565 to –560 bp) and distal (–680 to –675 bp) E-box enhancers of the PAI-1 promoter. In colorectal cancer cells, the upregulation of BMAL2 has been associated with higher levels of tumor mutational burden (TMB) as a result of subsequent upregulation of PAI1. 
Upregulation of dynein in Drosophila neurons increases the number of microtubule plus-ends growing toward the cell body of each neuron. [SEP] Dyneins are a family of cytoskeletal motor proteins that move along microtubules in cells. Dynein carries organelles, vesicles and possibly microtubule fragments along the axons of neurons toward the cell body in a process called retrograde axonal transport. Dynein pulls the microtubules and chromosomes to one end of the cell. When the end of the microtubules become close to the cell membrane, they release a chemical signal that punts the dynein to the other side of the cell. Budding yeast have been a powerful model organism to study this process and has shown that dynein is targeted to plus ends of astral microtubules and delivered to the cell cortex via an offloading mechanism. The heavy chains of inner and outer arms of axonemal dynein are phosphorylated/dephosphorylated to control the rate of microtubule sliding. Dyneins drive intracellular transport toward the minus end of microtubules which lies in the microtubule organizing center near the nucleus. Axonemal dyneins facilitate the beating of cilia and flagella by rapid and efficient sliding movements of microtubules. 
Urbanization is an important risk factor related to the transmission of dengue fever. [SEP] Dengue fever is a mosquito-borne tropical disease caused by the dengue virus. This makes it one of the most common vector-borne diseases worldwide.Infections are most commonly acquired in urban environments. One projection estimates that climate change, urbanization, and other factors could result in more than 6 billion people at risk of dengue infection by 2080. deforestation), expansion of agricultural and water development projects (which tend to increase mosquito breeding habitat), and the overall trend towards urbanization (i.e. Dengue fever
Dengue fever is an infectious disease caused by dengue viruses known to be in the tropical regions. The recent spread of this primary vector of dengue is attributed to globalization, trade, travel, demographic trends, and warming temperatures.Dengue is ranked as the most important vector-borne viral disease in the world. During the latter half of the 20th century, Dengue fever reemerged as a global disease, with the virus spreading geographically due to urbanization, population growth, increased international travel, and global warming, and continues to cause at least 50 million infections per year, making Dengue fever the most common and clinically important arboviral disease.Yellow fever, alongside malaria, was a major obstacle in the construction of the Panama Canal. The likelihood of dengue transmission is amplified by rising temperatures, as the development and proliferation of mosquitoes are substantially impacted by factors such as temperature, precipitation, and humidity. 
V-9302 inhibits antitumor responses by decreasing cell death and oxidative stress. [SEP] PDE2 selective inhibitors
EHNA (erythro-9-(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl)adenine)
BAY 60-7550 (2-[(3,4-dimethoxyphenyl)methyl]-7-[(1R)-1-hydroxyethyl]-4-phenylbutyl]-5-methyl-imidazo[5,1-f][1,2,4]triazin-4(1H)-one)
Oxindole
PDP (9-(6-Phenyl-2-oxohex-3-yl)-2-(3,4-dimethoxybenzyl)-purin-6-one)

PDE3 selective inhibitors
Amrinone, milrinone and enoximone are used clinically for short-term treatment of cardiac failure. PDE10 selective inhibitors
Papaverine, an opium alkaloid, has been reported to act as a PDE10 inhibitor. (Hung et al., 1998) Similar results have been seen in knockout mice deficient in gp91phox, a protein involved in the production ROIs (Reactive Oxygen Intermediates) which are also an important weapon utilized by macrophages to elicit cell death. Cancer Res 75(18):3747-59, doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-14-2956
Dranoff, G., Jaffee, E., Lazenby, A., Golumbek, P., Levitsky, H., Brose, K., Jackson, V., Hamada, H., Pardoll, D. and Mulligan, R., 1993. Cancer 90, pp. CD137-mediated signaling is also known to protect T cells, and in particular, CD8+ T cells from activation-induced cell death. TIM-3 acts as a negative regulator of Th1/Tc1 function by triggering cell death upon interaction with its ligand, galectin-9. VISTA: Short for V-domain Ig suppressor of T cell activation, VISTA is primarily expressed on hematopoietic cells so that consistent expression of VISTA on leukocytes within tumors may allow VISTA blockade to be effective across a broad range of solid tumors. 
Vaccinating the gastrointestinal tract induces protection of rectal and vaginal mucosa. [SEP] Vaccination is the administration of a vaccine to help the immune system develop immunity from a disease. Vaccination is the most effective method of preventing infectious diseases; widespread immunity due to vaccination is largely responsible for the worldwide eradication of smallpox and the elimination of diseases such as polio and tetanus from much of the world. Such immunizations aim to trigger an immune response more rapidly and with less harm than natural infection.Most vaccines are given by injection as they are not absorbed reliably through the intestines. Live attenuated polio, rotavirus, some typhoid, and some cholera vaccines are given orally to produce immunity in the bowel. For instance, a person who is vaccinated for influenza not only protects themselves from the risk of influenza, but simultaneously also prevents themselves from infecting those around them. Costs and benefits
On the whole, vaccinations induce a net benefit to society. Immune function
The gastrointestinal tract forms an important part of the immune system. Fundamental components of this protection are provided by the intestinal mucosal barrier, which is composed of physical, biochemical, and immune elements elaborated by the intestinal mucosa. 
Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 26 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. [SEP] Medical uses
Depression
The evidence overall supports the efficacy of bupropion over placebo for the treatment of depression. Smoking cessation
Prescribed as an aid for smoking cessation bupropion reduces the severity of craving for nicotine and withdrawal symptoms such as depressed
mood, irritability, difficulty concentrating, and increased appetite. With time, however, this effect becomes negligible.The bupropion treatment course lasts for seven to twelve weeks, with the patient halting the use of tobacco about ten days into the course. After the course, the effectiveness of bupropion for maintaining abstinence from smoking declines over time, from 37% of tobacco abstinence at 3 months to 20% at one year. It is unclear whether extending bupropion treatment helps to prevent relapse of smoking.Overall, six months after the therapy, bupropion increases the likelihood of quitting smoking by approximately 1.6 fold as compared to placebo. In this respect, bupropion is as effective as nicotine replacement therapy but inferior to varenicline. Combining bupropion and nicotine replacement therapy does not improve the quitting rate.In children and adolescents, the use of bupropion for smoking cessation does not appear to offer any significant benefits. Obesity
Bupropion, when used for treating obesity over a period of 6 to 12 months, results in an average weight loss of 2.7 kg (5.9 lbs) over placebo. 
Varying expression levels of EBI2 affect the positioning and migration of B cells. [SEP] DNA sequences that impact cellular level activity such as cell type, condition, and molecular processes). (later renamed to chromosomes 2A and 2B, respectively). Epigenome
Epigenetics describes a variety of features of the human genome that transcend its primary DNA sequence, such as chromatin packaging, histone modifications and DNA methylation, and which are important in regulating gene expression, genome replication and other cellular processes. The epigenome is also influenced significantly by environmental factors. Neurokinin A was shown to be a potent chemo attractor for T-cells increasing the migration into infected tissues. This migration is necessary for the pathogen seeking activity of T-cells. Since lymphocytes must be positioned correctly to interact with other cells, the pattern of chemokine receptors and the type and distribution of chemokines in tissues critically influence immune responses. Like most hormones, testosterone is supplied to target tissues in the blood where much of it is transported bound to a specific plasma protein, sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG). 
Venules have less significant tunica adventitia than arterioles. [SEP] Smaller veins are called venules, and the smallest the post-capillary venules are microscopic that make up the veins of the microcirculation. Veins have less smooth muscle, and connective tissue, and wider internal diameters than arteries. Smaller veins are called venules. The smallest veins are the post-capillary venules. The outer layer, is a thick layer of connective tissue called the tunica externa or adventitia; this layer is absent in the post-capillary venules. The tunica media in the veins is much thinner than that in the arteries as the veins are not subject to the high systolic pressures that the arteries are. These larger venules feed into small veins. The arterioles supply capillaries, which in turn empty into venules. 
VgrG (Tssl) protein punctures membranes by forming a spike at the tip of the tube apparatus. [SEP] At the tip of the Hcp tube sits a trimer of the phage tail spike-like protein VgrG, which is in turn capped by a pointed PAAR domain-containing protein. Contraction of the sheath is thought to propel the Hcp tube, VgrG and associated substrates outside of the bacterial cell, where the VgrG/PAAR spike facilitates penetration of the membrane of a neighboring cell. Membrane
The T6SS membrane complex is responsible for anchoring the apparatus to the cellular membrane, and provides the channel through which substrates are propelled by the contraction of the phage tail-like tubule. Members of the second class of substrates are targeted for secretion via interaction with the phage tail spike-like protein VgrG. At the tip of the Hcp tube sits a trimer of the phage tail spike-like protein VgrG, which is in turn capped by a pointed PAAR domain-containing protein. Contraction of the sheath is thought to propel the Hcp tube, VgrG and associated substrates outside of the bacterial cell, where the VgrG/PAAR spike facilitates penetration of the membrane of a neighboring cell. Membrane
The T6SS membrane complex is responsible for anchoring the apparatus to the cellular membrane, and provides the channel through which substrates are propelled by the contraction of the phage tail-like tubule. Members of the second class of substrates are targeted for secretion via interaction with the phage tail spike-like protein VgrG. 
Vitamin D deficiency effects birth weight. [SEP] Women with vitamin D deficiency who have been through multiple pregnancies are at elevated risk of osteomalacia. Maternal vitamin D deficiency may affect the baby, causing overt bone disease from before birth and impairment of bone quality after birth. Maternal vitamin D deficiency can cause prenatal neurodevelopmental defects, which influence neurotransmission, altering brain rhythms and the metabolism of dopamine. Obesity
There is an increased risk of vitamin D deficiency in people who are considered overweight or obese based on their body mass index (BMI) measurement. Pregnancy
Low levels of vitamin D in pregnancy are associated with gestational diabetes, pre-eclampsia, and small (for gestational age) infants. Pregnant women who take an adequate amount of vitamin D during gestation may experience a lower risk of pre-eclampsia and positive immune effects. Vitamin D supplementation is also likely to reduce the risk of gestational diabetes, undersized babies and of their poor rate of growth. Pregnant women often do not take the recommended amount of vitamin D.

Weight loss
Though hypothesized that vitamin D supplementation may be an effective treatment for obesity apart from calorie restriction, one systematic review found no association of supplementation with body weight or fat mass. 
Vitamin D is an important factor in the relationship between calcium and parathyroid hormone. [SEP] VDR activation in the intestine, bone, kidney, and parathyroid gland cells leads to the maintenance of calcium and phosphorus levels in the blood (with the assistance of parathyroid hormone and calcitonin) and to the maintenance of bone content.One of the most important roles of vitamin D is to maintain skeletal calcium balance by promoting calcium absorption in the intestines, promoting bone resorption by increasing osteoclast number, maintaining calcium and phosphate levels for bone formation, and allowing proper functioning of parathyroid hormone to maintain serum calcium levels. Osteoporosis can be a long-term effect of calcium and/or vitamin D insufficiency, the latter contributing by reducing calcium absorption. Hormonal regulation of bone formation and serum levels
Parathyroid hormone and vitamin D promote the formation of bone by allowing and enhancing the deposition of calcium ions there, allowing rapid bone turnover without affecting bone mass or mineral content. However, because calcium is absorbed rather inefficiently by the intestines, high serum calcium is more likely caused by excessive secretion of parathyroid hormone (PTH) or possibly by excessive intake of vitamin D, both of which facilitate calcium absorption. Conversely, inadequate calcium or vitamin D intakes may result in hypocalcemia, often caused also by inadequate secretion of parathyroid hormone or defective PTH receptors in cells. Parathyroid hormone secreted by the parathyroid gland regulates the resorption of Ca2+ from bone, reabsorption in the kidney back into circulation, and increases in the activation of vitamin D3 to calcitriol. Calcitriol, the active form of vitamin D3, promotes absorption of calcium from the intestines and bones. "Adequate calcium and vitamin D throughout life, as part of a well-balanced diet, may reduce the risk of osteoporosis." 
Walking in traffic areas in London did not improve lung function in elderly adults. [SEP] Cardiovascular diseaseIt has been found that older age does increase the risk factor of contracting cardiovascular disease. Research indicates that higher levels of exercise can decrease the likelihood of depression in older adults even after taking into consideration factors such as chronic conditions, body mass index, and social relationships. The landmark INTERHEART Study has revealed that alcohol consumption in South Asians was not protective against CAD in sharp contrast to other populations who benefit from it. However, a study concluded, "Our findings suggest that, despite previous suggestions, moderate alcohol consumption does not protect older people from cognitive decline. Although alcohol consumption did not influence risk of clinical illness for smokers, moderate alcohol consumption was associated with decreased risk for nonsmokers. By then, he could not walk because of the infection in his injured leg and an infirmity in the other, which was due to a traffic accident a decade earlier. 16 February – The speed at which someone walks may predict their likelihood of developing dementia later in life, according to researchers in the US. It is reported that staying seated for long periods of time can reduce the human lifespan, unless mitigated by regular strenuous exercise. 
Walking in traffic areas in London improves lung function in elderly adults. [SEP] Research indicates that higher levels of exercise can decrease the likelihood of depression in older adults even after taking into consideration factors such as chronic conditions, body mass index, and social relationships. Optimizing health and mental well-being in adulthood
Exercising four to six times a week for thirty to sixty minutes has physical and cognitive effects such as lowering blood sugar and increasing neural plasticity. Physical activity reduces the loss of function by 10% each decade after the age of 60 and active individuals drop their rate of decline in half. Cardio activities like walking promote endurance while strength, flexibility, and balance can all be improved through Tai Chi, yoga, and water aerobics. Additionally, researchers have found that optimism, community engagement, physical activity, and emotional support can help older adults maintain their resiliency as they continue through their life span. As SCI patients have reduced total lung capacity and tidal volume, physical therapists teach them accessory breathing techniques (e.g. This benefit was strongest for ischemic heart disease, but was also noted for other vascular disease and respiratory disease. Leisure-time physical activity extends life expectancy by as much as 4.5 years, according to a study by the National Cancer Institute. 
Weighed food records (WFR) result in high completion since they're cheap to run and impose low participant burden. [SEP] While wilderness first responder can generically refer to anyone providing first response, this term typically refers to individuals trained and certified with specific Wilderness First Responder (WFR) certification. Today, WFR certification is frequently a prerequisite for professional positions that involve work in the outdoors and students may take courses from numerous nationally recognized providers (see below). Standards and Regulation
WFR is an unregulated certification. In 1999 the Wilderness Medical Society published minimum topics for courses claiming to grant WFR certification. In 2016, the Wilderness Medicine Education Consortium, an industry-led collaborative from multiple wilderness medicine schools, published a recommended scope of practice for WFRs.The EMR portion of WEMR is regulated by state rules and law, and by federal EMS recommendations and policies. The wilderness portion of WEMR is unregulated, and presumably would follow WFR standards. WFR designation
Wilderness first responder is abbreviated as WFR. WFR may refer to:

Weather Research and Forecasting model
Wilderness First Responder
MEMC Electronic Materials, based on its stock symbol on the New York Stock exchange
The Worcestershire and Sherwood Foresters, an infantry regiment of the British army
Work Force Reduction (or Work Force Restructuring), a euphemism for layoffs
Wake Forest-Rolesville High School
Wizard's First Rule 
Weighed food records (WFR) result in poor completion since they're costly to run and impose high participant burden. [SEP] WFR may refer to:

Weather Research and Forecasting model
Wilderness First Responder
MEMC Electronic Materials, based on its stock symbol on the New York Stock exchange
The Worcestershire and Sherwood Foresters, an infantry regiment of the British army
Work Force Reduction (or Work Force Restructuring), a euphemism for layoffs
Wake Forest-Rolesville High School
Wizard's First Rule To be considered for the initiative, countries must face an unsustainable debt burden which cannot be managed with traditional means. Second, the six-year program was too long and too inflexible to meet the individual needs of debtor nations. Third, the IMF and the World Bank did not cancel any debt until the completion point, leaving countries under the burden of their debt payments while they struggled to institute structural reforms. If conducted by an external consultant, this method can be expensive. Disadvantages: This method is that it is more expensive than online and paper surveys. The second problem with using online surveys for Exit Interviews is the relatively low completion rate at 34%. Conducting them too early is less effective with only 19% of companies achieving high completion. 
Whole brain radiotherapy increases the occurrence of new brain metastases. [SEP] The best known cause of brain cancers is ionizing radiation. Radiotherapy: the most commonly used treatment for brain tumors; the tumor is irradiated with beta, x rays or gamma rays. The amount of radiotherapy depends on the size of the area of the brain affected by cancer. People who receive stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) and whole-brain radiation therapy (WBRT) for the treatment of metastatic brain tumors have more than twice the risk of developing learning and memory problems than those treated with SRS alone. Results of a 2021 systematic review found that when using SRS as the initial treatment, survival or death related to brain metastasis was not greater than alone versus SRS with WBRT.Postoperative conventional daily radiotherapy improves survival for adults with good functional well-being and high grade glioma compared to no postoperative radiotherapy. A 2019 meta-analysis suggested that for people with less aggressive gliomas, radiotherapy may increase the risk of long term neurocognitive side effects. These results show that radiomics holds promise for differentiating between treatment effect and true progression in brain metastases treated with SRS. Brain metastases are particularly common in patients with metastatic melanoma. 
Women are more susceptible to death due to pneumonia when compared to men. [SEP] Sex differences
COVID‑19 case fatality rates are higher among men than women in most countries. Globally, men are more likely to be admitted to the ICU and more likely to die. One meta-analysis found that globally, men were more likely to get COVID‑19 than women; there were approximately 55 men and 45 women per 100 infections (CI: 51.43–56.58).The Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention reported the death rate was 2.8% for men and 1.7% for women. Sex-based immunological differences, lesser prevalence of smoking in women and men developing co-morbid conditions such as hypertension at a younger age than women could have contributed to the higher mortality in men. Some diseases that affect both sexes are statistically more common in men. Men are more likely than women to engage in over 30 risky behaviours associated with increased morbidity, injury, and mortality. Additionally, despite a disproportionately lower rate of suicide attempts than women, men have significantly higher rates of death by suicide.Social determinants of men's health involve factors such as greater levels of occupational exposure to physical and chemical hazards than women. Suicide is the 13th leading cause of death globally, and in most parts of the world, men are significantly more likely to die by suicide than women, although women are significantly more likely to attempt suicide. 
Women with a lower birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. [SEP] In 2016, a tentative association between low fiber intake during adolescence and breast cancer was observed.Smoking tobacco appears to increase the risk of breast cancer, with the greater the amount smoked and the earlier in life that smoking began, the higher the risk. Diabetes mellitus might also increase the risk of breast cancer. Low-income women are less likely to undergo breast cancer screening and thus are more likely to have a late-stage diagnosis. Pregnancy
Pregnancy at an early age decreases the risk of developing breast cancer later in life. Lack of exercise has been linked to breast cancer by the American Institute for Cancer Research.Obesity has been linked to an increased risk of developing breast cancer by many scientific studies. Furthermore, studies have shown that obese women are more likely to have large tumors, greater lymph node involvement, and poorer breast cancer prognosis with 30% higher risk of mortality.Weight gain after diagnosis has also been linked to higher rates of breast cancer recurrence or mortality although this finding is not consistent. Conversely, patients with very low mammographic breast density were found to hold a poorer prognosis irrespective of age, BMI and menopausal status. Women of lower weight are at greater risk from unopposed estrogen. 
YAP/TAZ is required in intestinal regeneration in mouse models of ulcerative colitis. [SEP] In mammals, the two Yki orthologs are Yes-associated protein (YAP) and transcriptional coactivator with PDZ-binding motif (WWTR1, also known as TAZ). When activated, YAP and TAZ can bind to several transcription factors including p73, Runx2 and several TEADs. YAP/TAZ can reprogram cancer cells into cancer stem cells. YAP and TAZ cooperate with transcription factors to promote tissue formation. Differences
TAZ is able to form both heterodimers and heterotetramers with TEADs to initiate transcription (TAZ-TEAD and TAZ-TEAD-TAZ-TEAD), while YAP is only able to form YAP-TEAD heterodimers. In vivo murine studies have demonstrated that animals lacking functional TAZ are more viable than animals lacking YAP expression. Associated Therapeutics
YAP and TAZ function have been targeted in several therapeutic methods in the treatment of cancers. Tyrosine kinases signal in proliferative pathways, some which promote YAP/TAZ function, such as Src family kinases and includes the Yes tyrosine kinase, which is associated with YAP function. 
aPKCz causes tumour suppression by affecting glutamine metabolism. [SEP] Inhibition of the PKCζ enzyme inhibits insulin-stimulated glucose transport while activation of PKCζ increases glucose transport. Inhibitors
1,3,5-Trisubstituted Pyrazolines

Interactions
PRKCZ has been shown to interact with:

References


== Further reading == Tumour growth can occur by a combination of factors, including a mutation in a cell cycle gene which removes the restraints on cell growth, combined with mutations in apoptotic proteins such as caspases that would respond by inducing cell death in abnormally growing cells. Roles in metabolism and cancer
Cancer cells rely on glutamine metabolism as carbon and nitrogen sources. Studies have indicated the importance of glutamine in certain tumors. For example, the inhibition of glutamine metabolism was reported to prevent growth of several tumors such as breast, liver, kidney and T-cell lymphoblastic leukemia. Although glutamine has no effect on the proliferation of tumor cells, it is still possible that glutamine supplementation may be detrimental in some cancer types.Ceasing glutamine supplementation in people adapted to very high consumption may initiate a withdrawal effect, raising the risk of health problems such as infections or impaired integrity of the intestine. Phosphinothricin(PPT, Glufosinate): Phosphinothricin is an inhibitor that binds to the glutamate site. 
cSMAC formation represses weak ligand signalling. [SEP] Formation
The initial interaction occurs between LFA-1 present in the p-SMAC of a T-cell, and non-specific adhesion molecules (such as ICAM-1 or ICAM-2) on a target cell. When bound to a target cell, the T-cell can extend pseudopodia and scan the surface of target cell to find a specific peptide:MHC complex.The process of formation begins when the T-cell receptor (TCR) binds to the peptide:MHC complex on the antigen-presenting cell and initiates signaling activation through formation of microclusters/lipid rafts. The effectivity of killing of the target cell depends on the strength of the TCR signal. Even after receiving weak or short-lived signals, the MTOC polarizes towards the immunological synapse, but in that case the lytic granules are not trafficked and therefore the killing effect is missing or poor. In the initiation step, NK cell approaches the target cell, either accidentally or intentionally due to the chemotactic signalling. If such signal is missing, a tight adhesion via LFA1 and MAC1 is promoted and enhanced by additional signals such as CD226-ligand and CD96-CD155 interactions.Lytic granules are secretory organelles filled with perforin, granzymes and other cytolytic enzymes. SMIC then acts to prevent rearrangement of actin, block the recruitment of activatory receptors to the site of synapse and finally, promote detachment from the target cell. When SAM is present, it binds to the MetJ protein, increasing its affinity for its cognate operator site, which halts transcription of genes involved in methionine synthesis. 
eRNAs influence is linked to senescence, aging, and carcinogenesis. [SEP] Association with aging
Telomere shortening is associated with aging, mortality, and aging-related diseases. Although both mitochondrial and nuclear DNA damage can contribute to aging, nuclear DNA is the main subject of this analysis. Nuclear DNA damage can contribute to aging either indirectly (by increasing apoptosis or cellular senescence) or directly (by increasing cell dysfunction).Several review articles have shown that deficient DNA repair, allowing greater accumulation of DNA damage, causes premature aging; and that increased DNA repair facilitates greater longevity, e.g. By the early 1990s experimental support for this idea was substantial, and furthermore it had become increasingly evident that oxidative DNA damage, in particular, is a major cause of aging.In a series of articles from 1970 to 1977, PV Narasimh Acharya, Phd. Age-associated accumulation of DNA damage and changes in gene expression
In tissues composed of non- or infrequently replicating cells, DNA damage can accumulate with age and lead either to loss of cells, or, in surviving cells, loss of gene expression. ROS can damage lipids, DNA, RNA, and proteins, which, in theory, contributes to the physiology of aging. Inherited diseases associated with faulty DNA repair functioning result in premature aging, increased sensitivity to carcinogens and correspondingly increased cancer risk (see below). An excess of naturally occurring DNA damage, due to inherited deficiencies in particular DNA repair enzymes, can cause premature aging or increased risk for cancer (see DNA repair-deficiency disorder). 
mcm 5 s 2 U is required for proper decoding of NNR codons in eukaryotes. [SEP] A codon table can be used to translate a genetic code into a sequence of amino acids. The standard genetic code is traditionally represented as an RNA codon table, because when proteins are made in a cell by ribosomes, it is messenger RNA (mRNA) that directs protein synthesis. It can also be represented in a DNA codon table. The DNA codons in such tables occur on the sense DNA strand and are arranged in a 5′-to-3′ direction. The following table displays these alternative codons. They thereby deduced that the codon UUU specified the amino acid phenylalanine. In rare cases, certain proteins may use alternative start codons. Despite the NCBI already providing 33 translation tables, the authors were able to find new 5 genetic code variations (corroborated by tRNA mutations) and correct several misattributions. 
miR-142-5P is a known regulator of raised body temperature. [SEP] Internal heat
The major heat-producing isotopes within Earth are potassium-40, uranium-238, and thorium-232. Radiation also increases with temperature as well as the mass of the ions. Hot, humid climates cause an increase in heart rate and respiration which increases energy and water loss. Peak metabolism occurs at about 32 °C. Metabolism, and therefore respiration rate, increases consistently as temperature increases. The brood is transported to areas where temperatures are high; workers track temperature patterns of the mound and do not rely on behavioural habits. Workers exposed to temperatures of 42 °C (107 °F) are at risk of dying from the heat. Of the hospitalized workers, 134 exhibited symptoms of acute radiation syndrome (including one disputed case). 
miR-142-5P is a temperature-sensitive microRNA (miRNA). [SEP] MicroRNA (miRNA) are small, single-stranded, non-coding RNA molecules containing 21 to 23 nucleotides. Aberrant miRNA expression are implicated in disease states. When two mature microRNAs originate from opposite arms of the same pre-miRNA and are found in roughly similar amounts, they are denoted with a -3p or -5p suffix. Disease
Just as miRNA is involved in the normal functioning of eukaryotic cells, so has dysregulation of miRNA been associated with disease. miRNA-712
Murine microRNA-712 is a potential biomarker (i.e. Human homolog microRNA-205
The human homolog of miR-712 was found on the RN45s homolog gene, which maintains similar miRNAs to mice. MirOB: MicroRNA targets database and data analysis and dataviz tool. miRNA modulation reagents to enable up-regulation or suppression of endogenous mature microRNA function 
miRNAs enforce homeostasis by suppressing low-level ''leaky'' transcription. [SEP] miRNA
MicroRNA are small non-coding RNA molecules which regulate gene expression at posttranscriptional level via binding to mRNA. miRNAs function to modulate protein expression levels of their mRNA targets without affecting the sequences of the genes of interest. Aberrant miRNA expression are implicated in disease states. Turnover
Turnover of mature miRNA is needed for rapid changes in miRNA expression profiles. Large scale studies of functional miRNA targeting have recently uncovered rationale therapeutic targets in the hemostatic system. Plants
miRNAs are considered to be key regulators of many developmental, homeostatic, and immune processes in plants. miRNA modulation reagents to enable up-regulation or suppression of endogenous mature microRNA function Introduction
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a family of small ribonucleic acids, 21-25 nucleotides in length, that modulate protein expression through transcript degradation, inhibition of translation, or sequestering transcripts. 
miRNAs regulate a unique suite of mRNAs to maintain homeostasis in cells. [SEP] The overwhelming majority of microbes are essential for healthy ecosystem functioning and known for beneficial interactions with other microbes and organisms. Russian scientists have utilized a variety of exercise hardware and in-flight exercise protocols during long-duration spaceflight (up to and beyond one year) aboard the Mir space station. Shuttle-Mir and NASA-Mir
During the seven NASA-Mir flights, seven U.S. astronauts trained and flew jointly with 12 Russian cosmonauts over a total period of 977 days (the average stay was 140 days) of spaceflight, which occurred during the period from March 1995 to June 1998. This began with the first joint mission, Mir-18, and continued until the final Mir-25 mission. However, the news is not entirely good since knee extensor and knee flexor strength losses in long-duration crewmembers after flights aboard Mir and ISS were ~23% and ~25%, respectively (Figure 6-12), indicating that strength losses in the quadriceps and hamstring muscle groups were significant and similar for NASA-Mir and early ISS missions, despite apparent slightly increased preservation of muscle mass (lean tissue) in the legs of ISS crewmembers compared to crewmembers on NASA-Mir missions (also Figure 6-11). Similar observations have been made after long-duration spaceflight on Mir and ISS. The body heat generated by normal activities, and particularly by exercise, triggers homeostatic regulatory mechanisms with the goal of maintaining body core temperature within its relatively narrow, safe physiologic range by means of vasoregulation and diaphoresis. These findings reinforce the notion that it is the mechanical activity rather than the electrical activity imposed on the muscle that is essential to maintaining physiological homeostasis. 
p16INK4A degradation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). [SEP] Conversely, activation of p16 through reactive oxygen species, DNA damage, or senescence leads to the buildup of p16 in tissues and is implicated in the aging of cells. Tissue samples of primary oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) often display hypermethylation in the promoter regions of p16. It has been suggested that this process is responsible for the development of various forms of cancer serving as an alternative process to gene deletion or mutation.p16 positivity has been shown to be favorably prognostic in oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma. p16 status is so prognostic that the AJCC staging system has been revised to include p16 status in oropharyngeal squamous cell cancer group staging. Role in cellular senescence
Concentrations of p16INK4a increase dramatically as tissue ages. p16INK4a, along with senescence-associated beta-galactosidase, is regarded to be a biomarker of cellular senescence. p16 deletion, mutation, hypermethylation, or overexpression is now associated with various cancers. The expression of p16INK4a increases with aging in many tissues of rodents and humans. 
p16INK4A degradation is encoded by CDKN2A. [SEP] p16 (also known as p16INK4a, cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A, CDKN2A, multiple tumor suppressor 1 and numerous other synonyms), is a protein that slows cell division by slowing the progression of the cell cycle from the G1 phase to the S phase, thereby acting as a tumor suppressor. It is encoded by the CDKN2A gene. The name of p16 is derived from its molecular weight, and the alternative name p16INK4a refers to its role in inhibiting cyclin-dependent kinase CDK4. Nomenclature
p16 is also known as:

p16INK4A
p16Ink4
Cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A (CDKN2A)
CDKN2
CDK 4 Inhibitor
Multiple Tumor Suppressor 1 (MTS1)
TP16
ARF
MLM
P14

Gene
In humans, p16 is encoded by the CDKN2A gene, located on chromosome 9 (9p21.3). Function
p16 is an inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK). Role in cellular senescence
Concentrations of p16INK4a increase dramatically as tissue ages. p16INK4a, along with senescence-associated beta-galactosidase, is regarded to be a biomarker of cellular senescence. CDKN2A human gene details in the UCSC Genome Browser. 
p75 NTR - associated cell death executor (NADE) interacts with the p75 NTR death domain [SEP] p75NTR is involved in pathways that promote neuronal survival and neuronal death. This was an early indication that p75NTR does nor signal death through the same mechanism as the TNFR death domains, although the ability of the p75NTR death domain to activate other second messengers is conserved.The p75ECD-binding interface to NT-3 can be divided into three main contact sites, two in the case of NGF, that are stabilized by hydrophobic interactions, salt bridges, and hydrogen bonds. proNGF and proBNDF interact with p75NTR and cause p75NTR-mediated apoptosis without activating TrkA-mediated survival mechanisms. p75NTR-mediated signaling pathways
NF-kB activation
NF-kB is a transcription factor that can be activated by p75NTR. p75NTR is involved in pathways that promote neuronal survival and neuronal death. This was an early indication that p75NTR does nor signal death through the same mechanism as the TNFR death domains, although the ability of the p75NTR death domain to activate other second messengers is conserved.The p75ECD-binding interface to NT-3 can be divided into three main contact sites, two in the case of NGF, that are stabilized by hydrophobic interactions, salt bridges, and hydrogen bonds. proNGF and proBNDF interact with p75NTR and cause p75NTR-mediated apoptosis without activating TrkA-mediated survival mechanisms. p75NTR-mediated signaling pathways
NF-kB activation
NF-kB is a transcription factor that can be activated by p75NTR. 
qSOFA scores are associated with length of stay in emergency department patients. [SEP] After several improvements, it now ranks 84th in the world for ecological sustainability. The country had a 2019 Forest Landscape Integrity Index mean score of 3.65/10, ranking it 142nd globally out of 172 countries. It also performs well in life expectancy, healthcare and  education. Health
Life expectancy in the country is 80 for males and 85 for females, placing the country 5th in the world for life expectancy. Italy's healthcare system is consistently ranked among the best in the world. With this the series returned to being among the top ten highest rated programs, where it remained for the next six seasons. Programming
Schlichting campaigned for tools technologically ahead of their time to improve quality. To be a sustainable company, you have a higher bar for sales and quality." 
r-protein chaperones are found in complexes with their r-protein binding partners. [SEP] As a result, these bacterial Hsp70 chaperones represent a promising set of targets for antibiotic development. PDBe-KB provides an overview of all the structure information available in the PDB for Human Endoplasmic reticulum chaperone BiP Molecular chaperones that are able to aid in protein folding may be added, thereby better segregating hydrophobic and hydrophilic interactions in the solute to increase protein solubility. Hsp90 (heat shock protein 90) is a chaperone protein that assists other proteins to fold properly, stabilizes proteins against heat stress, and aids in protein degradation. Recently structures for full length Hsp90 from E. coli (2IOP​, 2IOQ​), yeast (2CG9​, 2CGE​), and the dog endoplasmic reticulum (2O1U​, 2O1V​) were elucidated.Hsp90 forms homodimers where the contact sites are localized within the C-terminus in the open conformation of the dimer. Protein folding and role as chaperone
Hsp90 is known to associate with the non-native structures of many proteins, which has led to the proposal that Hsp90 is involved in protein folding in general. In the absence of the steroid hormone cortisol, GR resides in the cytosol complexed with several chaperone proteins including Hsp90 (see figure to the right). These chaperones maintain the GR in a state capable of binding hormone. 
siRNA knockdown of A20 accelerates tumor progression in an in vivo murine xenograft model. [SEP] Since in principle any gene can be knocked down by a synthetic siRNA with a complementary sequence, siRNAs are an important tool for validating gene function and drug targeting in the post-genomic era. In 2001, the expression of a specific gene was successfully silenced by introducing chemically synthesized siRNA into mammalian cells (Tuschl et al.) Chemical modification of siRNA is employed to reduce in the activation of the innate immune response for gene function and therapeutic applications. Therapeutic applications and challenges
Given the ability to knock down, in essence, any gene of interest, RNAi via siRNAs has generated a great deal of interest in both basic and applied biology. For cells that are difficult to transfect electroporation is advantageous however cell death is more probable under this technique.This method has been used to deliver siRNA targeting VEGF into the xenografted tumors in nude mice, which resulted in a significant suppression of tumor growth. Another potential RNAi-based treatment is to inhibit cell invasion and migration.Compared with chemotherapy or other anti-cancer drugs, there are a lot of advantages of siRNA drug. SiRNA can also be used to produce a specific response in a certain type of way, such as by downgrading suppression of gene expression. In a single cancer cell, siRNA can cause dramatic suppression of gene expression with just several copies. 
siRNA knockdown of A20 slows tumor progression in an in vivo murine xenograft model. [SEP] Since in principle any gene can be knocked down by a synthetic siRNA with a complementary sequence, siRNAs are an important tool for validating gene function and drug targeting in the post-genomic era. In 2001, the expression of a specific gene was successfully silenced by introducing chemically synthesized siRNA into mammalian cells (Tuschl et al.) Chemical modification of siRNA is employed to reduce in the activation of the innate immune response for gene function and therapeutic applications. Therapeutic applications and challenges
Given the ability to knock down, in essence, any gene of interest, RNAi via siRNAs has generated a great deal of interest in both basic and applied biology. Another potential RNAi-based treatment is to inhibit cell invasion and migration.Compared with chemotherapy or other anti-cancer drugs, there are a lot of advantages of siRNA drug. SiRNA can also be used to produce a specific response in a certain type of way, such as by downgrading suppression of gene expression. In a single cancer cell, siRNA can cause dramatic suppression of gene expression with just several copies. discovered, by using synthetically made small interfering RNA (siRNA), it was possible to target the silencing of specific sequences in a gene, rather than silencing the entire gene. 
taa1 tar1 tar2 triple mutants in Arabidopsis do not make root meristem during embryogenesis. [SEP] "Maternal Control of PIN1 Is Required for Female Gametophyte Development in Arabidopsis". References
External links

Arabidopsis transcriptional regulatory map
The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR)
Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory
What Makes Plants Grow? The shoot apical meristem is the site of most of the embryogenesis in flowering plants. In Arabidopsis thaliana, 3 interacting CLAVATA genes are required to regulate the size of the stem cell reservoir in the shoot apical meristem by controlling the rate of cell division. Root apical meristem and tissue patterns become established in the embryo in the case of the primary root, and in the new lateral root primordium in the case of secondary roots. Root apical meristems are not readily cloned, however. "Arabidopsis shoot meristems is maintained by a regulatory loop between Clavata and Wuschel genes". The apical embryo domain, gives rise to the shoot apical meristem and cotyledons. 
β-sheet opening occurs during pleurotolysin pore formation. [SEP] The Pleurotolysin Pore-Forming (Pleurotolysin) Family (TC# 1.C.97) is a family of pore forming proteins belonging to the MACPF superfamily. 2004 cloned complementary and genomic DNAs encoding pleurotolysin, and studied pore-forming properties of recombinant proteins. The cDNA for pleurotolysin B encoded a precursor consisting of 523 amino acyl residues, of which 48 N-terminal amino acyl residues were absent in natural pleurotolysin B. Mature and precursor forms of pleurotolysin B were expressed as insoluble 59- and 63-kDa proteins, respectively. The original text was at "1.C.97 The Pleurotolysin Pore-Forming (Pleurotolysin) Family" 7 α-Hemolysin monomers come together to create the mushroom-shaped pore. 7 α-Hemolysin monomers come together to create the mushroom-shaped pore. Biological membranes block pore formation when no α-LTX receptors are present (neurexin, latrophilin, PTPσ). 
β1/Ketel is able to bind microtubules. [SEP] Microtubules play an important role in a number of cellular processes. There are many proteins that bind to microtubules, including the motor proteins dynein and kinesin, microtubule-severing proteins like katanin, and other proteins important for regulating microtubule dynamics. In developing neurons microtubules are known as neurotubules, and they can modulate the dynamics of actin, another component of the cytoskeleton. At the kinetochore, a variety of complexes have been shown to capture microtubule (+)-ends. Eribulin binds to the (+) growing end of the microtubules. Proteins that interact with microtubules
Microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs)
MAPs have been shown to play a crucial role in the regulation of microtubule dynamics in-vivo. Three proteins called katanin, spastin, and fidgetin have been observed to regulate the number and length of microtubules via their destabilizing activities. Furthermore, KIAA1211L is predicted to be localized to the microtubules.MAPs are determinants of different cytoskeletal forms of axons and dendrites, with microtubules being farther apart in the dendrites

Plus-end tracking proteins (+TIPs)
Plus end tracking proteins are MAP proteins which bind to the tips of growing microtubules and play an important role in regulating microtubule dynamics. 
0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. [SEP] High switching performance, demonstrated synaptic plasticity and sustainability to mechanical deformations promise to emulate the appealing characteristics of biological neural systems in novel computing technologies. In particular, the feasibility of using a collagen‐based biomemristor as an artificial synaptic device has been investigated, whereas a synaptic device based on lignin demonstrated rising or lowering current with consecutive voltage sweeps depending on the sign of the voltage furthermore a natural silk fibroin demonstrated memristive properties; spin-memristive systems based on biomolecules are also being studied.In 2012, Sandro Carrara and co-authors have proposed the first biomolecular memristor with aims to realize highly sensitive biosensors. Mutual inductanceIs the ratio between the electromotive force induced in one loop or coil by the rate of change of current in another loop or coil. Wavelength- and subwavelength-scale particles, metamaterials, and other nanostructures are not subject to ray-optical limits and may be designed to exceed the Stefan–Boltzmann law. Zero force memberIn the field of engineering mechanics, a zero force member is a member (a single truss segment) in a truss which, given a specific load, is at rest: neither in tension, nor in compression. Smith, William F.; Hashemi, Javad (2006), Foundations of Materials Science and Engineering (4th ed. The extent of cartilage matrix production and the mechanical properties of NC-based constructs have been reported to increase in such ectopic in vivo models. David C. Watts (born 1945): British biophysicist who is a Professor of Biomaterials Science at the University of Manchester: co-discoverer of the KWW stretched-exponential function for relaxation phenomena in condensed media and expert on photopolymerised composite biomaterials. 
1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. [SEP] PLINK — whole genome association analysis toolset
ENCODE threads explorer  Impact of functional information on understanding variation. The interpretation of rare sequence variants of unknown significance detected in disease-causing genes becomes an increasingly important problem." Multiple low penetrance risk variants can be aggregated in affected individuals and families, and sets of causative variants could vary across families. The allelic spectrum of the rare and common variants in neurogenomic disorders therefore necessitates a need for large cohort studies in order to effectively exclude low effect variants and identify the overarching pathways frequently mutated in the different disorders, rather than specific genes and specific high penetrance mutations. It is important to note that the high penetrance variants of these disorders tend to be de novo mutations. It is rare to find single high penetrance causative genes in neurological diseases. For example, severe ASD is associated with high penetrance de novo mutations. Consanguinity and in-breeding can lead to selective enrichment of rare, otherwise low penetrance genetic mutations attributed to various symptoms of neurogenomic disorders. 
1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. [SEP] Prion isoforms of the major prion protein (PrP), whose specific function is uncertain, are hypothesized as the cause of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs). The significance of this finding is not clear, but it is presumed to relate to PrP structure or function. For example, unlike PrPSc, PrPres may not necessarily be infectious. PrP and long-term memory
A review of evidence in 2005 suggested that PrP may have a normal function in maintenance of long-term memory. Genetic testing of the 16 positive samples revealed a higher proportion of valine homozygous (VV) genotype on the codon 129 of the gene encoding the prion protein (PRNP) compared with the general UK population. In the familial form, a mutation has occurred in the gene for PrP, PRNP, in that family. Approximately 85% of CJD cases are sporadic and 10-15% of CJD cases are due to inherited mutations of the prion protein gene. A monoclonal antibody (code name PRN100) targeting the prion protein (PrP) was given to six people with Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease in an early-stage clinical trial conducted from 2018 to 2022. 
5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. [SEP] Infant mortality due to low birth weight is usually directly causal, stemming from other medical complications such as preterm birth, PPROM, poor maternal nutritional status, lack of prenatal care, maternal sickness during pregnancy, and an unhygienic home environment. The prevalence of low birth weights has trended slightly upward from 2012 to the present.Low birth weight is associated with neonatal infection, infant mortality, as well as illness into adulthood. Low birth weight can also be caused by health issues in the person giving birth, genetic factors, or problems in the placenta. Because of this, many of these babies also have low birth weights. Even though over 20 million babies are born each year with low birth weight, it is hard to know the exact number, as more than half of babies born in the world are not weighed at birth. WHO estimates that worldwide, 15-20 % of all births each year are considered low birth weight, which is about 20 million births.The start of prenatal care is very important to help prevent low birth weight and early medical problems. Low birth weight
Low birth weight makes up 60–80% of the infant mortality rate in developing countries. Infant mortality due to low birth weight is usually a direct cause stemming from other medical complications such as preterm birth, poor maternal nutritional status, a lack of prenatal care, maternal sickness during pregnancy, and unhygienic home environments. 
A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. [SEP] Deficiency of vitamin B12 can impair the remethylation of homocysteine in the methionine cycle, and result in raised homocysteine levels. There is much evidence linking elevated homocysteine concentrations with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, and homocysteine lowering treatments have led to improvements in cardiovascular reactivity and coagulation factors. In adults with metabolic syndrome, individuals with low levels of vitamin B12 had higher levels of homocysteine compared to healthy subjects. Pathophysiology
Vitamin B12 deficiency causes particular changes to the metabolism of two clinically relevant substances in humans:

Homocysteine (homocysteine to methionine, catalysed by methionine synthase) leading to hyperhomocysteinemia
Methylmalonic acid (methylmalonyl-CoA to succinyl-CoA, of which methylmalonyl-CoA is made from methylmalonic acid in a preceding reaction)Methionine is activated to S-adenosyl methionine, which aids in purine and thymidine synthesis, myelin production, protein/neurotransmitters/fatty acid/phospholipid production and DNA methylation. Because B12 and folate are involved in the metabolism of homocysteine, hyperhomocysteinuria is a non-specific marker of deficiency. This functionality is lost in vitamin B12 deficiency, resulting in an increased homocysteine level and the trapping of folate as 5-methyl-tetrahydrofolate, from which THF (the active form of folate) cannot be recovered. In the body, homocysteine can be recycled into methionine or converted into cysteine with the aid of vitamin B6, B9, and B12.High levels of homocysteine in the blood (hyperhomocysteinemia) is regarded as a marker of cardiovascular disease, likely working through atherogenesis, which can result in ischemic injury. Vitamin B12 deficiency, when coupled with high serum folate levels, has been found to increase overall homocysteine concentrations as well.Typically, hyperhomocysteinemia is managed with vitamin B6, vitamin B9, and vitamin B12 supplementation. 
A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. [SEP] If the cells are small, it is called microcytic anemia; if they are large, it is called macrocytic anemia; and if they are normal sized, it is called normocytic anemia. Anemia of kidney failure due to insufficient production of the hormone erythropoietin
Anemia of endocrine disease
Disturbance of proliferation and maturation of erythroblasts
Pernicious anemia is a form of megaloblastic anemia due to vitamin B12 deficiency dependent on impaired absorption of vitamin B12. Lack of dietary B12 causes non-pernicious megaloblastic anemia. Anemia of folate deficiency, as with vitamin B12, causes megaloblastic anemia
Anemia of prematurity, by diminished erythropoietin response to declining hematocrit levels, combined with blood loss from laboratory testing, generally occurs in premature infants at two to six weeks of age. If the cells are smaller than normal (under 80 fl), the anemia is said to be microcytic; if they are normal size (80–100 fl), normocytic; and if they are larger than normal (over 100 fl), the anemia is classified as macrocytic. This scheme quickly exposes some of the most common causes of anemia; for instance, a microcytic anemia is often the result of iron deficiency. Microcytic
Microcytic anemia is primarily a result of hemoglobin synthesis failure/insufficiency, which could be caused by several etiologies:

Iron deficiency anemia is the most common type of anemia overall and it has many causes. Hyperanemia
Hyperanemia is a severe form of anemia, in which the hematocrit is below 10%. 
A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. [SEP] As of 2020, 178 cases of vCJD have been recorded in the United Kingdom, due to a 1990s outbreak, and 50 cases in the rest of the world. A blood test for vCJD infection is possible but is not yet available for screening blood donations. Mechanism
Despite the consumption of contaminated beef in the UK being high, vCJD has infected a small number of people. Epidemiology
The Lancet in 2006 suggested that it may take more than 50 years for vCJD to develop, from their studies of kuru, a similar disease in Papua New Guinea. In 2008, UK scientists expressed concern over the possibility of a second wave of human cases due to the wide exposure and long incubation of some cases of vCJD. A memorial plaque for those who have died due to vCJD was installed in central London in approximately 2000. For example, as of 1984 it was estimated that in the United States, 200,000 people were asymptomatic carriers of Salmonella. "It is estimated that 1% of all newborns are infected with CMV, but the majority of infections are asymptomatic." 
ADAR1 binds to Dicer to cleave pre-miRNA. [SEP] It is initiated by the enzyme Dicer, which cleaves long double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) molecules into short double-stranded fragments of approximately 21 to 23 nucleotide siRNAs. The dsRNA portion of this pre-miRNA is bound and cleaved by Dicer to produce the mature miRNA molecule that can be integrated into the RISC complex; thus, miRNA and siRNA share the same downstream cellular machinery. Instead of being cleaved by two different enzymes, once inside and once outside the nucleus, both cleavages of the plant miRNA are performed by a Dicer homolog, called Dicer-like1 (DL1). Dicer processing of the pre-miRNA is thought to be coupled with unwinding of the duplex. ADAR enzymes can act on microRNA and affect its biogenesis, stability and/or its binding target. Being part of the RNase III family, Dicer cleaves double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) and pre-microRNA (pre-miRNA) into short double-stranded RNA fragments called small interfering RNA and microRNA, respectively. Cancer
Altered miRNA expression profiles in malignant cancers suggest a pivotal role of miRNA and thus dicer in cancer development and prognosis. In insects
In Drosophila, Dicer-1 generates microRNAs (miRNAs) by processing pre-miRNA, Dicer-2 is responsible for producing small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) from long double-stranded RNA (dsRNA). 
AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. [SEP] They are abundant in tissues of the skin, lung, liver, and gut. LTi cells induce the expression of AIRE, the autoimmune regulatory gene, by allowing development of embryonic thymic epithelial cells. Basophils and mast cells are also present in these skin lesions, producing IL-4, and PGD2, further activating ILC2s. mTECs must be Autoimmune regulator positive (AIRE+) to properly express self-antigens from all tissues of the body on their MHC class I peptides. infected or cancerous) cells in the body. Self-antigens are present due to endogenous expression, importation of antigen from peripheral sites via circulating blood, and in the case of thymic stromal cells, expression of proteins of other non-thymic tissues by the action of the transcription factor AIRE.Those lymphocytes that have receptors that bind strongly to self-antigens are removed by induction of apoptosis of the autoreactive cells, or by induction of anergy, a state of non-activity. The displaying of XCL1 by mTECs, tDC chemotaxis, and nT reg cell production are all decreased in mice that lack Aire, demonstrating it as an important regulator of XCL1 production.Naive CD8+ T cells are prepared when tumors form by cross-presentation via XCR1+ DCs and as a result will require a lower threshold to respond to antigen. Cancer
In a study using non-small cell lung cancers (NSCLC), c-jun was found to be overexpressed in 31% of the cases in primary and metastatic lung tumors, whereas normal conducting airway and alveolar epithelia in general did not express c-jun.A study with a group consisted of 103 cases of phase I/II invasive breast cancers showed that activated c-jun is expressed predominantly at the invasive front of breast cancer and is associated with proliferation and angiogenesis. 
ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. [SEP] Leptin receptor (LEPR) is a type I cytokine receptor for the fat associate hormone leptin, which plays an important role in promoting malignant progression.ALDH is a ubiquitous aldehyde dehydrogenase family of enzymes, which catalyzes the oxidation of aromatic aldehydes to carboxyl acids. Breast CSCs have been enriched in CD44+CD24−/low, SP and ALDH+ subpopulations. CSC marker expression in breast cancer cells is apparently heterogeneous and breast CSC populations vary across tumors. This 2022 study also identified a novel relation between ALDH1A1 and senescence. BMI-1
The Polycomb group transcriptional repressor Bmi-1 was discovered as a common oncogene activated in lymphoma and later shown to regulate HSCs. Components of this pathway have been proposed to act as oncogenes in mammary and other tumors. DMAPT, a water-soluble derivative of parthenolide, induces oxidative stress and inhibits NF-κB signaling for AML (leukemia) and possibly myeloma and prostate cancer. Similar to prior analyses, it found an apparent benefit for older women in reducing the risks of death from ischemic heart disease and from diabetes mellitus, but unlike prior studies it found those risks cancelled by an apparent increased risk of death from breast cancer and other causes. 
ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. [SEP] The variants with strongest effect are in genes that encode the main enzymes of alcohol metabolism, ADH1B and ALDH2. The alcohol dehydrogenase allele ADH1B*2 causes a more rapid metabolism of alcohol to acetaldehyde, and reduces risk for alcoholism; it is most common in individuals from East Asia and the Middle East. The aldehyde dehydrogenase allele ALDH2*2 greatly reduces the rate at which acetaldehyde, the initial product of alcohol metabolism, is removed by conversion to acetate; it greatly reduces the risk for alcoholism.A genome-wide association study (GWAS) of more than 100,000 human individuals identified variants of the gene KLB, which encodes the transmembrane protein β-Klotho, as highly associated with alcohol consumption. Relationship to cancer
Human Hsp60, the product of the HSPD1 gene, is a Group I mitochondrial chaperonin, phylogenetically related to bacterial GroEL. There is some inconsistency in that some research shows a positive expression while other research shows a negative expression, and it seems to depend on the type of cancer. Positive expression seems to inhibit “apoptotic and necrotic cell death” while negative expression is thought to play a part “in activation of apoptosis”.As well as influencing apoptosis, HSP60 changes in expression level have been shown to be “useful new biomarkers for diagnostic and prognostic purposes.”   According to Lebret et al., a loss of HSP60 expression “indicates a poor prognosis and the risk of developing tumor infiltration” specifically with bladder carcinomas, but that does not necessarily hold true for other types of cancers. For example, ovarian tumors research has shown that  over expression is correlated with a better prognosis while a decreased expression is correlated with an aggressive tumor. All this research indicates that it may be possible for HSP60 expression to be used in predicting survival for certain types of cancer and therefore may be able to identify patients who could benefit from certain treatments. 
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. [SEP] 5' AMP-activated protein kinase or AMPK or 5' adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase is an enzyme (EC 2.7.11.31) that plays a role in cellular energy homeostasis, largely to activate glucose and fatty acid uptake and oxidation when cellular energy is low. AMPK also appears to stimulate mitochondrial biogenesis by regulating PGC-1α which in turn promotes gene transcription in mitochondria. AMPK also activates anti-oxidant defenses. Additionally, recent discoveries can conceivably suggest a direct AMPK role in increasing blood supply to exercised/trained muscle cells by stimulating and stabilizing both vasculogenesis and angiogenesis. AMPK may refer to:

AMP-activated protein kinase, an enzyme
(acetyl-CoA carboxylase) kinase, an enzyme 5' AMP-activated protein kinase or AMPK or 5' adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase is an enzyme (EC 2.7.11.31) that plays a role in cellular energy homeostasis, largely to activate glucose and fatty acid uptake and oxidation when cellular energy is low. AMPK also appears to stimulate mitochondrial biogenesis by regulating PGC-1α which in turn promotes gene transcription in mitochondria. AMPK also activates anti-oxidant defenses. 
APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. [SEP] In the central nervous system, Apo-E is mainly produced by astrocytes and transports cholesterol to neurons via APOE receptors, which are members of the low density lipoprotein receptor gene family. Apo-E is the principal cholesterol carrier in the brain. Apo-E is required for cholesterol transportation from astrocytes to neurons. In the nervous system, non-neuronal cell types, most notably astroglia and microglia, are the primary producers of APOE, while neurons preferentially express the receptors for APOE. The role that the E4 variant carries can still be fully explained even in the absence of a valid amyloid hypothesis given the fact that reelin signaling emerges to be one of the key processes involved in Alzheimer's disease and the E4 variant is shown to interact with ApoER2, one of the neuronal reelin receptors, thereby obstructing reelin signaling.Although 40–65% of AD patients have at least one copy of the ε4 allele, APOE4 is not a determinant of the disease. Thus, the genotype most at risk for Alzheimer's disease and at an earlier age is APOE4,4. Using genotype APOE3,3 as a benchmark (with the persons who have this genotype regarded as having a risk level of 1.0) and for white populations only, individuals with genotype APOE4,4 have an odds ratio of 14.9 of developing Alzheimer's disease. While ApoE4 has been found to greatly increase the odds that an individual will develop Alzheimer's, a 2002 study concluded, that in persons with any combination of APOE alleles, high serum total cholesterol and high blood pressure in mid-life are independent risk factors which together can nearly triple the risk that the individual will later develop AD. 
APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. [SEP] In the central nervous system, Apo-E is mainly produced by astrocytes and transports cholesterol to neurons via APOE receptors, which are members of the low density lipoprotein receptor gene family. Apo-E is the principal cholesterol carrier in the brain. Apo-E is required for cholesterol transportation from astrocytes to neurons. Indeed, the apolipoprotein ε4 isoform is more protective against cognitive decline than other isoforms in some cases, so caution is advised before making determinant statements about the influence of APOE polymorphisms on cognition, development of Alzheimer's disease, cardiovascular disease, telomere shortening, etc. In the nervous system, non-neuronal cell types, most notably astroglia and microglia, are the primary producers of APOE, while neurons preferentially express the receptors for APOE. The role that the E4 variant carries can still be fully explained even in the absence of a valid amyloid hypothesis given the fact that reelin signaling emerges to be one of the key processes involved in Alzheimer's disease and the E4 variant is shown to interact with ApoER2, one of the neuronal reelin receptors, thereby obstructing reelin signaling.Although 40–65% of AD patients have at least one copy of the ε4 allele, APOE4 is not a determinant of the disease. Thus, the genotype most at risk for Alzheimer's disease and at an earlier age is APOE4,4. Using genotype APOE3,3 as a benchmark (with the persons who have this genotype regarded as having a risk level of 1.0) and for white populations only, individuals with genotype APOE4,4 have an odds ratio of 14.9 of developing Alzheimer's disease. 
Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. [SEP] Protein phosphatase 1D is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the PPM1D gene.The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the PP2C family of Ser/Thr protein phosphatases. PP2C family members are known to be negative regulators of cell stress response pathways. The expression of this gene is induced in a p53-dependent manner in response to various environmental stresses. While being induced by tumor suppressor protein TP53/p53, this phosphatase negatively regulates the activity of p38 MAP kinase (MAPK/p38) through which it reduces the phosphorylation of p53, and in turn suppresses p53-mediated transcription and apoptosis. This phosphatase thus mediates a feedback regulation of p38-p53 signaling that contributes to growth inhibition and the suppression of stress induced apoptosis. Interactions
PPM1D has been shown to interact with CDC5L. Known CDK inhibitors are p21Cip1 (CDKN1A) and p27Kip1 (CDKN1B).Drugs that inhibit Cdk2 and arrest the cell cycle, such as GW8510 and the experimental cancer drug seliciclib, may reduce the sensitivity of the epithelium to many cell cycle-active antitumor agents and, therefore, represent a strategy for prevention of chemotherapy-induced alopecia.Rosmarinic acid methyl ester is a plant-derived Cdk2 inhibitor, which was shown to suppress proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells and to reduce neointima formation in mouse restenosis model.See also the PDB gallery below showing interactions with many inhibitors (inc Purvalanol B)

Gene regulation
In melanocytic cell types, expression of the CDK2 gene is regulated by the Microphthalmia-associated transcription factor. For example, CDK6 plays a role in the accumulation of the apoptosis proteins p53 and p130, this accumulation keeps cells from entering cell division if there is DNA damage, activating pro- apoptotic pathways. 
Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. [SEP] Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) also known as endothelial plasminogen activator inhibitor or serpin E1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the SERPINE1 gene. PAI-1, however, is the main inhibitor of the plasminogen activators. Pharmacology
Tiplaxtinin (PAI-039) is a small molecule inhibitor that is being studied for use in the attenuation of remodeling of blood vessels, a result of arterial hypertension and activation of the renin–angiotensin system. Interactions
Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 has been shown to interact with ORM1. References
Further reading
External links
The MEROPS online database for peptidases and their inhibitors: I04.020
Plasminogen+Activator+Inhibitor+1 at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)
Overview of all the structural information available in the PDB for UniProt: P05121 (Plasminogen activator inhibitor 1) at the PDBe-KB. The granules include ADP, serotonin, platelet-activating factor (PAF), vWF, platelet factor 4, and thromboxane A2 (TXA2), which, in turn, activate additional platelets. The main enzyme responsible for this process (plasmin) is regulated by various activators and inhibitors. Anti-platelet agents include aspirin, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, clopidogrel, ticagrelor and prasugrel; the parenteral glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors are used during angioplasty. 
Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. [SEP] Genes involved in virulence and pathogenesis
Study of the H. pylori genome is centered on attempts to understand pathogenesis, the ability of this organism to cause disease. The serine protease HtrA also plays a major role in the pathogenesis of H. pylori. Proteome
The proteins of H. pylori have been systematically analyzed by multiple studies. Furthermore, the interactome of H. pylori has been systematically studied and more than 3000 protein-protein interactions have been identified. Adaptation of H. pylori to high acidity of stomach
As mentioned above, H. pylori produce large amounts of urease to produce ammonia as one of its adaptation methods to overcome stomach acidity. Helicobacter pylori arginase, a bimetallic enzyme binuclear Mn2-metalloenzyme arginase, crucial for pathogenesis of the bacterium in human stomach, a member of the ureohydrolase family, catalyzes the conversion of L-arginine to L-ornithine and urea, where ornithine is further converted into polyamines, which are essential for various critical metabolic processes.This provides acid resistance and is thus important for colonization of the bacterium in the gastric epithelial cells. It is not known for sure which non-invasive test is more accurate for diagnosing a H. pylori infection but indirect comparison puts urea breath test as a higher accuracy than others. These strong hydrogen bonds, for example, result in the high tensile strength and melting point of polymers containing urethane or urea linkages. 
Albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. [SEP] In sub-Saharan Africa, albendazole is used along with ivermectin to treat the disease, whereas elsewhere in the world, albendazole is used with diethylcarbamazine.Wolbachia are endosymbiotic bacteria that live inside the gut of the parasites responsible for lymphatic filariasis, and provide nutrients necessary for their survival. Albendazole is a broad-spectrum anthelmintic and antiprotozoal agent of the benzimidazole type. Medical uses
Albendazole is an effective treatment for:

Flatworms
Fasciolosis
Cestodes (tapeworms), as an alternative to praziquantel or niclosamide for adult beef tapewormss and as an alternative to praziquantel for pork tapeworms. albendazole is the drug of choice for larval pork tapeworms, but not adult pork tapeworms). In cases of lymphatic filariasis (elephantiasis) caused by Wuchereria bancrofti or Brugia malayi, albendazole is sometimes given as an adjunct to ivermectin or diethylcarbamazine in order to suppress microfilaremia. Albendazole can be given with diethylcarbamazine to lower microfilaremia levels. Veterinary use
Albendazole is mainly used in cattle and sheep, but has found some use in cats and dogs as well; it is also used in ratite birds for flagellate parasites and tapeworms. References
External links
"Albendazole". 
Alizarin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. [SEP] Alizarin (also known as 1,2-dihydroxyanthraquinone, Mordant Red 11, C.I. A notable use of alizarin in modern times is as a staining agent in biological research because it stains free calcium and certain calcium compounds a red or light purple color. The Bayer AG company draws its roots from alizarin as well. Structure and properties
Alizarin is one of ten dihydroxyanthraquinone isomers. It is soluble in hexane and chloroform, and can be obtained from the latter as red-purple crystals, melting point 277–278 °C.Alizarin changes color depending on the pH of the solution it is in, thereby making it a pH indicator. Hydrogen bonds in polymers
Hydrogen bonding plays an important role in determining the three-dimensional structures and the properties adopted by many proteins. Hydrogen bonds also play a part in forming the tertiary structure of protein through interaction of R-groups. Interactions
PGAM2 is known to interact with:

SIRT2. 
All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. [SEP] These cells may also occur in the bone marrow. In particular, the chromosomal 22 deletion is very common in AT/RTs. However, chromosomal 22 deletions are very common in AT/RTs. 1880–1890: Walther Flemming, Eduard Strasburger, and Edouard Van Beneden elucidate chromosome distribution during cell division. He determined that the white-eyed mutant was sex-linked based on Mendelian's principles of segregation and independent assortment. The pair was doing research on viral infections in mice and noticed that T-cells that prevented viral infections in some mice wouldn't always prevent the same infection in other mice. The variability stems from genetics. This means there are much higher frequencies of certain haplotypes relative to the expectation based on random sorting of gene-alleles. 
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. [SEP] Because renal failure can be correlated to hypertension, both of these situations have been observed. Acute Renal Failure caused by the treatment of hypertension
In patients with hypertension, treatment of the disease using Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) are sometimes necessary. This then leads to a decrease in GFR and leads to acute renal failure. Studies have shown that 6-38% of patients with renal vascular disease or hypertension will develop acute renal ischemia through acute renal failure. Patients who have renovascular hypertension often get a deterioration of the renal function.Likewise above, patients who are being treated with an antihypertensive drug for renovascular, refractory or severe hypertension exhibit progressive azotemia. Acute kidney ischemia is associated with high mortality. Complications affecting the kidneys
Hypertension is a risk factor for chronic kidney disease and end-stage kidney disease (ESKD). These are also risk factors for kidney disease progression and for cardiovascular disease. 
Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. [SEP] Anthrax is spread by contact with the bacterium's spores, which often appear in infectious animal products. Most anthrax bacteria inside the body after death are outcompeted and destroyed by anaerobic bacteria within minutes to hours post mortem. However, anthrax vegetative bacteria that escape the body via oozing blood or through the opening of the carcass may form hardy spores. Exposure
The spores of anthrax are able to survive in harsh conditions for decades or even centuries. Society and culture
Site cleanup
Anthrax spores can survive for very long periods of time in the environment after release. All of the aforementioned anthrax decontamination technologies have been demonstrated to be effective in laboratory tests conducted by the US EPA or others.Decontamination techniques for Bacillus anthracis spores are affected by the material with which the spores are associated, environmental factors such as temperature and humidity, and microbiological factors such as the spore species, anthracis strain, and test methods used.A bleach solution for treating hard surfaces has been approved by the EPA. Biological warfare
Anthrax spores have been used as a biological warfare weapon. To make large amounts of an aerosol form of anthrax suitable for biological warfare requires extensive practical knowledge, training, and highly advanced equipment.Concentrated anthrax spores were used for bioterrorism in the 2001 anthrax attacks in the United States, delivered by mailing postal letters containing the spores. 
Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile [SEP] Disruption of the gut flora allows competing organisms like Clostridium difficile to become established that otherwise are kept in abeyance. Negative effects from this have led to interest in selective digestive tract decontamination, a treatment to kill only pathogenic bacteria and allow the re-establishment of healthy ones.Antibiotics alter the population of the microbiota in the gastrointestinal tract, and this may change the intra-community metabolic interactions, modify caloric intake by using carbohydrates, and globally affects host metabolic, hormonal and immune homeostasis.There is reasonable evidence that taking probiotics containing Lactobacillus species may help prevent antibiotic-associated diarrhea and that taking probiotics with Saccharomyces (e.g., Saccharomyces boulardii ) may help to prevent Clostridium difficile infection following systemic antibiotic treatment. These findings provide evidence that antibiotics perturb not only the composition of the GI microbiome but also its metabolic capabilities, specifically with respect to SCFAs. Clostridioides difficile infection
An overwhelming presence of the bacteria, C. difficile, leads to an infection of the gastrointestinal tract, normally associated to dysbiosis with the microbiota believed to have been caused by the administration of antibiotics. In infants it was observed that amoxicillin and macrolides cause significant shifts in the gut microbiota characterized by a change in the bacterial classes Bifidobacteria, Enterobacteria and Clostridia. Antibiotics, for example, are often a significant contributor to disruptions in microbiomes. The gut microbiome is altered from antibiotics and is linked to future gut disease, i.e., IBD, ulcerative colitis, obesity, etc. Clostridioides difficile
C. difficile is an opportunistic bacteria that commonly infects patients following a disruption in the microbiome, such as treatment with antibiotics. 
Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. [SEP] The NA-ACCORD study observed patients who started antiretroviral therapy either at a CD4 count of less than 500 versus less than 350 and showed that patients who started ART at lower CD4 counts had a 69% increase in the risk of death. With treatment, there is a 70% reduced risk of acquiring tuberculosis. In addition to improving current disease, treatment with antiretrovirals reduces the risk of developing additional opportunistic infections.Adults and adolescents who are living with HIV (even on anti-retroviral therapy) with no evidence of active tuberculosis in settings with high tuberculosis burden should receive isoniazid preventive therapy (IPT); the tuberculin skin test can be used to help decide if IPT is needed. Children with HIV may benefit from screening for tuberculosis. The goal of tuberculosis elimination is hampered by the lack of rapid testing, of short and effective treatment courses, and of completely effective vaccines.The benefits and risks of giving anti-tubercular drugs in those exposed to MDR-TB is unclear. Making HAART therapy available to HIV-positive individuals significantly reduces the risk of progression to an active TB infection by up to 90% and can mitigate the spread through this population. Treatment with anti-TB drugs for at least 6 months results in higher success rates when compared with treatment less than 6 months, even though the difference is small. However, in countries where incidence rates have declined dramatically (such as the United States), tuberculosis is mainly a disease of the elderly and immunocompromised (risk factors are listed above). 
Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. [SEP] lysine acetylation, lysine and arginine methylation, serine and threonine phosphorylation, and lysine ubiquitination and sumoylation) play central roles in many types of epigenetic inheritance. Indeed, a bromodomain – a protein domain that specifically binds acetyl-lysine – is found in many enzymes that help activate transcription, including the SWI/SNF complex. EGR1 protein binds to DNA at its binding motifs, 5′-GCGTGGGCG-3′ or 5′-GCGGGGGCGG-3', and there are about 12,000 genome locations at which EGR1 protein can bind. EGR1 protein binds to DNA in gene promoter and enhancer regions. Following dimerization, Arg-13 inserts into the adenine binding pocket and prevents binding of ATP and perhaps also of large substrates. Arg-178 and Lys-224) in the region involved in substrate recognition. Another interaction motif is represented by the sequence Ser-Gln-Ile-Pro, which is present in microtubule plus-end-binding protein 1 (EB1). At a DSB, MRE11-RAD50-NBS1 (MRN) protein complex recruits ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) kinase which phosphorylates Serine 129 of Histone 2A. 
Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. [SEP] Smaller veins are called venules. The thin walls of the veins, and their greater internal diameters (lumens) enable them to hold a greater volume of blood, and this greater capacitance gives them the term of capacitance vessels. Post-capillary venules become muscular venules when they reach a diameter of 50 μm, and can reach a diameter of 1 mm. These larger venules feed into small veins. Veins have thinner walls than arteries, and a wider diameter that allow them to expand and hold a greater volume of blood. This provides tighter control over the blood flow through the glomerulus, since arterioles dilate and constrict more readily than venules, owing to their thick circular smooth muscle layer (tunica media). The arterioles supply capillaries, which in turn empty into venules. In the arterioles blood pressure is lower than in the major arteries. 
Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. [SEP] Open access (OA) is a set of principles and a range of practices through which research outputs are distributed online, free of access charges or other barriers. Open access can be applied to all forms of published research output, including peer-reviewed and non peer-reviewed academic journal articles, conference papers, theses, book chapters, monographs, research reports and images.Since the revenue of most open access journals is earned from publication fees charged to the authors, OA publishers are motivated to increase their profits by accepting low-quality papers and by not performing thorough peer review. More rarely, some of the smaller academic journals use custom open access licenses. Open access helps researchers as readers by opening up access to articles that their libraries do not subscribe to. Open access articles are typically cited more often than equivalent articles requiring subscriptions. There are various open access aggregators that list open access journals or articles. Open access journals and peer review
Some critics of open access (OA) journals have argued that, compared to traditional subscription journals, open access journals might utilize substandard or less formal peer review practices, and, as a consequence, the quality of scientific work in such journals will suffer. In a study published in 2012, this hypothesis was tested by evaluating the relative "impact" (using citation counts) of articles published in open access and subscription journals, on the grounds that members of the scientific community would presumably be less likely to cite substandard work, and that citation counts could therefore act as one indicator of whether or not the journal format indeed impacted peer review and the quality of published scholarship. 
Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. [SEP] Open access can be applied to all forms of published research output, including peer-reviewed and non peer-reviewed academic journal articles, conference papers, theses, book chapters, monographs, research reports and images.Since the revenue of most open access journals is earned from publication fees charged to the authors, OA publishers are motivated to increase their profits by accepting low-quality papers and by not performing thorough peer review. Open access helps researchers as readers by opening up access to articles that their libraries do not subscribe to. Open access articles are typically cited more often than equivalent articles requiring subscriptions. There are various open access aggregators that list open access journals or articles. Open access (OA) publishing can be a tool to help female researchers increase their publications' visibility, measure impact, and help close the gendered citation gap. "Ten-Year Cross-Disciplinary Comparison of the Growth of Open Access and How It Increases Research Citation Impact". The impact of the work available as Open Access is maximised because, quoting the Library of Trinity College Dublin:
Potential readership of Open Access material is far greater than that for publications where the full-text is restricted to subscribers. In a study published in 2012, this hypothesis was tested by evaluating the relative "impact" (using citation counts) of articles published in open access and subscription journals, on the grounds that members of the scientific community would presumably be less likely to cite substandard work, and that citation counts could therefore act as one indicator of whether or not the journal format indeed impacted peer review and the quality of published scholarship. 
Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. [SEP] Aspirin works similarly to other NSAIDs but also suppresses the normal functioning of platelets.One common adverse effect is an upset stomach. Prostaglandins and thromboxanes
Aspirin's ability to suppress the production of prostaglandins and thromboxanes is due to its irreversible inactivation of the cyclooxygenase (COX; officially known as prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase, PTGS) enzyme required for prostaglandin and thromboxane synthesis. 40 mg of aspirin a day is able to inhibit a large proportion of maximum thromboxane A2 release provoked acutely, with the prostaglandin I2 synthesis being little affected; however, higher doses of aspirin are required to attain further inhibition.Prostaglandins, local hormones produced in the body, have diverse effects, including the transmission of pain information to the brain, modulation of the hypothalamic thermostat, and inflammation. Aspirin irreversibly inhibits COX-1 and modifies the enzymatic activity of COX-2. The use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) blocks the activity of COX-2, resulting in a decrease of PGE2 production. Aspirin inhibits platelet aggregation by inhibiting the action of thromboxane A2. Low-dose aspirin protects against heart attacks and strokes by blocking PTGS1 (COX-1) from forming a prostaglandin called thromboxane A2. In 1971, it was determined that aspirin-like drugs could inhibit the synthesis of prostaglandins. 
Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. [SEP] Invadopodia also penetrate deep into the ECM, while podosomes generally extend upward into the cytoplasm and do not cause as much ECM degradation.Invadopodia formation is a complex process that involves multiple signaling pathways and can be described as having three steps: initiation, stabilization, and maturation. Initiation of invadopodia involves the formation of buds in the plasma membrane and is initiated by growth factors like epidermal growth factor (EGF), transforming growth factor beta (TGFB) or platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), which act through phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) to activate Src family kinases. These kinases have key roles in the formation of invadopodia and when activated, phosphorylate multiple proteins involved in invadopodia formation including Tks5, synaptjanin-2, and the Abl-family kinase Arg4. The phosphorylation of these proteins leads to the recruitment of the Neural Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (N-Wasp) to invadopodia, which requires Arp2/3, to activate actin polymerization and thus invadopodia elongation. A key step during invadopodia formation is the stabilization of invadopodia, which involves the interaction of PX domain of Tks5 (a scaffold protein) with phospholipid, PI(3,4)P2 to anchor the invadopodia core to the plasma membrane. Maturation of invadopodia requires sustained actin polymerization and there are several regulators of actin polymerization involved in this step, including cofilin, fascin, Arg kinase, and mDia2. Therapeutic relevance
Due to the invasive nature of invadopodia in cancer cells, research has focused on targeting invadopodia as a potential therapeutic target to inhibit metastasis. Screening for drug activators and inhibitors of invadopodia revealed that Cdc5 can be a target for inhibiting invadopodia formation and also that, paradoxically, paclitaxel, a drug commonly used to treat cancer, induces invadopodia formation. 
Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. [SEP] There is no cure or treatment that restores the vision already lost. Diagnosis
Diagnosis of age-related macular degeneration depends on signs in the macula, not necessarily vision. The incidence of age-related macular degeneration and its associated features increases with age and is low in people <55 years of age. In the UK, age-related macular degeneration is the cause of blindness in almost 42% of those who go blind aged 65–74 years, almost two-thirds of those aged 75–84 years, and almost three-quarters of those aged 85 years or older. Screening
In those without symptoms who are not pregnant there is little evidence for or against screening. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends against screening for carotid artery stenosis in those without symptoms. Interventions for age-related visual problems in patients with stroke
With the prevalence of vision problems increasing with age in stroke patients, the overall effect of interventions for age-related visual problems is currently uncertain. For this reason, and because no research provides supporting evidence that intensive surveillance gives better outcomes, and because of risks associated with having CT scans, patients should not receive CT screening in excess of those recommended by established guidelines. 
Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. [SEP] Other studies have shown that early musical training may positively affect word reading, by  promoting the specialization of an extra right-sided "note visual area" to process spatially relevant visual information (i.e., pentagram,  bars, etc.) Psychoacoustics
Psychoacoustics is the scientific study of sound perception. A Science of Listening (2nd edition)." Music Cognition. Cognitive Foundations of Musical Pitch. Harmony: A Psychoacoustical Approach. The Cognition of Basic Musical Structures. Sensory augmentation aims for the perception of a new sense via already existing perceptual channels. 
Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. [SEP] Autologous transplants have the advantage of lower risk of infection during the immune-compromised portion of the treatment, since the recovery of immune function is rapid. : 320–321  Instead, nonmyeloablative transplants run lower risks of serious infections and transplant-related mortality while relying upon the graft versus tumor effect to resist the inherent increased risk of cancer relapse. The immunosuppressive agents employed in allogeneic transplants for the prevention or treatment of graft-versus-host disease further increase the risk of opportunistic infection. A transplant offers a chance for cure or long-term remission if the inherent complications of graft versus host disease, immunosuppressive treatments and the spectrum of opportunistic infections can be survived. Clinical significance
Mesenchymal stem cells can be activated and mobilized. Autoimmune disease
Clinical studies investigating the efficacy of mesenchymal stem cells in treating diseases are in clinical development around the world, particularly treating autoimmune diseases, graft versus host disease, Crohn's disease, multiple sclerosis, systemic lupus erythematosus and systemic sclerosis. Prior to the use of platelet lysates for MSC culture, the pathogen inactivation process is recommended to prevent pathogen transmission.New research titled Transplantation of human ESC-derived mesenchymal stem cell spheroids ameliorates spontaneous osteoarthritis in rhesus macaques Various chemicals and methods including low level laser irradiation have been used to increase proliferation of stem cell. While it is thought that bone-marrow-derived stem cells are preferred for bone, cartilage, ligament, and tendon repair, others believe that the less challenging collection techniques and the multi-cellular microenvironment already present in adipose-derived stem cell fractions make the latter the preferred source for autologous transplantation.New sources of mesenchymal stem cells are being researched, including stem cells present in the skin and dermis which are of interest because of the ease at which they can be harvested with minimal risk to the animal. 
Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. [SEP] Autologous transplants have the advantage of lower risk of infection during the immune-compromised portion of the treatment, since the recovery of immune function is rapid. In general, by transfusing healthy stem cells to the recipient's bloodstream to reform a healthy immune system, allogeneic HSCTs appear to improve chances for cure or long-term remission once the immediate transplant-related complications are resolved.A compatible donor is found by doing additional HLA testing from the blood of potential donors. : 320–321  Instead, nonmyeloablative transplants run lower risks of serious infections and transplant-related mortality while relying upon the graft versus tumor effect to resist the inherent increased risk of cancer relapse. A transplant offers a chance for cure or long-term remission if the inherent complications of graft versus host disease, immunosuppressive treatments and the spectrum of opportunistic infections can be survived. Clinical significance
Mesenchymal stem cells can be activated and mobilized. Autoimmune disease
Clinical studies investigating the efficacy of mesenchymal stem cells in treating diseases are in clinical development around the world, particularly treating autoimmune diseases, graft versus host disease, Crohn's disease, multiple sclerosis, systemic lupus erythematosus and systemic sclerosis. Prior to the use of platelet lysates for MSC culture, the pathogen inactivation process is recommended to prevent pathogen transmission.New research titled Transplantation of human ESC-derived mesenchymal stem cell spheroids ameliorates spontaneous osteoarthritis in rhesus macaques Various chemicals and methods including low level laser irradiation have been used to increase proliferation of stem cell. While it is thought that bone-marrow-derived stem cells are preferred for bone, cartilage, ligament, and tendon repair, others believe that the less challenging collection techniques and the multi-cellular microenvironment already present in adipose-derived stem cell fractions make the latter the preferred source for autologous transplantation.New sources of mesenchymal stem cells are being researched, including stem cells present in the skin and dermis which are of interest because of the ease at which they can be harvested with minimal risk to the animal. 
Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. [SEP] Autologous stem-cell transplantation (also called autogenous, autogeneic, or autogenic stem-cell transplantation and abbreviated auto-SCT) is autologous transplantation of stem cells—that is, transplantation in which stem cells (undifferentiated cells from which other cell types develop) are removed from a person, stored, and later given back to that same person.Although it is most frequently performed with hematopoietic stem cells (precursors of blood-forming cells) in hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, cardiac cells have also been used successfully to repair damage caused by heart attacks.Autologous stem-cell transplantation is distinguished from allogenic stem cell transplantation where the donor and the recipient of the stem cells are different people. Autologous transplants have the advantage of lower risk of infection during the immune-compromised portion of the treatment, since the recovery of immune function is rapid. Clinical significance
Mesenchymal stem cells can be activated and mobilized. Autoimmune disease
Clinical studies investigating the efficacy of mesenchymal stem cells in treating diseases are in clinical development around the world, particularly treating autoimmune diseases, graft versus host disease, Crohn's disease, multiple sclerosis, systemic lupus erythematosus and systemic sclerosis. Mesenchymal stem cells, but not red blood cells or hematopoietic progenitors, are adherent to tissue culture plastic within 24 to 48 hours. Retrieved 25 June 2012. scientist-reviewed and not too technical
"Mesenchymal Stem Cell Research". Preliminary studies related to multiple sclerosis have been conducted, and a 2020 phase 2 trial found significantly improved outcomes for mesenchymal stem cell treated patients compared to those receiving a sham treatment. While it is thought that bone-marrow-derived stem cells are preferred for bone, cartilage, ligament, and tendon repair, others believe that the less challenging collection techniques and the multi-cellular microenvironment already present in adipose-derived stem cell fractions make the latter the preferred source for autologous transplantation.New sources of mesenchymal stem cells are being researched, including stem cells present in the skin and dermis which are of interest because of the ease at which they can be harvested with minimal risk to the animal. 
Autophagy declines in aged organisms. [SEP] Autophagy induction can enhance clearance of toxic intracellular waste associated with neurodegenerative diseases and has been comprehensively demonstrated to improve lifespan in yeast, worms, flies, rodents and primates. The situation, however, has been complicated by the identification that autophagy up-regulation can also occur during ageing. Decline of autophagy causes neurodegeneration, protein aggregation and premature aging. "Autophagy fights disease through cellular self-digestion". "Chaperone-mediated autophagy: roles in disease and aging". "Chaperone-mediated autophagy at a glance". Methods to monitor chaperone-mediated autophagy. Because autophagy appears to decline with age, activation of autophagy may help promote longevity in humans. 
Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. [SEP] bariatric surgery such as gastric bypass), to improve appearance (cosmetic surgery), or to remove/replace unwanted tissues (body fat, glands, scars or skin tags) or foreign bodies. modifying the digestive tract in bariatric surgery for weight loss. Obesity has long been considered a risk factor for adverse post-surgical outcomes. Morbidity
Obesity increases the risk of many physical and mental conditions. Surgery
The most effective treatment for obesity is bariatric surgery. Surgery for severe obesity is associated with long-term weight loss, improvement in obesity-related conditions, and decreased overall mortality; however, improved metabolic health results from the weight loss, not the surgery. Some people with bipolar disorder who have obesity may also be eligible for bariatric surgery. A meta-analysis concluded that psychotherapy based on CBT not only significantly improved binge-eating symptomatology but also reduced a client's BMI significantly at posttreatment and longer than 6 and 12 months after treatment. 
Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). [SEP] Basophils are a type of white blood cell. Function
Basophils appear in many specific kinds of inflammatory reactions, particularly those that cause allergic symptoms. Like eosinophils, basophils play a role in both parasitic infections and allergies. Recent studies in mice suggest that basophils may also regulate the behavior of T cells and mediate the magnitude of the secondary immune response. This suggests that basophils may play a role in the immune response to these viruses. Recent evidence suggests that basophils are an important source of the cytokine, interleukin-4, perhaps more important than T cells. There are other substances that can activate basophils to secrete which suggests that these cells have other roles in inflammation.The degranulation of basophils can be investigated in vitro by using flow cytometry and the so-called basophil-activation-test (BAT). Clinical significance
Immunophenotyping
Basophils of mice and humans have consistent immunophenotypes, including FcεRI+, CD123, CD49b(DX-5)+, CD69+, Thy-1.2+, 2B4+, CD11bdull, CD117(c-kit)−, CD24−, CD19−, CD80−, CD14−, CD23−, Ly49c−, CD122−, CD11c−, Gr-1−, NK1.1−, B220−, CD3−, γδTCR−, αβTCR−, α4 and β4-integrin negative.Recently, Heneberg  proposed that basophils may be defined as the cellular population positive for CD13, CD44, CD54, CD63, CD69, CD107a, CD123, CD164, CD193/ CCR3, CD203c, TLR-4, and FcεRI. 
Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. [SEP] Alcohol
There is strong evidence that alcohol consumption increases risk of breast cancer. Lack of exercise has been linked to breast cancer by the American Institute for Cancer Research.Obesity has been linked to an increased risk of developing breast cancer by many scientific studies. There is evidence to suggest that excess body fat at the time of breast cancer diagnosis is associated with higher rates of cancer recurrence and death. Furthermore, studies have shown that obese women are more likely to have large tumors, greater lymph node involvement, and poorer breast cancer prognosis with 30% higher risk of mortality.Weight gain after diagnosis has also been linked to higher rates of breast cancer recurrence or mortality although this finding is not consistent. It has been suggested that obesity may be a determinant for breast cancer screening by mammography. Drinking alcoholic beverages is among the most common modifiable risk factors.The correlation between obesity and breast cancer is anything but linear. Pregnancy
Pregnancy at an early age decreases the risk of developing breast cancer later in life. "Adult weight change and risk of postmenopausal breast cancer". 
Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. [SEP] Hence, in TDP-43 diseased cells, TDP-43's over-expression leads to the NTD showing high propensity to aggregate. Mutations within the TDP-43 proteins Glycine Rich Region (GRR) have recently been identified as associates that can contribute to various neurodegenerative diseases, with the most notable and common NDD being ALS, about 10% of the mutations causing familial ALS are accredited with the TDP-43 protein This CTD is often reported to play important role in pathogenic behavior of TDP-43:
RNPs granules could have a role in stress response, and thus, aging, or persistence stress could lead the LLPs to turn into irreversible Liquid Solid Phase separation, pathological aggregates notably found in ALS neurons.CTD's disorganized structure can turn into a full fledged Amyloid-like Beta-sheet rich structure causing it to adopt prion-like properties.Moreover, CTFs are a common maker in diseased neurons and are argued to be of high toxicity. Recent work has characterized the transcriptome-wide binding sites revealing that thousands of RNAs are bound by TDP-43 in neurons.TDP-43 was originally identified as a transcriptional repressor that binds to chromosomally integrated trans-activation response element (TAR) DNA and represses HIV-1 transcription. Elevated levels of the TDP-43 protein have also been identified in individuals diagnosed with chronic traumatic encephalopathy, and has also been associated with ALS leading to the inference that  athletes who have experienced multiple concussions and other types of head injury are at an increased risk for both encephalopathy and motor neuron disease (ALS). In particular, the TDP-43 mutants M337V and Q331K are being studied for their roles in ALS. A recent study has demonstrated that cellular stress can trigger the abnormal cytoplasmic mislocalisation of TDP-43 in spinal motor neurons in vivo, providing insight into how TDP-43 pathology may develop in sporadic ALS patients. The deleterious impact(s) of TDP-43 proteinopathy may influence the brain via a number of different mechanisms. In normal brains and other tissues, the TDP-43 protein helps to ensure proper functioning of genes in the cell; the misfolded TDP-43 may thus impair normal gene expression regulation (so in LATE-NC, there is a loss-of-normal-function), and, the aberrant TDP-43 protein in LATE-NC may induce toxic gains of function also.TDP-43 proteinopathy (a disease-associated phenomenon discovered by Dr. Manuela Neumann and colleagues at UPENN in the Drs John Trojanowski/Virginia Lee CNDR Lab) is also implicated in frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and other diseases. 
Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. [SEP] Within these spaces are bone marrow and hematopoietic stem cells that give rise to platelets, red blood cells and white blood cells. Within the marrow of the bone there are also hematopoietic stem cells. Bone marrow produces blood cells in a process called hematopoiesis. Blood cells that are created in bone marrow include red blood cells, platelets and white blood cells. Monocytes
Monocytes develop in the bone marrow and reach maturity in the blood. Macrophages
Mature macrophages do not travel far but stand guard over those areas of the body that are exposed to the outside world. Unlike many other cells, most innate immune leukocytes cannot divide or reproduce on their own, but are the products of multipotent hematopoietic stem cells present in bone marrow.The innate leukocytes include: natural killer cells, mast cells, eosinophils, basophils; and the phagocytic cells include macrophages, neutrophils, and dendritic cells, and function within the immune system by identifying and eliminating pathogens that might cause infection. In tissues, organ-specific macrophages are differentiated from phagocytic cells present in the blood called monocytes. 
Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. [SEP] Harmful mutations in these genes may produce a hereditary breast–ovarian cancer syndrome in affected persons. Only 5–10% of breast cancer cases in women are attributed to BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations (with BRCA1 mutations being slightly more common than BRCA2 mutations), but the impact on women with the gene mutation is more profound. Why BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations lead preferentially to cancers of the breast and ovary is not known, but lack of BRCA1 function seems to lead to non-functional X-chromosome inactivation. Breastfeeding for more than one year significantly protects against breast cancer. For women with a BRCA2 mutation, each pregnancy is paradoxically associated with a statistically significant increase in the risk for breast cancer. Unlike genetically typical women or women with BRCA1 mutations, breastfeeding has no effect on either cancer in women with BRCA2 mutations. Biallelic and homozygous inheritance
Reports of patients biallelic or homozygous for a deleterious BRCA allele conferring a greatly increased risk of breast cancer are rare. The cancer risk caused by BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations are inherited in a dominant fashion even though usually only one mutated allele is directly inherited. 
CCL19 is absent within dLNs. [SEP] Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 19 (CCL19) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CCL19 gene.This gene is one of several CC cytokine genes clustered on the p-arm of chromosome 9. It specifically binds to chemokine receptor CCR7.Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 19 (CCL19) is a small cytokine belonging to the CC chemokine family that is also known as EBI1 ligand chemokine (ELC) and macrophage inflammatory protein-3-beta (MIP-3-beta). CCL19 is expressed abundantly in thymus and lymph nodes, with moderate levels in trachea and colon and low levels in stomach, small intestine, lung, kidney and spleen. The gene for CCL19 is located on human chromosome 9. References
Further reading
External links
Human CCL19 genome location and CCL19 gene details page  in the UCSC Genome Browser. Interactions
CCL3 has been shown to interact with CCL4. See also
Macrophage inflammatory proteins

References
External links
Human CCL3 genome location and CCL3 gene details page  in the UCSC Genome Browser. LCCN 2017934074. 
CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. [SEP] Mutations to the CHEK2 gene have been linked to a wide range of cancers. The evidence from these studies has suggests that CHEK2 is not a predisposition gene to Li–Fraumeni syndrome. Breast cancer
Inherited mutations in the CHEK2 gene have been linked to certain cases of breast cancer. Studies show that a CHEK2 1100delC corresponds to a two-fold increased risk of breast cancer and a 10-fold increased risk of breast cancer in males.A CHEK2 mutation known as the I157T variant to the FHA domain in exon 3 has also been linked to breast cancer but at a lower risk than the CHEK2*1100delC mutation. Links have also been drawn to certain brain tumors and osteosarcoma.Unlike BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations, CHEK2 mutations do not appear to cause an elevated risk for ovarian cancer. The relative risk of breast cancer diagnosis associated with current and recent use of hormonal contraceptives did not appear to vary with family history of breast cancer. Tobacco
Until recently, most studies had not found an increased risk of breast cancer from active tobacco smoking. There is no persuasive connection between fertility medications and breast cancer. 
CR is associated with higher methylation age. [SEP] History
The strong effects of age on DNA methylation levels have been known since the late 1960s. The fact that DNA methylation age of blood predicts all-cause mortality in later life has been used to argue that it relates to a process that causes aging. The fact that DNA methylation age of blood predicts all-cause mortality in later life even after adjusting for known risk factors is compatible with a variety of causal relationships, e.g. However, graft-versus-host disease is associated with increased DNA methylation age. identify genomic regions whose DNA methylation level correlates with age in human teeth. While age is a known risk factor for many diseases, age-related methylation
has been found to occur differentially at specific sites along the genome. However, the CpG islands that control promoters tend to gain methylation with age. The gain of methylation at CpG islands in promoter regions is correlated with age, and has been used to create an epigenetic clock (see article Epigenetic clock). 
CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. [SEP] Although one group of researchers indicated that CRP may be only a moderate risk factor for cardiovascular disease, this study (known as the Reykjavik Study) was found to have some problems for this type of analysis related to the characteristics of the population studied, and there was an extremely long follow-up time, which may have attenuated the association between CRP and future outcomes. Others have shown that CRP can exacerbate ischemic necrosis in a complement-dependent fashion and that CRP inhibition can be a safe and effective therapy for myocardial and cerebral infarcts; so far, this has been demonstrated in animal models only.It has been hypothesized that patients with high CRP levels might benefit from use of statins. CRP is a general marker for inflammation and infection, so it can be used as a very rough proxy for heart disease risk. Nevertheless, a level above 2.4 mg/L has been associated with a doubled risk of a coronary event compared to levels below 1 mg/L; however, the study group in this case consisted of patients who had been diagnosed with unstable angina pectoris; whether elevated CRP has any predictive value of acute coronary events in the general population of all age ranges remains unclear. Currently, C-reactive protein is not recommended as a cardiovascular disease screening test for average-risk adults without symptoms.The American Heart Association and U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have defined risk groups as follows:
Low Risk: less than 1.0 mg/L
Average risk: 1.0 to 3.0 mg/L
High risk: above 3.0 mg/LBut hs-CRP is not to be used alone and should be combined with elevated levels of cholesterol, LDL-C, triglycerides, and glucose level. CRP level is an independent risk factor for atherosclerotic disease. Elevated levels of CRP appear to be associated with common comorbidities including cardiovascular disease, metabolic syndrome, diabetes and interstitial lung (pulmonary) disease. Coronary artery bypass surgery, also known as coronary artery bypass graft (CABG, pronounced "cabbage") is a surgical procedure to treat coronary artery disease (CAD), the buildup of plaques in the arteries of the heart. 
CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival [SEP] Expression
CX3CR1 is expressed constitutively or in inflammatory response in various cells from hematopoietic lineage: T lymphocytes, natural killer (NK) cells, dendritic cells, B lymphocytes, mast cells, monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, microglia, osteoclasts and thrombocytes. CX3CR1 is also expressed by monocytes and plays a major role in the survival of monocytes. It was shown, that CX3CR1 can influence monocytes already in bone marrow by means of retention and release. Products of CX3CR1 signalling cascades possess importance in the immune response of CX3CR1 positive hematopoietic cells. Clinical significance
CX3CR1 and immune cells are strongly connected due to its abundant cell surface expression. Therefore, clinical meaning of CX3CR1 can be found in diseases connected with immunity. CX3CR1 is able to increase accumulation of immune cells in the affected body part, which results in disease aggravation. Few examples: allergies, Rheumatoid arthritis, Renal diseases, Chronic liver disease or Crohn's disease.CX3CR1 is also a coreceptor for HIV-1, and some variations in this gene lead to increased susceptibility to HIV-1 infection and rapid progression to AIDS.Since CX3CR1 plays a major role for interaction between endothelial cells and immune cells, it can aid vascular build up on the artery walls (plaque), thus it has been associated with Atherosclerosis. 
CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival [SEP] Expression
CX3CR1 is expressed constitutively or in inflammatory response in various cells from hematopoietic lineage: T lymphocytes, natural killer (NK) cells, dendritic cells, B lymphocytes, mast cells, monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, microglia, osteoclasts and thrombocytes. Its intracellular signalling cascades are responsible for modulating cell activity rather towards higher active state as in survival, migration and proliferation.In the recognition for immune cells during inflammation, function of CX3CL1-CX3CR1 axis in the bloodstream is mainly recruitment of immune cells by migration through chemotaxis and diapedesis. CX3CR1 is also expressed by monocytes and plays a major role in the survival of monocytes. It was shown, that CX3CR1 can influence monocytes already in bone marrow by means of retention and release. Products of CX3CR1 signalling cascades possess importance in the immune response of CX3CR1 positive hematopoietic cells. Clinical significance
CX3CR1 and immune cells are strongly connected due to its abundant cell surface expression. Therefore, clinical meaning of CX3CR1 can be found in diseases connected with immunity. CX3CR1 is able to increase accumulation of immune cells in the affected body part, which results in disease aggravation. 
CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. [SEP] Chemokine receptor CXCR3 is a Gαi  protein-coupled receptor in the CXC chemokine receptor family. Expression
CXCR3 is expressed primarily on activated T lymphocytes and NK cells, and some epithelial cells. Function
CXCR3 is able to regulate leukocyte trafficking. Binding of chemokines to CXCR3 induces various cellular responses, most notably integrin activation, cytoskeletal changes and chemotactic migration. CXCR3-ligand interaction attracts Th1 cells and promotes Th1 cell maturation. A hallmark of CXCR3 is its prominent expression in in vitro cultured effector/memory T cells, and in T cells present in many types of inflamed tissues. Additionally, CXCR3 has been implicated in wound healing. CXCL1 is expressed at higher levels during inflammatory responses thus contributing to the process of inflammation. 
CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. [SEP] Furthermore, Th17 cell-mediated airway inflammation and airway hyperresponsiveness are steroid resistant, indicating a potential role for Th17 cells in steroid-resistant asthma. An increase in Th17 cells was observed in patients with COPD compared with current smokers without COPD and healthy subjects, and inverse correlations were found between Th17 cells with lung function. Gene expression profiling of bronchial brushings obtained from COPD patients also linked lung function to several Th17 signature genes such as SAA1, SAA2, SLC26A4 and LCN2. Animal studies have shown that cigarette smoke promotes pathogenic Th17 differentiation and induces emphysema, while blocking IL-17A using neutralizing antibody significantly decreased neutrophil recruitment and the pathological score of airway inflammation in tobacco-smoke-exposed mice. However, IL-17A is required for protection against primary infection with a different intracellular bacteria, Francisella tularensis.Mouse model studies using the IL-17RA knock out mice and the IL-17A knock out mice with the murine adapted influenza strain (PR8) as well as the 2009 pandemic H1N1 strain [93] both support that IL-17A plays a detrimental role in mediating the acute lung injury.The role of adaptive immune responses mediated by antigen specific Th17 has been investigated more recently. Antigen specific CD4 T cells also limit nasopharyngeal colonization of S. pneumoniae in mouse models. OPN influences cell-mediated immunity and has Th1 cytokine functions. Opn expression is also upregulated in lungs of mice with allergic airway inflammation. 
Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. [SEP] A dehydrogenase is an enzyme belonging to the group of oxidoreductases that oxidizes a substrate by reducing an electron acceptor, usually NAD+/NADP+ or a flavin coenzyme such as FAD or FMN. Dehydrogenases typically fully reduce FAD to FADH2. Aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDH) are NAD+  dependent enzymes that function to remove toxic aldehydes from the body, functioning mostly in the mitochondria of cells. It has been shown that a mutation in the ALDH2 gene (one of 19 aldehyde dehydrogenase genes) is what leads to the common occurrence in East Asian population of a flushed face after consuming alcohol, due to the build-up of acetaldehyde. This build-up of acetaldehyde also causes headaches and vomiting (hangover symptoms) if not broken down quickly enough, another reason why those with acetaldehyde DH deficiencies have bad reactions to alcohol. Importantly, a lack of this enzyme has been linked to an increase in the risk of myocardial infarction, while activation has shown the enzyme's ability to reduce damage caused by ischaemia.Deactivation of aldehyde dehydrogenases has been shown to be instrumental in the mechanisms of many cancers. These enzymes are only one example of the many different types of dehydrogenases in the human body; their wide array of functions, and the impact that their deactivation or mutations has upon crucial cell processes underscores the importance of all dehydrogenases in maintaining body homeostasis. They discovered the regulatory effects of ATP on glucose consumption during alcohol fermentation. 
Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. [SEP] It is the second-most common cause of blindness due to infection, after trachoma.The parasitic worm is spread by the bites of a black fly of the Simulium type. Globally, cataracts cause moderate to severe disability in 53.8 million (2004), 52.2 million of whom are in low and middle income countries.In many countries, surgical services are inadequate, and cataracts remain the leading cause of blindness. Africa
Cataracts are the main cause of blindness in Africa, and affect approximately half of the estimated seven million blind people on the continent, a number that is expected to increase with population growth by about 600,000 people per year. Untreated, repeated trachoma infections can result in a form of permanent blindness when the eyelids turn inward.The bacteria that cause the disease can be spread by both direct and indirect contact with an affected person's eyes or nose. It was once the leading cause of blindness worldwide, but its role diminished from 15% of blindness cases by trachoma in 1995 to 3.6% in 2002. Cataracts are the most common cause of blindness. This includes cataracts, the infections river blindness and trachoma, glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy, uncorrected refractive errors, and some cases of childhood blindness. Cause
The most common causes of visual impairment globally in 2010 were:

Refractive error (42%)
Cataract (33%)
Glaucoma (2%)
Age-related macular degeneration (1%)
Corneal opacification (1%)
Diabetic retinopathy (1%)
Childhood blindness
Trachoma (1%)
Undetermined (18%)The most common causes of blindness worldwide in 2010 were:

Cataracts (51%)
Glaucoma (8%)
Age-related macular degeneration (5%)
Corneal opacification (4%)
Childhood blindness (4%)
Refractive errors (3%)
Trachoma (3%)
Diabetic retinopathy (1%)
Undetermined (21%)About 90% of people who are visually impaired live in the developing world. 
Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. [SEP] The terms male and female typically do not apply in sexually undifferentiated species in which the individuals are isomorphic (look the same) and the gametes are isogamous (indistinguishable in size and shape), such as the green alga Ulva lactuca. An individual that produces exclusively large gametes is female, and one that produces exclusively small gametes is male. Female gametes are egg cells. In dioecious species male and female sexes are on separate plants. It is the male gamete that determines the sex of the offspring. It is the female gamete that determines the sex of the offspring. However, in sponges, non-differentiated somatic cells form the germ line and, in Cnidaria, differentiated somatic cells are the source of the germline. Mitotic cell division is only seen in diploid somatic cells. 
Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. [SEP] Sex is the trait that determines whether a sexually reproducing organism produces male or female gametes. Other chromosomal sex-determination systems in animals include the ZW system in birds, and the X0 system in insects. Sex-determination systems
The biological cause of an organism developing into one sex or the other is called sex determination. Within animals and other organisms that have genetic sex-determination systems, the determining factor may be the presence of a sex chromosome. It is the male gamete that determines the sex of the offspring. It is the female gamete that determines the sex of the offspring. In these species, the temperature experienced by the embryos during their development determines their sex. This sex-determination system results in highly biased sex ratios, as the sex of offspring is determined by fertilization (arrhenotoky or pseudo-arrhenotoky resulting in males) rather than the assortment of chromosomes during meiosis. 
Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. [SEP] A fully assembled Clp protease complex has a barrel-shaped structure in which two stacked heptameric ring of proteolytic subunits (ClpP or ClpQ) are either sandwiched between two rings or single-caped by one ring of hexameric ATPase-active chaperon subunits (ClpA, ClpC, ClpE, ClpX, ClpY, or others).ClpXP is presented in almost all bacteria while ClpA is found in the Gram-negative bacteria, ClpC in Gram-Positive bacteria and cyanobacteria. A member of the ClpA/B family termed ClpV is used in the bacterial T6SS. Spores form part of the life cycles of many plants, algae, fungi and protozoa.Bacterial spores are not part of a sexual cycle, but are resistant structures used for survival under unfavourable conditions. Autospores: immobile spores that cannot develop flagella. Bacillus subtilis is a rod-shaped, Gram-positive bacteria that is naturally found in soil and vegetation, and is known for its ability to form a small, tough, protective and metabolically dormant endospore. Overview
Commitment to sporulation
Although sporulation in B. subtilis is induced by starvation, the sporulation developmental program is not initiated immediately when growth slows due to nutrient limitation. Control points
Two transcriptional regulators, σH and Spo0A, play key roles in initiation of sporulation. See also
Bacillus
Sporophyte
Bacillus subtilis

References
External links
SubtiList - GenoList - Institut Pasteur
SubtilisWiki (archived)
Bacillus subtilis - Parts Registry
Video - Sporulation in Bacillus subtilis 
Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. [SEP] Calorie restriction and methionine restriction may act in part by limiting levels of essential amino acids including leucine and methionine, which are potent activators of mTOR. RNA methylation has been observed in different types of RNA species viz.mRNA, rRNA, tRNA, snoRNA, snRNA, miRNA, tmRNA  as well as viral RNA species. m6A methyltransferases methylate the amino group in DNA at C-6 position specifically to prevent the host system to digest own genome through restriction enzymes.m5C plays a role to regulate gene transcription. These substrates contribute to methyl transfer pathways including methionine biosynthesis, methanogenesis, and acetogenesis. Plasmid vectors capable of transmitting this gene are a cause of potentially dangerous cross resistance.Examples of methyltransferase enzymes relevant to disease:

thiopurine methyltransferase: defects in this gene causes toxic accumulation of thiopurine compounds, drugs used in chemotherapy and immunosuppressant therapy
methionine synthase: pernicious anemia, caused by Vitamin B12 deficiency, is caused by a lack of cofactor for the methionine synthase enzyme

Applications in drug discovery and development
Recent work has revealed the methyltransferases involved in methylation of naturally occurring anticancer agents to use S-Adenosyl methionine (SAM) analogs that carry alternative alkyl groups as a replacement for methyl. microRNA (miRNA)
A type of small, single-stranded, non-coding RNA molecule that functions in post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression, particularly RNA silencing, by base-pairing with complementary sequences in mRNA transcripts, which typically results in the cleavage or destabilization of the transcript or inhibits its translation by ribosomes. miRNA
See microRNA. Telomeres also appear to reduce the accessibility of subtelomeric chromatin to modification by DNA methyltransferases. 
Cellular aging closely links to an older appearance. [SEP] 2008 Foundation of the Max Planck Institute for Biology of Ageing. So the topic of cancer research is closely related to research on aging.) Scientists report that yeast cells of the same genetic material and within the same environment age in two distinct ways, describe a biomolecular mechanism that can determine which process dominates during aging and genetically engineer a novel aging route with substantially extended lifespan. Reprogramming progressScientists show that expression of nuclear reprogramming factors can lead to rapid and broad amelioration of cellular aging. It concluded that the loss of epigenetic information can drive aging independently of changes to the genetic code, suggesting that epigenetic change is a primary driver of aging in mammals. A review with overlapping authors merge or link various hallmarks of cancer with those of aging.A study concludes that retroviruses in the human genomes can become awakened from dormant states and, in senescent cells and aged tissue, contribute to aging which can be blocked by neutralizing antibodies, resulting in improved function.A study by Columbia University researchers suggests hypermetabolism in cells due to impaired mitochondria is a driver of aging.A previously unknown cell mechanism involved in aging is discovered, which explains how cells 'remember' their identity when they divide – the cells' so-called epigenetic memory.A team of scientists from New York University identifies a potential cause of greying hair with age as the failure of melanocyte stem cells to mature with age. These findings link excessive unrepaired DNA damage to premature aging and early atherosclerotic plaque development (see DNA damage theory of aging). Therefore, contributing substantially to the senescence phenotype. 
Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. [SEP] Another use of EPOC is to fuel the body’s increased metabolism from the increase in body temperature which occurs during exercise.EPOC is accompanied by an elevated consumption of fuel. One experiment, involving exertion above baseline, found EPOC increasing metabolic rate to an excess level that decays to 13% three hours after exercise, and 4% after 16 hours, for the studied exercise dose. found considerable contributions of EPOC to total energy expenditure. Hayes, Sean (2022), "Burning Fat & Calories Post-Workout via the Afterburn Effect/EPOC." "Effects of Long-Term Aerobic Exercise on EPOC". Nutrition & Metabolism. "Metabolic bases of excess post-exercise oxygen consumption: a review". Use of REE in weight management
Long-term weight management is directly proportional to calories absorbed from feeding; nevertheless, myriad non-caloric factors also play biologically significant roles (not covered here) in estimating energy intake. 
Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. [SEP] Another use of EPOC is to fuel the body’s increased metabolism from the increase in body temperature which occurs during exercise.EPOC is accompanied by an elevated consumption of fuel. In response to exercise, fat stores are broken down and free fatty acids (FFA) are released into the blood stream. Anaerobic exercise in the form of high-intensity interval training was also found in one study to result in greater loss of subcutaneous fat, even though the subjects expended fewer than half as many calories during exercise. found considerable contributions of EPOC to total energy expenditure. Hayes, Sean (2022), "Burning Fat & Calories Post-Workout via the Afterburn Effect/EPOC." Nutrition & Metabolism. "Metabolic bases of excess post-exercise oxygen consumption: a review". Use of REE in weight management
Long-term weight management is directly proportional to calories absorbed from feeding; nevertheless, myriad non-caloric factors also play biologically significant roles (not covered here) in estimating energy intake. 
Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. [SEP] The importance of these changes is demonstrated in that stable, non-decompensated patients seem to benefit from exercise; specifically increased VO2 max and exercise tolerance. The most prevailing mechanism of endothelial dysfunction is an increase in reactive oxygen species, which can impair nitric oxide production and activity via several mechanisms. Along with acting as a semi-permeable membrane, the endothelium is responsible for maintaining vascular tone and regulating oxidative stress by releasing mediators, such as nitric oxide, prostacyclin and endothelin, and controlling local angiotensin-II activity. Nitric oxide
Nitric oxide (NO) suppresses platelet aggregation, inflammation, oxidative stress, vascular smooth muscle cell migration and proliferation, and leukocyte adhesion. A feature of endothelial dysfunction is the inability of arteries and arterioles to dilate fully in response to an appropriate stimulus, such as exogenous nitroglycerine, that stimulates release of vasodilators from the endothelium like NO. Endothelial dysfunction is commonly associated with decreased NO bioavailability, which is due to impaired NO production by the endothelium or inactivation of NO by reactive oxygen species. Since NO maintains low tone and high compliance of the small arteries at rest, a reduction of age-dependent small artery compliance is a marker for endothelial dysfunction that is associated with both functional and structural changes in the microcirculation. Examples and individual mechanisms
Vasodilation is the result of relaxation in smooth muscle surrounding the blood vessels. 
Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. [SEP] BAT is primarily located around the neck and large blood vessels of the thorax, where it may effectively act in heat exchange. BAT is robustly activated upon cold exposure by the release of catecholamines from sympathetic nerves that results in UCP1 activation. However, the use of such drugs has proven largely unsuccessful due to several challenges, including varying species receptor specificity and poor oral bioavailability.Cold is a primary regulator of BAT processes and induces WAT browning. It is increased in BAT during cold exposure and is thought to aid in resistance to diet-induced obesity FGF21 may also be secreted in response to exercise and a low protein diet, although the latter has not been thoroughly investigated. It was discovered that many of the pathways upregulated in WAT after cold exposure are also highly expressed in BAT, such as oxidative phosphorylation, fatty acid metabolism, and pyruvate metabolism. The little brown bat (Myotis lucifugus) is known to participate in communal roosts of up to thirty seven during cold nights in order to decrease thermoregulatory demands, with the roost disbanding at daybreak.Several other species of bats, including the hoary bat (Lasiurus cinereus) and the big brown bat (Eptesicus fuscus) have also been observed to roost communally in maternal colonies in order to reduce the thermoregulatory demands on both the lactating mothers and juveniles. Exposure to environmental cold stimulates thermogenic catabolism of lipids and carbohydrates in brown adipose tissue (BAT). Mimicking the cold induction of Gpr3 is then sufficient to drive and maintain elevated BAT activity even under conditions of little or no sympathetic tone. 
Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. [SEP] The little brown bat (Myotis lucifugus) is known to participate in communal roosts of up to thirty seven during cold nights in order to decrease thermoregulatory demands, with the roost disbanding at daybreak.Several other species of bats, including the hoary bat (Lasiurus cinereus) and the big brown bat (Eptesicus fuscus) have also been observed to roost communally in maternal colonies in order to reduce the thermoregulatory demands on both the lactating mothers and juveniles. BAT is primarily located around the neck and large blood vessels of the thorax, where it may effectively act in heat exchange. BAT is robustly activated upon cold exposure by the release of catecholamines from sympathetic nerves that results in UCP1 activation. However, the use of such drugs has proven largely unsuccessful due to several challenges, including varying species receptor specificity and poor oral bioavailability.Cold is a primary regulator of BAT processes and induces WAT browning. It is increased in BAT during cold exposure and is thought to aid in resistance to diet-induced obesity FGF21 may also be secreted in response to exercise and a low protein diet, although the latter has not been thoroughly investigated. It was discovered that many of the pathways upregulated in WAT after cold exposure are also highly expressed in BAT, such as oxidative phosphorylation, fatty acid metabolism, and pyruvate metabolism. Exposure to environmental cold stimulates thermogenic catabolism of lipids and carbohydrates in brown adipose tissue (BAT). Mimicking the cold induction of Gpr3 is then sufficient to drive and maintain elevated BAT activity even under conditions of little or no sympathetic tone. 
Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. [SEP] Despite these potential adverse effects, varenicline has proven efficacy in helping individuals quit smoking. It is estimated that approximately one in eleven smokers who use varenicline successfully remain abstinent from tobacco at six months.It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. A meta-analysis found that 20% of people treated with varenicline remain abstinent from smoking at one year. In a 2009 meta-analysis, varenicline was found to be more effective than bupropion (odds ratio 1.40) and nicotine replacement therapies (NRT) (odds ratio 1.56).A 2013 Cochrane overview and network meta-analysis concluded that varenicline is the most effective medication for tobacco cessation and that smokers were nearly three times more likely to quit tobacco use while on varenicline than with placebo treatment. Varenicline was more efficacious than bupropion or NRT and as effective as combination NRT for tobacco smoking cessation. No evidence for increased risks of cardiovascular events, depression, or self-harm with varenicline versus nicotine replacement therapy was found in one post-marketing surveillance study.In 2016, the FDA removed the black box warning. Mechanism of action
Varenicline displays full agonism on α7   nicotinic acetylcholine receptors and is a partial agonist on the α4β2, α3β4, and α6β2 subtypes.Varenicline's partial agonism on the α4β2 receptors rather than nicotine's full agonism produces less effect of dopamine release than nicotine's. A 2014 systematic review and economic evaluation concluded that cytisine was more likely to be cost-effective for smoking cessation than varenicline. 
Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. [SEP] Specific isoform inhibitors to PI3Kb is a potential treatment for PTEN-deficient cancers. Therapies
PI3K inhibitor
PI3K inhibitors may overcome drug resistance and improve advanced breast cancer (ABC) outcomes. Preclinical data have shown that the combination of compounds targeting different cognate molecules in the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway leads to synergistic activity. On the basis of these findings, new compounds targeting different components of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway simultaneously continue to be developed. As such, inhibition of the PI3K pathway alongside other targets could offer a synergistic response, such as that seen with PI3K and MEK co-targeted inhibition in lung cancer cells. Combined PI3K inhibition with more traditional therapies such as chemotherapy may also offer improved response over inhibition of PI3K alone. Phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3Ks), also called phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases, are a family of enzymes involved in cellular functions such as cell growth, proliferation, differentiation, motility, survival and intracellular trafficking, which in turn are involved in cancer. The PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 phosphatase PTEN that antagonises PI3K signaling is absent from many tumours. 
Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. [SEP] The next year, Fred Sanger completed the first DNA-genome sequence: Phage Φ-X174, of 5386 base pairs. It is about 350 base pairs and occupies about 11% of the human genome with around 1,500,000 copies. Genomes 2. A Primer of Genome Science (Second ed.). This sequence identified 19,969 protein-coding sequences, accounting for approximately 1.5% of the genome, and 63,494 genes in total, most of them being non-coding RNA genes. Since every base pair can be coded by 2 bits, this is about 750 megabytes of data. It is close to the maximum of 2 bits per base pair for the coding sequences (about 45 million base pairs), but less for the non-coding parts. The complete modular protein-coding capacity of the genome is contained within the exome, and consists of DNA sequences encoded by exons that can be translated into proteins. 
Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. [SEP] The definition normally excludes regions of the genome that control transcription but are not themselves transcribed. Others genes have "weak" promoters that form weak associations with transcription factors and initiate transcription less frequently. : 7.2  Eukaryotic promoter regions are much more complex and difficult to identify than prokaryotic promoters. This is in fact only true for genes that do not reside on the same chromosome or are located very far from one another on the same chromosome. Genes that are very close are essentially never separated because it is extremely unlikely that a crossover point will occur between them. Most studies have focused on the mating-type region in fission yeast, which may not be representative of activities in other genomic regions/organisms. Non-homologous chromosomal crossover. These findings suggest that transcription-associated recombination may contribute significantly to recombination hotspot formation. 
Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. [SEP] The relationship between ILC3s, and T cells in the gut is therefore crucial for maintaining homeostasis, as in the absence of ILC3s, there could be uncontrolled T cell activation. ILC3s therefore form a network of interactions to maintain intestinal homeostasis, between the microbiome, intestinal epithelium, neuro-glial cells, and other immune cells. Evidence suggests that the plasticity between ILC3s and ILC1s in the intestine is an important factor of Crohn’s disease, with ILC3s differentiating into ILC1s when exposed to IL-12 produced by dendritic cells. They act as messengers between the innate and adaptive immune systems.Dendritic cells are present in tissues that are in contact with the body's external environment, such as the skin (where there is a specialized dendritic cell type called the Langerhans cell), and the inner lining of the nose, lungs, stomach and intestines. Autoimmunity
Altered function of dendritic cells is also known to play a major or even key role in allergy and autoimmune diseases like lupus erythematosus and inflammatory bowel diseases (Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis). The relationship between ILC3s, and T cells in the gut is therefore crucial for maintaining homeostasis, as in the absence of ILC3s, there could be uncontrolled T cell activation. ILC3s therefore form a network of interactions to maintain intestinal homeostasis, between the microbiome, intestinal epithelium, neuro-glial cells, and other immune cells. Evidence suggests that the plasticity between ILC3s and ILC1s in the intestine is an important factor of Crohn’s disease, with ILC3s differentiating into ILC1s when exposed to IL-12 produced by dendritic cells. 
Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. [SEP] Role in apoptosis
Cytochrome c was also discovered in 1996 by Xiaodong Wang to have an intermediate role in apoptosis, a controlled form of cell death used to kill cells in the process of development or in response to infection or DNA damage.Cytochrome c binds to cardiolipin in the inner mitochondrial membrane, thus anchoring its presence and keeping it from releasing out of the mitochondria and initiating apoptosis. Inhibition of apoptosis
One of the ways cell apoptosis is activated is by release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria into cytosol. The release of cytochrome c from mitochondria to the cytosol, where it activates the caspase family of proteases, is believed to be the primary trigger leading to the onset of apoptosis. Measuring the amount of cytochrome c leaking from mitochondria to cytosol, and out of the cell to culture medium, is a sensitive method to monitor the degree of apoptosis. Once cytochrome c is released it binds with Apoptotic protease activating factor – 1 (Apaf-1) and ATP, which then bind to pro-caspase-9 to create a protein complex known as an apoptosome. When HeLA cells are infected with OROV, the cytochrome C is released from the membrane of the mitochondria, into the cytosol of the cells. During apoptosis, cyt c is released from the intermembrane spaces of mitochondria
into the cytosol. Cytochrome c is thought to play a role in apoptosis via the release of apoptotic factors from the mitochondria. 
Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for DMT1. Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for proteins involved in iron uptake. [SEP] A protein called divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1), which can transport several divalent metals across the plasma membrane, then transports iron across the enterocyte's cell membrane into the cell. Cellular iron regulation
Iron import
Most cell types take up iron primarily through receptor-mediated endocytosis via transferrin receptor 1 (TFR1), transferrin receptor 2 (TFR2) and GAPDH. Iron then enters the cytoplasm from the endosome via importer DMT1 after being reduced to its ferrous state by a STEAP family reductase.Alternatively, iron can enter the cell directly via plasma membrane divalent cation importers such as DMT1 and ZIP14 (Zrt-Irt-like protein 14). Alternatively, iron ions might be bound to specialized proteins known as metallochaperones. Translational control of cellular iron
Although some control exists at the transcriptional level, the regulation of cellular iron levels is ultimately controlled at the translational level by iron-responsive element-binding proteins IRP1 and especially IRP2. In contrast, TFR1 and some DMT1 variants contain 3' UTR IREs, which bind IRP2 under iron deficiency, stabilizing the mRNA, which guarantees the synthesis of iron importers. When iron is present, it interacts with the protein to cause it to release the mRNA. Genes with IREs
Genes known to contain IREs include FTH1, FTL, TFRC, ALAS2,  Sdhb, ACO2, Hao1, SLC11A2 (encoding DMT1), NDUFS1, SLC40A1 (encoding the ferroportin) CDC42BPA , CDC14A, EPAS1.In humans, 12 genes have been shown to be transcribed with the canonical IRE structure, but several mRNA structures, that are non-canonical, have been shown to interact with IRPs and be influenced by iron concentration. 
DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. [SEP] The DM domain is an ancient, conserved component of the vertebrate sex-determining pathway that is also a key regulator of male development in flies and nematodes, and is found to be the key sex-determining factor in chickens. Two copies of the DMRT1 gene are required for normal sexual development. The DMRT1 gene is critical for male sex determination; without this gene the default female characteristic takes over and male characteristic is slight or non-existent. "The Avian Z-linked Gene DMRT1 Is Required for Male Sex Determination in the Chicken." DMRT1
Evidence suggests that a DM domain gene, DMRT1, is involved in sexual development. It has been suggested that embryos with a higher expression of Dmrt1 expression develop into males while embryos with a lower expression are led to female development.In the mouse gonadal primordium, the genital ridge, which forms from intermediate mesoderm, becomes morphologically distinct at E10.5. By E12.5 and E13.5, DMRT1 is expressed deferentially as sex specific structures start to form. One possible gene that could determine sex in birds is the DMRT1 gene. 
De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. [SEP] The sticky 5′ overhangs left by Cas12a can also be used for DNA assembly that is much more target-specific than traditional restriction enzyme cloning. This characteristic makes CRISPRs easily identifiable in long sequences of DNA, since the number of repeats decreases the likelihood of a false positive match.Analysis of CRISPRs in metagenomic data is more challenging, as CRISPR loci do not typically assemble, due to their repetitive nature or through strain variation, which confuses assembly algorithms. Degenerate repeat-specific primers can be used to amplify CRISPR spacers directly from environmental samples; amplicons containing two or three spacers can be then computationally assembled to reconstruct long CRISPR arrays.The alternative is to extract and reconstruct CRISPR arrays from shotgun metagenomic data. This is computationally more difficult, particularly with second generation sequencing technologies (e.g. CRISPR identification in raw reads has been achieved using purely de novo identification or by using direct repeat sequences in partially assembled CRISPR arrays from contigs (overlapping DNA segments that together represent a consensus region of DNA) and direct repeat sequences from published genomes as a hook for identifying direct repeats in individual reads. De novo may also refer to:

Science and computers
De novo mutation, a new germline mutation not inherited from either parent
De novo protein design, the creation of a protein sequence that is not based on existing, natural sequences
De novo protein structure prediction, the prediction of a protein's 3D structure, based only on its sequence
De novo synthesis of complex molecules from simple molecules in chemistry
De novo transcriptome assembly, the method of creating a transcriptome without a reference genome, using de novo sequence assembly
De novo gene birth, the emergence of genes from non-coding sequence
De novo assembly in genomics
De Novo classification, a pathway to classify new medical devices provided by the US Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
Denovo, a supercomputer project that simulates nuclear reactions; see Titan (supercomputer) § Projects

Other
De novo review, an appellate standard of review for legal issues
Trial de novo, or a new trial in the legal system
De novo bank, a state bank that has been in operation for five years or less
De Novo, a public housing estate in Kai Tak, Hong Kong
Denovo (band), a 1980s Italian new wave group In chemistry, de novo synthesis (from Latin 'from the new') refers to the synthesis of complex molecules from simple molecules such as sugars or amino acids, as opposed to recycling after partial degradation. DNA
De novo DNA synthesis refers to the synthetic creation of DNA rather than assembly or modification of natural precursor template DNA sequences. 
Deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA results in catastrophic G-to-A mutations in the viral genome. [SEP] Deamination reactions in DNA
Cytosine
Spontaneous deamination is the hydrolysis reaction of cytosine into uracil, releasing ammonia in the process. In DNA, this spontaneous deamination is corrected for by the removal of uracil (product of cytosine deamination and not part of DNA) by uracil-DNA glycosylase, generating an abasic (AP) site. Cytosine deamination increases C-To-T mutations
A known result of cytosine methylation is the increase of C-to-T transition mutations through the process of deamination. Cytidine (symbol C or Cyd) is a nucleoside molecule that is formed when cytosine is attached to a ribose ring (also known as a ribofuranose) via a β-N1-glycosidic bond. Cytidine is a component of RNA. Dietary sources
Dietary sources of cytidine include foods with high RNA (ribonucleic acid) content, such as organ meats, brewer's yeast, as well as pyrimidine-rich foods such as beer. In humans, dietary cytidine is converted into uridine, which is probably the compound behind cytidine's metabolic effects. Biological actions
In addition to its role as a pyrimidine component of RNA, cytidine has been found to control neuronal-glial glutamate cycling, with supplementation decreasing midfrontal/cerebral glutamate/glutamine levels. 
Deleting Raptor reduces G-CSF levels. [SEP] Raptor or RAPTOR may refer to:

Animals
The word "raptor" refers to several groups of bird-like dinosaurs which primarily capture and subdue/kill prey with their talons. Raptor (bird) or bird of prey, a bird that primarily hunts and feeds on vertebrates
Raptor- or -raptor, a taxonomic affix used in to describe dromeosaurs or similar animals
Dromaeosauridae, a family of dinosaurs including Velociraptor, informally known as raptors

Arts and entertainment
Film and television
Raptor (film), a 2001 film
Raptor, a fictional spacecraft in Battlestar Galactica

Gaming
Raptor: Call of the Shadows, a 1994 video game
Raptor heavy fighter, a fictional craft in the Wing Commander game
Lord Raptor, a Darkstalkers character

In print
Raptor (novel), a 1993 novel by Gary Jennings
Raptor (Gary Wilton, Jr.), a Marvel Comics character
Raptor (Damon Ryder), a Marvel Comics character
Raptor (Brenda Drago), a Marvel Comics character

Roller coasters
Raptor (Fantasilandia), a roller coaster in Santiago, Chile
Raptor (Gardaland), a roller coaster in Lake Garda, Italy
Raptor (Cedar Point), a roller coaster in Sandusky, Ohio, U.S.

Other arts and entertainment
Raptor (Thai duo), a music group
Rex Raptor, a Yu-Gi-Oh! RAPTOR (Reconnaissance Airborne Pod Tornado) was a reconnaissance pod used by the Royal Air Force on its fleet of Tornado GR.4A and GR.4 aircraft. RAPTOR was manufactured by the Goodrich Corporation, initially part of UTC Aerospace Systems, but now part of Collins Aerospace. The treatment was well tolerated and a dose-dependent rise in circulating neutrophils was noted.A study in mice has shown that G-CSF may decrease bone mineral density.G-CSF administration has been shown to attenuate the telomere loss associated with chemotherapy. G-CSF can restore neutrophil count. Following a return to baseline after stopping the drug, it may sometimes be safely rechallenged with the added use of G-CSF. G-CSF-R is a cell-surface receptor for the granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF). 
Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. [SEP] In the United States and other developed countries, many people are not infected with EBV in their childhood years. In contrast, EBV from epithelial cells are rich in the three-part complexes because these cells do not normally contain HLA class II molecules. Latency
Unlike lytic replication, latency does not result in production of virions. Only a portion of EBV's genes are expressed, which support the latent state of the virus. However, the inflammation–infection distinction becomes crucial for situations in pathology and medical diagnosis where inflammation is not driven by microbial invasion, such as the cases of atherosclerosis, trauma, ischemia, and autoimmune diseases (including type III hypersensitivity). In the case of lipid lowering with statins, the anti-inflammatory effect does not appear to correlate with reduction in low-density lipoprotein levels. This lack of pathogenicity is accompanied by a lack of inflammation, immune activation and cellular proliferation. the sooty mangabey) infected with species-specific lentiviruses that have led to a lack of disease, no decline in CD4 T-cell counts, and no chronic inflammation. 
Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. [SEP] Clinical papers show patients with minimal post-operative pain (no requirement for narcotic pain-killers), zero edema (swelling) plus almost no incidence of bleeding. This leads to a significantly reduced bleeding and pain rate. Medications
A single dose of the corticosteroid drug dexamethasone may be given during surgery to prevent post-operative vomiting. A dose of dexamethasone during surgery prevents vomiting in one out of every five children. A dose of dexamethasone may help children return to a normal diet more quickly and have less post-operative pain. There is a theoretical concern that NonSteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of bleeding but evidence does not support such a risk. The addition of dexamethasone to a nerve block or if given intravenously for surgery can prolong the duration of an upper limb nerve block leading to reduction in postoperative opioid consumption. Dexamethasone
Dexamethasone is a potent cytokine inhibitor that is naturally released from human pericytes. 
Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. [SEP] people with or without diabetes), there does not appear to be a benefit strong enough to outweigh the risk of excessive bleeding. There is evidence that higher consumption of sugar is associated with higher blood pressure and unfavorable blood lipids, and sugar intake also increases the risk of diabetes mellitus. In fact, cardiovascular disease is the most life-threatening of the diabetic complications and diabetics are two- to four-fold more likely to die of cardiovascular-related causes than nondiabetics. A meta-analysis in 2009 including 27,049 participants and 2,370 major vascular events showed a 15% relative risk reduction in cardiovascular disease with more-intensive glucose lowering over an average follow-up period of 4.4 years, but an increased risk of major hypoglycemia.Aspirin has been found to be of only modest benefit in those at low risk of heart disease, as the risk of serious bleeding is almost equal to the protection against cardiovascular problems. It is associated with an increased risk of stroke, myocardial infarction, atherosclerosis and hypertension. Overall, the increased risk of periodontitis in diabetics is estimated to be between two and three times higher. The ASCEND study demonstrated that in high-bleeding risk diabetics with no prior cardiovascular disease, there is no overall clinical benefit (12% decrease in risk of ischaemic events v/s 29% increase in GI bleeding) of low dose aspirin in preventing the serious vascular events over a period of 7.4 years. Aspirin may reduce cardiovascular risk in those without established cardiovascular disease in people with moderate CKD, without significantly increasing the risk of bleeding. 
Discrimination between the initiator and elongation tRNAs depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. [SEP] RNA polymerase III (Pol III) transcribes some miRNAs, especially those with upstream Alu sequences, transfer RNAs (tRNAs), and mammalian wide interspersed repeat (MWIR) promoter units. RNA polymerase I is responsible for transcription of ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes. RNA polymerase III transcribes 5S rRNA, transfer RNA (tRNA) genes, and some small non-coding RNAs (e.g., 7SK). even though preRNA molecules for both mRNA and tRNA undergo splicing, the steps and machinery involved are different. Specific exportin molecules are responsible for the export of a given RNA type. In eukaryotes, the origin recognition complex catalyzes the assembly of initiator proteins into the pre-replication complex. Elongation
DNA polymerase has 5′–3′ activity. All these control the binding of initiator proteins to the origin sequences. 
Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. [SEP] Such mutations and epigenetic alterations can give rise to cancer (see malignant neoplasms). If this pathway is upregulated, the excess mutations it causes can lead to cancer. A doodle is a drawing made while a person's attention is otherwise occupied. Doodles are simple drawings that can have concrete representational meaning or may just be composed of random and abstract lines or shapes, generally without ever lifting the drawing device from the paper, in which case it is usually called a scribble. Doodling and scribbling are most often associated with young children and toddlers, because their lack of hand–eye coordination and lower mental development often make it very difficult for any young child to keep their coloring attempts within the line art of the subject. As a therapeutic device
Doodling can be used as a stress relieving technique. Scribble Jam was an annual hip hop music festival hosted in Cincinnati, Ohio. In early April 2010, Scribble Jam organizer Kevin Beacham confirmed the persistent rumors that the event would no longer continue, citing the struggling economy and difficulty in securing funding as reasons.For most of its existence, Scribble Jam refused corporate sponsorship, which Accurso explained as an attempt to keep the festival from being run by "those who don't understand [hip hop] culture", adding that outside marketing or promotion would "defeat the purpose" of the festival. 
During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer paracortical areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. [SEP] After an antigen binds to a BCR, the B cell activates to proliferate and differentiate into either plasma cells, which secrete soluble antibodies with the same paratope, or memory B cells, which survive in the body to enable long-lasting immunity to the antigen. B cell activation follows engagement of the cell-bound antibody molecule with an antigen, causing the cell to divide and differentiate into an antibody-producing cell called a plasma cell. In this activated form, the B cell starts to produce antibody in a secreted form rather than a membrane-bound form. Activated B cells differentiate into either antibody-producing cells called plasma cells that secrete soluble antibody or memory cells that survive in the body for years afterward in order to allow the immune system to remember an antigen and respond faster upon future exposures.At the prenatal and neonatal stages of life, the presence of antibodies is provided by passive immunization from the mother. Antibodies are synthesized and secreted by plasma cells that are derived from the B cells of the immune system. Antibody production
In humoral immune response, the B cells first mature in the bone marrow and gain B-cell receptors (BCR's) which are displayed in large numbers on the cell surface.These membrane-bound protein complexes have antibodies which are specific for antigen detection. The mature B cells then migrate from the bone marrow to the lymph nodes or other lymphatic organs, where they begin to encounter pathogens. B cell activation
When a B cell encounters an antigen a signal is activated, the antigen binds to the receptor and is taken inside the B cell by endocytosis. 
Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. [SEP] Cytokines and chemokines promote the migration of neutrophils and macrophages to the site of inflammation. Activated macrophages in the tissue release cytokines such as IL-1 and TNFα, which in turn leads to production of chemokines that bind to proteoglycans forming gradient in the inflamed tissue and along the endothelial wall. Respiratory infection
ILC2s promote epithelial and goblet cell proliferation, and therefore mucus production in the respiratory tract. They secrete IL-13, initiating allergic lung inflammation, and additionally promote Th2 differentiation, increasing the production of IL-13, and therefore amplifying the allergic response.The production of IL-5 by ILC2s in the lung leads to eosinophil recruitment, and other cell populations are known to interact and shape the presence of lung ILC2s in airway inflammation in asthmatic patients. In particular, pathogenic GM-CSF-secreting T cells were shown to correlate with the recruitment of inflammatory IL-6-secreting monocytes and severe lung pathology in people with COVID‑19. Data collected from Jin Yin-tan Hospital in Wuhan, China indicates that patients who had more severe responses to COVID‑19 had greater amounts of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines in their system than patients who had milder responses. Common cytokines include interleukins that are responsible for communication between white blood cells; chemokines that promote chemotaxis; and interferons that have anti-viral effects, such as shutting down protein synthesis in the host cell. Common cytokines include interleukins that are responsible for communication between white blood cells; chemokines that promote chemotaxis; and interferons that have anti-viral effects, such as shutting down protein synthesis in the host cell. 
Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. [SEP] Diseases of poverty (also known as poverty-related diseases) are diseases that are more prevalent in low-income populations. Poverty increases the chances of having these diseases as the deprivation of shelter, safe drinking water, nutritious food, sanitation, and access to health services contributes towards poor health behaviour. Contributing factors
The prevalence of unfavorable environmental and social factors that contribute to disease are highest among individuals living in poverty. Exposure to household air pollution is especially prevalent in lower-resourced areas, contributing to the high burden of air pollution-related disease in locations considered "impoverished." The disease is closely tied to poverty and poor living conditions. Generally, low-income populations, whether they live in high-income countries or in low-middle income countries (LMIC) suffer higher disease burden for chronic conditions including obesity when compared to their higher income counterparts. It is considered a disease of poverty because of its  tendency to occur women in poor countries who do not have health resources comparable to developed nations. Those who are poor are at greater risk. 
Epigenetic modulating agents (EMAs) modulate antitumor immune response in a cancer model system. [SEP] Cancer epigenetics is the study of epigenetic modifications to the DNA of cancer cells that do not involve a change in the nucleotide sequence, but instead involve a change in the way the genetic code is expressed. In different types of cancer, a variety of epigenetic mechanisms can be perturbed, such as the silencing of tumor suppressor genes and activation of oncogenes by altered CpG island methylation patterns, histone modifications, and dysregulation of DNA binding proteins. The accumulation of certain metabolites in cancer can target epigenetic enzymes to globally alter the epigenetic landscape. Some of these epigenetic alterations may contribute to cancer progression. Personalized epigenomic profiles of cancerous cells can provide insight into this field. Pharmaceuticals that reverse epigenetic changes might have a role in a variety of cancers.Recently, it is evidently known that associations between specific cancer histotypes and epigenetic changes can facilitate the development of novel epi-drugs. Epigenetic Therapy
Epigenetic therapy of cancer has shown to be a promising and possible treatment of cancerous cells. Together, these drugs are able to target the linkage between DNA methylation and Histone modification.The goal of epigenetic therapies for cancer in relation to DNA methylation is to both decrease the methylation of DNA and in turn decrease the silencing of genes related to tumor suppression. 
Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. [SEP] Many therapies are administered as a "bolus" or one-time dose, but they may also be administered as an extended infusion or drip. In some cases, multiple medications or therapies are administered through the same IV line. In some cases, such as with vancomycin, a loading or bolus dose of medicine is given before beginning a dosing regimen to more quickly increase the concentration of medication in the blood.The bioavailability of an IV medication is by definition 100%, unlike oral administration where medication may not be fully absorbed, or may be metabolized prior to entering the bloodstream. Types
Bolus
Some medications can be administered as a bolus dose, which is called an "IV push". As the drug is delivered to the site of action extremely rapidly with IV injection, there is a risk of overdose if the dose has been calculated incorrectly, and there is an increased risk of side effects if the drug is administered too rapidly. Many therapies are administered as a "bolus" or one-time dose, but they may also be administered as an extended infusion or drip. In some cases, such as with vancomycin, a loading or bolus dose of medicine is given before beginning a dosing regimen to more quickly increase the concentration of medication in the blood.The bioavailability of an IV medication is by definition 100%, unlike oral administration where medication may not be fully absorbed, or may be metabolized prior to entering the bloodstream. Types
Bolus
Some medications can be administered as a bolus dose, which is called an "IV push". 
Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. [SEP] Ethanol kills microorganisms by dissolving their membrane lipid bilayer and denaturing their proteins, and is effective against most bacteria, fungi and viruses. Absolute ethanol may inactivate microbes without destroying them because the alcohol is unable to fully permeate the microbe's membrane. Ethanol can also be used as a disinfectant and antiseptic because it causes cell dehydration by disrupting the osmotic balance across the cell membrane, so water leaves the cell leading to cell death. Ethanol serves this process by acting as a competitive inhibitor against methanol and ethylene glycol for alcohol dehydrogenase. Fermentation
Ethanol in alcoholic beverages and fuel is produced by fermentation. Toxicity of ethanol to yeast limits the ethanol concentration obtainable by brewing; higher concentrations, therefore, are obtained by fortification or distillation. The most ethanol-tolerant yeast strains can survive up to approximately 18% ethanol by volume. Fermentation
Ethanol is produced by microbial fermentation of the sugar. 
Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. [SEP] Health problems
The effects of inhaling particulate matter that have been widely studied in humans and animals include COVID-19, asthma, lung cancer, respiratory diseases like silicosis,
 cardiovascular disease, premature delivery, birth defects, low birth weight, developmental disorders, neurodegenerative disorders mental disorders, and premature death. Air pollution has also been linked to a range of other psychosocial problems. Anthropogenic fine particulates as main hazard
Increased levels of fine particles in the air as a result of anthropogenic particulate air pollution "is consistently and independently related to the most serious effects, including lung cancer and other cardiopulmonary mortality." Infertility, pregnancy, fetuses and birth effects
Higher rates of infertility have been correlated with exposure to particulates.In addition, inhalation of PM2.5 – PM10 is associated with elevated risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes, such as low birth weight. Cognitive hazards
The effects of air pollution and particulate matter on cognitive performance has become an active area of research. Short term exposure to particulate matter has been linked to short term cognitive decline in otherwise healthy adults.Air pollution, particulate matter and wood smoke may also cause brain damage and increase the risk of developmental disorders, neurodegenerative disorders mental disorders, and suicide, although studies on the link between depression and some air pollutants are not consistent. Pollution
Exposure to particulates can bring about the development of COPD, or its exacerbations. These substances concern environmental health officials since air pollution is often a risk-factor for diseases that are related to pollution, like lung cancer, respiratory infections, asthma, heart disease, and other forms of respiratory-related illnesses. 
Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. [SEP] Those with febrile seizures and drug related seizures may also be considered. Fever
In children between the ages of 6 months and 5 years, a fever of 38 °C (100.4 °F) or higher may lead to a febrile seizure. In most cases, a febrile seizure will not indicate epilepsy. Approximately 40% of children who experience a febrile seizure will have another one.In those with epilepsy, fever can trigger a seizure. Although an effective treatment in preventing recurrent febrile seizures, it had no positive effect on patient outcome or risk of developing epilepsy. This activation is impaired following recurrent febrile seizures. Recurrence rates are reduced, but side effects are common so the decision to treat febrile seizures (which are benign in nature) with medication should use this as part of the evaluation. It does not prevent febrile seizures and should not be used for that purpose. 
Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. [SEP] Fever
In children between the ages of 6 months and 5 years, a fever of 38 °C (100.4 °F) or higher may lead to a febrile seizure. In most cases, a febrile seizure will not indicate epilepsy. Approximately 40% of children who experience a febrile seizure will have another one.In those with epilepsy, fever can trigger a seizure. This activation is impaired following recurrent febrile seizures. Rolipram treatment reversed the learning deficits in rats that had experienced recurrent febrile seizures. Although an effective treatment in preventing recurrent febrile seizures, it had no positive effect on patient outcome or risk of developing epilepsy. Recurrence rates are reduced, but side effects are common so the decision to treat febrile seizures (which are benign in nature) with medication should use this as part of the evaluation. It does not prevent febrile seizures and should not be used for that purpose. 
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. [SEP] Indeed, the apolipoprotein ε4 isoform is more protective against cognitive decline than other isoforms in some cases, so caution is advised before making determinant statements about the influence of APOE polymorphisms on cognition, development of Alzheimer's disease, cardiovascular disease, telomere shortening, etc. As of 2007, there was no evidence that APOE polymorphisms influence cognition in younger age groups (other than possible increased episodic memory ability and neural efficiency in younger APOE4 age groups), nor that the APOE4 isoform places individuals at increased risk for any infectious disease.However, the association between the APOE4 allele and Alzheimer's disease has been shown to be weaker in minority groups differently compared to their caucasian counterparts. Thus, the genotype most at risk for Alzheimer's disease and at an earlier age is APOE4,4. While ApoE4 has been found to greatly increase the odds that an individual will develop Alzheimer's, a 2002 study concluded, that in persons with any combination of APOE alleles, high serum total cholesterol and high blood pressure in mid-life are independent risk factors which together can nearly triple the risk that the individual will later develop AD. Indeed, the apolipoprotein ε4 isoform is more protective against cognitive decline than other isoforms in some cases, so caution is advised before making determinant statements about the influence of APOE polymorphisms on cognition, development of Alzheimer's disease, cardiovascular disease, telomere shortening, etc. As of 2007, there was no evidence that APOE polymorphisms influence cognition in younger age groups (other than possible increased episodic memory ability and neural efficiency in younger APOE4 age groups), nor that the APOE4 isoform places individuals at increased risk for any infectious disease.However, the association between the APOE4 allele and Alzheimer's disease has been shown to be weaker in minority groups differently compared to their caucasian counterparts. Thus, the genotype most at risk for Alzheimer's disease and at an earlier age is APOE4,4. While ApoE4 has been found to greatly increase the odds that an individual will develop Alzheimer's, a 2002 study concluded, that in persons with any combination of APOE alleles, high serum total cholesterol and high blood pressure in mid-life are independent risk factors which together can nearly triple the risk that the individual will later develop AD. 
Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. [SEP] Steric effects  arise from the spatial arrangement of atoms. Steric effects are nonbonding interactions that influence the shape (conformation) and reactivity of ions and molecules. Steric effects complement electronic effects, which dictate the shape and reactivity of molecules. Steric hindrance is the slowing of chemical reactions due to steric bulk. Significance and applications
Steric effects are critical to chemistry, biochemistry, and pharmacology. In pharmacology, steric effects determine how and at what rate a drug will interact with its target bio-molecules. Prominent sterically hindered compounds

See also
Collision theory
Reaction rate accelerate as result of steric hindrance in the Thorpe–Ingold effect
Sterically induced reduction
Intramolecular force
Van der Waals strain, also known as steric strain

References
External links
Steric Effects (chem.swin.edu.au) at the Wayback Machine (archived July 25, 2008)
Steric: A Program to Calculate the Steric Size of Molecules (gh.wits.ac.za) at the Wayback Machine (archived December 22, 2017) Steric hindrance
Most simply, the greater the steric hindrance the more difficult it is for reactions to take place, and the radical form is favored by default. 
FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). [SEP] BAX-BAK oligomerization causes cytochrome c and apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) release from mitochondria, eventually causing cell death.TRB3 pseudokinase  is upregulated by the ER stress-inducible transcriptional factor, ATF4-CHOP. Apoptosis induction via Death-Receptor Pathway
Death receptor-mediated apoptosis occurs via activation of death ligands (Fas, TNF, and TRAIL) and death receptors. Upon activation, the receptor protein, Fas-associated death domain protein, forms death-inducing signaling complex, which activates the downstream caspase cascade to induce apoptosis. CHOP also upregulates the expression of DR5 by binding to the 5′-region of the DR5 gene.Under prolonged ER stress conditions, activation of the PERK-CHOP pathway will permit DR5 protein levels to rise, which accelerates the formation of the death-inducing signaling complex (DISC) and activates caspase-8, leading to apoptosis

Apoptosis induction through other downstream pathways
In addition, CHOP also mediates apoptosis through increasing the expression of the ERO1α (ER reductase) gene, which catalyzes the production of H2O2 in the ER. The highly oxidized state of the ER results in H2O2 leakage into the cytoplasm, inducing the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and a series of apoptotic and inflammatory reactions.The overexpression of CHOP can lead to cell cycle arrest and result in cell apoptosis. Pathogenic tau can also cause neuronal death through transposable element dysregulation. Accumulation of aggregated amyloid fibrils, which are believed to be the toxic form of the protein responsible for disrupting the cell's calcium ion homeostasis, induces programmed cell death (apoptosis). Increased BDNF and ROS that result from insulitis and beta cell death stimulate the p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR), which acts to prune off axons. 
Free histones are degraded by a Rad53-dependent mechanism once DNA has been replicated. [SEP] Due to the tight association of histone proteins to DNA, eukaryotic cells have proteins that are designed to remodel histones ahead of the replication fork, in order to allow smooth progression of the replisome. These processes load newly synthesized histones onto DNA. In addition, histones play important roles in gene regulation and DNA replication. Without histones, unwound DNA in chromosomes would be very long. Histones are subdivided into canonical replication-dependent histones that are expressed during the S-phase of the cell cycle and replication-independent histone variants, expressed during the whole cell cycle. Chromatin regulation
Histones undergo posttranslational modifications that alter their interaction with DNA and nuclear proteins. This shows an important regulatory link between cell-cycle control and histone synthesis. In eukaryotes, ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling complexes and histone-modifying enzymes are two factors that act to accomplish this remodeling process after DNA damage occurs. 
Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. [SEP] A myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) is one of a group of cancers in which immature blood cells in the bone marrow do not mature, and as a result, do not develop into healthy blood cells. MDS was first recognized in the early 1900s; it came to be called myelodysplastic syndrome in 1976. Other pre-existing bone-marrow disorders such as acquired aplastic anemia following immunosuppressive treatment and Fanconi anemia can evolve into MDS.MDS is thought to arise from mutations in the multipotent bone-marrow stem cell, but the specific defects responsible for these diseases remain poorly understood. Diagnosis
The elimination of other causes of cytopenias, along with a dysplastic bone marrow, is required to diagnose a myelodysplastic syndrome, so differentiating MDS from anemia, thrombocytopenia, and leukopenia is important.A typical diagnostic investigation includes:

Full blood count and examination of blood film: The blood film morphology can provide clues about hemolytic anemia, clumping of the platelets leading to spurious thrombocytopenia, or leukemia. Myelodysplastic syndrome unclassified
The WHO has proposed a criterion for diagnosis and classification of MDS that may apply to most cases. Genetic markers
Although not yet formally incorporated in the generally accepted classification systems, molecular profiling of myelodysplastic syndrome genomes has increased the understanding of prognostic molecular factors for this disease. Myelodysplastic syndromes: ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up † Myelodysplastic syndromes: ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. Myelodysplastic syndrome
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are a group of cancers in which immature blood cells in the bone marrow do not mature and therefore do not become healthy blood cells. 
Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation [SEP] Additionally, PCP is known to be crucial to major developmental time points including coordinating convergent extension during gastrulation and coordinating cell behavior for neural tube closure. Some of these PCP components are transmembrane proteins which can proliferate the orientation signal to the surrounding cells. Early PCP research focused on its role in embryology and genetics, but the discovery that PCP proteins were localized asymmetrically within the cell pushed the topic into the world of cell biology.There was a surge in interest in the Planar Cell Polarity pathway after conserved PCP genes were found to be involved in important vertebrate processes vertebrate gastrulation, mammalian ear patterning and hearing, and neural tube closure. The core PCP genes in Drosophila and other vertebrates are Frizzled (Fz), Flamingo (Fmi), Strabismus (Stbm)/Van-gogh (Vang), Prickle (Pk), Dishevelled (Dsh), Diego (Dgo), and trimeric G protein Gαo.Frizzled (Fz) -The first frizzled mutant in Drosophila was identified in 1982 by D. Gubb and A. Garcia-Bellido. The PCP pathway is activated via the binding of Wnt to Fz and its co-receptor. In fish and frogs, β-catenin produced by canonical Wnt signaling causes the formation of organizing centers, which, alongside BMPs, elicit posterior formation. The activity and localization of the PM-localized PIN proteins is regulated by several phosphorylations on their large cytosolic hydrophilic loop carried out by kinases of the AGC family (e.g. Formation of the neuroectoderm is first step in the development of the nervous system. 
Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. [SEP] Some of these PCP components are transmembrane proteins which can proliferate the orientation signal to the surrounding cells. Early PCP research focused on its role in embryology and genetics, but the discovery that PCP proteins were localized asymmetrically within the cell pushed the topic into the world of cell biology.There was a surge in interest in the Planar Cell Polarity pathway after conserved PCP genes were found to be involved in important vertebrate processes vertebrate gastrulation, mammalian ear patterning and hearing, and neural tube closure. The PCP pathway is activated via the binding of Wnt to Fz and its co-receptor. The PM-localized PIN proteins show asymmetrical localisations on the membrane and are therefore responsible for polar auxin transport. The activity and localization of the PM-localized PIN proteins is regulated by several phosphorylations on their large cytosolic hydrophilic loop carried out by kinases of the AGC family (e.g. The notochord is found ventral to the neural tube. Neurology
Research into the notochord has played a key role in understanding the development of the central nervous system. Motor neuron formation generally occurs in the ventral neural tube, while the dorsal tube generally forms sensory cells.The notochord secretes a protein called sonic hedgehog (SHH), a key morphogen regulating organogenesis and having a critical role in signaling the development of motor neurons. 
GATA-3 is important for hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function. [SEP] This event requires a special environment, termed the hematopoietic stem cell niche, which provides the protection and signals necessary to carry out the differentiation of cells from HSC progenitors. Composition of the bone marrow niche
In addition to the cytokines and cell signaling molecules mentioned above, the HSC niche in the bone marrow provides soluble factors, forces, and cell-mediated interactions necessary to maintain the hematopoietic potential of the stem cells located there. The landscape of the HSC niche in the bone marrow is constantly changing, and the acellular factors, as much as the cellular factors, are beginning to reveal the complexity of hematopoietic regulation. Hematopoietic stem cell development. Haematopoietic stem cell development
In the AGM production of HSCs, it is believed that haemogenic endothelial cells play a key role. Indeed in the hematopoietic lineage, it has been found that HOXA9 is preferentially expressed in hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), and is down-regulated as the cell differentiates and matures further.HOXA9 knockout mice have been shown to develop a reduction in the number of circulating common myeloid progenitor cells, which differentiate into erythroid progenitor cells. From these results, it appears that HOXA9 is important in maintaining HSC populations, as well as guiding their differentiation, especially towards myeloid (erythroid and granulocyte) lineages. It is presumed that this is due to direct interaction with the transcription factor GATA-2, which is crucial for HSC development. 
Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. [SEP] The genetic code is nearly the same for all known organisms. Mendel's work demonstrated that alleles assort independently in the production of gametes, or germ cells, ensuring variation in the next generation. In contrast, different human cell types respond to damage differently indicating an absence of a common global response. Each of these epigenetic alterations serves to regulate gene expression without altering the underlying DNA sequence. DNA damage protection and repair does not influence the rate of adaptation by gene regulation and by recombination and selection of alleles. There was not a significant difference in orientation with respect to the feature sizes used. PSA expression does not occur on Schwann cells. PSA expression did not alter molecular and morphological differentiation. 
Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. [SEP] Glycolysis is the metabolic pathway that converts glucose (C6H12O6) into pyruvate, and in most organisms, occurs in the liquid part of cells, the cytosol. Glycolysis is a metabolic pathway that may occur in the presence of oxygen ( aerobic ) or in the absence of oxygen (anaerobic )(In anaerobic conditions pyruvate is converted to lactic acid). Glycolysis also refers to other pathways, such as the Entner–Doudoroff pathway and various heterofermentative and homofermentative pathways. Pyruvate kinase
The final step of glycolysis is catalysed by pyruvate kinase to form pyruvate and another ATP. Intermediates for other pathways
This article concentrates on the catabolic role of glycolysis with regard to converting potential chemical energy to usable chemical energy during the oxidation of glucose to pyruvate. Many of the metabolites in the glycolytic pathway are also used by anabolic pathways, and, as a consequence, flux through the pathway is critical to maintain a supply of carbon skeletons for biosynthesis.The following metabolic pathways are all strongly reliant on glycolysis as a source of metabolites: and many more. Glycolysis in disease
Diabetes
Cellular uptake of glucose occurs in response to insulin signals, and glucose is subsequently broken down through glycolysis, lowering blood sugar levels. Cancer
Malignant tumor cells perform glycolysis at a rate that is ten times faster than their noncancerous tissue counterparts. 
Golli-deficient T-cells prefer to differentiate into an anergic phenotype in the adaptive immune response when there are increased levels of Ca2+ in the cytosol. [SEP] Lymphocytes are said to be anergic when they fail to respond to their specific antigen. T-cell anergy can arise when the T-cell does not receive appropriate co-stimulation in the presence of specific antigen recognition. In this case, beside other pathways, calcium dependent arm of a lymphocyte signalling is activated by TCR. However, when T cells interacts with an antigen not presented by the APCs, that is very probably not the antigen that an immune response should be held against, the T cell undergoes anergy. Where so called recessive tolerance is associated with anergized lymphocytes as described above, in the dominant form of tolerance, specialized T-reg cells which actively ablate the immune response are developed from the naive T lymphocyte. The anergy in T cells can be induced by Ionomycin, the ionophore capable of raising intracellular concentration of calcium ions artificially.Conversely, Ca+II chelators such as EGTA can sequester Calcium ions making them unable to cause the anergy. One mechanism by which this is done is through inducing anergy of the T-cells to antigens and SAgs. Helper T-cells require a much milder activation stimulus than cytotoxic T cells. 
HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years [SEP] Hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 alpha (HNF4A) also known as NR2A1 (nuclear receptor subfamily 2, group A, member 1) is a nuclear receptor that in humans is encoded by the HNF4A gene. Clinical significance
Mutations in the HNF4A gene are associated with a form of diabetes called maturity onset diabetes of the young (MODY), specifically MODY 1. HNF4 (Hepatocyte Nuclear Factor 4) is a nuclear receptor protein mostly expressed in the liver, gut, kidney, and pancreatic beta cells that is critical for liver development. In humans, there are two paralogs of HNF4, HNF4α and HNF4γ, encoded by two separate genes HNF4A and HNF4G respectively. Ligands
HNF4 was originally classified as an orphan receptor that exhibits constitutive transactivation activity apparently by being continuously bound to a variety of fatty acids. Pathology
Mutations in the HNF4A gene have been linked to maturity onset diabetes of the young 1 (MODY1).This seems to be caused by HNF4-a's [1] role in the synthesis of SHBG, which is known to be severely diminished in patients with insulin-resistance. The TCF7L2 allele, for example, increases the risk of developing diabetes by 1.5 times and is the greatest risk of the common genetic variants. Maturity onset diabetes of the young constitute 1–5% of all cases of diabetes in young people. 
Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. [SEP] Headaches and pain can also occur as a result of a brain injury either directly from the damage or due to neurological conditions stemming from the injury. Headaches that occur after a concussion may feel like migraine headaches or tension-type headaches. Most headaches are tension-type headaches, which may be associated with a neck injury that occurred at the same time of the head injury. (see diagnosis above).Headache is one of the criteria for PCS, but it is notably undetermined where the headache comes from. Couch, Lipton, Stewart and Scher (2007) argue that headaches, one of the hallmarks of PCS, occur in a variety of injuries to the head and neck. Furthermore, the headaches may be better accounted for by mechanical causes, such as whiplash, which is often mistaken for PCS. There was an absence of clouding of consciousness or other cognitive impairment other than amnesia. Cognitive deficits are independent of physical disability and can occur in the absence of neurological dysfunction. 
Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. [SEP] Factors to consider in terms of healthcare access include financial limitations (such as insurance coverage), geographical and logistical barriers (such as additional transportation costs and the possibility to take paid time off work to use such services), sociocultural expectations, and personal limitations (lack of ability to communicate with health care providers, poor health literacy, low income). Limitations to health care services affects negatively the use of medical services, the efficacy of treatments, and overall outcome (well-being, mortality rates). Some primary care services are delivered within hospitals. Efficiency and effectiveness
Efficiency is very often confused with effectiveness. For example, a company that is inefficient will have higher operating costs and will be at a competitive disadvantage (or have lower profits than other firms in the market). This type of inefficiency says that we could be organizing people or production processes more effectively. Accessible access to health clubs and fitness centers has been observed to be especially problematic. The most common limitation is that people cannot physically access buildings or transportation, as well as access disaster-related services. 
Helminths interfere with immune system control of macrophages activated by IL-4 favor Mycobacterium tuberculosis replication. [SEP] Helminths are able to survive in their mammalian hosts for many years due to their ability to manipulate the host's immune response by secreting immunomodulatory products. Immunological response
As pathogens in the body, helminths induce an immune response. Secondary effects
Immune changes
In humans, T helper cells and eosinophils respond to helminth infestation. These substances then enter the circulatory and lymphatic systems of the host body.Chronic immune responses to helminthiasis may lead to increased susceptibility to other infections such as tuberculosis, HIV, and malaria. Alternative
TH2 cells play an important role in alternative macrophage activation as part of type 2 immune response against large extracellular pathogens like helminths. Tuberculosis
Once engulfed by a macrophage, the causative agent of tuberculosis, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, avoids cellular defenses and uses the cell to replicate. Recent evidence suggests that in response to the pulmonary infection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the peripheral macrophages matures into M1 phenotype. Macrophages are polarized toward the M1 profile during the early phase of Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection, as well as other mycobacterial species such as Mycobacterium ulcerans (causing Buruli ulcer disease) and Mycobacterium avium.Improper and untimely control of M1 macrophage-mediated inflammatory response can lead to disruption of normal tissue homeostasis and impede vascular repair. 
Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. [SEP] Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are the stem cells that give rise to other blood cells. In vertebrates, the vast majority of hematopoiesis occurs in the bone marrow and is derived from a limited number of hematopoietic stem cells that are multipotent and capable of extensive self-renewal. Hematopoietic stem cells constitute 1:10,000 of cells in myeloid tissue. Hematopoietic stem cells can replenish all blood cell types (i.e., are multipotent) and self-renew. This enables Hematopoietic stem cells to be harvested directly from the blood. The doses are stored frozen until needed.The FDA has approved five hematopoietic stem-cell products derived from umbilical-cord blood, for the treatment of blood and immunological diseases.In 2014, the European Medicines Agency recommended approval of limbal stem cells for people with severe limbal stem cell deficiency due to burns in the eye. Research using both hematopoietic adult stem cells and embryonic stem cells has provided insight into the possible mechanisms and methods of treatment for many of these ailments.Fully mature human red blood cells may be generated ex vivo by hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), which are precursors of red blood cells. Hematopoietic stem cells have also been discovered to be travelling in the blood stream and possess equal differentiating ability as other mesenchymal stem cells, again with a very non-invasive harvesting technique.There has been more recent interest in the use of extra embryonic mesenchymal stem cells. 
High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. [SEP] For example, all-cause mortality is increased by 1.22 (hazard ratio) when heart rate exceeds 90 beats per minute. A greater reduction in heart rate after exercise during the reference period is associated with a higher level of cardiac fitness.Heart rates assessed during treadmill stress test that do not drop by more than 12 bpm one minute after stopping exercise (if cool-down period after exercise) or by more than 18 bpm one minute after stopping exercise (if no cool-down period and supine position as soon as possible) are associated with an increased risk of death. Correlation with cardiovascular mortality risk
A number of investigations indicate that faster resting heart rate has emerged as a new risk factor for mortality in homeothermic mammals, particularly cardiovascular mortality in human beings. Faster heart rate may accompany increased production of inflammation molecules and increased production of reactive oxygen species in cardiovascular system, in addition to increased mechanical stress to the heart. Higher heart rate is thought to be correlated with an increase in heart attack and about a 46 percent increase in hospitalizations for non-fatal or fatal heart attack.Other studies have shown that a high resting heart rate is associated with an increase in cardiovascular and all-cause mortality in the general population and in patients with chronic diseases. A faster resting heart rate is associated with shorter life expectancy  and is considered a strong risk factor for heart disease and heart failure, independent of level of physical fitness. Exercise
Cardiorespiratory fitness can be increased by means of regular physical activity and exercise. demonstrated the added and unique utility of estimated cardiorespiratory fitness (eCRF) in predicting risk of cardiovascular disease and all-cause mortality.Various methods of measurement exist for determining an individual's cardiorespiratory fitness. 
High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. [SEP] In states of hypocalcemia, calcium will leave the bones and may give rise to secondary hyperparathyroidism, which is a response by the body to increase serum calcium levels. Special cases
To maintain blood levels of calcium, therapeutic vitamin D doses are sometimes administered (up to 100,000 IU or 2.5 mg daily) to patients who have had their parathyroid glands removed (most commonly kidney dialysis patients who have had tertiary hyperparathyroidism, but also to patients with primary hyperparathyroidism) or with hypoparathyroidism. As high intake of vitamin D is a cause of raised calcium levels (hypercalcemia), the addition of vitamin K may be beneficial in helping to prevent vascular calcification, particularly in people with chronic kidney disease. Signs and symptoms
An excess of vitamin D causes abnormally high blood concentrations of calcium, which can cause overcalcification of the bones, soft tissues, heart and kidneys. Those with an otherwise adequate calcium intake can develop osteoporosis due to the inability to absorb calcium and/or vitamin D. Other micronutrients such as vitamin K or vitamin B12 deficiency may also contribute. It is recommended to use calcium or Vitamin D as prevention. A 2018 review by the USPSTF found low-quality evidence that the routine use of calcium and vitamin D supplements (or both supplements together) did not reduce the risk of having an osteoporotic fracture in male and female adults living in the community who had no known history of vitamin D deficiency, osteoporosis, or a fracture. Implications in Human Diseases
Transient Neonatal Hyperparathyroidism
Loss of TRPV6 in murine placenta severely impairs Ca2+ transport across trophoblast and reduces embryo growth, induces bone calcification, and impairs bone development. 
High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). [SEP] C-reactive protein (CRP) is a common inflammatory marker that has been found to be present in increased levels in patients at risk for cardiovascular disease. Chronic respiratory disease
Chronic Respiratory Diseases (CRDs) are diseases of the lungs and airways. Common CRDs are: Asthma, Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, Occupational lung disease, and Pulmonary hypertension. The main risk factors for developing CRDs are: tobacco smoking, indoor and outdoor air pollution, allergens, and occupational risks.WHO helped launch the Global Alliance against Chronic Respiratory Diseases (GARD) in 2006. C-reactive protein (CRP) may help support the diagnosis. For those with CRP less than 20 mg/L without convincing evidence of pneumonia, antibiotics are not recommended.Procalcitonin may help determine the cause and support decisions about who should receive antibiotics. The pneumococcal vaccine has been shown to reduce the risk of community acquired pneumonia in people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, but does not reduce mortality or the risk of hospitalization for people with this condition. In the study, PCT outperformed CRP in diagnostic accuracy of predicting sepsis.In a 2018 meta-analysis of randomized trials of over 4400 ICU patients with sepsis, researchers concluded that PCT led therapy resulted in lower mortality and lower antibiotic administration. 
High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. [SEP] Copeptin, a more stable and easily measured product
of pro-AVP processing, may be a means of identifying patients with low endogenous vasopressin concentrations. Copeptin (also known as CT-proAVP) is a 39-amino acid-long peptide derived from the C-terminus of pre-pro-hormone of arginine vasopressin, neurophysin II and copeptin. In contrast, copeptin can be immunologically tested with ease and therefore can be used as a vasopressin surrogate marker. Synthesis and secretion
Copeptin is a 39-amino acid-long, glycosylated peptide. The clinical interest in copeptin testing is closely linked to the pathophysiological pathways in which vasopressin is involved: polydipsia-polyuria syndrome, hyponatremia, syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) as well as heart failure and acute coronary syndrome. In blood
The concentration of copeptin in the blood circulation ranges from 1 to 12 pmol/L in healthy individuals. Acute myocardial infarction
Several studies have shown that copeptin is released very early during the onset of an acute myocardial infarction (AMI), raising the question of its potential value in the diagnosis of AMI and particularly in ruling-out AMI. Recently, a similar interest has been demonstrated for copeptin in heart failure. 
High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). [SEP] Measurements of cardiac-specific troponins I and T are extensively used as diagnostic and prognostic indicators in the management of myocardial infarction and acute coronary syndrome. Blood troponin levels may be used as a diagnostic marker for stroke or other myocardial injury that is ongoing, although the sensitivity of this measurement is low. After a myocardial infarction troponins may remain high for up to 2 weeks.Cardiac troponins are a marker of all heart muscle damage, not just myocardial infarction, which is the most severe form of heart disorder. Elevated concentration of cTnI and cTnT in blood samples can be detected even 5–8 days after onset of the symptoms, making both proteins useful also for the late diagnosis of AMI. A host of diagnostic companies make cTnI immunoassay methods available on many different immunoassay platforms.Troponin elevation following cardiac cell necrosis starts within 2–3 hours, peaks in approx. The cardiac subtype of troponin T is especially useful in the laboratory diagnosis of heart attack because it is released into the blood-stream when damage to heart muscle occurs. Increased troponin T levels after an episode of chest pain indicates myocardial infarction. In patients with stable coronary artery disease, the troponin T concentration has long been found to be significantly associated with the incidence of cardiovascular death and heart failure, but it was 2014 before it began to be accepted as a predictor of who would later suffer acute myocardial infarction (heart attack). 
Histone demethylase recruitment and a transient decrease in histone methylation is necessary for ligand-dependent induction of transcription by nuclear receptors. [SEP] Histone demethylase may refer to:

Demethylase
(Histone-H3)-lysine-36 demethylase Demethylases are enzymes that remove methyl (CH3) groups from nucleic acids, proteins (particularly histones), and other molecules. Demethylases are important epigenetic proteins, as they are responsible for transcriptional regulation of the genome by controlling the methylation of DNA and histones, and by extension, the chromatin state at specific gene loci. Histone lysine demethylation
Histone methylation was initially considered an effectively irreversible process as the half-life of the histone methylation was approximately equal to the histone half-life. Two main classes of histone lysine demethylases exist, defined by their mechanisms: flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD)-dependent amine oxidases and α-ketoglutarate-dependent hydroxylases. Histone lysine demethylases possess a variety of domains that are responsible for histone recognition, DNA binding, methylated amino acid substrate binding and catalytic activity. These include:

FAD-dependent amine oxidase domains containing the active catalytic site of KDM1
Jumonji-C domains containing the active catalytic site of KDM2 through KDM8
Jumonji-N domains responsible for Jumonji-C domain conformation stability
SWIRM (SWI3P, RSC8P and Moira) domains proposed as an anchor site for histone substrates and responsible for chromatin stability
PHD, CXXC and C5HC2 zinc finger domains responsible for histone recognition and binding
Histone lysine demethylases are classified according to their domains and unique substrate specificities. Phosphorylation of CheB protein enhances its catalytic MCP demethylating activity resulting in adaption of the cell to environmental stimuli. 
Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. [SEP] Ribosome maturation protein SBDS is a protein that in humans is encoded by the SBDS gene. Knockdown of SBDS expression results in increased apoptosis in erythroid cells undergoing differentiation due to elevated ROS levels. Hence SBDS is critical for normal erythropoiesis.This family is highly conserved in species ranging from archaea to vertebrates and plants. The family contains several Shwachman-Bodian-Diamond syndrome (SBDS) proteins from both mouse and humans. It is associated with the SBDS gene and has autosomal recessive inheritance. The SBDS gene resides in a block of genomic sequence that is locally duplicated on the chromosome. The marked absence of patients homozygous for the otherwise common nonsense mutation suggested that the SBDS gene is essential. Mechanisms
The SBDS gene is expressed in all tissues and encodes a protein of 250 amino acid residues. 
Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. [SEP] Inflammatory diseases
HTLV myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis
HTLV-1 is also associated with a progressive demyelinating upper motor neuron disease known as HTLV-1 associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP), characterized by sensory and motor deficits, particularly of the lower extremities, incontinence and impotence. Only 0.3 to 4% of infected individuals develop HAM/TSP, but this will vary from one geographic location to another.Signs and symptoms of HTLV myelopathy include:

Motor and sensory changes in the extremities
Spastic gait in combination with weakness of the lower limbs
Clonus
Bladder dysfunction(neurogenic bladder) and bladder cancerOther neurologic findings that may be found in HTLV include:

Mild cognitive impairment
Erectile dysfunction

Arthropathy
HTLV-1 is associated with a rheumatoid-like arthropathy, although the evidence is contradictory. Tropical spastic paraparesis (TSP), is a medical condition that causes weakness, muscle spasms, and sensory disturbance by human T-lymphotropic virus resulting in paraparesis, weakness of the legs. Pathogenesis
In Tropical spastic paraparesis, HTLV-1 shows elevated cellular acquired immune response as well as high production of proinflammatory cytokines. Inflammatory diseases
HTLV myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis
HTLV-1 is also associated with a progressive demyelinating upper motor neuron disease known as HTLV-1 associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP), characterized by sensory and motor deficits, particularly of the lower extremities, incontinence and impotence. Tropical spastic paraparesis (TSP), is a medical condition that causes weakness, muscle spasms, and sensory disturbance by human T-lymphotropic virus resulting in paraparesis, weakness of the legs. Pathogenesis
In Tropical spastic paraparesis, HTLV-1 shows elevated cellular acquired immune response as well as high production of proinflammatory cytokines. Inflammatory diseases
HTLV myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis
HTLV-1 is also associated with a progressive demyelinating upper motor neuron disease known as HTLV-1 associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP), characterized by sensory and motor deficits, particularly of the lower extremities, incontinence and impotence. 
Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. [SEP] Fibrin also binds and reduces the activity of thrombin. In addition to forming fibrin, fibrinogen also promotes blood clotting by forming bridges between, and activating, blood platelets through binding to their GpIIb/IIIa surface membrane fibrinogen receptor.Fibrin participates in limiting blood clot formation and degrading formed blood clots by at least two important mechanisms. Congenital hypofibrinogenemia
Congenital hypofibrinogenemia is a rare inherited disorder in which blood may not clot normally due to reduced levels of fibrinogen (plasma fibrinogen typically <150 but >50 mg/dl). The levels of clotted fibrinogen in this test should be decreased in hypofibrinogenemia, hypodysfibrinogenemia, and dysfibrinogenemia and undetectable in afibrinogenemia. In these cases, the hyperfibrinogenemia may contribute to the development of pathological thrombosis. High fibrinogen levels had been proposed as a predictor of hemorrhagic complications during catheter-directed thrombolysis for acute or subacute peripheral native artery and arterial bypass occlusions. Popliteal bypass surgery, more commonly known as femoropopliteal bypass (FPB, fem-pop, etc.) Uses
Femoropopliteal bypass surgery is mainly used to treat cases of femoral artery blockage that cause more severe symptoms that restrict completion of daily tasks such as peripheral artery disease and claudication, or cases that have not responded well to other treatment options . 
Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. [SEP] Elevated levels of fibrinogen in inflammation as well as cancer and other conditions have been suggested to be the cause of thrombosis and vascular injury that accompanies these conditions. In addition to forming fibrin, fibrinogen also promotes blood clotting by forming bridges between, and activating, blood platelets through binding to their GpIIb/IIIa surface membrane fibrinogen receptor.Fibrin participates in limiting blood clot formation and degrading formed blood clots by at least two important mechanisms. Congenital hypofibrinogenemia
Congenital hypofibrinogenemia is a rare inherited disorder in which blood may not clot normally due to reduced levels of fibrinogen (plasma fibrinogen typically <150 but >50 mg/dl). In these cases, the hyperfibrinogenemia may contribute to the development of pathological thrombosis. Hyperfibrinogenemia has also been linked as a cause of persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn and post-operative thrombosis. High fibrinogen levels had been proposed as a predictor of hemorrhagic complications during catheter-directed thrombolysis for acute or subacute peripheral native artery and arterial bypass occlusions. Popliteal bypass surgery, more commonly known as femoropopliteal bypass (FPB, fem-pop, etc.) Uses
Femoropopliteal bypass surgery is mainly used to treat cases of femoral artery blockage that cause more severe symptoms that restrict completion of daily tasks such as peripheral artery disease and claudication, or cases that have not responded well to other treatment options . 
Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. [SEP] The main risk factors that increase the likelihood of developing diabetic nephropathy are:
Poor control of blood glucose
Uncontrolled high blood pressure
Type 1 diabetes mellitus, with onset before age 20
Past or current cigarette use
A family history of diabetic nephropathy- certain genes have been identified that are associated with DN. Epidemiology
Diabetic nephropathy affects approximately a third of patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Diabetic retinopathy is particularly common in those with type 1 diabetes – affecting 25% of people five years from diagnosis, 60% 10 years from diagnosis, and 80% 15 years from diagnosis. In terms of epidemiology, hypoglycemic unawarenss occurs in 20–40% of type 1 diabetics. Research has shown that patients with type 1 diabetes who use continuous glucose monitoring systems with insulin pumps significantly improve blood glucose control. Epidemiology
Hypoglycemia is common in people with type 1 diabetes, and in people with type 2 diabetes taking insulin, glinides, or sulfonylurea. It is estimated that type 1 diabetics experience two mild, symptomatic episodes of hypoglycemia per week. Additionally, people with type 1 diabetes have at least one severe hypoglyemic episode per year, requiring treatment assistance. 
Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. [SEP] Neurotransmitters found in this area were oddly similar to the gut hormone, secretin, a member of the incretin family, so they named hypocretin to stand for a hypothalamic member of the incretin family. These lesions or generalized processes disrupt the hypocretin neurons and their pathways. Hypocretin
The hypothalamus region of the brain regulates basic functions of hormone release, emotional expression and sleep. One study concluded that the neurochemical hypocretin, also known as orexin, which is regulated by the hypothalamus, was significantly reduced in study participants with symptoms of cataplexy. Hypocretin regulates sleep and states of arousal. Hypocretin deficiency is further associated with decreased levels of histamine and epinephrine, chemicals important in promoting wakefulness, arousal and alertness. In narcolepsy, there seems to be an increase in these neurons, possibly to compensate for hypocretin loss. Histamine-producing neurons are found in the tuberomammillary nucleus of the hypothalamus. 
Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. [SEP] The greatest risk factor for developing dementia is aging, however dementia is not a normal part of aging. Often there are other conditions present such as high blood pressure, or diabetes, and there can sometimes be as many as four of these comorbidities.People with dementia are also more likely to have problems with incontinence: they are three times more likely to have urinary and four times more likely to have fecal incontinence compared to people of similar ages.Dementia symptoms can vary widely from person to person. Prevention
Risk factors
A 2020 review increased the number of associated risk factors for dementia; risks of over-indulgence in alcohol, traumatic brain injury, and air pollution were added to lower levels of education, high blood pressure, hearing loss, smoking, obesity, depression, inactivity, diabetes, and low social contact. Diet
Diet is seen to be a modifiable risk factor for the development of dementia. Raised blood sugar levels over a long time, can damage nerves and cause memory problems if they are not managed. In prospective studies, people hospitalised from any cause appear to be at greater risk of dementia and faster trajectories of cognitive decline, but these studies did not specifically look at delirium. Diabetic encephalopathy is the increased cognitive decline and risk of dementia, including (but not limited to) the Alzheimer's type, observed in diabetes. hypoglycemia causing altered mental status), in addition to further evaluating a patient's risk factors for ischemic events. 
Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. [SEP] Glutamate is used at the great majority of fast excitatory synapses in the brain and spinal cord. It is thought that hypothalamic neurons tonically produce endocannabinoids that work to tightly regulate hunger. The hypothalamus also regulates food intake through autonomic signals, and hormone release by the digestive system. In humans, blood glucose is the primary source of energy for most cells and is critical for normal function in a number of tissues, including the brain. Brain metabolism normally relies upon blood glucose as an energy source, but during times of low glucose (such as fasting, endurance exercise, or limited carbohydrate intake), the brain uses ketone bodies for fuel with a smaller need for glucose. The brain mostly uses glucose for energy, and deprivation of glucose, as can happen in hypoglycemia, can result in loss of consciousness. Glutamate and GABA
Glutamate, one of the most common neurochemicals in the brain, is an excitatory neurotransmitter involved in many aspects of brain function, including learning and memory. Based upon animal models, exercise appears to normalize the excessive levels of glutamate neurotransmission into the nucleus accumbens that occurs in drug addiction. 
IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. [SEP] Interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the IFIT1 gene. IFIT proteins (Interferon Induced proteins with Tetratricopeptide repeats) are produced in the human body and are supposed to confer immunity against viral infection. These proteins are generally produced during viral infection; Interferon (IFN) treatment;  and during pathogen recognition (Pathogen associated molecular pattern recognition) by the immune system during infections.So far, four families of this protein have been identified in humans which are IFIT1, IFIT2, IFIT3 and IFIT5 and other variants have been found in different species. Anti viral mechanism of IFIT proteins
IFIT proteins are suggested to show anti viral activity in two ways; one, by binding specifically to viral nucleic acids and the other, by directly binding to eukaryotic initiation factor 3 (eIF3) and preventing eIF3 from initiating the translational process. Experimental data and the three dimensional structure of IFIT1 reveals that the proteins bind to viral PPP RNA in a sequence specific manner. Viral replication is the formation of biological viruses during the infection process in the target host cells. Replication is monocistronic and includes individual, segmented genomes, meaning that each of the genes codes for only one protein, unlike other viruses, which exhibit more complex translation. This usually involves the deletion of a part of the viral genome critical for viral replication. 
IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. [SEP] IRG activation in most cases is induced by an immune response and leads to clearance of certain pathogens. Background
Interferon (IFN)-inducible GTPases encompass four families of proteins including myxovirus resistant proteins (Mx), guanylate-binding proteins (GBP), immunity-related GTPase proteins (IRGs), and very large inducible GTPase proteins (VLIG). IRGs confer resistance from vacuolar pathogens by localizing to and disrupting the phagocytic vacuole during infection. The activation of IRGs in mice is induced by interferon. This evidence suggests that IRGs may function in an immune-related capacity in cephalochordates. Additionally, IRGs are implicated in the control of hematopoietic balance during infection. Important neuroinvasive viruses include poliovirus, which is highly neurovirulent but weakly neuroinvasive, and rabies virus, which is highly neurovirulent but requires tissue trauma (often resulting from an animal bite) to become neuroinvasive. Research use
Neurotropic viruses are increasingly being exploited as research tools, and for their potential use in treatment. 
ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). [SEP] The T-cell receptor (TCR) is a protein complex found on the surface of T cells, or T lymphocytes, that is responsible for recognizing fragments of antigen as peptides bound to major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules. This motif is very common in activator receptors of the non-catalytic tyrosine-phosphorylated receptor (NTR) family and is referred to as immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM). Once the TCR binds a specific pMHC, the tyrosine residues of the Immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs (ITAMs) in its CD3 adaptor proteins are phosphorylated. Phosphorylation of ITAMs is mediated by the Src kinase Lck. Tonic TCR signalling is avoided by the presence of phosphatase CD45 that removes phosphorylation from tyrosine residues and inhibits signal initiation. Tyrosine kinase Fyn might be involved in ITAM phosphorylation but is not essential for TCR signalling. Proximal TCR signaling
Phosphorylated ITAMs in the cytoplasmic tails of CD3 recruit protein tyrosine kinase Zap70 that can bind to the phosphorylated tyrosine residues with its SH2 domain. Then the internal cytoplasmic end of the receptor perpetuates signaling inside the T cell.Normal T cell activation relies on the phosphorylation of immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs (ITAMs) present in the cytoplasmic domain of CD3-zeta. 
IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. [SEP] In secretory lymphoid tissues (e.g., gut-associated lymphoid tissue, or GALT), the share of IgA2 production is larger than in the non-secretory lymphoid organs (e.g. Secretory IgA
The high prevalence of IgA in mucosal areas is a result of a cooperation between plasma cells that produce polymeric IgA (pIgA), and mucosal epithelial cells that express polymeric immunoglobulin receptor (pIgR). Polymeric IgA (mainly the secretory dimer) is produced by plasma cells in the lamina propria adjacent to mucosal surfaces. Prevailing evidence suggests that both galactose-deficient o-glycans in the hinge region of IgA1 and synthesis and binding of antibodies against IgA1 are required for immunoglobulin complexes to form and accumulate in glomeruli.From the fact that IgAN can recur after renal transplant, it can be postulated that the disease is caused by a problem in the immune system rather than the kidney itself. Even though IgA production is traditionally associated with mucosal sites, some plasma cells in bone marrow also produce IgA. The deamidation of glutamine residues catalyzed by tTG is thought to be linked to the pathological immune response to gluten in celiac disease. Recent studies have suggested that interferon-γ may serve as an activator of extracellular tTG in the small intestine; these studies have a direct implication to the pathogenesis of celiac disease. Anti-transglutaminase antibodies result in a form of gluten sensitivity in which a cellular response to Triticeae glutens that are crosslinked to tTG are able to stimulate transglutaminase specific B-cell responses that eventually result in the production of anti-transglutaminase antibodies IgA and IgG. 
Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. [SEP] The name 'immunogenic cell death' is also used for one specific type of regulated cell death that initiates an immune response after stress to endoplasmic reticulum. HMGB1 is considered to be a marker of  late ICD and its release to the extracellular space seems to be required for the optimal presentation of antigens by dendritic cells. ATP released during immunogenic cell death functions as a "find-me" signal for phagocytes when secreted and induces their attraction to the site of ICD. This type of cell death is induced by extracellular and intracellular microtraumas detected by death or damage receptors. The cell dies by spilling its contents, mediating the distribution of further immunogenic molecules. Spilling of cytoplasmic components during cell death mediates the immunogenicity of this process. Others
Elevated expression of HMGB1 was found in the sera of people and mice with systemic lupus erythematosus, high mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) is a nuclear protein participating in chromatin architecture and transcriptional regulation. Recently, there is increasing evidence HMGB1 contributes to the pathogenesis of chronic inflammatory and autoimmune diseases due to its inflammatory and immune stimulating properties. 
Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. [SEP] It was recently discovered that γδ17 T cells can produce IL-17 even when the immune response is not induced. IL-17A is important for development and progression of autoimmune diseases. Main sources are Th17 CD4+ αβ T cells, but γδ T cell subset plays role in autoimmune pathogenesis and regulation, too, because they contribute to production of IL-17A and other chemokines. On the other hand, pathogenic γδ T cells produce IL-17. This cytokine induces Th17 cells differentiation, and dendritic cell- mediated production of IL-12 and IL-23 promotes differentiation of Th17 cells to Th1 cells, which produce IFN‐γ. RA patients have higher numbers of γδ T cells producing IL-17. IL-17 induces Th17 cells and Th17 response. Also IL-17 secreted by γδ T cells has pro-tumorogenic role (enhanced angiogenesis, recruitment of macrophages, expansion and polarization of neutrophils and their suppression of CD8+ T cells). 
In adult tissue, most T cells are memory T cells. [SEP] Historically, memory T cells were thought to belong to either the effector or central memory subtypes, each with their own distinguishing set of cell surface markers (see below). Subsequently, numerous new populations of memory T cells were discovered including tissue-resident memory T (Trm) cells, stem memory TSCM cells, and virtual memory T cells. The single unifying theme for all memory T cell subtypes is that they are long-lived and can quickly expand to large numbers of effector T cells upon re-exposure to their cognate antigen. Memory T cells may be either CD4+ or CD8+ and usually express CD45RO.Memory T cell subtypes:

Central memory T cells (TCM cells) express CD45RO, C-C chemokine receptor type 7 (CCR7), and L-selectin (CD62L). Tissue-resident memory T cells (TRM) occupy tissues (skin, lung, etc.) See also
Memory T cell


== References == Found in tissue more commonly than in blood, γδ T cells share characteristics of helper T cells, cytotoxic T cells, and natural killer cells. Main property of γδ T cells is formation of long-lived memory populations in barrier tissues such as intestinal epithelium or in the skin. 
In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. [SEP] Aneuploid
Organisms in which a particular chromosome, or chromosome segment, is under- or over-represented are said to be aneuploid (from the Greek words meaning "not", "good", and "fold"). Aneuploidy is more common. Aneuploidy is the presence of an abnormal number of chromosomes in a cell, for example a human cell having 45 or 47 chromosomes instead of the usual 46. Aneuploidy originates during cell division when the chromosomes do not separate properly between the two cells (nondisjunction). The most frequent aneuploidy in humans is trisomy 16 and fetuses affected with the full version of this chromosome abnormality do not survive to term, although it is possible for surviving individuals to have the mosaic form, where trisomy 16 exists in some cells but not all. However, recent research using single-cell sequencing has challenged these findings, and has suggested that aneuploidy in the brain is actually very rare. However, these forms of mosaic aneuploidy occur through mechanisms distinct from those typically associated with genetic syndromes involving complete or mosaic aneuploidy, such as chromosomal instability (due to mitotic segregation defects in cancer cells). See also
Chromosome abnormality
Chromosome segregation
Nondisjunction
Ploidy
Robertsonian translocation

References
External links

Aneuploidy Testing
Aneuploidy FAQ
Genetics of Aneuploids 
In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. [SEP] Plasmodium chabaudi is a parasite of the genus Plasmodium subgenus Vinckeia. Hosts
While it is difficult to study P. chabaudi in its natural host given the difficulty of taming the thicket rat, it has been studied extensively in laboratory mice, largely using the clone P. chabaudi chabaudi (AS). While it seems to persist for years in the thicket rat, P. chabaudi (AS) lasts up to three months in BALB/c or C57Bl/6 mice  P. falciparum has been observed to persist for up to a year, and even in conditions of drought when there are no new infections. Schneider et al., 2018 finds P. chabaudi is selected to take advantage of the cycles of feeding and lowered immunity of the mosquito. Therefore Reece et al., 2008 find P. chabaudi will bias toward a more even ratio at lower densities and when several clonal lineages are competing with each other in the same host. Parasites of animals are highly specialised, and reproduce at a faster rate than their hosts. But where parasites are competing, selection favours the parasite that reproduces fastest, leading to increased virulence. Competition favouring virulence
Competition between parasites can be expected to favour faster reproducing and therefore more virulent parasites, by natural selection. 
In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. [SEP] Specific deletion of FIRE prevents differentiation of only specific macrophage types such as brain microglia and macrophages in the skin, kidney, heart, and peritoneum whereas deletion of the entire mouse Csf1r gene widely prevents macrophage differentiation, causing profound developmental defects. Damage to the kidney causes upregulation of CSF-1 and CSF1R in tubular epithelial cells. Mice with Csf1r loss-of-function have a significantly more neural progenitor cells in generative zones and fewer matured neurons in forebrain laminae due to failure of progenitor cell maturation and radial migration. Studies using early mouse embryos in vitro have shown that activation of CSF1R stimulates formation of the blastocyst cavity and enhances the number of trophoblast cells. Csf1r loss-of-function mice exhibit several reproductive system abnormalities in the estrous cycle and ovulation rates as well as reduced antral follicles and ovarian macrophages. Mouse models of breast cancer also show that Csf1r loss-of-function delays TAM infiltration and metastasis. TREM2 deficiency in cultured myeloid cells prevents stimulation of proliferation by treatment with CSF-1. Defects in neurogenesis and neuronal survival are also seen in adult-onset leukoencephalopathy due to impaired CSF1R signaling in neural progenitor cells. 
In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. [SEP] Fluorescent materials cease to glow nearly immediately when the radiation source stops, unlike phosphorescent materials, which continue to emit light for some time after. Fluorescent proteins in corals may contribute to photosynthesis by converting otherwise unusable wavelengths of light into ones for which the coral's symbiotic algae are able to conduct photosynthesis. Surprisingly, regulation of Oct4-Sox2 enhancers can occur without Sox2, likely due to expression of other Sox proteins. The loss of Sox2 has also been shown to affect naïve pluripotency, with Sox2-depleted mouse embryonic cells becoming able to differentiate into extraembryonic trophoblast.Deficiency of Sox2 in mice has been shown to result in neural malformities and eventually fetal death, further underlining Sox2's vital role in embryonic development. Its overexpression also activates cellular migration and anchorage-independent growth.Sox2 expression is also found in high gleason grade prostate cancer, and promotes castration-resistant prostate cancer growth.The ectopic expression of SOX2 may be related to abnormal differentiation of colorectal cancer cells.Sox2 has been shown to be relevant in the development of Tamoxifen resistance in breast cancer.In Glioblastoma multiforme, Sox2 is a well-established stem cell transcription factor needed to induce and maintain stemness properties of glioblastoma cancer cells. Some of these gene mutations will cause the Sox2 protein not to be formed, while other mutations will yield a non-functional version of this protein. However, the presence or absence of the other elements have relatively small effects on gene expression in experiments. In these cases, the promoter is implicated in suppression of the non-expressed gene. 
In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. [SEP] A 2015 study in Europe has found that exposure to ultrafine particles can increase blood pressure in children. They can form deposits on the lining of arteries, constricting blood vessels and raising the likelihood of ... strokes and heart attacks. Those children and adolescents already living with diagnosed ADHD were also facing substantial challenges. In some instances, gaming may represent an unhealthy coping mechanism for ADHD youth and has already been demonstrated to exacerbate poor management of symptoms. There is no evidence that colloidal silver treats or prevents any medical condition and it can cause serious and potentially irreversible side effects, such as argyria. Reviews of the scientific literature have consistently found no reason to believe that wind turbines are harmful to health. It is not known if it is safe or cost-effective, but researchers do not believe it poses serious risks. Users of heart medication are particularly vulnerable. 
Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. [SEP] Likewise, a 10-year observational study found that the incidence of depression in 196 transgender women taking high-dose spironolactone in combination with an estrogen was less than 1%. In the years following the WHI, studies have shown a decrease in breast cancer rates in postmenopausal women, attributed to the decline in use of hormone replacement therapy.However, initial interpretation and communication about the studies' findings have come under harsh criticism for failing to clarify that the studies were weighted toward women already 60 or older (average age 63). Systemic hormone therapy has decreased dramatically among U.S. women since the WHI results were published because the findings are being misapplied to treatment decisions for women in their 40s and 50s who have distressing vasomotor symptoms. More importantly, in subsequent years, studies have shown a decrease in breast cancer rates in postmenopausal women, attributed to the decline in use of HT. Heart failure is one condition in which the mechanical properties of the heart have failed or are failing, which means insufficient blood is being circulated. The risk of death from CAD for a given age has decreased between 1980 and 2010 especially in developed countries. The number of cases of CAD for a given age has also decreased between 1990 and 2010. Cardiomyopathy
Heart failure or formally cardiomyopathy, is the impaired function of the heart and there are numerous causes and forms of heart failure. 
Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. [SEP] In developed countries, the widespread use of cervical screening programs has dramatically reduced rates of cervical cancer. Expected scenarios for the reduction of mortality due to cervical cancer worldwide (and specially in low-income countries) have been reviewed, given assumptions with respect to the achievement of recommended prevention targets using triple-intervention strategies defined by WHO. Over the 5 years 2016–2020, the age-standardised mortality rate among Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander women was 3.8 times the rate of non-Indigenous Australians.The number of women diagnosed with cervical cancer has dropped on average by 4.5% each year since organised screening began in 1991 (1991–2005). India
In India, the number of people with cervical cancer is rising, but overall the age-adjusted rates are decreasing. Cervical cancer deaths decreased by approximately 74% in the last 50 years, largely due to widespread Pap test screening. Death from childhood cancer decreased by half between 1975 and 2010 in the United States. This reduction in precancerous lesions might be predicted to reduce the rates of penile and anal cancer in men. The drop in number of infections is expected to in turn lead to a decline in cervical and other HPV-related cancers in the future. 
Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. [SEP] In developed countries, the widespread use of cervical screening programs has dramatically reduced rates of cervical cancer. Smoking
Cigarette smoking, both active and passive, increases the risk of cervical cancer. Also, not only does it aid in the development of HPV, but also if the woman is already HPV-positive, she is at an even greater likelihood of contracting cervical cancer. Canada
An estimated 1,450 Canadians will be diagnosed with cervical cancer in 2022. India
In India, the number of people with cervical cancer is rising, but overall the age-adjusted rates are decreasing. United States
An estimated 13,170 new cervical cancers and 4,250 cervical cancer deaths will occur in the United States in 2019. It has since been demonstrated that HPV is implicated in virtually all cervical cancers. Cervical cytology tests can often detect cervical cancer and its precursors, and enable early successful treatment. 
Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. [SEP] In another study in which increasing microtubule acetylation using deacetylase inhibitors or the tubulin acetylase αTAT1 showed prevention of the association of mutant LRRK2 with microtubules, inhibition of deacetylases HDAC6 and Sirt2 through knockdown processes rescued both axonal transport and locomotor behavior. Microtubules play an important role in a number of cellular processes. This combination of roles makes microtubules important for organizing and moving intracellular constituents. Thus, it is believed that tubulin modifications regulate the interaction of motors with the microtubule. Dynamic instability of microtubules is also required for the migration of most mammalian cells that crawl. The kinesin-13 superfamily of MAPs contains a class of plus-end-directed motor proteins with associated microtubule depolymerization activity including the well-studied mammalian MCAK and Xenopus XKCM1. Polo-like kinase, also known as PLK, especially PLK1 has important roles in the spindle maintenance by regulating microtubule dynamics. In another study in which increasing microtubule acetylation using deacetylase inhibitors or the tubulin acetylase αTAT1 showed prevention of the association of mutant LRRK2 with microtubules, inhibition of deacetylases HDAC6 and Sirt2 through knockdown processes rescued both axonal transport and locomotor behavior. 
Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. [SEP] Autologous stem cell bone marrow transplantation has not improved the results of these regiments. Cases refractory to these regimens have a poor prognosis with average overall three-year survival rates of ~7%. The lesions often center around and evidence destruction of small blood vessels but, paradoxically, do not contain well‑formed granulomas. These regimens have shown only limited results with five-year overall survival rates <50% for chemotherapy alone. the do not show vascular proliferation. However, results with these regimens have been poor with little improvement in survival times. Further studies on the usefulness of radiation, chemotherapy, bone marrow transplantation, and newer non-chemotherapy drugs such as the BRAF oncogene inhibitor, vemurafenib, (for individuals with the BRAF oncogene), are needed. 9 May
A study reports that declining numbers of the largest fish on Earth, the endangered whale shark, may be linked to collisions with large vessels in the global transport fleet. 
Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. [SEP] Vitamin D deficiency can result in lower bone mineral density and an increased risk of reduced bone density (osteoporosis) or bone fracture because a lack of vitamin D alters mineral metabolism in the body. Cognition and dementia
A systematic review of clinical studies found an association between low vitamin D levels with cognitive impairment and a higher risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. Schizophrenia
Trials have demonstrated lower vitamin D levels are highly prevalent in people with schizophrenia, particularly those with acute episodes. As a consequence of vitamin D deficiency, they are at a higher risk of developing rickets, numerous types of cancers, and possibly cardiovascular disease and low immune system activity. Vitamin D plays an important role in regulating the human immune system and chronic deficiencies in vitamin D can make humans susceptible to specific types of cancers and many kinds of infectious diseases. Vitamin D deficiency increases the risk of developing tuberculosis five-fold and also contributes to the development of breast, prostate, and colorectal cancer.The most prevalent disease to follow vitamin D deficiency is rickets, the softening of bones in children potentially leading to fractures and deformity. Low vitamin D levels have also been linked to impaired immune system and brain functions. In addition, recent studies have linked vitamin D deficiency to autoimmune diseases, hypertension, multiple sclerosis, diabetes and incidence of memory loss. 
Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. [SEP] Human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 or human T-lymphotropic virus (HTLV-I), also called the adult T-cell lymphoma virus type 1, is a retrovirus of the human T-lymphotropic virus (HTLV) family that has been implicated in several kinds of diseases including very aggressive adult T-cell lymphoma (ATL), HTLV-I-associated myelopathy, uveitis, Strongyloides stercoralis hyper-infection and some other diseases. Epidemiology
The knowledge about HTLV-1 epidemiology is limited.The highest prevalence for any country has been detected in Japan (particularly in the southwest); in 2007 around 1% of Japan's population was infected. In Americas the virus is found in indigenous populations and descendants of African ancestry from where it is thought to have originated. In Africa the prevalence is not well known, but it is about 1% in some countries.HTLV-I infection in the United States appears to be about half as prevalent among IV drug users and about one-tenth as prevalent in the population at large as HIV infection. A prevalence rate of 30% has been found among black intravenous drug users in New Jersey, and a rate of 49% has been found in a similar group in New Orleans.HTLV-I infection in Australia is very high among the indigenous peoples of central and northern Australia, with a prevalence rate of 10–45%. Although HTLV-1 is primarily found in CD4+ T cells, other cell types in the peripheral blood of infected individuals have been found to contain HTLV-1, including CD8+ T cells, dendritic cells and B cells. Opportunistic infections
Individuals infected with HTLV-1 are at risk for opportunistic infections—diseases not caused by the virus itself, but by alterations in the host's immune functions.HTLV-1, unlike the distantly related retrovirus HIV, has an immunostimulating effect which actually becomes immunosuppressive. HIV-1 is the virus that was initially discovered and termed both lymphadenopathy associated virus (LAV) and human T-lymphotropic virus 3 (HTLV-III). 
Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. [SEP] Function
PTEN protein acts as a phosphatase to dephosphorylate phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate (PtdIns (3,4,5)P3 or PIP3). PTEN specifically catalyses the dephosphorylation of the 3` phosphate of the inositol ring in PIP3, resulting in the biphosphate product PIP2 (PtdIns(4,5)P2). The enzyme phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate 3-phosphatase (EC 3.1.3.67) catalyzes the chemical reaction

1-phosphatidyl-1D-myo-inositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate + H2O = 1-phosphatidyl-1D-myoinositol 4,5-bisphosphate + phosphateThis enzyme class belongs to the family of hydrolases, specifically those acting on phosphoric monoester bonds. [1] PI kinases catalyze phosphate groups binding while PI phosphatases remove phosphate groups at the three positions on the PI inositol ring, giving seven different combinations of PI’s.PtdIns(3,4)P2 is dephophosphorylated by the phosphatase INPP4B on the 4 position of the inositol ring and by the TPTE (transmembrane phosphatases with tensin homology) family of phosphatases on the 3 position of the inositol ring. Phosphatases SHIP1 and SH2-containing inositol 5’-polyphosphatases (SHIP2) produce PtdIns(3,4)P2 through desphosphorylation of PtdIns(3,4,5)P3’s 5’ inositol ring position. Inositol polyphosphate 4-phosphatase isozymes, INPP4A and INPP4B, also act as negative PtdIns(3,4)P2 regulators, though through a more direct interaction- by hydrolyzing PtdIns(3,4)P2’s 4-phosphate, producing PI3P. Phosphoinositide formation
Activated PI3K catalyses the addition of phosphate groups to the 3'-OH position the inositol ring of phosphoinositides (PtdIns), producing three lipid products, PI(3)P, PI(3,4)P2 and PI(3,4,5)P3:
Phosphatidylinositol (PI) → PI 3-phosphate, (PI(4)P) → PI 3,4-bisphosphate, (PI(4,5)P2) → PI 3,4,5-triphosphate
These phosphorylated lipids are anchored to the plasma membrane, where they can directly bind intracellular proteins containing a pleckstrin homology (PH) or FYVE domain. These poly-phosphate inositol phosphatases dephosphorylate PIP3 to form PIP2. 
Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. [SEP] Alleviation of poverty, as a result, plays an essential role in eliminating homelessness. This study shows that a proper approach to poverty could effectively eliminate this factor as part of a solution to homelessness. Physical and mental health
Homelessness is closely connected to declines in physical and mental health. Their prolonged hospital stays impose a significant cost on the healthcare system and deprive others of receiving timely healthcare.Studies show that preventive and primary care (which homeless people are not receiving) substantially lower overall healthcare costs. It is apparent that a comprehensive solution to homelessness must include an effective approach to providing healthcare to homeless people. A 2021 systematic review of 28 interventions, mostly in North America, showed that interventions with the highest levels of support led to improved outcomes for both housing stability, and health outcomes.Government initiatives: In South Australia, the state government of Premier Mike Rann (2002–2011) committed substantial funding to a series of initiatives designed to combat homelessness. They have sought to counteract the causes and reduce the consequences by starting initiatives that help homeless people transition to self-sufficiency. In September 2019, the Council of Economic Advisers released a report in which they stated that deregulation of the housing markets would reduce homelessness in some of the most constrained markets by estimates of 54% in San Francisco, 40 percent in Los Angeles,: 1  and 38 percent in San Diego, because rents would fall by 55 percent, 41 percent, and 39 percent respectively. 
Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. [SEP] Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) is a psycho-social intervention that aims to reduce symptoms of various mental health conditions, primarily depression and anxiety disorders. Cognitive behavioral therapy is one of the most effective means of treatment for substance abuse and co-occurring mental health disorders. Along with interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT), CBT is recommended in treatment guidelines as a psychosocial treatment of choice. Depression and anxiety disorders
Cognitive behavioral therapy has been shown as an effective treatment for clinical depression. In contrast, a 2013 meta-analyses suggested that CBT, interpersonal therapy, and problem-solving therapy outperformed psychodynamic psychotherapy and behavioral activation in the treatment of depression.According to a 2004 review by INSERM of three methods, cognitive behavioral therapy was either proven or presumed to be an effective therapy on several mental disorders. Computerized CBT (CCBT) has been proven to be effective by randomized controlled and other trials in treating insomnia. CCBT was found to be equally effective as face-to-face CBT in insomnia.A Cochrane review of interventions aimed at preventing psychological stress in healthcare workers found that CBT was more effective than no intervention but no more effective than alternative stress-reduction interventions.Cochrane Reviews have found no convincing evidence that CBT training helps foster care providers manage difficult behaviors in the youths under their care, nor was it helpful in treating people who abuse their intimate partners.CBT has been applied in both clinical and non-clinical environments to treat disorders such as personality disorders and behavioral problems. When cognitive behavioral therapy is not an option, pharmacotherapy can be used. 
Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. [SEP] Chronic kidney disease results in worse all-cause mortality (the overall death rate) which increases as kidney function decreases. Instead, the kidneys are responsible for removing insulin from the body, and when this function is impaired in kidney failure, the insulin stays in circulation longer, leading to hypoglycemia. Causes of chronic kidney failure include diabetes, high blood pressure, nephrotic syndrome, and polycystic kidney disease. Furthermore, since insulin lowers blood sugar levels, complications may arise from low blood sugar if more insulin is taken than necessary.Type 1 diabetes makes up an estimated 5–10% of all diabetes cases. Decreased insulin production is then associated with hyperglycemia, polydipsia and polyuria. Damage to the kidneys, known as diabetic nephropathy, can lead to tissue scarring, urine protein loss, and eventually chronic kidney disease, sometimes requiring dialysis or kidney transplantation. kidney failure), which often lead to premature death and are often listed as the underlying cause on death certificates rather than diabetes. In the developed world, and increasingly elsewhere, type 2 diabetes is the largest cause of nontraumatic blindness and kidney failure. 
Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance [SEP] In addition, the fact that many jobs can be done remotely thanks to modern technology further eroded the relative advantage of education in the West, resulting in a backlash against immigration and globalization.As more and more women became educated in the developing world, more leave the rural areas for the cities, enter the work force and compete with men, sparking resentment among men in those countries.For information on public support for higher education (for domestic students) in the OECD in 2011, see chart below. By the 1990s, students and their families were expected to pay 37% of the cost, up from a quarter in the late 1980s. Consequently, many schools have relinquished these subjects, dismissed faculty members, or closed completely. According to The Atlantic, 48% of students majoring in STEM dropped out of their programs between 2003 and 2009. Moreover, according education experts, many mathematics schoolteachers were not as well-versed in their subjects as they should be, and might well be uncomfortable with mathematics. Other researchers noted that the rise of the Internet, computer games, and social media could play a role, too, since older and married couples also had sex less often. Use of digital technology
Marc Prensky coined the term "digital native" to describe "K through college" students in 2001, explaining they "represent the first generations to grow up with this new technology". Santiniketan and Visva-Bharati
Tagore despised rote classroom schooling: in "The Parrot's Training", a bird is caged and force-fed textbook pages—to death. 
Ivermectin is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. [SEP] Ivermectin is an antiparasitic drug. Medical uses
Ivermectin is used to treat human diseases caused by roundworms and a wide variety of external parasites. Worm infections
For river blindness (onchocerciasis) and lymphatic filariasis, ivermectin is typically given as part of mass drug administration campaigns that distribute the drug to all members of a community affected by the disease. In 1998, that donation would be expanded to include ivermectin used to treat lymphatic filariasis.Ivermectin earned the title of "wonder drug" for the treatment of nematodes and arthropod parasites. Ivermectin has been used safely by hundreds of millions of people to treat river blindness and lymphatic filariasis.Half of the 2015 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine was awarded jointly to Campbell and Ōmura for discovering avermectin, "the derivatives of which have radically lowered the incidence of river blindness and lymphatic filariasis, as well as showing efficacy against an expanding number of other parasitic diseases". Tropical diseases
As of 2016 ivermectin was studied as a potential antiviral agent against chikungunya and yellow fever. Ivermectin, a microfilaricidal drug, may be contraindicated in patients who are co-infected with loiasis and have associated high microfilarial loads. It can also be given with ivermectin. 
Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. [SEP] Treatment
In mass drug administration (MDA) programmes, the treatment for onchocerciasis is ivermectin (trade name: Mectizan); infected people can be treated with two doses of ivermectin, six months apart, repeated every three years. Ivermectin is very effective in reducing microfilarial load and reducing number of punctate opacities in individuals with onchocerciasis. Ivermectin is an antiparasitic drug. Medical uses
Ivermectin is used to treat human diseases caused by roundworms and a wide variety of external parasites. Worm infections
For river blindness (onchocerciasis) and lymphatic filariasis, ivermectin is typically given as part of mass drug administration campaigns that distribute the drug to all members of a community affected by the disease. A study has demonstrated that scabies is markedly reduced in populations taking ivermectin regularly; the drug is widely used for treating scabies and other parasitic diseases particularly among the poor and disadvantaged in the tropics, beginning with the developer Merck providing the drug at no cost to treat onchocerciasis from 1987. It was not until 1985 ivermectin was first used to treat Onchocerca volvulus (Onchocerciasis or River blindness) in humans by the United Nations. Recently, ivermectin is being studied for use as an anti inflammatory agent. 
LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. [SEP] Low density lipoproteins (LDL) transport cholesterol from the liver to the rest of the body and therefore raise blood cholesterol levels. Most severe clinical events do not occur at plaques that produce high-grade stenosis. They have shown benefit in reducing cardiovascular disease and mortality in those with high cholesterol with few side effects. By inhibiting this rate-limiting enzyme, the body is unable to produce cholesterol endogenously, therefore reducing serum LDL-cholesterol. A 2010 review concluded that treatment without history of cardiovascular disease reduces cardiovascular events in men but not women, and provides no mortality benefit in either sex. Celiac disease
Untreated celiac disease can cause the development of many types of cardiovascular diseases, most of which improve or resolve with a gluten-free diet and intestinal healing. Total fat intake has not been found to be associated with cardiovascular risk. Cardiovascular disease
Accelerated deposition of cholesterol in the walls of arteries leads to atherosclerosis, the underlying cause of cardiovascular disease. 
Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. [SEP] Abortive initiation (Abi) can also happen without toxin-antitoxin systems, and many Abi proteins of other types exist. Due to incomplete complementarity between the creA guide and the creAT promoter, the Cas complex does not cleave the DNA, but instead remains at the site, where it blocks access by RNA polymerase, preventing expression of the creT toxin (a natural instance of CRISPRi). In large-scale microorganism processes such as fermentation, progeny cells lacking the plasmid insert often have a higher fitness than those who inherit the plasmid and can outcompete the desirable microorganisms. Spores form part of the life cycles of many plants, algae, fungi and protozoa.Bacterial spores are not part of a sexual cycle, but are resistant structures used for survival under unfavourable conditions. Their chief advantage is that, of all forms of progeny, spores require the least energy and materials to produce. Bacillus subtilis is a rod-shaped, Gram-positive bacteria that is naturally found in soil and vegetation, and is known for its ability to form a small, tough, protective and metabolically dormant endospore. Overview
Commitment to sporulation
Although sporulation in B. subtilis is induced by starvation, the sporulation developmental program is not initiated immediately when growth slows due to nutrient limitation. See also
Bacillus
Sporophyte
Bacillus subtilis

References
External links
SubtiList - GenoList - Institut Pasteur
SubtilisWiki (archived)
Bacillus subtilis - Parts Registry
Video - Sporulation in Bacillus subtilis 
Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. [SEP] Factors that have "limited the development of new industries" were listed as follows:

the market is "small", about a million
dependent on imports from France
unable to capitalize on regional markets
entrepreneurial zeal not always present among the Gabonese
a "fairly regular" stream of oil "rent", even if it is diminishingFurther investment in the agricultural or tourism sectors is "complicated by poor infrastructure". 10% of all births were "low birth weight". Schimmelpenning syndrome is a neurocutaneous condition characterized by one or more sebaceous nevi, usually appearing on the face or scalp, associated with anomalies of the central nervous system, ocular system, skeletal system, cardiovascular system and genitourinary system.Synonyms include: "Linear nevus sebaceous syndrome (LNSS)", "Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome", "Feuerstein-Mims syndrome", "sebaceous nevus syndrome", "Solomon syndrome", and "Jadassohn's nevus phakomatosis". The condition was first reported by Gustav Schimmelpenning in 1957 and independently reported by Feuerstein and Mims in 1962. The most common structural central nervous system abnormalities in Schimmelpenning syndrome are hemimegalencephaly and ipselateral gyral malformations.The major ocular abnormalities are colobomas and choristomas.Skeletal abnormalities may include dental irregularities, scoliosis, vitamin D-resistant rickets and hypophosphatemia. Genetic
Schimmelpenning syndrome appears to be sporadic rather than inherited, in almost all cases. Epidermal nevus syndrome (also known as "Feuerstein and Mims syndrome", and "Solomon's syndrome": 775 ) is a rare disease that was first described in 1968 and consists of extensive epidermal nevi with abnormalities of the central nervous system (CNS), skeleton, skin, cardiovascular system, genitourinary system and eyes. Causes of high anion gap metabolic acidosis (HAGMA):

Lactic acidosis
Ketoacidosis
Diabetic ketoacidosis
Hazardous alcohol use
Toxins:
Methanol
Ethylene glycol
Propylene glycol
Lactic acid
Uremia
Aspirin
Phenformin (no longer on market in U.S. since 1978 due to severe lactic acidosis, but still a problem globally. 
Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. [SEP] Rho and Ras small GTPases are involved in the principal leukocyte signaling pathways underlying chemokine-stimulated integrin-dependent adhesion, and have important roles in regulating cell shape, adhesion and motility. The family Src is essential for signal transduction in these cells, because it is responsible for phosphorylation of ITAMs. As a result, Rb is hypophosphorylated and inhibits E2F, promoting quiescence in G0-phase of the cell cycle. ROS also interacts with ERK pathway that leads to activation of Ras, MEK and MEK-like proteins. The central elements of DNA damage, epigenetic alterations and deficient DNA repair in progression to cancer are shown in red. One of the first oncogenes to be defined in cancer research is the ras oncogene. Other inherited tumor suppressor gene syndromes include Rb mutations, linked to retinoblastoma, and APC gene mutations, linked to adenopolyposis colon cancer. The substantial presence of ROS/RNS causes DNA damage including 8-oxo-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG). 
Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. [SEP] Thus the condition of leukopenia places individuals at increased risk of infection. Due to changes in surgical practices, medical use of blood is now the major use of red blood cells in high-income countries.Whenever a red cell transfusion is being considered for an individual patient it is good practice to consider not only the hemoglobin level, but also the overall clinical context, patient preferences, and whether there are alternative treatments. Each unit transfused increases the associated risks of transfusion such as infection, transfusion associated circulatory overload and other side effects. Leukoreduced blood products are less likely to cause HLA alloimmunization (development of antibodies against specific blood types), febrile non-hemolytic transfusion reaction, cytomegalovirus infection, and platelet-transfusion refractoriness. cause transfusion reactions, HDN, etc.). Infection
The use of greater amount of red blood cells is associated with a high risk of infections. This can result in a life-threatening infection known as transfusion-transmitted bacterial infection. Transfusions with large amounts of red blood cells, whether due to severe hemorrhaging and/or transfusion inefficacy (see above), can lead to an inclination for bleeding. 
Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. [SEP] Due to changes in surgical practices, medical use of blood is now the major use of red blood cells in high-income countries.Whenever a red cell transfusion is being considered for an individual patient it is good practice to consider not only the hemoglobin level, but also the overall clinical context, patient preferences, and whether there are alternative treatments. Transfusion of a single unit also encourages less wastage of red blood cells. The plasma is separated and the red blood cells are kept with a minimal amount of fluid. The most common modification is leukoreduction, where the donor blood is filtered to remove white cells, although this is becoming increasingly universal throughout the blood supply (over 80% in the US, 100% in Europe). Leukocyte reduction is the removal of white blood cells by filtration. Leukoreduced blood products are less likely to cause HLA alloimmunization (development of antibodies against specific blood types), febrile non-hemolytic transfusion reaction, cytomegalovirus infection, and platelet-transfusion refractoriness. This is a reason for the now-widespread use of leukoreduction – the filtration of donor white cells from red cell product units. Irradiation and leukoreduction of blood products is necessary for high risk patients to prevent T cells from attacking recipient cells. 
Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a [SEP] Discovery
The gene encoding Pin1 was identified in 1996 as a result of a genetic/biochemical screen for proteins involved in mitotic regulation. Activation
Phosphorylation of Ser/Thr-Pro motifs in substrates is required for recognition by Pin1. Pin is a small protein at 18 kDa and does not have a nuclear localization or export signal. reported that Pin1 has putative novel nuclear localization signal (NLS) and Pin1 interacts with importin α5 (KPNA1). Postranslational modifications such as phosphorylation on Ser16 inhibit the ability of Pin1 to bind substrate, and this inhibitory process may be altered during oncogenesis. Function
Pin1 activity regulates the outcome of proline-directed kinase (e.g. Pin1 has been hypothesized to act as a molecular timer. "Maternal Control of PIN1 Is Required for Female Gametophyte Development in Arabidopsis". 
Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a [SEP] Activation
Phosphorylation of Ser/Thr-Pro motifs in substrates is required for recognition by Pin1. Pin is a small protein at 18 kDa and does not have a nuclear localization or export signal. reported that Pin1 has putative novel nuclear localization signal (NLS) and Pin1 interacts with importin α5 (KPNA1). It is hypothesized, but not proven, that Pin1 might also be regulated by proteolytic pathways. Pin1 has been hypothesized to act as a molecular timer. The Arabidopsis Book: 1-22. "Maternal Control of PIN1 Is Required for Female Gametophyte Development in Arabidopsis". Phylogenetic position and generic limits of Arabidopsis (Brassicaceae) based on sequences of nuclear ribosomal DNA: Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden 90 (4): 603–612. 
Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. [SEP] In breast cancer cell lines, there is an inverse correlation of BRCA1 protein levels with miR-182 expression. Thus, miR-146a and/or miR-146b-5p may also contribute to reduced expression of BRCA1 in these triple-negative breast cancers. MicroRNA repression of BRCA1 in ovarian cancers
In both serous tubal intraepithelial carcinoma (the precursor lesion to high grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HG-SOC)), and in HG-SOC itself, miR-182 is overexpressed in about 70% of cases. Another microRNA known to reduce expression of BRCA1 in ovarian cancer cells is miR-9. Among 58 tumors from patients with stage IIIC or stage IV serous ovarian cancers (HG-SOG), an inverse correlation was found between expressions of miR-9 and BRCA1, so that increased miR-9 may also contribute to reduced expression of BRCA1 in these ovarian cancers. miRNA are downregulated in many tumors and thus appear to function as tumor suppressor genes. In humans, this microRNA is involved in the mechanisms of immunity, and in many different cancers (see below) it was found to be expressed at a particularly low level. It is suggested that the downregulation of miR-181 may play a role in the development of cancer. 
Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. [SEP] When BPA successfully binds the receptor, it interacts with ERE and increases expression of target genes like WNT-4 and RANKL; two key players in stem cell proliferation and carcinogenesis. Comparing blood BPA and phthalate levels between fertile and infertile women between the ages of 20–40, using gas chromatographic-mass spectrometry to analyze the amount of BPA, phthalate and their metabolites in peripheral venous blood, showed significantly elevated serum BPA level in infertile women, as well as women with PCOS (polycystic ovarian syndrome) and women with endometriosisBPA is shown to have transgenerational effect by targeting ovarian function by changes in the structural integrity of microtubules that constitute meiotic spindles. This will result if oocyte maturation failure as well as fertility This in turn will result in transgenerational effect and affect the third generation of offspring

Sexual function
Higher BPA exposure has been associated with increased self-reporting of decreased male sexual function but few studies examining this relationship have been conducted. When the eggs were exposed at a lower concentration at about 90 µg/egg, the offspring produced were males. This helps with maturation of the sex organs in both males and females. After being exposed to 1μg/L BPA, Salmo trutta, brown trout, had reduced sperm density and mobility. The groups exposed to a lower concentration of BPA (5 μg/L & 15μg/L) showed an increase in expressed ovarian steroidogenic genes. Meanwhile, the group exposed to a higher concentration of BPA (50 μg/L) showed a decrease in expressed ovarian steroidogenic genes.Although aquatic vertebrates are most commonly affected by BPA exposure in natural settings, researchers often learn how BPA effects other vertebrates using experimental mice models. 
Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. [SEP] Dynamic nucleosome remodelling across the Yeast genome
Studies in 2007 have catalogued nucleosome positions in yeast and shown that nucleosomes are depleted in promoter regions and origins of replication. Heritability of methylation state depends on certain enzymes (such as DNMT1) that have a higher affinity for 5-methylcytosine than for cytosine. UHRF1 has been recently recognized as essential for DNMT1-mediated maintenance of DNA methylation. Nucleosome positioning
Eukaryotic genomes have numerous nucleosomes. Recent studies have uncovered connections between nucleosome positioning and other epigenetic factors, such as DNA methylation and hydroxymethylation. Molecular interaction data, supported by colocalization analyses, identify multiple nuclear regulatory pathways, linking sequence variation to disturbances in DNA methylation and molecular and phenotypic variation. Geographic patterns may also emerge, where highly variable and highly conserved environments might host fewer species with important epigenetic inheritance. Sequencing RNA in its native form preserves modifications like methylation, allowing them to be investigated directly and simultaneously. 
Lupus-prone mice infected with curliproducing bacteria have higher autoantibody titers compared to controls. [SEP] Molecules that are identified to contribute to immune cell malfunction are further exploited by constructing normal or lupus-prone mice engineered to express or lack each molecule to confirm their significance in vivo. In addition, they produce IL-17 and infiltrate the kidney tissue of patients with lupus nephritis. A CD2-PP2Ac mouse displays granulocytosis increased IL-17 levels and when challenged with anti-GBM develops florid glomerulonephritis. An autoantibody is an antibody (a type of protein) produced by the immune system that is directed against one or more of the individual's own proteins. Many autoimmune diseases (notably lupus erythematosus) are associated with such antibodies. The role of autoantibodies in normal immune function is also a subject of scientific research. It is thought that some autoantibody production is due to a genetic predisposition combined with an environmental trigger, such as a viral illness or a prolonged exposure to certain toxic chemicals. For instance, up to 80% of those with SLE will have a positive double strand anti-double stranded DNA (anti-dsDNA) autoantibody test, but only about 25-30% will have a positive RNP. 
Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil migration to inflammation sites by regulating membrane raft functions. [SEP] Ly49 is a family of membrane C-type lectin-like receptors expressed mainly on NK cells but also on other immune cells (some CD8+ and CD3+ T lymphocytes, intestinal epithelial lymphocytes (IELs), NKT cells, uterine NK cells (uNK) cells, macrophages or dendritic cells). Ly49 family is coded by Klra gene cluster and include genes for both inhibitory and activating paired receptors, but most of them are inhibitory. Inhibitory Ly49 receptors play a role in the recognition of self cells and thus maintain self-tolerance and prevent autoimmunity by suppressing NK cell activation. They express several types of inhibitory and activating receptors on their surface, including the Ly49 receptor family, which have roles in NK cell licensing, antiviral, and antitumor immunity,.NK cells are activated when signal from activating receptors outweighs inhibitory signals. Some Ly49 receptors have evolved to recognise specific viral proteins, for example Ly49H binds to murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV) glycoprotein m157. During the beginning (acute) phase of inflammation, particularly as a result of bacterial infection, environmental exposure, and some cancers, neutrophils are one of the first responders of inflammatory cells to migrate toward the site of inflammation. Rac-GTPases regulate cytoskeletal dynamics and facilitate neutrophils adhesion, migration, and spreading. It has been shown in mice that in certain conditions neutrophils have a specific type of migration behaviour referred to as neutrophil swarming during which they migrate in a highly coordinated manner and accumulate and cluster to sites of inflammation. 
Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity compared to their Ly6C lo counterparts. [SEP] An excessive monocytes infiltration generates higher inflammation and increases the risk of heart failure. STING deficient monocytes are intrinsically defective in migration to the liver during Listeria monocytogenes infection. The minor allele at FOXO3A summon a differential response of monocytes in RA patients. Studies have shown that low plasma levels of pyridoxal-5-phosphate, the metabolically active form of vitamin B6, have been reported in RA patients, which may be associated with the elevated TNF-a production. In tissues, organ-specific macrophages are differentiated from phagocytic cells present in the blood called monocytes. This term describes cells with abnormally low levels of a cell-surface marker called MHC I (major histocompatibility complex) - a situation that can arise in viral infections of host cells. CD56dim NK cells are always CD16 positive (CD16 is the key mediator of antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC). They are in the CD56bright NK cell subset, potent at cytokine secretion, but with low cytotoxic ability and relatively similar to peripheral CD56bright NK cells, with a slightly different receptor profile. 
Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. [SEP] An excessive monocytes infiltration generates higher inflammation and increases the risk of heart failure. STING deficient monocytes are intrinsically defective in migration to the liver during Listeria monocytogenes infection. The minor allele at FOXO3A summon a differential response of monocytes in RA patients. Studies have shown that low plasma levels of pyridoxal-5-phosphate, the metabolically active form of vitamin B6, have been reported in RA patients, which may be associated with the elevated TNF-a production. In tissues, organ-specific macrophages are differentiated from phagocytic cells present in the blood called monocytes. This term describes cells with abnormally low levels of a cell-surface marker called MHC I (major histocompatibility complex) - a situation that can arise in viral infections of host cells. CD56dim NK cells are always CD16 positive (CD16 is the key mediator of antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC). They are in the CD56bright NK cell subset, potent at cytokine secretion, but with low cytotoxic ability and relatively similar to peripheral CD56bright NK cells, with a slightly different receptor profile. 
Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. [SEP] Inflammation of the lymphatic vessels is known as lymphangitis. Lymphadenopathy is a common and nonspecific sign. Lymphadenopathy is frequently idiopathic and self-limiting. It is also a sign of cutaneous anthrax and Human African trypanosomiasis
Toxoplasmosis, a parasitic disease, gives a generalized lymphadenopathy (Piringer-Kuchinka lymphadenopathy). Autoimmune: systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis may have a generalized lymphadenopathy. "Lymphadenopathy syndrome" has been used to describe the first symptomatic stage of HIV progression, preceding a diagnosis of AIDS. Similarly, the term lymphadenitis refers to inflammation of a lymph node, but often it is used as a synonym of lymphadenopathy. Knockin (Welsh: Cnwcin) is a village and civil parish in north-west Shropshire, England. 
Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. [SEP] Over-the-counter cough medicine has not been found to be effective, nor has the use of zinc supplementation in children. Albumin also appears to be of no benefit over crystalloids. On the other hand, the use of antithrombin to treat disseminated intravascular coagulation is also not useful. Dopamine is not proven to have protective properties on the kidneys. However, β2 adrenergic receptor agonists are not recommended to treat ARDS because it may reduce survival rates and precipitate abnormal heart rhythms. The small amount of evidence there is, however, has not found a change in the risk of death with etomidate.Paralytic agents are not suggested for use in sepsis cases in the absence of ARDS, as a growing body of evidence points to reduced durations of mechanical ventilation, ICU and hospital stays. However, subsequent studies showed that it increased adverse events—bleeding risk in particular—and did not decrease mortality. The risk of endometrial cancer is similarly unknown. 
Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. [SEP] A Cochrane review published in 2016 found moderate-quality evidence to show that blood pressure-lowering drugs do not reduce the risk of sudden cardiac death. The American Heart Association also has diet recommendations aimed at preventing cardiovascular disease.Additionally, marine-derived omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) have been promoted for preventing sudden cardiac death due to their postulated ability to lower triglyceride levels, prevent arrhythmias, decrease platelet aggregation, and lower blood pressure. While the drug is described as a "blood thinner", it does not reduce viscosity but inhibits coagulation, and is commonly used to prevent blood clots in the circulatory system such as deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, and to protect against stroke in people who have atrial fibrillation, valvular heart disease, or artificial heart valves. Eisenhower's treatment kickstarted a transformation in medicine whereby coronary artery disease, arterial plaques, and ischemic strokes were treated and protected against by using anticoagulants such as warfarin. Warfarin treatment can help prevent formation of future blood clots and help reduce the risk of embolism (migration of a thrombus to a spot where it blocks blood supply to a vital organ).Warfarin is best suited for anticoagulation (clot formation inhibition) in areas of slowly running blood (such as in veins and the pooled blood behind artificial and natural valves), and in blood pooled in dysfunctional cardiac atria. It has been used occasionally after heart attacks (myocardial infarctions), but is far less effective at preventing new thromboses in coronary arteries. This increased risk is due to the antiplatelet effect of NSAIDs and possible damage to the gastrointestinal mucosa.Many commonly used antibiotics, such as metronidazole or the macrolides, greatly increase the effect of warfarin by reducing the metabolism of warfarin in the body. In North America, amoxicillin, doxycycline, and in some areas a macrolide (such as azithromycin or erythromycin) is the first-line outpatient treatment in adults. 
Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. [SEP] Uptake of tau protein mechanism requires the presence of heparan sulfate proteoglycans at the cell surface, which happen by macropinocytosis. This internalization is independent of macropinocytosis and occurs by an actin dependent mechanism requiring the activation Src-family kinases, JNK and Rho-family GTPases. Cell-penetrating peptides (CPPs) are short peptides that facilitate cellular intake and uptake of molecules ranging from nanosize particles to small chemical compounds to large fragments of DNA. Other delivery mechanisms that have been developed include CellSqueeze and electroporation.CPPs typically have an amino acid composition that either contains a high relative abundance of positively charged amino acids such as lysine or arginine or has sequences that contain an alternating pattern of polar, charged amino acids and non-polar, hydrophobic amino acids. Research has shown that TAT is internalized through a form of endocytosis called macropinocytosis.Studies have illustrated that endocytosis is involved in the internalization of CPPs, but it has been suggested that different mechanisms could transpire at the same time. In one study, TAT-fused proteins are rapidly internalized by lipid raft−dependent macropinocytosis using a transducible TAT−Cre recombinase reporter assay on live cells. (2010) independently proved that neither of these pathways is actually used.They discovered that Ebolavirus uses macropinocytosis to enter the host cells. Induction of macropinocytosis leads to the formation of macropinocytosis-specific endosomes (macropinosomes), which are large enough to accommodate Ebola virions. 
Many proteins in human cells can be post-translationally modified at lysine residues via acetylation. [SEP] Acetylation is the reversible covalent addition of an acetyl group onto a lysine amino acid by the enzyme acetyltransferase. Histones undergo acetylation on their lysine residues by enzymes known as histone acetyltransferase. These reactions occur post-translation and are reversible.The mechanism for acetylation and deacetylation takes place on the NH3+ groups of lysine amino acid residues. As a posttranslational modification, the acetylation of histones can attract proteins to elongated chromatin that has been marked by acetyl groups. Modifications often include the addition or removal of an acetyl (−CH3CO) forming acetyllysine or reverting to lysine, up to three methyl (−CH3), ubiquitin or a sumo protein group. Acetylation: the addition of an acetyl group to lysine 40 of alpha-tubulin. Common modifications include acetylation, methylation, or ubiquitination of lysine; methylation of arginine; and phosphorylation of serine. The newly synthesized H3 and H4 proteins are gradually acetylated at different lysine residues as part of the chromatin maturation process. 
Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. [SEP] Non-artemisinin based combinations
Artemisinin-based combination therapies should be used in preference to amodiaquine plus sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine for the treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria. Artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs)
Artemesinin has a very different mode of action than conventional anti-malarials (see information above), which makes it particularly useful in the treatment of resistant infections. Combination therapies, featuring artemisinin or its derivatives alongside some other antimalarial drug, constitute the contemporary standard-of-care treatment regimen for malaria. Medical use
The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends artemisinin or one of its derivatives ― typically in combination with a longer-lasting partner drug ― as frontline therapy for all cases of malaria. Adverse effects
Artemisinins are generally well tolerated at the doses used to treat malaria. Adverse effects in patients with acute P. falciparum malaria treated with artemisinin derivatives tend to be higher. A 2012 review reported that artemisinin-based therapies were the most effective drugs for treatment of malaria at that time; it was also reported to clear malaria parasites from patients' bodies faster than other drugs. Artemisinin has proven to be the most effective anti-malarial drug ever produced. 
Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). [SEP] Mercaptopurine (6-MP) competes with the purine derivatives hypoxanthine and guanine for the enzyme HGPRT and is itself converted to thio inosine monophosphate (TIMP). Pharmacogenetics
The enzyme thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT) is responsible, in part, for the inactivation of 6-mercaptopurine. TPMT catalyzes the methylation of 6-mercaptopurine into the inactive metabolite 6-methylmercaptopurine – this methylation prevents mercaptopurine from further conversion into active, cytotoxic thioguanine nucleotide (TGN) metabolites. The TPMT enzyme is responsible, in part, for the methylation of 6-MP into the inactive metabolite 6-methylmercaptopurine – this methylation prevents 6-MP from further conversion into active, cytotoxic thioguanine nucleotide (TGN) metabolites. Pharmacogenetics
The enzyme thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT) is responsible, in part, for the inactivation of 6-mercaptopurine. TPMT catalyzes the methylation of 6-mercaptopurine into the inactive metabolite 6-methylmercaptopurine – this methylation prevents mercaptopurine from further conversion into active, cytotoxic thioguanine nucleotide (TGN) metabolites. Pharmacogenetics
The enzyme thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT) is responsible, in part, for the inactivation of 6-mercaptopurine. TPMT catalyzes the methylation of 6-mercaptopurine into the inactive metabolite 6-methylmercaptopurine – this methylation prevents mercaptopurine from further conversion into active, cytotoxic thioguanine nucleotide (TGN) metabolites. 
Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. [SEP] For example, in a randomized clinical trial, investigators found 85% of metastatic colorectal cancer patients treated with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) did not receive the optimal therapeutic dose when dosed by the BSA standard—68% were underdosed and 17% were overdosed.There has been controversy over the use of BSA to calculate chemotherapy doses for people who are obese. The fluoropyrimidines include fluorouracil and capecitabine. For example, the chemotherapeutic drugs oxaliplatin and cyclophosphamide can cause tumor cells to die in a way that is detectable by the immune system (called immunogenic cell death), which mobilizes immune cells with antitumor functions. Their general use is not recommended for this purpose, however, due to side effects.Treatments used for colorectal cancer may include some combination of surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, and targeted therapy. For stage III and Stage IV colon cancer, chemotherapy is an integral part of treatment.If cancer has spread to the lymph nodes or distant organs, which is the case with stage III and stage IV colon cancer respectively, adding chemotherapy agents fluorouracil, capecitabine or oxaliplatin increases life expectancy. Another class of drugs used in the second line setting are epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors, of which the three FDA approved ones are aflibercept, cetuximab and panitumumab.The primary difference in the approach to low stage rectal cancer is the incorporation of radiation therapy. Research
The efficacy of cetuximab was explored in a clinical trial of advanced gastric cancer published in 2013; cetuximab showed no survival benefit.A 2020 phase III multicenter randomized controlled trial headed by University College London showed that adding cetuximab to perioperative chemotherapy worsened survival for colorectal cancer patients with operable liver metastases. Fluoropyrimidines are a class of anti-cancer drugs, or more specifically antimetabolites, and include:

Capecitabine
Carmofur (HCFU)
Doxifluridine
Fluorouracil (5-FU)
Tegafur 
Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). [SEP] For example, UV light can damage DNA by producing thymine dimers, which are cross-links between pyrimidine bases. These mutations can cause cancer. DNA damages that are naturally occurring, due to normal cellular processes that produce reactive oxygen species, the hydrolytic activities of cellular water, etc., also occur frequently. Enzymes can also bind to DNA and of these, the polymerases that copy the DNA base sequence in transcription and DNA replication are particularly important. For example, UV light can damage DNA by producing thymine dimers, which are cross-links between pyrimidine bases. These mutations can cause cancer. DNA damages that are naturally occurring, due to normal cellular processes that produce reactive oxygen species, the hydrolytic activities of cellular water, etc., also occur frequently. Enzymes can also bind to DNA and of these, the polymerases that copy the DNA base sequence in transcription and DNA replication are particularly important. 
Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. [SEP] IFN-γ plays an important role in both innate and adaptive immunity. Function
IFN-γ, or type II interferon, is a cytokine that is critical for innate and adaptive immunity against viral, some bacterial and protozoan infections. IFN-γ is an important activator of macrophages and inducer of major histocompatibility complex class II molecule expression. Aberrant IFN-γ expression is associated with a number of autoinflammatory and autoimmune diseases. The importance of IFN-γ in the immune system stems in part from its ability to inhibit viral replication directly, and most importantly from its immunostimulatory and immunomodulatory effects. Diseases
Interferon-γ has been shown to be a crucial player in the immune response against some intracellular pathogens, including that of Chagas disease. Studies in mice on acyclovir resistant herpes have shown that IFN-γ treatment can significantly reduce herpes viral load. The mechanism by which IFN-γ inhibits herpes reproduction is independent of T-cells, which means that IFN-γ may be an effective treatment in individuals with low T-cells.Chlamydia infection is impacted by IFN-γ in host cells. 
Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. [SEP] A knockout mouse is a genetically modified mouse that has had one or more of its genes made inoperable through a gene knockout. IFN-γ plays an important role in both innate and adaptive immunity. IFN-γ is an important activator of macrophages and inducer of major histocompatibility complex class II molecule expression. Aberrant IFN-γ expression is associated with a number of autoinflammatory and autoimmune diseases. Potential use in immunotherapy
IFN-γ increases an anti-proliferative state in cancer cells, while upregulating MHC I and MHC II expression, which increases immunorecognition and removal of pathogenic cells. Furthermore, Type II IFN suppresses the activity of regulatory T cells, which are responsible for silencing immune responses against pathogens, preventing the deactivation of the immune cells involved in the killing of the tumor cells. When type II IFN acts on tumor cells, it may induce the expression of a transmembrane protein known as programmed death-ligand 1 (PDL1), which allows the tumor cells to evade an attack from immune cells. Studies in mice on acyclovir resistant herpes have shown that IFN-γ treatment can significantly reduce herpes viral load. 
MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis [SEP] Nervous system
miRNAs appear to regulate the development and function of the nervous system. An animated video of the microRNA biogenesis process. Introduction
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a family of small ribonucleic acids, 21-25 nucleotides in length, that modulate protein expression through transcript degradation, inhibition of translation, or sequestering transcripts. Disease biomarkers
Micro RNAs are important regulators of almost all cellular processes such as survival, proliferation, and differentiation. Neural stem cells (NSCs) are self-renewing, multipotent cells that firstly generate the radial glial progenitor cells that generate the neurons and glia of the nervous system of all animals during embryonic development. Communication and migration
NSCs are stimulated to begin differentiation via exogenous cues from the microenvironment, or stem cell niche. Epigenetic modification
Epigenetic modifications are important regulators of gene expression in differentiating neural stem cells. During disease
NSCs have an important role during development producing the enormous diversity of neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes in the developing CNS. 
Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. [SEP] This provides a relatively low-cost microarray that may be customized for each study, and avoids the costs of purchasing often more expensive commercial arrays that may represent vast numbers of genes that are not of interest to the investigator. Publications exist which indicate in-house spotted microarrays may not provide the same level of sensitivity compared to commercial oligonucleotide arrays, possibly owing to the small batch sizes and reduced printing efficiencies when compared to industrial manufactures of oligo arrays. In single-channel microarrays or one-color microarrays, the arrays provide intensity data for each probe or probe set indicating a relative level of hybridization with the labeled target. However, they do not truly indicate abundance levels of a gene but rather relative abundance when compared to other samples or conditions when processed in the same experiment. Each RNA molecule encounters protocol and batch-specific bias during amplification, labeling, and hybridization phases of the experiment making comparisons between genes for the same microarray uninformative. Microarrays and bioinformatics
The advent of inexpensive microarray experiments created several specific bioinformatics challenges: the multiple levels of replication in experimental design (Experimental design); the number of platforms and independent groups and data format (Standardization); the statistical treatment of the data (Data analysis); mapping each probe to the mRNA transcript that it measures (Annotation); the sheer volume of data and the ability to share it (Data warehousing). Standardization
Microarray data is difficult to exchange due to the lack of standardization in platform fabrication, assay protocols, and analysis methods. Data analysis
Microarray data sets are commonly very large, and analytical precision is influenced by a number of variables. 
Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. [SEP] Apoptotic proteins that target mitochondria affect them in different ways. Neurons that rely on mitochondrial respiration undergo apoptosis in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. However, apoptosis induced by CDV in HeLa cells does not involve the initiator protein caspase-8. However, studies have demonstrated that the OROV infection causes apoptosis to be activated through intracellular stimuli and involves the mitochondria.Many viruses encode proteins that can inhibit apoptosis. As a consequence, p53 cannot induce apoptosis, since it cannot induce the expression of proapoptotic proteins. However, p53 also has a transcription-independent role in apoptosis. The mitochondrial AIF protein was found to be a caspase-independent death effector that can allow independent nuclei to undergo apoptotic changes. The process triggering apoptosis starts when the mitochondrion releases AIF, which exits through the mitochondrial membrane, enters the cytosol, and moves to the nucleus of the cell, where it signals the cell to condense its chromosomes and fragment its DNA molecules in order to prepare for cell death. 
Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. [SEP] It concluded that the loss of epigenetic information can drive aging independently of changes to the genetic code, suggesting that epigenetic change is a primary driver of aging in mammals. Functions and consequences
In the brain
Memory
Memory formation and maintenance are due to epigenetic alterations that cause the required dynamic changes in gene transcription that create and renew memory in neurons.An event can set off a chain of reactions that result in altered methylations of a large set of genes in neurons, which give a representation of the event, a memory. Aging
Epigenetics play a major role in brain aging and age-related cognitive decline, with relevance to life extension. Other and general
In adulthood, changes in the epigenome are important for various higher cognitive functions. Dysregulation of epigenetic mechanisms is implicated in neurodegenerative disorders and diseases. Epigenetic regulation impacts neuronal action, affecting learning, memory, and other cognitive processes.Early events, including during embryonic development, can influence development, cognition, and health outcomes through epigenetic mechanisms.Epigenetic mechanisms have been proposed as "a potential molecular mechanism for effects of endogenous hormones on the organization of developing brain circuits".Nutrients could interact with the epigenome to "protect or boost cognitive processes across the lifespan".A review suggests neurobiological effects of physical exercise via epigenetics seem "central to building an 'epigenetic memory' to influence long-term brain function and behavior" and may even be heritable.With the axo-ciliary synapse, there is communication between serotonergic axons and antenna-like primary cilia of CA1 pyramidal neurons that alters the neuron's epigenetic state in the  nucleus via the signalling distinct from that at the plasma membrane (and longer-term).Epigenetics also play a major role in the brain evolution in and to humans. These epigenetic changes can influence the growth of neurons in the developing brain as well as modify the activity of neurons in the adult brain. Aging induces decreases in the global methylation of H3K9 in the hippocampus. 
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. [SEP] DN30 inhibits tumour growth and prevents metastasis in animal models. Interaction with cadherins
F9 embryonal carcinoma cells are similar to the P19 cells shown in Figure 1 and normally have cell-to-cell adhesion mediated by E-cadherin with β-catenin bound to the cytoplasmic domain of E-cadherin. A tumor cell line with defective δ-catenin, low levels of E-cadherin and poor cell-to-cell adhesion could be restored to normal epithelial morphology and increased E-cadherin levels by expression of normal levels of functional δ-catenin. Mutations in genes encoding these proteins can lead to inactivation of cadherin cell adhesions and elimination of contact inhibition, allowing cells to proliferate and migrate, thus promoting tumorigenesis and cancer development. On the other hand, some treatment concepts involve upregulating the E-cadherin/catenin adhesion system to prevent disruptions in adhesions and contact inhibition from promoting cancer metastasis. Other catenin, cadherin or cell cycle regulators may also be useful in treating a variety of cancers.While recent studies in the lab and in the clinic have provided promising results for treating various catenin-associated cancers, the Wnt/β-catenin pathway may make finding a single correct therapeutic target difficult as the pathway has been shown to elicit a variety of different actions and functions, some of which may possibly even prove to be anti-oncogenic. Blockade of CD47 by neutralizing antibodies reduced migration and chemotaxis in response to collagen IV in melanoma, prostate cancer and ovarian cancer-derived cells. Metastasis
Activation of the Hedgehog pathway leads to an increase in Snail protein expression and a decrease in E-cadherin and tight junctions. 
Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. [SEP] A DNA polymerase extends the primed segments, forming Okazaki fragments. The discontinuous stretches of DNA replication products on the lagging strand are known as Okazaki fragments and are about 100 to 200 bases in length at eukaryotic replication forks. DNA polymerase will synthesize short fragments of DNA called Okazaki fragments which are added to the 3' end of the primer. These fragments can be anywhere between 100–400 nucleotides long in eukaryotes.At the end of Okazaki fragment synthesis, DNA polymerase δ runs into the previous Okazaki fragment and displaces its 5' end containing the RNA primer and a small segment of DNA. Thus, Okazaki fragment maturation is an efficient process that occurs immediately after the nascent DNA is synthesized. Occurs once at the origin on the leading strand and at the start of each Okazaki fragment on the lagging strand. While the leading strand can use a single RNA primer to extend the 5' terminus of the replicating DNA strand, multiple RNA primers are responsible for lagging strand synthesis, creating Okazaki fragments. Okazaki fragments
Short sequences of nucleotides which are synthesized discontinuously by DNA polymerase and later linked together by DNA ligase to create the lagging strand during DNA replication. 
Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. [SEP] Ascorbate and ascorbic acid are both naturally present in the body, since the forms interconvert according to pH. SVCT1 and SVCT2 import the reduced form of ascorbate across plasma membranes. For example, the ascorbic acid content of pituitary and adrenal glands can exceed 2,000 µmol/L, and muscle is at 200-300 µmol/L. "Ascorbic acid". However, two closely related rat/human members of the family, SVCT1 and SVCT2, localized to different tissues of the body, co-transport L-ascorbate (vitamin C) and Na+ with a high degree of specificity and high affinity for the vitamin. Ascorbate and ascorbic acid are both naturally present in the body, since the forms interconvert according to pH. SVCT1 and SVCT2 import the reduced form of ascorbate across plasma membranes. "Ascorbic acid". 
Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. [SEP] The G protein triggers a cascade of further signaling events that finally results in a change in cell function. Heterotrimeric G proteins, also called guanosine nucleotide-binding proteins, consist of three subunits, called alpha, beta, and gamma subunits, or Gα, Gβ, and Gγ. Function
The Gβγ complex is an essential element in the GPCR signaling cascade. The Gβγ dimer has been found to interact with many different effector molecules by protein-protein interactions. Gβγ signalling has been examined for its role in a variety of conditions including heart failure, inflammation and leukemia. The developed molecule GRK2ct is a protein inhibitor which inhibits the signalling properties of Gβγ subunit but does not interfere with alpha subunit signalling. Guanine nucleotide-binding protein G(I)/G(S)/G(T) subunit beta-2 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the GNB2 gene.Heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins), which integrate signals between receptors and effector proteins, are composed of an alpha, a beta, and a gamma subunit. However, such germline mutations (which cause highly penetrant cancer syndromes) are the cause of only about 1 percent of cancers.In sporadic cancers, deficiencies in DNA repair are occasionally caused by a mutation in a DNA repair gene but are much more frequently caused by epigenetic alterations that reduce or silence expression of DNA repair genes. 
N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. [SEP] N-terminus
Also amine terminus and amino terminus. Origins are usually defined by the presence of a replicator sequence or by specific chromatin patterns. Promoters are located upstream of the genes they transcribe, near the transcription start site. Restriction endonucleases cleave the phosphate backbone between two nucleotides within the recognized sequence itself, but other types of restriction enzymes make their cuts at one end of the sequence or at a nearby sequence. transcription start site (TSS)
Also transcription initiation site. transcription unit
The segment of DNA between the initiation site and the termination site of transcription, containing the coding sequences for one or more genes. UTRs are a consequence of the fact that transcription usually begins considerably upstream of the start codon of the protein-coding sequence and terminates long after the stop codon has been transcribed, whereas translation is more precise. The preferred cleavage site for this enzyme is the N-terminal side of proline residues, especially between phenylalanine and proline or tyrosine and proline. 
N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. [SEP] The preferred cleavage site for this enzyme is the N-terminal side of proline residues, especially between phenylalanine and proline or tyrosine and proline. Multiple alternatively spliced variants and multiple transcription initiation sites of this gene have been reported. N-terminus
Also amine terminus and amino terminus. Restriction endonucleases cleave the phosphate backbone between two nucleotides within the recognized sequence itself, but other types of restriction enzymes make their cuts at one end of the sequence or at a nearby sequence. transcription start site (TSS)
Also transcription initiation site. transcription unit
The segment of DNA between the initiation site and the termination site of transcription, containing the coding sequences for one or more genes. transcriptional bursting
The intermittent nature of transcription and translation mechanisms. UTRs are a consequence of the fact that transcription usually begins considerably upstream of the start codon of the protein-coding sequence and terminates long after the stop codon has been transcribed, whereas translation is more precise. 
N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). [SEP] Zidovudine (ZDV), also known as azidothymidine (AZT), is an antiretroviral medication used to prevent and treat HIV/AIDS. In 2009, the State of California added zidovudine to its list of chemicals "known to the state of California to cause cancer and other reproductive harm." Prolonged AZT treatment can lead to HIV developing resistance to AZT by mutation of its reverse transcriptase. Mechanism of action
AZT is a thymidine analogue. References
External links
"Zidovudine". Interactions
Drug-drug interactions
Lamividine/zidovudine interacts with stavudine and zalcitabine by competing intracellularly for activation and results in inhibiting phosphorylation. The drug is then incorporated to the end of the growing chain of the viral DNA causing the chain to be terminated, where nucleotides can no longer be added to the growing viral DNA.Lamividuine and zidovudine combination therapy is believed to work synergistically together to prevent mutations in the HIV virus, which can contribute to drug resistance. The half-life of zidovudine is 0.5 to 3 hours and binds poorly to plasma proteins.Lamivudine and zidovudine are not extensively metabolized by CYP450 liver enzymes. 
NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. [SEP] NF2, NF-2, or similar, may refer to:

Transportation
De Havilland Venom NF.2, a British post-war night fighter aircraft
Nickel & Foucard NF-2 Asterix, a French homebuilt aircraft

Biology
Neurofibromatosis type II, an inherited disease
Merlin (protein) or Neurofibromin 2, a cytoskeletal protein
Nitrogen difluoride a chemical radical with formula •NF2 A key step forward in 1993 was the identification of the NF2 gene and its protein product Merlin, which modulates the complex molecular signaling pathways that control cell proliferation. YAP1 is a component in the hippo signaling pathway which regulates organ size, regeneration, and tumorigenesis. When the pathway is activated, YAP1 and TAZ are phosphorylated on a serine residue and sequestered in the cytoplasm by 14-3-3 proteins. When the Hippo pathway is not activated, YAP1/TAZ enter the nucleus and regulate gene expression.It is reported that several genes are regulated by YAP1, including Birc2, Birc5, connective tissue growth factor (CTGF), amphiregulin (AREG), Cyr61, Hoxa1 and Hoxc13. Regulation
Biochemical
At the biochemical level, YAP is part of and regulated by the Hippo signaling pathway where a kinase cascade results in its “inactivation”, along with that of TAZ. LATS1/2 then phosphorylate YAP and TAZ which causes them to bind with 14-3-3, resulting in cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP and TAZ. The result of the activation of this pathway is the restriction of YAP/TAZ from entering the cell nucleus. 
NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. [SEP] NF2, NF-2, or similar, may refer to:

Transportation
De Havilland Venom NF.2, a British post-war night fighter aircraft
Nickel & Foucard NF-2 Asterix, a French homebuilt aircraft

Biology
Neurofibromatosis type II, an inherited disease
Merlin (protein) or Neurofibromin 2, a cytoskeletal protein
Nitrogen difluoride a chemical radical with formula •NF2 NF2 increases the risk of early death. NF2 is caused by a mutation on the NF2 tumor suppressor gene on chromosome 22. The gene normally encodes a cytoplasmic protein known as merlin. The normal function of merlin is to regulate the activity of multiple growth factors, the mutated copy of the gene leads to merlin's loss of function. The loss of function leads to increased activity of growth factors normally regulated by merlin, leading to the formation of the tumors associated with NF2.Schwannomatosis is caused by a mutation on the SMARCB1 gene. NF2 increases the risk of early death. Phosphorylation functions is an extremely vital component of glycolysis, as it helps in transport, control, and efficiency. 
NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. [SEP] The downstream molecules that are inhibited by JNK activation include NFAT4, NFATC1 and STAT3. It appears that unlike IL-6 signalling in macrophages, which is dependent upon activation of the NFκB signalling pathway, intramuscular IL-6 expression is regulated by a network of signalling cascades, including the Ca2+/NFAT and glycogen/p38 MAPK pathways. As IL-6 interacts with its receptor, it triggers the gp130 and IL-6R proteins to form a complex, thus activating the receptor. IL-6 activates the Phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway, and a downstream target of this pathway is the protein kinase B (PKB) (Hodge et al., 2007). The critical event leading to the activation of p53 is the phosphorylation of its N-terminal domain. This binding leads to the activation of TCR signaling cascade in which the immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs (ITAM) located in the CD3-zeta chains (ζ-chains) of the TCR complex, are phosphorylated by Lck and less extended by Fyn. This binding leads to the Tec family kinase ITK-mediated PLC-γ1 phosphorylation and activation that consequentially produce calcium (Ca2+) ions mobilization. These include the Ras-MEK-ERK pathway, which goes on to activate certain transcription factors such as NFAT, NF-κB, and AP-1. 
NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. [SEP] Peroxynitrite (sometimes called peroxonitrite) is an ion with the formula ONOO−. It is a structural isomer of nitrate, NO−3

Preparation
Peroxynitrite can be prepared by the reaction of superoxide with nitric oxide:
NO  +  O−2   →   NO(O2)−It is prepared by the reaction of hydrogen peroxide with nitrite:
H2O2  +  NO−2 →  ONOO−  +  H2OIts presence is indicated by the absorbance at 302 nm (pH 12, ε302 = 1670 M−1 cm−1). It is these radicals (carbonate radical and nitrogen dioxide) that are believed to cause peroxynitrite-related cellular damage. The reaction produces peroxynitrite and depletes the bioactivity of NO. Additionally peroxynitrite can react with other molecules to form additional types of RNS including nitrogen dioxide (•NO2) and dinitrogen trioxide (N2O3) as well as other types of chemically reactive free radicals. Important reactions involving RNS include:

ONOO− + H+ → ONOOH (peroxynitrous acid) → •NO2 (nitrogen dioxide) + •OH (hydroxyl radical)
ONOO− + CO2 (carbon dioxide) → ONOOCO2− (nitrosoperoxycarbonate)
ONOOCO2− → •NO2 (nitrogen dioxide) + O=C(O•)O− (carbonate radical)
•NO + •NO2 ⇌ N2O3 (dinitrogen trioxide)

Biological targets
Peroxynitrite can react directly with proteins that contain transition metal centers. Another reaction is tyrosine nitration; however peroxynitrite does not react directly with tyrosine. Tyrosine reacts with other RNS that are produced by peroxynitrite. 
NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. [SEP] Endometrial cancer is a cancer that arises from the endometrium (the lining of the uterus or womb). Hormones
Most of the risk factors for endometrial cancer involve high levels of estrogens. CTNNB1 (beta-catenin; a transcription gene) mutations are found in 14–44% of endometrial cancers and may indicate a good prognosis, but the data is unclear. Beta-catenin mutations are commonly found in endometrial cancers with squamous cells. FGFR2 mutations are found in approximately 10% of endometrial cancers, and their prognostic significance is unclear. The CTNNB1 (beta-catenin) gene is most commonly mutated in the squamous subtype of endometrioid adenocarcinoma. This often appears on a background of endometrial hyperplasia. Women younger than 40 make up 5% of endometrial cancer cases and 10–15% of cases occur in women under 50 years of age. 
Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. [SEP] Various types of liposome nanoparticles are currently used clinically as delivery systems for anticancer drugs and vaccines. Multivalent nanoparticles, bearing multiple targeting groups, can cluster receptors, which can activate cellular signaling pathways, and give stronger anchoring. Nanoparticles are being investigated as potential drug delivery system. Moreover, nanoparticles for nucleic acid delivery offer an unprecedented opportunity to overcome some drawbacks related to the delivery, owing to their tunability with diverse physico-chemical properties, they can readily be functionalized with any type of biomolecules/moieties for selective targeting. Because of the selective binding ability of aptamers, they are considering a promising biomolecule for use in pharmaceuticals. For instance, by conjugating the RNA aptamer to a drug compound, the RNA aptamer can act as a targeted delivery system for that drug. As such, RNA aptamers can be made to target small peptides and proteins, as well as cell fragments, whole cells, and even specific tissues. Such oligonucleotides can be used to alter cell behaviour through several different mechanisms
.Lipid nanoparticles and electroporation are currently widespread strategies for nucleic acid transfection. 
Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. [SEP] ANCAs induce excess activation of neutrophils, resulting in the production of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs), which cause damage to small blood vessels. In addition, intact apoptotic debris recycles back to the cell membrane and accumulate on the surface of the cell.Recent research has found an association between certain people with lupus (especially those with lupus nephritis) and an impairment in degrading neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs). Neutrophils have three methods for directly attacking micro-organisms: phagocytosis (ingestion), degranulation (release of soluble anti-microbials), and generation of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs). Neutrophil extracellular traps
In 2004, Brinkmann and colleagues described a striking observation that activation of neutrophils causes the release of web-like structures of DNA; this represents a third mechanism for killing bacteria. These neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) comprise a web of fibers composed of chromatin and serine proteases  that trap and kill extracellular microbes. Trapping of bacteria may be a particularly important role for NETs in sepsis, where NETs are formed within blood vessels. It also localizes to neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs), via its high affinity for DNA, an unusual property for serine proteases.As with other serine proteinases it contains a charge relay system composed of the catalytic triad of histidine, aspartate, and serine residues that are dispersed throughout the primary sequence of the polypeptide but that are brought together in the three dimensional conformation of the folded protein. ANCAs induce excess activation of neutrophils, resulting in the production of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs), which cause damage to small blood vessels. 
New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. [SEP] Effective TB treatment is difficult, due to the unusual structure and chemical composition of the mycobacterial cell wall, which hinders the entry of drugs and makes many antibiotics ineffective.Active TB is best treated with combinations of several antibiotics to reduce the risk of the bacteria developing antibiotic resistance. There is also not enough evidence on effectiveness of giving intermittent twice or thrice weekly short course regimen compared to daily dosing regimen in treating children with tuberculosis. However, the mycolic acid in the cell wall of M. tuberculosis does not absorb the stain. In addition, pre-existing first-line TB drugs such as rifampicin and streptomycin have decreased efficiency in clearing intracellular M. tuberculosis due to their inability to effectively penetrate the macrophage niche.JNK plays a key role in the control of apoptotic pathways—intrinsic and extrinsic. Effective TB treatment is difficult, due to the unusual structure and chemical composition of the mycobacterial cell wall, which hinders the entry of drugs and makes many antibiotics ineffective.Active TB is best treated with combinations of several antibiotics to reduce the risk of the bacteria developing antibiotic resistance. There is also not enough evidence on effectiveness of giving intermittent twice or thrice weekly short course regimen compared to daily dosing regimen in treating children with tuberculosis. However, the mycolic acid in the cell wall of M. tuberculosis does not absorb the stain. In addition, pre-existing first-line TB drugs such as rifampicin and streptomycin have decreased efficiency in clearing intracellular M. tuberculosis due to their inability to effectively penetrate the macrophage niche.JNK plays a key role in the control of apoptotic pathways—intrinsic and extrinsic. 
Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. [SEP] Because mechanical ventilation serves only to provide assistance for breathing and does not cure a disease, the patient's underlying condition should be identified and treated in order to liberate them from the ventilator. If non-invasive ventilation or negative-pressure ventilation is used, then an airway adjunct is not needed. This type of ventilation is primarily used in neonates and pediatric patients who are failing conventional ventilation. Non-invasive ventilation can be considered for epidemics of COVID-19 where sufficient invasive ventilation capacity is not available (or in some milder cases), but pressurized protection suits for caregivers are recommended due to the risks of poorly fitting masks emitting contaminating aerosols. Alternative techniques for airway management and delivery of oxygen, volatile anesthetics or other breathing gases include the laryngeal mask airway, i-gel, cuffed oropharyngeal airway, continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP mask), nasal BiPAP mask, simple face mask, and nasal cannula.General anesthesia is often administered without tracheal intubation in selected cases where the procedure is brief in duration, or procedures where the depth of anesthesia is not sufficient to cause significant compromise in ventilatory function. If this too is ineffective in increasing oxygen levels, the addition of oxygen therapy may be necessary. Treatments without proven benefit, and concern for harm, include oxygen alone or respiratory stimulant medications. One technique to reduce energy consumption while maintaining adequate air quality, is demand-controlled ventilation. 
Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. [SEP] This protein can have a new function that promotes the development of cancer. Examples of this include the ETV6–RUNX1 fusion gene that combines two factors that promote blood cell development and the BCR-ABL1 fusion gene of the Philadelphia chromosome. For example, the most common specific abnormality in childhood B-ALL is the t(12;21) ETV6–RUNX1 translocation, in which the RUNX1 gene, encoding a protein involved in transcriptional control of hemopoiesis, has been translocated and repressed by the ETV6–RUNX1 fusion protein.Below is a table with the frequencies of some cytogenetic translocations and molecular genetic abnormalities in ALL. One of the hallmarks of M2 subtype acute myeloid leukemia is the formation of a fusion protein, AML1-ETO or RUNX1-RUNX1T1, due to a translocation of chromosome 8 to chromosome 21 or t(8;21) (Miyoshi et al., 1991, Andrieu et al., 1996). On both sides of the splice the DNA coded for different proteins, RUNX1 and ETO, These two sequences are then transcribed and translated into a single large protein, "M2 AML" which allows the cell to divide unchecked, leading to cancer. AML1 or RUNX1 is a DNA-binding transcription factor located at the 21q22. Molecular mechanism
The fusion oncoprotein involves the gene AML1 (now known as RUNX1) and ETO (now known as RUNX1T1). Runx2 (aka Cbfa1) and osterix (Osx) transcription factors are required for the expression of OPN  Runx2 and Osx bind promoters of osteoblast-specific genes such as Col1α1, Bsp, and Opn and upregulate transcription.Hypocalcemia and hypophosphatemia (instances that stimulate kidney proximal tubule cells to produce calcitriol (1α,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3)) lead to increases in OPN transcription, translation and secretion. 
Obesity decreases life quality. [SEP] Obesity is a risk factor for many chronic physical and mental illnesses. People who are obese also experience fewer educational and career opportunities, on average earn a lesser income, and generally receive poorer health care and treatment than individuals who are "normal" weight. Effects on health
Obesity increases a person's risk of developing various metabolic diseases, cardiovascular disease, osteoarthritis, Alzheimer disease, depression, and certain types of cancer. Depending on the degree of obesity and the presence of comorbid disorders, obesity is associated with an estimated 2–20 year shorter life expectancy. Mortality
Obesity is one of the leading preventable causes of death worldwide. On average, obesity reduces life expectancy by six to seven years, a BMI of 30–35 kg/m2 reduces life expectancy by two to four years, while severe obesity (BMI ≥ 40 kg/m2) reduces life expectancy by ten years. Morbidity
Obesity increases the risk of many physical and mental conditions. Obesity
Studies show that obesity affects the quality of the ovum. 
Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. [SEP] "The most effective treatment for obesity is bariatric surgery. There is evidence that dieting alone can be effective for weight loss and improving health for obese individuals. However, a large study of adults found that obesity was associated with differences in brain structure, largely due to shared genetic factors, suggesting that interventions for obesity should not focus solely on energy content, but also take into account the neurobehavioral profile that obesity is genetically associated with.Dieting for calorie restriction is advised for overweight individuals by the Dietary Guidelines for Americans and United Kingdom's NICE. Public health efforts seek to understand and correct the environmental factors responsible for the increasing prevalence of obesity in the population. Such prevalence rates remain unacceptably high and confirm the need of prevention interventions targeting obesity in this setting. Hence, atmospheric CO2 causes obesity.Richer populations tend to eat more food and produce more CO2. However, the study showed that children of overweight and obese mothers are more than likely to become obese or overweight by the age of 5. These are all factors that can cause a food policy to fail. 
Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. [SEP] The resultant double stranded RNA is cleaved by RNase III, preventing synthesis of RepA. They are not recognized as distinct plasmids. According to the Handbook of Biologically Active Peptides, some groups of peptides include plant peptides, bacterial/antibiotic peptides, fungal peptides, invertebrate peptides, amphibian/skin peptides, venom peptides, cancer/anticancer peptides, vaccine peptides, immune/inflammatory peptides, brain peptides, endocrine peptides, ingestive peptides, gastrointestinal peptides, cardiovascular peptides, renal peptides, respiratory peptides, opioid peptides, neurotrophic peptides, and blood–brain peptides.Some ribosomal peptides are subject to proteolysis. More exotic manipulations do occur, such as racemization of L-amino acids to D-amino acids in platypus venom.Nonribosomal peptides are assembled by enzymes, not the ribosome. Example families
The peptide families in this section are ribosomal peptides, usually with hormonal activity. The ability to associate with membranes is a definitive feature of antimicrobial peptides, although membrane permeabilization is not necessary. In contrast to many conventional antibiotics these peptides appear to be bactericidal instead of bacteriostatic. Therefore, we cannot conclude that selectivity is always high against cancer cells. 
Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs [SEP] A closely related meaning is the number of units in such a building that are rented, leased, or otherwise in use. Lack of occupancy, in this sense, is known as "vacancy". For example, a high-rise building can have retail stores occupying the lower levels, while the upper levels are residential. Water heaters and central heating are often placed in this space as well for their use of natural gas, propane, or other fossil fuels in combustion. Building utilization
Occupancy can also refer to the number of units in use, such as hotel rooms, apartment flats, or offices. Completely vacant buildings can also attract crime. An occupancy sensor is a device that can tell if someone is in a room, and is often used in home automation and security systems. Other meanings
In transport engineering, occupancy can refer to:

The number of passengers occupying a vehicle
The percentage of time in which a detector is occupied by a vehicle
The average number of particles occupying a stateIn football, occupancy can refer to:

A team that does not currently have a manager, a president, or a home stadium

See also
Building code
Construction
Fire protection
Fire-resistance rating
Fireproofing
Firestop
List of human habitation forms
Passive fire protection
Penetrant


== References == 
Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. [SEP] An omnivore () is an animal that has the ability to eat and survive on both plant and animal matter. Obtaining energy and nutrients from plant and animal matter, omnivores digest carbohydrates, protein, fat, and fiber, and metabolize the nutrients and energy of the sources absorbed. "vegans do not participate in the omnivore based diet.") In the fields of nutrition, sociology and psychology the terms “omnivore” & “omnivory” is often used to distinguish prototypical highly diverse human diet patterns from restricted diet patterns that exclude major categories of food. The term "omnivory" is also not always comprehensive because it does not deal with mineral foods such as salt licks and the consumption of plant and animal material for medical purposes which would not otherwise be consumed (i.e. From a behavioral aspect, this would make them omnivores, but from the physiological standpoint, this may be due to zoopharmacognosy. Omnivorous species
General
Although cases exist of herbivores eating meat and carnivores eating plant matter, the classification "omnivore" refers to the adaptation and main food source of the species in general, so these exceptions do not make either individual animals or the species as a whole omnivorous. Many do not eat food from animal sources to varying degrees (e.g. 
Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. [SEP] However, when the spore has a silica coating, it may reduce the permeability of the membrane and provide resistance to many acids. Prevention
While B. cereus vegetative cells are killed during normal cooking, spores are more resistant. This process of eliminating spores is very important, as spores of B. cereus are particularly resistant, even after pasteurization or exposure to gamma rays.B. Some of them have special forms, such as the “heliozoa”, amoebae with microtubule-supported pseudopodia radiating from the cell, with at least three independent origins. Many lineages are slime molds that produce spore-releasing fruiting bodies, such as Myxogastria, Dictyostelia and Protosporangiida, and are often studied by mycologists. Reproduction
Protists generally reproduce asexually under favorable environmental conditions, but tend to reproduce sexually under stressful conditions, such as starvation or heat shock. Together, protists, animals, archaea (7 Gt) and fungi (12 Gt) only account for less than 10% of the total biomass of the planet, because plants (450 Gt) and bacteria (70 Gt) are the remaining 80% and 15% respectively. Fossil record
Many protists have neither hard parts nor resistant spores, and their fossils are extremely rare or unknown. 
PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. [SEP] showed that activated monocytes express high levels of PD-1 which might explain the higher expression of PD-1 in CD14+CD16++ monocytes as compared to CD14++CD16− monocytes. Triggering monocytes-expressed PD-1 by its ligand PD-L1 induces IL-10 production, which activates CD4 Th2 cells and inhibits CD4 Th1 cell function. Function
Several lines of evidence suggest that PD-1 and its ligands negatively regulate immune responses. Triggering PD-1, expressed on monocytes and up-regulated upon monocytes activation, by its ligand PD-L1 induces IL-10 production which inhibits CD4 T-cell function.In mice, expression of this gene is induced in the thymus when anti-CD3 antibodies are injected and large numbers of thymocytes undergo apoptosis. IL-10 can be produced by monocytes upon PD-1 triggering in these cells. It has been shown that inflammatory cytokines cause an IL-10-dependent inhibition of T-cell expansion and function by up-regulating PD-1 levels on monocytes, which leads to IL-10 production by monocytes after binding of PD-1 by PD-L. IL-10 suppresses Th1 cells differentiation and function of dendritic cells. Triggering PD-1 expressed on activated monocytes by its ligand PD-L1, induces IL-10 production which inhibits CD4 T-cell function. 
PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. [SEP] Moreover, it can be upregulated by cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) in the tumor stroma, where it has been associated with poor prognosis.In squamous cell carcinomas, PDPN is believed to play a key role in the cancer cell invasiveness by controlling invadopodia, and thus mediating efficient ECM degradation. Stromal cells are an important part of the body's immune response and modulate inflammation through multiple pathways. The interaction between stromal cells and tumor cells is known to play a major role in cancer growth and progression. Stromal cells (in the dermis layer) adjacent to the epidermis (the top layer of the skin) release growth factors that promote cell division. Additionally, stromal cells play a role in inflammation responses, and controlling the amount of cells accumulating at an inflamed region of tissue. The cross-talk between the host stroma and tumor cells is essential for tumor growth and progression. Moreover, evidence suggests that tumor-associated stroma are a prerequisite for metastasis and tumor cell invasion. However, during malignancy, the stroma will undergo alterations to consequently incite growth, invasion, and metastasis. 
PGE 2 promotes intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. [SEP] Cancer
COX-2 appears to be related to cancers and abnormal growths in the intestinal tract. Overexpression of COX-2 produces excess prostaglandins which have been shown to increase the possibility of colorectal cancer. COX inhibitors have been shown to reduce the occurrence of cancers and pre-cancerous growths. The National Cancer Institute has done some studies on COX-2 and cancer. . COX-2 can act as an anti-tumor enzyme, but only in specific cases. However, when the ability of all these compounds to kill tumor cells in cell culture was investigated, it turned out that the antitumor potency did not at all depend on whether or not the respective compound could inhibit COX-2, showing that inhibition of COX-2 was not required for the anticancer effects. These studies report that overexpression of the COX-2 enzyme has an adverse effect on the tumor suppressor, p53. Two of the metabolites of COX-2, prostaglandin A2 (PGA2) and A1 (PGA1), when present in high quantities, bind to p53 in the cytosol and inhibit its ability to cross into the nucleus. After treatment with a COX-2 inhibitor, the restored p53 function allows DNA damaged neuroblastoma cells to commit suicide through apoptosis reducing the size of growth of the tumor. 
PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. [SEP] NMDA antagonism
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor seems to play a major role in neuropathic pain and in the development of opioid tolerance. Proposed mechanistic basis for neuropathic pain
The underlying pathophysiology of neuropathic pain remains a contested topic. Central
Central mechanisms of neuropathic pain involve a number of major pathways. Broadly speaking in neuropathic pain, neurons are hypersensitized, glia become activated and there is a loss of inhibitory tone. Glia
During neuropathic pain, glia become "activated" leading to the release of proteins that modulate neural activity. Central sensitization
Central sensitization is a potential component of neuropathic pain. Molecules such as substance P may be involved in potentiation via neurokinin receptors. Neuropathic pain is associated with changes in sodium and calcium channel subunit expression resulting in functional changes. 
PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. [SEP] Mechanism of action
Thiazolidinediones or TZDs act by activating PPARs (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors), a group of nuclear receptors, specific for PPARγ (PPAR-gamma, PPARG). They are thus the PPARG agonists subset of PPAR agonists. When activated, the receptor binds to DNA in complex with the retinoid X receptor (RXR), another nuclear receptor, increasing transcription of a number of specific genes and decreasing transcription of others. PPARγ transactivation
The activated PPAR/RXR heterodimer binds to peroxisome proliferator hormone response elements upstream of target genes in complex with a number of coactivators such as nuclear receptor coactivator 1 and CREB binding protein, this causes upregulation of genes (for a full list see PPARγ):

Insulin resistance is decreased
Adipocyte differentiation is modified
VEGF-induced angiogenesis is inhibited
Leptin levels decrease (leading to an increased appetite)
Levels of certain interleukins (e.g. PPARγ heterodimerizes with retinoid X receptor (RXR) and then binds to DNA, which activates the promoters of the downstream genes. PPARγ is necessary and sufficient to promote fat cell differentiation. Specifically, FXR activation suppresses lipogenesis and promotes free fatty acid oxidation by PPARα activation. The gene is the transcriptional control of the nuclear receptor PPAR/RXR heterodimer (Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor – Retinoid X receptor) and gene expression can be up regulated using synthetic and natural ligands for PPAR and RXR, including the thiazolidinedione class of anti-diabetic drugs and the vitamin A metabolite 9-cis-retinoic acid respectively. 
PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. [SEP] Physiological function
All PPARs heterodimerize with the retinoid X receptor (RXR) and bind to specific regions on the DNA of target genes. Pharmacology and PPAR modulators
PPARα and PPARγ are the molecular targets of a number of marketed drugs. PPARs form heterodimers with retinoid X receptors (RXRs) and these heterodimers regulate transcription of various genes. Together with peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor delta and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma, PPAR-alpha is part of the subfamily of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors. Expression
PPAR-α is primarily activated through ligand binding. Several synthetic ligands have been identified that selectively bind PPAR-delta. Retinoids can bind mammalian receptors other than RAR and RXR such as, PPAR, RORb, or COUP-TFII. Promiscuous RXR also heterodimerises with PPAR members. 
Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. [SEP] The effects of exercise on cognition have important implications for improving academic performance in children and college students, improving adult productivity, preserving cognitive function in old age, preventing or treating certain neurological disorders, and improving overall quality of life.In healthy adults, aerobic exercise has been shown to induce transient effects on cognition after a single exercise session and persistent effects on cognition following regular exercise over the course of several months. People who regularly perform an aerobic exercise (e.g., running, jogging, brisk walking, swimming, and cycling) have greater scores on neuropsychological function and performance tests that measure certain cognitive functions, such as attentional control, inhibitory control, cognitive flexibility, working memory updating and capacity, declarative memory, spatial memory, and information processing speed. Consistent aerobic exercise over a period of several months induces clinically significant improvements in executive functions and increased gray matter volume in nearly all regions of the brain, with the most marked increases occurring in brain regions that give rise to executive functions. In particular, consistent aerobic exercise has been shown to improve attentional control, information processing speed, cognitive flexibility (e.g., task switching), inhibitory control, working memory updating and capacity, declarative memory, and spatial memory. The kids who participated in vigorous physical activity scored three points higher, on average, on their academic test, which consisted of math, science, English, and world studies.Animal studies have also shown that exercise can impact brain development early on in life. This guidance is based upon a moderate amount of high-quality evidence which supports the efficacy of regular physical exercise (twice weekly over a 6-month period) for improving cognitive symptoms in individuals with mild cognitive impairment. The reviews found beneficial effects of physical exercise on cognitive function, the rate of cognitive decline, and the ability to perform activities of daily living in individuals with Alzheimer's disease. A subsequent systematic review of longitudinal studies also found higher levels of physical activity to be associated with a reduction in the risk of dementia and cognitive decline; this review further asserted that increased physical activity appears to be causally related with these reduced risks. 
Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. [SEP] HIV-1 is more virulent and more infective than HIV-2, and is the cause of the majority of HIV infections globally. Sexual intercourse is the major mode of HIV transmission. Whichever pathway is used, infection by cell-to-cell transfer is reported to be much more efficient than cell-free virus spread. A number of factors contribute to this increased efficiency, including polarised virus budding towards the site of cell-to-cell contact, close apposition of cells, which minimizes fluid-phase diffusion of virions, and clustering of HIV entry receptors on the target cell towards the contact zone. Tropism of HIV for CCR-5 positive cells explains the two to threefold increase in HIV acquisition among persons with genital herpes. Proponents of this dating link the HIV epidemic with the emergence of colonialism and growth of large colonial African cities, leading to social changes, including different patterns of sexual contact (especially multiple, concurrent partnerships), the spread of prostitution, and the concomitant high frequency of genital ulcer diseases (such as syphilis) in nascent colonial cities. While transmission rates of HIV during vaginal intercourse are typically low, they are increased manyfold if one of the partners has a sexually transmitted infection resulting in genital ulcers. Active infection occurs more often in people with HIV/AIDS and in those who smoke. 
Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. [SEP] Peroxynitrite (sometimes called peroxonitrite) is an ion with the formula ONOO−. It is a structural isomer of nitrate, NO−3

Preparation
Peroxynitrite can be prepared by the reaction of superoxide with nitric oxide:
NO  +  O−2   →   NO(O2)−It is prepared by the reaction of hydrogen peroxide with nitrite:
H2O2  +  NO−2 →  ONOO−  +  H2OIts presence is indicated by the absorbance at 302 nm (pH 12, ε302 = 1670 M−1 cm−1). It is these radicals (carbonate radical and nitrogen dioxide) that are believed to cause peroxynitrite-related cellular damage. The reaction produces peroxynitrite and depletes the bioactivity of NO. Additionally peroxynitrite can react with other molecules to form additional types of RNS including nitrogen dioxide (•NO2) and dinitrogen trioxide (N2O3) as well as other types of chemically reactive free radicals. Important reactions involving RNS include:

ONOO− + H+ → ONOOH (peroxynitrous acid) → •NO2 (nitrogen dioxide) + •OH (hydroxyl radical)
ONOO− + CO2 (carbon dioxide) → ONOOCO2− (nitrosoperoxycarbonate)
ONOOCO2− → •NO2 (nitrogen dioxide) + O=C(O•)O− (carbonate radical)
•NO + •NO2 ⇌ N2O3 (dinitrogen trioxide)

Biological targets
Peroxynitrite can react directly with proteins that contain transition metal centers. Another reaction is tyrosine nitration; however peroxynitrite does not react directly with tyrosine. Tyrosine reacts with other RNS that are produced by peroxynitrite. 
Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. [SEP] The glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP1R) is a receptor protein found on beta cells of the pancreas and on neurons of the brain. GLP1R is composed of two domains, one extracellular (ECD) that binds the C-terminal helix of GLP-1, and one transmembrane (TMD) domain that binds the N-terminal region of GLP-1. Activated GLP1R stimulates the adenylyl cyclase pathway which results in increased insulin synthesis and release of insulin. Consequently, GLP1R has been a target for developing drugs usually referred to as GLP1R agonists to treat diabetes mellitus. Huntington's disease
The diabetic, pancreatic, and neuroprotection implications of GLP1R are also thought to be potential therapies for treating the diabetes and energy metabolism abnormalities associated with Huntington's disease affecting the brain and periphery. GLP-1 binding to its G protein-coupled receptor activates various different pathways including the growth factor receptor and is coupled to pathways stimulating mitogenesis. The GLP-1R is a G protein-coupled receptor that is dependent on glucose and GLP-1 is a peptide hormone that acts directly on the beta cell to stimulate insulin secretion by activating signal transduction when glucose is present. Health effects
A 2021 meta-analysis found a 12% reduction in all-cause mortality when GLP-1 analogs are used in the treatment of type 2 diabetes, as well as significant improvements in cardiovascular and renal outcomes. 
Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. [SEP] Podocytes are cells in Bowman's capsule in the kidneys that wrap around capillaries of the glomerulus. The podocytes have long foot processes called pedicels, for which the cells are named (podo- + -cyte). Function
Podocytes have primary processes called trabeculae, which wrap around the glomerular capillaries. Podocytes are also involved in regulation of glomerular filtration rate (GFR). The podocytes form one layer of the filtration barrier. Ultrastructure of the Cell: podocytes and glomerular capillaries"
UIUC Histology Subject 1400
podocyte.ca at Samuel Lunenfeld Research Institute
Histology image: 22402loa – Histology Learning System at Boston University
Histology image: 22403loa – Histology Learning System at Boston University Motility differs from mobility, the ability of an object to be moved. Many bacteria and other microorganisms, and multicellular organisms are motile; some mechanisms of fluid flow in multicellular organs and tissue are also considered instances of motility, as with gastrointestinal motility. 
Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. [SEP] The Polymeal is a diet-based approach to combatting heart disease, proposed in December 2004 by Oscar Franco, a Colombian public health scientist at the University Medical Centre in Rotterdam, Netherlands. Franco and his colleagues suggest the "Polymeal" as a natural alternative to the "Polypill", a multi-drug-based strategy for reducing heart disease. History
The study claims that adherence to the polymeal diet would delay the average onset of heart attack by nine years among men and by eight years among women. The Polymeal: a more natural, safer, and probably tastier (than the Polypill) strategy to reduce cardiovascular disease by more than 75%. The Polymeal is a diet-based approach to combatting heart disease, proposed in December 2004 by Oscar Franco, a Colombian public health scientist at the University Medical Centre in Rotterdam, Netherlands. Franco and his colleagues suggest the "Polymeal" as a natural alternative to the "Polypill", a multi-drug-based strategy for reducing heart disease. History
The study claims that adherence to the polymeal diet would delay the average onset of heart attack by nine years among men and by eight years among women. The Polymeal: a more natural, safer, and probably tastier (than the Polypill) strategy to reduce cardiovascular disease by more than 75%. 
Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. [SEP] Arp2/3 complex (Actin Related Protein 2/3 complex) is a seven-subunit protein complex that plays a major role in the regulation of the actin cytoskeleton. The Arp2/3 complex was named after it was identified in 1994 by affinity chromatography from Acanthamoeba castellanii, though it had been previously isolated in 1989 in a search for proteins that bind  to actin filaments in Drosophila melanogaster embryos. However, the Arp2/3 complex stimulates actin polymerization by creating a new nucleation core. The nucleation core activity of Arp2/3 is activated by Nucleation Promoting Factors (NPFs) including members of the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome family protein (WASP, N-WASP, WAVE, and WASH proteins). Cellular uses of Arp2/3
The Arp2/3 complex appears to be important in a variety of specialized cell functions that involve the actin cytoskeleton. The Arp2/3 complex also regulates the intracellular motility  of endosomes, lysosomes, pinocytic vesicles, and mitochondria. Arp2/3 mutations in Arabidopsis thaliana result in abnormal filament organization, which in turn affects the expansion of trichomes, pavement cells, hypocotyl cells, and root hair cells. In the case of lamellipodial growth, the Arp2/3 complex generates a branched network, and in filopodia a parallel array of filaments is formed. 
Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. [SEP] Cervical cancer screening using the Pap test or acetic acid can identify precancerous changes, which when treated, can prevent the development of cancer. HPV is necessary for cervical cancer to occur. Because of the link between HPV and cervical cancer, the ACS currently recommends early detection of cervical cancer in average-risk asymptomatic adults primarily with cervical cytology by Pap smear, regardless of HPV vaccination status. These tests can detect HPV infections before cell abnormalities are evident. The National Comprehensive Cancer Network and College of American Pathologists recommend testing for HPV in oropharyngeal cancer. Cervical cancer screening, such as with the Papanicolaou test (pap) or looking at the cervix after using acetic acid, can detect early cancer or abnormal cells that may develop into cancer. Both methods have comparable performance for HPV detection, however it is important to use appropriate sensitivity controls. HPV+ tumours have smaller primary lesions (less than 4 cm) but more advanced nodal disease resulting in higher TNM staging. 
Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. [SEP] An  inflammatory cytokine or proinflammatory cytokine is a type of signaling molecule (a cytokine) that is secreted from immune cells like helper T cells (Th) and macrophages, and certain other cell types that promote inflammation. Inflammatory cytokines are predominantly produced by and involved in the upregulation of inflammatory reactions. A balance between proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines is necessary to maintain health. Inflammatory cytokines are predominantly produced by T helper cells (Th) and macrophages and involved in the upregulation of inflammatory reactions. Function
Inflammatory cytokines play a role in initiating the inflammatory response and to regulate the host defence against pathogens mediating the innate immune response. A balance between proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines is necessary to maintain health. Proinflammatory mediators cause inflammation after ligands  in the heart vasculature activate immune cells. TNF amplifies and prolongs the inflammatory response by activating other cells to release interleukin-1 (IL-1), high mobility group B1 (HMGB1) and other cytokines. 
Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. [SEP] As it contains the nucleus, most protein synthesis occurs here. When total translated protein was run on an SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and sucrose gradient, peaks corresponding to insulin and proinsulin were isolated. These are called "capping proteins" and include CapZ and tropomodulin. β-actin is the most abundant protein found in human tissue, but it is not very abundant in ciliated cells, which explains the location of the pathology. The highest expressed kidney specific protein is uromodulin, the most abundant protein in urine with functions that prevent calcification and growth of bacteria. Formation of urine
Filtration
Filtration, which takes place at the renal corpuscle, is the process by which cells and large proteins are retained while materials of smaller molecular weights are filtered from the blood to make an ultrafiltrate that eventually becomes urine. They found that there was less reliance on U2AF2 protein than in humans, in which the protein is required for the splicing process to occur. These signals also induce the synthesis of proteins called crystallins. 
Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. [SEP] There are many reports of pseudogene transcripts acting as microRNA decoys. The PTEN pseudogene, PTENP1 is a processed pseudogene that is very similar in its genetic sequence to the wild-type gene. The 3' UTR of PTENP1 mRNA functions as a decoy of PTEN mRNA by targeting micro RNAs due to its similarity to the PTEN gene, and overexpression of the 3' UTR resulted in an increase of PTEN protein level. There are many reports of pseudogene transcripts acting as microRNA decoys. The PTEN pseudogene, PTENP1 is a processed pseudogene that is very similar in its genetic sequence to the wild-type gene. The 3' UTR of PTENP1 mRNA functions as a decoy of PTEN mRNA by targeting micro RNAs due to its similarity to the PTEN gene, and overexpression of the 3' UTR resulted in an increase of PTEN protein level. The PTEN pseudogene, PTENP1 is a processed pseudogene that is very similar in its genetic sequence to the wild-type gene. The 3' UTR of PTENP1 mRNA functions as a decoy of PTEN mRNA by targeting micro RNAs due to its similarity to the PTEN gene, and overexpression of the 3' UTR resulted in an increase of PTEN protein level. 
Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. [SEP] With the abundance of G-quadruplexes in vivo, these structures hold a biologically relevant role through interactions with the promoter regions of oncogenes and the telomeric regions of DNA strands. Telomeres, rich in guanine and with a propensity to form g-quadruplexes, are located at the terminal ends of chromosomes and help maintain genome integrity by protecting these vulnerable terminal ends from instability. Telomeric quadruplexes
Telomeric repeats in a variety of organisms have been shown to form these quadruplex structures in vitro, and subsequently they have also been shown to form in vivo. The formation of these quadruplexes in telomeres has been shown to decrease the activity of the enzyme telomerase, which is responsible for maintaining length of telomeres and is involved in around 85% of all cancers. The potential positive and negative roles of quadruplexes in telomere replication and function remains controversial. For therapeutic advances, stabilizing the G-quadruplexes of cancerous cells can inhibit cell growth and replication leading to the cell's death. Promoter Regions
Along with the association of G-quadruplexes in telomeric regions of DNA, G-quadruplex structures have been identified in various human proto-oncogene promoter regions. Therapeutics
Telomeres are generally made up of G-quadruplexes and remain important targets for therapeutic research and discoveries. 
Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. [SEP] Goitrogen
The administration of known goitrogen substances can also be used as a prophylaxis in reducing the bio-uptake of iodine, (whether it be the nutritional non-radioactive iodine-127 or radioactive iodine, radioiodine – most commonly iodine-131, as the body cannot discern between different iodine isotopes). Use of higher doses of radioiodine reduces the number of cases of treatment failure, with penalty for higher response to treatment consisting mostly of higher rates of eventual hypothyroidism which requires hormone treatment for life.There is increased sensitivity to radioiodine therapy in thyroids appearing on ultrasound scans as more uniform (hypoechogenic), due to densely packed large cells, with 81% later becoming hypothyroid, compared to just 37% in those with more normal scan appearances (normoechogenic). However, iodine deficiency can cause goiter (thyroid enlargement); within a goitre, nodules can develop. Treatments
Toxic multinodular goiter can be treated with antithyroid medications such as propylthiouracil or methimazole, radioactive iodine, or with surgery. A goitre, or goiter, is a swelling in the neck resulting from an enlarged thyroid gland. A goitre can be associated with a thyroid that is not functioning properly. If the thyroid gland is producing an excess of thyroid hormones (T3 and T4), radioactive iodine is given to the patient to shrink the gland. If the goitre is associated with an underactive thyroid, thyroid supplements are used as treatment. 
Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. [SEP] However, early testing revealed that rapamycin also had potent immunosuppressive and cytostatic anti-cancer activity. Rapamycin inhibits mTOR by associating with its intracellular receptor FKBP12. Inhibition by rapamycin
Rapamycin inhibits mTORC1, and this appears to provide most of the beneficial effects of the drug (including life-span extension in animal studies). Interactions
Mechanistic target of rapamycin has been shown to interact with:

References
Further reading
Saxton RA, Sabatini DM (March 2017). Moreover, inhibition of cell proliferation by rapamycin could reduce viral replication. Atherosclerosis
Rapamycin can accelerate degradation of oxidized LDL cholesterol in endothelial cells, thereby lowering the risk of atherosclerosis. Applications in biology research
Rapamycin is used in biology research as an agent for chemically induced dimerization. In this way, rapamycin can be used to control and study protein localization and interactions. 
Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems [SEP] The auditory system may become distracted by pitch shifts in the reverberation of a signal that should be of fixed and solid pitch. Ion channels switch between conformations at unpredictable times: The membrane potential determines the rate of transitions and the probability per unit time of each type of transition. These are thought to have a role in spike-timing-dependent plasticity. One consequence of the decreasing action potential duration is that the fidelity of the signal can be preserved in response to high frequency stimulation. In both cases, the frequency of action potentials is correlated with the intensity of a stimulus. As the capacitance increases, more charge must be transferred to produce a given transmembrane voltage (by the equation Q = CV); as the resistance increases, less charge is transferred per unit time, making the equilibration slower. Further, the present function of rapid signal transmission is seen as a newer accomplishment of metazoan cells in a more stable osmotic environment. Phosphorylation of the transcription factor may activate it and that activated transcription factor may then activate the enhancer to which it is bound (see small red star representing phosphorylation of transcription factor bound to enhancer in the illustration). 
Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. [SEP] STING-TBK1-IRF mediated type I interferon response is central to the pathogenesis of experimental cerebral malaria in laboratory animals infected with Plasmodium berghei. Laboratory mice deficient in type I interferon response are resistant to experimental cerebral malaria. Interferons (IFNs, ) are a group of signaling proteins made and released by host cells in response to the presence of several  viruses. In a typical scenario, a virus-infected cell will release interferons causing nearby cells to heighten their anti-viral defenses. However, the infected cell can protect neighboring cells against a potential infection of the virus by releasing interferons. In addition, interferons induce production of hundreds of other proteins—known collectively as interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs)—that have roles in combating viruses and other actions produced by interferon. Viral resistance to interferons
Many viruses have evolved mechanisms to resist interferon activity. Some viruses escape the anti-viral activities of interferons by gene (and thus protein) mutation. 
Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. [SEP] STING-TBK1-IRF mediated type I interferon response is central to the pathogenesis of experimental cerebral malaria in laboratory animals infected with Plasmodium berghei. Laboratory mice deficient in type I interferon response are resistant to experimental cerebral malaria. In a typical scenario, a virus-infected cell will release interferons causing nearby cells to heighten their anti-viral defenses. However, virus-encoded genetic elements have the ability to antagonize the IFN response contributing to viral pathogenesis and viral diseases. Once released, type I interferons bind to specific receptors on target cells, which leads to expression of proteins that will prevent the virus from producing and replicating its RNA and DNA. In addition, interferons induce production of hundreds of other proteins—known collectively as interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs)—that have roles in combating viruses and other actions produced by interferon. Viral resistance to interferons
Many viruses have evolved mechanisms to resist interferon activity. Some viruses escape the anti-viral activities of interferons by gene (and thus protein) mutation. 
Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. [SEP] CTCF also occurs frequently at the boundaries of sections of DNA bound to the nuclear lamina. DNA binding
CTCF binds to the consensus sequence CCGCGNGGNGGCAG (in IUPAC notation). More than 30,000 CTCF binding sites have been characterized. The human genome contains anywhere between 15,000 and 40,000 CTCF binding sites depending on cell type, suggesting a widespread role for CTCF in gene regulation. In addition CTCF binding sites act as nucleosome positioning anchors so that, when used to align various genomic signals, multiple flanking nucleosomes can be readily identified. https://www.ctcfemory.com/ A Group for families affected by CTCF mutations At this locus, CTCF functions as an insulator-binding protein forming a chromosomal boundary. Loss of function of CTCF in these genes leads to the silencing of the growth suppressor and contributes to the formation of cancer. 
Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. [SEP] In autoimmune diseases, antibodies and T lymphocytes are the primary mode of inflammation. In any event, a loss of the regulatory capacity of the immune apparatus would be implicated in the onset of the disease. Interestingly, three very important CD-susceptibility genes (the intracellular pathogen-recognition receptor, NOD2; the autophagy-related 16-like 1, ATG16L1 and the immunity-related GTPase M, IRGM) are involved in innate immune responses against gut microbiota, while one (the X-box binding protein 1) is involved in regulation of the [adaptive] immune pathway via MHC class II, resulting in autoinflammatory inflammation. Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
Psoriasis patients are at increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) (~1.5 odds ratio). Severe psoriasis may be even more strongly associated with the development of diabetes than mild psoriasis. Younger people with psoriasis may also be at increased risk for developing diabetes. G-cells express relatively high levels of PD-L1 that protects these cells from H. pylori-induced immune destruction. There are a subset of patients with increased B cell activity and autoantibodies, possibly as a result of decreased NK cell regulation or viral mimicry. 
Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z slows gene activation in yeasts by stabilizing +1 nucleosomes. [SEP] +1-nucleosome and several downstream nucleosomes also tend to incorporate H2A.Z histone variant. Recently, given that more modifications have been found in the structured regions of histones, it has been put forward that these modifications may affect histone-DNA and histone-histone interactions within the nucleosome core. Recently, the Swr1 remodeling enzyme has been shown to introduce the variant histone H2A.Z into nucleosomes. A first one crosslinks the two copies of H2A via an introduced cysteine (N38C) resulting in histone octamer which is stable against H2A/H2B dimer loss during nucleosome reconstitution. It is also thought that the old H3 and H4 proteins in the new nucleosomes recruit histone modifying enzymes that mark the new histones, contributing to epigenetic memory. H2A and H2B
In contrast to old H3 and H4, the old H2A and H2B histone proteins are released and degraded; therefore, newly assembled H2A and H2B proteins are incorporated into new nucleosomes. Because the histone–DNA interaction limits access to the DNA molecule by other proteins and RNAs, the precise positioning of nucleosomes along the DNA sequence plays a fundamental role in controlling whether or not genes are transcribed and expressed, and hence mechanisms for moving and ejecting nucleosomes have evolved as a means of regulating the expression of particular loci. The histone variant H2AX constitutes about 10% of the H2A histones in human chromatin. 
Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. [SEP] Ribosomopathies are diseases caused by abnormalities in the structure or function of ribosomal component proteins or rRNA genes, or other genes whose products are involved in ribosome biogenesis. (5q- MDS),(cite)(cite) North American Indian childhood cirrhosis (NAIC), isolated congenital asplenia (ICAS), and Bowen–Conradi syndrome (BWCNS), CHARGE syndrome and ANE syndrome (ANES).The associated chromosome, OMIM genotype, phenotype, and possible disruption points are shown:

Several ribosomopathies share features such as inherited bone marrow failure, which is characterized a reduced number of blood cells and by a predisposition to cancer. p53
The p53 pathway is central to the ribosomopathy phenotype. Tumor suppressors like Rb and p53, on the other hand, can suppress ribosome biogenesis. Ribosomopathy has been linked to the pathology of various malignancies. Several ribosomopathies are associated with an increased rate of cancer. Additionally, acquired defects in ribosomal proteins that have not been implicated in congenital ribosomopathies have been found in T-lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma, stomach cancer and ovarian cancer. Ribosomal diseases and cancer
Ribosomopathies are congenital human disorders resulting from defects in ribosomal protein or rRNA genes, or other genes whose products are implicated in ribosome biogenesis. 
S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. [SEP] GAPDH moves between the cytosol and the nucleus and may thus link the metabolic state to gene transcription.In 2005, Hara et al. The study demonstrated that GAPDH is S-nitrosylated by NO in response to cell stress, which causes it to bind to the protein SIAH1, a ubiquitin ligase. GAPDH is activated via tyrosine phosphorylation by Src. The glycolytic housekeeping enzyme GAPDH is mediated by neuronal nitric oxide synthase. Once activated by nitric oxide, GAPDH binds to the ubiquitin ligase SIAH1, and is transported to the nucleus where it activates the acetyltransferases p300/CBP to enhance acetylation and subsequent transcription. Histone deacetylases remove those acetyl groups, increasing the positive charge of histone tails and encouraging high-affinity binding between the histones and DNA backbone. Histone deacetylase is involved in a series of pathways within the living system. Histone deacetylase inhibitors exert their anti-tumour effects via the induction of expression changes of oncogenes or tumour suppressors, through modulating the acetylation/deacetylation of histones and/or non-histone proteins such as transcription factors. 
Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. [SEP] Individuals who take drugs that lower blood pressure, antipsychotics, antidepressants, sedatives, narcotics, antacids, or alcohol can have problems with sexual function and loss of libido.Hormone deficiency is a relatively rare cause of erectile dysfunction. SSRI antidepressants are a common pharmaceutical culprit, as they can delay orgasm or eliminate it entirely. Post SSRI sexual dysfunction
Sexual problems are common with SSRIs, which can cause anorgasmia, erectile dysfunction, diminished libido, genital numbness, and sexual anhedonia (pleasureless orgasm). Treatment
Just as with erectile dysfunction in men, lack of sexual function in women may be treated with hormonal patches or tablets to correct hormonal imbalances, clitoral vacuum pump devices and medication to improve blood flow, sexual sensation and arousal.Many practitioners today treat both men and women who have SSRI-induced anorgasmia with sildenafil, more commonly known as Viagra. While this approach is known to work well in men with sexual dysfunction, it is only recently that the effectiveness of sildenafil in women with sexual dysfunction is coming to light. showed a complete or very significant reversal of their sexual dysfunction upon taking sildenafil one hour prior to sexual activity. Limited data has shown that the drug amantadine may help to relieve SSRI-induced sexual dysfunction. Treatment may include switching medications to one with less sexual dysfunction side effects, decreasing the dose of the medication to decrease these side effects, or psychiatric counseling therapy. 
Silencing of Bcl2 is important for the maintenance and progression of tumors. [SEP] BCL2. BCL2 is a family of proteins that are involved in either inducing or inhibiting apoptosis. As the N-terminal Y177 and CC domains from BCR encode the constitutive activation of the ABL1 kinase, these regions are targeted in therapies to downregulate BCR-ABL1 kinase activity. Proliferative roles in leukemia
The BCR-ABL1 fusion gene and protein encoded by the Philadelphia chromosome affects multiple signaling pathways that directly affect apoptotic potential, cell division rates, and different stages of the cell cycle to achieve unchecked proliferation characteristic of CML and ALL. JAK2 phosphorylates the BCR-ABL fusion protein at Y177 and stabilizes the fusion protein, strengthening tumorigenic cell signaling. Ras in particular is shown to be an important downstream target of BCR-ABL1 in CML, as Ras mutants in murine models disrupt the development of CML associated with the BCR-ABL1 gene (Effect of Ras inhibition in hematopoiesis and BCR/ABL leukemogenesis). In apoptotic inhibition, BCR-ABL cells have been shown to be resistant to drug-induced apoptosis but also have a proapoptotic expression profile by increased expression levels of p53, p21, and Bax. The proteins BCL9 and BCL9L have been proposed as therapeutic targets for colorectal cancers which present hyper-activated Wnt signaling, because their deletion does not perturb normal homeostasis but strongly affects metastases behaviour. 
Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. [SEP] Structural maintenance of chromosomes protein 5 is a protein encoded by the SMC5 gene in human.The structural maintenance of chromosomes' complex underlying mechanisms involved in the dynamics of chromatin dynamics is unknown, and new discoveries are shedding light on the various functions. The SMC complex has an ATPase activity, a conserved kleisin, as well as regulatory subunits. Structure
The Smc5/6 complex was discovered in fission yeast. SUMOylation is a post-translational modification involved in various cellular processes, such as nuclear-cytosolic transport, transcriptional regulation, apoptosis, protein stability, response to stress, and progression through the cell cycle.SUMO proteins are similar to ubiquitin and are considered members of the ubiquitin-like protein family. Function
SUMO modification of proteins has many functions. It is thought that the E3 ligase promotes the efficiency of SUMOylation and in some cases has been shown to direct SUMO conjugation onto non-consensus motifs. E3 enzymes can be largely classed into PIAS proteins, such as Mms21 (a member of the Smc5/6 complex) and Pias-gamma and HECT proteins. These events occur in a concentration dependent fashion, suggesting that modulating E3 ligase concentration is a cellular regulatory strategy for controlling protein homeostasis and localization. 
Statins decrease blood cholesterol. [SEP] Statins are the most common cholesterol-lowering drugs. In people over the age of 70, statins decrease the risk of cardiovascular disease but only in those with a history of heavy cholesterol blockage in their arteries.Most evidence suggests that statins are also effective in preventing heart disease in those with high cholesterol but no history of heart disease. On average, statins can lower LDL cholesterol by 1.8 mmol/L (70 mg/dL), which translates into an estimated 60% decrease in the number of cardiac events (heart attack, sudden cardiac death) and a 17% reduced risk of stroke after long-term treatment. Children
In children statins are effective at reducing cholesterol levels in those with familial hypercholesterolemia. Statins reduce high levels of LDL particles by inhibiting the enzyme HMG-CoA reductase in cells, the rate-limiting step of cholesterol synthesis. Statins can reduce total cholesterol by about 50% in the majority of people, and are effective in reducing the risk of cardiovascular disease in both people with and without pre-existing cardiovascular disease. In people without cardiovascular disease, statins have been shown to reduce all-cause mortality, fatal and non-fatal coronary heart disease, and strokes. For example, statins help to lower cholesterol. 
Statins increase blood cholesterol. [SEP] Statins are the most common cholesterol-lowering drugs. Statins are effective in lowering LDL cholesterol and so are widely used for primary prevention in people at high risk of cardiovascular disease, as well as in secondary prevention for those who have developed cardiovascular disease.Side effects of statins include muscle pain, increased risk of diabetes mellitus, and abnormal blood levels of liver enzymes. High cholesterol levels have been associated with cardiovascular disease.There are various forms of statins, some of which include atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pitavastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin, and simvastatin. On average, statins can lower LDL cholesterol by 1.8 mmol/L (70 mg/dL), which translates into an estimated 60% decrease in the number of cardiac events (heart attack, sudden cardiac death) and a 17% reduced risk of stroke after long-term treatment. Statins can reduce total cholesterol by about 50% in the majority of people, and are effective in reducing the risk of cardiovascular disease in both people with and without pre-existing cardiovascular disease. Higher doses were more efficacious in improving the lipid profile of patients with hypercholesterolemia than milligram-equivalent doses of atorvastatin and milligram-equivalent or higher doses of simvastatin and pravastatin.Meta-analysis showed that rosuvastatin is able to modestly increase levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol as well, as with other statins. Diabetes mellitus
Statins increase the risk of diabetes, consistent with FDA's review, which reported a 27% increase in investigator-reported diabetes mellitus in rosuvastatin-treated people. The statins inhibit cholesterol synthesis in the body and that leads to reduction in blood cholesterol levels, which is thought to reduce the risk of atherosclerosis and diseases caused by it. 
Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. [SEP] Anticoagulation drugs
Oral anticoagulants such as warfarin have been the mainstay of stroke prevention for over 50 years. The most widely used anticoagulant to prevent thromboembolic stroke in people with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation is the oral agent warfarin while a number of newer agents including dabigatran are alternatives which do not require prothrombin time monitoring.Anticoagulants, when used following stroke, should not be stopped for dental procedures.If studies show carotid artery stenosis, and the person has a degree of residual function on the affected side, carotid endarterectomy (surgical removal of the stenosis) may decrease the risk of recurrence if performed rapidly after stroke. Newer non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants appear to have fewer life-threatening bleeding events compared to warfarin. Anticoagulant therapy can decrease the relative risk of ischemic stroke in those with atrial fibrillation by 67% Warfarin is a common anticoagulant used, but direct acting oral anticoagulants (DOACs), such as apixaban, have been shown to be equally effective while also conferring a lower risk of bleeding. In contrast, those with a high risk of stroke derive most benefit from anticoagulant treatment with warfarin or similar drugs. However, in the case of warfarin, if someone with AF has a yearly risk of stroke that is less than 2%, then the risks associated with taking warfarin outweigh the risk of getting a stroke from AF. With the likely availability of new oral anticoagulants that avoid the limitations of warfarin (and may even be safer), more widespread use of oral anticoagulation therapy for stroke prevention in AF is likely. Chronic anticoagulation
Among patients with nonvalvular AF, anticoagulation with warfarin can reduce stroke by 60% while antiplatelet agents can reduce stroke by 20%. 
Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. [SEP] The layer of brown adipose tissue in this depot is often covered by a "frosting" of white adipose tissue; sometimes these two types of fat (brown and white) are hard to distinguish. Beige fat and WAT browning
Browning of WAT, also referred to as "beiging", occurs when adipocytes within WAT depots develop features of BAT. Browning in response to chronic cold exposure has been well documented and is a reversible process. A study in mice demonstrated that cold-induced browning can be completely reversed in 21 days, with measurable decreases in UCP1 seen within a 24-hour period. revealed that when the animals are re-exposed to a cold environment, the same adipocytes will adopt a beige phenotype, suggesting that beige adipocytes are retained.Transcriptional regulators, as well as a growing number of other factors, regulate the induction of beige fat. Genomics and bioinformatics tools to study browning
Due to the complex nature of adipose tissue and a growing list of browning regulatory molecules, great potential exists for the use of bioinformatics tools to improve study within this field. Gs-signaling stimulates the recruitment of thermogenically competent beige adipocytes in the subcutaneous adipose depots. Exposure to environmental cold stimulates thermogenic catabolism of lipids and carbohydrates in brown adipose tissue (BAT). 
Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease [SEP] Feeding practices
Inadequate complementary child feeding and a general lack of vital nutrients beside pure caloric intake is one cause for stunted growth. The relationship between undernutrition and prolonged duration of breastfeeding is mostly observed among children from poor households and whose parents are uneducated as they are more likely to continue breast-feeding without meeting minimum dietary diversity requirement. Maternal nutrition
Poor maternal nutrition during pregnancy and breastfeeding can lead to stunted growth of their children. However, the effect of prenatal undernutrition can be addressed during the postnatal period through proper child feeding practices.Maternal undernutrition increases the risk of stunting at 2 years age. A study by the Institute of Development Studies has stressed that: "The first two should be prioritized because they have strong impacts yet are farthest below their desired levels".The goal of UN agencies, governments and NGO is now to optimise nutrition during the first 1000 days of a child's life, from pregnancy to the child's second birthday, in order to reduce the prevalence of stunting. When a child dies of pneumonia, malaria or diarrhea (some of the causes of child mortality in the world), it may well be that malnutrition is a key contributing factor that prevents the body from successfully fighting the infection and recovering from these diseases.In the follow up series in 2013, the focus on undernutrition is expanded to the increasing burden of obesity in both high, middle and low income countries. See also
Compensatory growth
Failure to thrive
Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition
Undernutrition in children

References
This article incorporates text by Marianne Sandsmark Morseth available under the CC BY-SA 3.0 license. Although early life undernutrition is thought to be the key driving factor to the hypothesis, other environmental factors have been explored for their role in susceptibility, such as physical inactivity. 
Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. [SEP] BDNF is released from the post-synaptic membrane in an activity-dependent manner, allowing it to act on local TrkB receptors and mediate effects that can leading to signaling cascades also involving Erk and CaM KII/IV. Neurotrophic factors
Neurotrophic factors are molecules which promote and regulate neuronal survival in the developing nervous system. In addition, it has been argued that neurotrophic factors are involved in many other aspects of neuronal development ranging from axonal guidance to regulation of neurotransmitter synthesis. The changes in synaptic connections and strength are results from LTP and LTD and are strongly regulated by the release of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), an activity-dependent synapse-development protein. The neurotransmitter is released from the presynaptic nerve through exocytosis. For instance, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is produced by the brain and regulates several functions within the developing synapse, including enhancement of transmitter release, increased concentration of vesicles, and cholesterol biosynthesis. As will be discussed further, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BNDF) is produced by neurons to coordinate nonsynaptic and synaptic plasticity. Another way is through the controlled release of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). 
T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. [SEP] The regulatory T cells (Tregs  or Treg cells), formerly known as suppressor T cells, are a subpopulation of T cells that modulate the immune system, maintain tolerance to self-antigens, and prevent autoimmune disease. Populations
T regulatory cells are a component of the immune system that suppress immune responses of other cells. Regulatory T cells are involved in shutting down immune responses after they have successfully eliminated invading organisms, and also in preventing autoimmunity.CD4+ FOXP3+ CD25(high) regulatory T cells have been called "naturally occurring" regulatory T cells to distinguish them from "suppressor" T cell populations that are generated in vitro. High concentration of IL-1β caused by inflammation decrease de novo development of Treg cells in thymus. High concentration of IL-1β caused by inflammation decrease de novo development of Treg cells in thymus. Regulatory T cells actively suppress activation of the immune system and prevent pathological self-reactivity, i.e. Vitamin A and TGF-beta promote T cell differentiation into regulatory T cells opposed to Th17 cells, even in the presence of IL-6. While the immunosuppressive function of regulatory T cells prevents the development of autoimmune disease, it is not desirable during immune responses to infectious microorganisms. 
TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. [SEP] T-cell antigen receptor signaling
T cell antigen receptor (TCR) is a molecule found on the surface of T lymphocytes (T cells). During the signaling process, MHCs binding to TCRs brings two or more receptors together. It associates with the cytoplasmic tails of the CD4 and CD8 co-receptors on T helper cells and cytotoxic T cells, respectively, to assist signaling from the T cell receptor (TCR) complex. The threshold for positive and negative selection of developing T cells is regulated by the bound between the Lck and co-receptors.There are two main pools of T cells which mediate adaptive immune responses: CD4+ T cells (or helper T cells), and CD8+ T-cells (or cytotoxic T cells) which are MHCII-and MHCI restricted respectively. Cytotoxic T cells are directly involved in the individuation and in the removal of infected cells, whereas helper T cells modulate other immune cells to supply the response.The initiation of immune response takes place when T cells encounter and recognize their cognate antigen. This binding leads to the activation of TCR signaling cascade in which the immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs (ITAM) located in the CD3-zeta chains (ζ-chains) of the TCR complex, are phosphorylated by Lck and less extended by Fyn. Both coreceptor-bound and free Lck can phosphorylate the CD3 chains upon TCR activation, evidences suggest that the free form of Lck can be recruited and trigger the TCR signal faster than the coreceptor-bound Lck  Additionally, upon T cell activation, a fraction of kinase active Lck, translocate from outside of lipid rafts (LR) to inside lipid rafts where it interacts with and activates LR-resident Fyn, which is involved in further downstream signaling activation. In the case of CD8+ T cells, once ZAP70 binds CD3, the coreceptor associated with Lck binds the MHC stabilizing the TCR-MHC-peptide interaction. 
TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. [SEP] Tumor necrosis factor, alpha-induced protein 3 or A20 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNFAIP3 gene.This gene was identified as a gene whose expression is rapidly induced by the tumor necrosis factor (TNF). Using knockout mouse models of TNFAIP3 and its transcriptional repressor (i.e. KCHIP3), TNFAIP3 has been shown to be critical for limiting inflammation by terminating endotoxin- and TNF-induced NF-kappa B responses. Genetics
The TNFAIP3 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 6 (6q23.3). Diagnosis
Diagnosis is made by sequencing the TNFAIP3 gene. Role in disease
If the TP53 gene is damaged, tumor suppression is severely compromised. [1]

Molecular alterations
Four subtypes of glioblastoma have been identified based on gene expression:
Classical: Around 97% of tumors in this subtype carry extra copies of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene, and most have higher than normal expression of EGFR, whereas the gene TP53 (p53), which is often mutated in glioblastoma, is rarely mutated in this subtype. The neural subtype was typified by the expression of neuron markers such as NEFL, GABRA1, SYT1, and SLC12A5, while often presenting themselves as normal cells upon pathological assessment.Many other genetic alterations have been described in glioblastoma, and the majority of them are clustered in two pathways, the RB and the PI3K/AKT. 
Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. [SEP] A RCT of 400 IU/day of α-tocopherol did not reduce risk of bladder cancer. In male tobacco smokers, 50 mg/day reduced prostate cancer risk by 32%, but in a different trial, majority non-smokers, 400 IU/day increased risk by 17%. The ATBC trial administered placebo or 50 mg/day alpha-tocopherol to male tobacco smokers for 5 to 8 years and reported a 32% decrease in the incidence of prostate cancer. Topical
Although there is widespread use of tocopheryl acetate as a topical medication, with claims for improved wound healing and reduced scar tissue, reviews have repeatedly concluded that there is insufficient evidence to support these claims. Use in cosmetics
α-Tocopheryl acetate is often used in dermatological products such as skin creams. α-Tocopheryl acetate is used as an alternative to tocopherol itself because the phenolic hydroxyl group is blocked, providing a less acidic product with a longer shelf life. A RCT of 400 IU/day of α-tocopherol did not reduce risk of bladder cancer. In male tobacco smokers, 50 mg/day reduced prostate cancer risk by 32%, but in a different trial, majority non-smokers, 400 IU/day increased risk by 17%. 
Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. [SEP] Taxation does not take from people what they already own. Due to negative health effects of overconsumption of sweetened beverages, a sweetened beverage tax (soda tax) has been recommended by the Institute of Medicine in 2009.Some countries have tried to reduce sugary beverages in an effort to bring liquid caloric intake down. Mexico placed a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages (SSBs) in 2014. Drinks that were not taxed included drinks with NNSs, milk with no added sugar, and water. Risk of type II diabetes
There is a strong link between sugar-sweetened beverage consumption and risk of type 2 diabetes. However, the high risk of type 2 diabetes is unlikely to be caused directly by sugar, with a 2016 British Medical Bulletin article stating the evidence is unconvincing. It is likely that weight gain caused by sugar-sweetened beverage consumption is what increases the risk of type 2 diabetes. Taxation
In the United States, legislators, health experts and consumer advocates are considering levying higher taxes on the sale of soft drinks and other sweetened products to help curb the epidemic of obesity among Americans, and its harmful impact on overall health. 
Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. [SEP] They also protested the deplorable conditions of health care delivery at Lincoln Hospital and accused the medical schools (that were paid to provide hospital interns) of prioritizing the training medical students over patient care. However, getting treatment at high quality government hospitals is very tough due to the high number of people needing healthcare and the lack of sufficient facilities. The public hospital sector is seen as inefficient and is unpopular with both patients and professional staff. Despite a doubling in the number of hospital beds and doctors per capita between 1950 and 1980, the quality of care began to decline by the early 1980s and medical care and health outcomes were below western standards. Hospitals are usually distinguished from other types of medical facilities by their ability to admit and care for inpatients whilst the others, which are smaller, are often described as clinics. Teaching
A teaching hospital delivers healthcare to patients as well as training to prospective Medical Professionals such as medical students and student nurses. Among the reasons for this are the increasing availability of more complex care elsewhere such as at home or the physicians' offices and also the less therapeutic and more life-threatening image of the hospitals in the eyes of the public. "The World Health Organization noted in 2011 that going into hospital was far riskier than flying. 
Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia [SEP] Tetraspanins are a family of membrane proteins found in all multicellular eukaryotes. Tetraspanins are often thought to act as scaffolding proteins, anchoring multiple proteins to one area of the cell membrane.Tetraspanins are highly conserved between species. Some tetraspanins can have N-linked glycosylations on the long extracellular loop (LEL, EC2) and palmitoylations at a CXXC motif in their transmembrane region.There are 34 tetraspanins in mammals, 33 of which have also been identified in humans. Tetraspanins display numerous properties that indicate their physiological importance in cell adhesion, motility, activation, and proliferation, as well as their contribution to pathological conditions such as metastasis or viral infection. A role for tetraspanins in platelets was demonstrated by the bleeding phenotypes of CD151- and TSSC6-deficient mice, which exhibit impaired "outside-in" signalling through αIIbβ3, the major platelet integrin. it is hypothesized that tetraspanins interact with and regulate other platelet receptors. List of human tetraspanins
See also
List of human clusters of differentiation

Relevance to parasite vaccines
The schistosome worms make two tetraspanins: TSP-1 and TSP-2. Tetraspanin-3 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TSPAN3 gene.The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. 
The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. [SEP] Deinococcus radiodurans has a unique quality in which it can repair both single- and double-stranded DNA. Deinococcus radiodurans also has a unique ability to repair damaged DNA. In addition to DNA repair, D. radiodurans use LEA proteins (Late Embryogenesis Abundant proteins) expression to protect against desiccation.In this context, also the robust S-layer of D. radiodurans through its main protein complex, the S-layer Deinoxanthin Binding Complex (SDBC), strongly contributes to its extreme radioresistance. Applications
Deinococcus radiodurans has been shown to have a great potential to be used in different fields of investigation. Moreover, there are other uncommon applications of Deinococcus radiodurans. Some of the identified CSPs such as the DNA damage repair protein PprA and the single-stranded DNA-binding protein DdrB are thought to have functional roles in the DNA repair mechanism and radioresistance phenotype of Deinococcus.In a more recent work focused on DNA repair proteins an additional 22 CSIs were identified as specific to this genus, including a 30 amino acid insert in the UvrA1 protein that is suggested to play in a role in the resistance ability of Deinococcus species against radiation and oxidation damage.The uvrA1 gene in Deinococcus was found to form a novel genetic linkage with the genes of the proteins dCSP-1 (a transmembrane protein found only in Deinococcus species), DsbA and DsbB. The above cluster of genes forms a novel operon unique to Deinococcus species and the encoded proteins are predicted to function together to combat against DNA damage caused by reactive oxidative species from radiation.The 30 aa CSI present in UvrA1 and another 5-7 aa CSI present in DsbA are located on surface loops of the proteins. Demodulation
The front end of an SSB receiver is similar to that of an AM or FM receiver, consisting of a superheterodyne RF front end that produces a frequency-shifted version of the radio frequency (RF) signal within a standard intermediate frequency (IF) band. 
The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. [SEP] MDA5 (melanoma differentiation-associated protein 5) is a RIG-I-like receptor dsRNA helicase enzyme that  is encoded by the IFIH1 gene in humans. MDA5 is part of the RIG-I-like receptor (RLR) family, which also includes RIG-I and LGP2, and functions as a pattern recognition receptor capable of detecting viruses. The signaling cascades in MDA5 is initiated via CARD domain. It comprises 2 CARD domains located at the N-terminus, a hinge region and the helicase domain which is made up of the domains RecA-like Hel1 and Hel2. Unlike animal PRRs, which are associated with intracellular kinases via adaptor proteins (see non-RD kinases below), plant PRRs are composed of an extracellular domain, transmembrane domain, juxtamembrane domain and intracellular kinase domain as part of a single protein. Each of the TLR has been shown to interact with a specific PAMP. RIG-I-like receptors (RLR)
Three RLR helicases have so far been described: RIG-I and MDA5 (recognizing 5'triphosphate-RNA and dsRNA, respectively), which activate antiviral signaling, and LGP2, which appears to act as a dominant-negative inhibitor. Upon ligand recognition, the plant PRRs transduce "PAMP-triggered immunity" (PTI).Plant immune systems also encode resistance proteins that resemble NOD-like receptors (see above), that feature NBS and LRR domains and can also carry other conserved interaction domains such as the TIR cytoplasmic domain found in Toll and Interleukin Receptors. 
The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. [SEP] MDA5 (melanoma differentiation-associated protein 5) is a RIG-I-like receptor dsRNA helicase enzyme that  is encoded by the IFIH1 gene in humans. MDA5 is part of the RIG-I-like receptor (RLR) family, which also includes RIG-I and LGP2, and functions as a pattern recognition receptor capable of detecting viruses. It is generally believed that MDA5 recognizes double stranded RNA (dsRNA) over 2000nts in length, however it has been shown that whilst MDA5 can detect and bind to cytoplasmic dsRNA, it is also activated by a high molecular weight RNA complex composed of ssRNA and dsRNA. The signaling cascades in MDA5 is initiated via CARD domain. Function
As a pattern recognition receptor
MDA5 is able to detect long dsRNA, the genomic RNA of dsRNA viruses as well as replicative intermediates of both positive and negative sense RNA viruses. MDA5 has also been shown to interact with a number of chemical modifications of RNA. MDA5 is able to detect the absence of the 2′-O-methylation, bind to this type of RNA and initiate an immune response. Structure
MDA5 is classified as an ATP-dependent DExD/H box RNA helicase. 
The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. [SEP] PRRs are germline-encoded host sensors, which detect molecules typical for the pathogens. RIG-I-like receptors (RLR)
Three RLR helicases have so far been described: RIG-I and MDA5 (recognizing 5'triphosphate-RNA and dsRNA, respectively), which activate antiviral signaling, and LGP2, which appears to act as a dominant-negative inhibitor. Viral components are recognized by different receptors: Toll-like receptors are located in the endosomal membrane and recognize double-stranded RNA (dsRNA), MDA5 and RIG-I receptors are located in the cytoplasm and recognize long dsRNA and phosphate-containing dsRNA respectively. When the cytoplasmic receptors MDA5 and RIG-I recognize a virus the conformation between the caspase-recruitment domain (CARD) and the CARD-containing adaptor MAVS changes. Pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) are proteins used by nearly all organisms to identify molecules associated with microbial pathogens. Together with MDA5 (melanoma differentiation-associated 5) and LGP2 (laboratory of genetics and physiology 2), this family of cytoplasmic pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) are sentinels for intracellular viral RNA that is a product of viral infection. MDA5 ligands are poorly characterized, but the preference is for long double-stranded RNA (>2000 bp), such as the replicative form of picornavirus RNA that is found in picornavirus-infected cells. Mammalian cells utilize specialized receptors known as Pattern Recognition Receptors(PRRs) to detect viral infection; these receptors are able to recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) inscribed in viral DNA and RNA. 
The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. [SEP] The exchanges also reduce waiting times for patients needing kidney transplants. The study found that the health care cost savings of kidney exchanges are substantial. See also
Optimal kidney exchange - an optimization problem faced by kidney exchange programs, aiming to arrange the exchanges in a way that maximizes the number of transplants or some other objective. [55] Nobel Laureate economist Gary Becker and Julio Elias estimated that a payment of $15,000 for living donors would alleviate the shortage of kidneys in the U.S.

Israel
Since 2008, signing an organ donor card in Israel has provided a potential medical benefit to the signer. One healthy donor can potentially save up to eight (8) lives through transplants, using the two lungs and two kidneys separately. Iran adopted a system of paying kidney donors in 1988 and within 11 years it became the only country in the world to clear its waiting list for transplants. Jesus Christians claim altruistic kidney donation is a great way to "Do unto others what they would want you to do unto them." As of January 2020, there are more than 100,000 candidates waiting for organ transplant in the United States. 
The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. [SEP] Apart from the WW domain, the modular structure of YAP1 contains a proline-rich region at the very amino terminus, which is followed by a TID (TEAD transcription factor interacting domain). Function
YAP1 is a transcriptional co-activator and its proliferative and oncogenic activity is driven by its association with the TEAD family of transcription factors, which up-regulate genes that promote cell growth and inhibit apoptosis. When the Hippo pathway is not activated, YAP1/TAZ enter the nucleus and regulate gene expression.It is reported that several genes are regulated by YAP1, including Birc2, Birc5, connective tissue growth factor (CTGF), amphiregulin (AREG), Cyr61, Hoxa1 and Hoxc13. Instead, when inside the nucleus, they regulate gene expression through TEAD1-4 which are sequence-specific transcription factors that mediate the main transcriptional output of the Hippo pathway. The YAP/TAZ and TEAD interaction competitively inhibits and actively dissociates the TEAD/VGLL4 interaction which functions as a transcriptional repressor. It is the H3 helix that enables TEAD proteins to bind DNA.Another conserved domain of TEAD1 is located at the C terminus of the protein. It allows the binding of cofactors and has been called the YAP1 binding domain, because it is its ability to bind this well-known TEAD proteins co-factor that led to its identification. Finally the complex TEAD/VGLL4 acts as a default transcriptional repressor.The interaction between YAP (Yes Associated Protein 65), TAZ, a transcriptional coactivator paralog to YAP, and all TEAD proteins was demonstrated both in vitro and in vivo. 
The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. [SEP] Since 1969 census has been taken every ten years. Since then, a population census has been carried out every 10 years. Population censuses are conducted every tenth year in Nepal. Now, the census takes place every 10 years. Since 1900, a census has been conducted every ten years. Further censuses were carried out in 2011 and then every 10 years. The amount of digital data stored appears to be growing approximately exponentially, reminiscent of Moore's law. The information contained in these registered sequences has doubled every 18 months. 
The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. [SEP] In molecular biology, Tat is a protein that is encoded for by the tat gene in HIV-1. Tat acts by binding to an RNA stem-loop structure, the trans-activation response element (TAR), found at the 5′ ends of nascent HIV-1 transcripts. There are two Tat binding sites on each transcription elongation complex; one is located on TAR RNA and the other one on RNA polymerase II near the exit site for nascent mRNA transcripts, which suggests the involvement of two Tat molecules in facilitating one round of HIV-1 mRNA synthesis.The minimum Tat sequence that can mediate specific TAR binding in vitro has been mapped to a basic domain of 10 amino acids, comprising mostly Arg and Lys residues. Structure
The basic region of HIV-Tat protein is suggested to form an alpha helix. Protein transduction domain
Tat contains a protein transduction domain (PTD), which is also known as a cell-penetrating peptide. The amino acid sequence of the PTD is YGRKKRRQRRR. Unlike the heparinase-independent transduction of isolated PTD polypeptide, internalization of full-length Tat is mediated by interactions with negatively-charged heparan sulfate proteoglycans at the cell surface. The first step in this proposed model is an interaction with the unfolded fusion protein (TAT) and the membrane through electrostatic interactions, which disrupt the membrane enough to allow the fusion protein to cross the membrane. 
The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. [SEP] Alleviation of poverty, as a result, plays an essential role in eliminating homelessness. This study shows that a proper approach to poverty could effectively eliminate this factor as part of a solution to homelessness. Similar studies are showing large financial savings in Charlotte, North Carolina, and Southeastern Colorado from focusing on simply housing homeless people.In general, housing interventions had mixed economic results in cost-analysis studies. In this direction, there is the belief that if homeless people are given independent housing to start, with some proper social support, then there would be no need for emergency homeless shelters, which it considers a good outcome. Multiple studies have demonstrated success in reducing the homeless population as well as its harmful financial and societal effects by providing these individuals with a combination of housing without preconditions and supportive care. This act is supposed to break down the barriers homeless students have to receiving an education. Studies have shown investing in homes for the homeless actually saves money in the long run. Further, despite the fact residents are not required to be abstinent or in treatment for alcohol use, stable housing also results in reduced drinking among people experiencing homelessness who recreationally use alcohol. 
The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. [SEP] In terms of providing adequate treatment to homeless people for their mental illness, the healthcare system’s performance has not been promising, either. Those types of stigmas are intertwined with each other when shaping public opinions on policies related to the homeless population, resulting in many ineffective policies that do not reduce homelessness at all. ), although needed, were not successful at solving the root causes of homelessness. Lack of resources in place in the communities to help aid in prevention of homelessness before it becomes a crisis. Many homeless students fall behind their peers in school due to behavioral disorders, and lack of attendance in school.Since the United States housing bubble collapse, there has been a rise in the number of homeless students. The rise of temporary employment in the modern labor market has made homeless people unable to secure stable employment and income to ensure their ability to afford and maintain a house. "This approach of criminalizing homelessness, in the eyes of homeless advocates, was popularly viewed as a step in the wrong direction and did little to actually aid the community, and rather only manage it. Homelessness in turn worsens homeless people's mental health and decreases their access to therapy. 
The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. [SEP] In 2020, it was the 241st most commonly prescribed medication in the United States, with more than 1 million prescriptions.Colchicine is widely used in plant breeding for inducing polyploidy, where the number of chromosomes in plant cells are doubled. In addition, there is preliminary evidence that daily colchicine (0.6 mg twice daily) may be effective as a long-term prophylaxis when used with allopurinol to reduce the risk of increased uric acid levels and acute gout flares, although adverse gastrointestinal effects may occur.For treating gout symptoms, colchicine is used orally with or without food, as symptoms first appear. Research
COVID-19
Colchicine was researched for potential benefit in treating COVID-19 following hypotheses at the start of the pandemic that it may be an applicable medication. For the prevention of cardiovascular disease, statins are a first-line treatment. Increased risk of adverse events should also be taken into account when considering high-dose statin therapy. Overall, the evidence concludes that statin therapy, irrespective of the dose, is still more effective than no treatment or placebo at reducing the risk of CI-AKI. However, the benefits of statin therapy in preventing fatal and non-fatal stroke, fatal coronary heart disease, and non-fatal myocardial infarction are significant. For most people the benefits of statin therapy far outweigh the risk of developing diabetes. 
The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. [SEP] The structure of Best1 consists of five identical subunits that each span the membrane four times and form a continuous, funnel-shaped pore via the second transmembrane domain containing a high content of aromatic residues, including an invariant arg-phe-pro (RFP) motif. It is also unknown whether there is truly a clinical difference between AVMD caused by BEST1 mutations and AVMD caused by PRPH2 mutations. Binding
Ligands of the TRPV1 receptor seem to act from the intracellular side. The binding sites Arg 114 and Glu 761 and the TM3 region in TRPV1, together consist of a binding pocket to vanilloids. The hydrogen-bond acceptor on the ligand is proposed to interact with Tyr 667 (helix S6) on the receptor as a hydrogen-bond donor, and the hydrogen-bond donor on the ligand is proposed to interact with Tyr 667 on the opposite monomer of the tetramer on the receptor as a hydrogen-bond acceptor. The lipophilic end in antagonist is varied in character and volume and interacts with the lower end of transmembrane helices S5 and S6. The pore-forming elements of each TRPV6 subunit also interact with S1-S4 domains of the adjacent polypeptide in a domain-swapped arrangement. The TRP domain is oriented parallel to the membrane and participates in hydrophobic interactions with the TM domain and the hydrophilic interactions in the intracellular skirt. 
The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. [SEP] Beyond increasing inflammation and stimulating the immune system, macrophages also play an important anti-inflammatory role and can decrease immune reactions through the release of cytokines. This role is important in chronic inflammation, as the early stages of inflammation are dominated by neutrophils, which are ingested by macrophages if they come of age (see CD31 for a description of this process).The neutrophils are at first attracted to a site, where they perform their function and die, before they or their neutrophil extracellular traps are phagocytized by the macrophages. Role in innate immune response
When a pathogen invades, tissue resident macrophages are among the first cells to respond. For example, they participate in the formation of granulomas, inflammatory lesions that may be caused by a large number of diseases. The infectious pathophysiology of granulomas is discussed primarily here.The key association between IFN-γ and granulomas is that IFN-γ activates macrophages so that they become more powerful in killing intracellular organisms. The first steps in IFN-γ-induced granuloma formation are activation of Th1 helper cells by macrophages releasing IL-1 and IL-12 in the presence of intracellular pathogens, and presentation of antigens from those pathogens. This finding is due to immune complex deposition along the glomerular basement membrane, leading to a typical granular appearance in immunofluorescence testing. Dendritic cells in the germinal center may endocytose such antigenic material and present it to T cells, activating them. 
The combination of H3K4me3 and H3K79me2 is found in quiescent hair follicle stem cells. [SEP] For example, "chief" cells express the stem cell marker Troy. Differentiated airway epithelial cells can revert into stable and functional stem cells in vivo. CRCs do not express high levels of proteins characteristic of iPSCs or embryonic stem cells (ESCs) (e.g., Sox2, Oct4, Nanog, or Klf4). Possible mechanisms of stem cell fate predetermination by physical interactions with the extracellular matrix have been described.A new method has been developed that turns cells into stem cells faster and more efficiently by 'squeezing' them using 3D microenvironment stiffness and density of the surrounding gel. Subjecting such stem cells to transient inhibition of p38α and p38β in conjunction with culture on soft hydrogel substrates rapidly expands and rejuvenates them that result in the return of their strength.In geriatric mice, resting satellite cells lose reversible quiescence by switching to an irreversible pre-senescence state, caused by derepression of p16INK4a (also called Cdkn2a). p16INK4a silencing in geriatric satellite cells restores quiescence and muscle regenerative functions.Myogenic progenitors for potential use in disease modeling or cell-based therapies targeting skeletal muscle could also be generated directly from induced pluripotent stem cells using free-floating spherical culture (EZ spheres) in a culture medium supplemented with high concentrations (100 ng/ml) of fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) and epidermal growth factor. Another promising source of cells for reprogramming are mesenchymal stem cells derived from human hair follicles.The origin of somatic cells used for reprogramming may influence the efficiency of reprogramming, the functional properties of the resulting induced stem cells and the ability to form tumors.IPSCs retain an epigenetic memory of their tissue of origin, which impacts their differentiation potential. Hair care products cannot actually "repair" split ends and damaged hair. 
The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. [SEP] Virtually all eukaryotic cells contain myosin isoforms. The structure and function of myosin is globally conserved across species, to the extent that rabbit muscle myosin II will bind to actin from an amoeba. Analysis of the amino acid sequences of different myosins shows great variability among the tail domains, but strong conservation of head domain sequences. Myosin II
Myosin II (also known as conventional myosin) is the myosin type responsible for producing muscle contraction in muscle cells in most animal cell types. Myosin VIII
Myosin VIII is a plant-specific myosin linked to cell division; specifically, it is involved in regulating the flow of cytoplasm between cells and in the localization of vesicles to the phragmoplast. The dimerization of myosin X is thought to be antiparallel. References
Further reading
Additional images
External links

MBInfo – Myosin Isoforms
MBInfo – The Myosin Powerstroke
Myosin Video A video of a moving myosin motor protein. This results in a dramatic increase in myosin specificity. 
The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. [SEP] Monocytes are a type of leukocyte or white blood cell. Monocytes are also capable of killing infected host cells via antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity. Specific functions of monocyte subpopulations
Aside from their differentiation capacity, monocytes can also directly regulate immune responses. Non-classical monocytes produce high amounts of pro-inflammatory cytokines like tumor necrosis factor and interleukin-12 after stimulation with microbial products. Other microbial products can directly activate monocytes and this leads to production of pro-inflammatory and, with some delay, of anti-inflammatory cytokines. Typical cytokines produced by monocytes are TNF, IL-1, and IL-12. Monocytic cells may contribute to the severity and disease progression in COVID-19 patients. Examples of processes that can increase a monocyte count include:

chronic inflammation
diabetes
stress response
Cushing's syndrome (hyperadrenocorticism)
immune-mediated disease
granulomatous disease
atherosclerosis
necrosis
red blood cell regeneration
viral fever
sarcoidosis
chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML)A high count of CD14+CD16++ monocytes is found in severe infection (sepsis).In the field of atherosclerosis, high numbers of the CD14++CD16+ intermediate monocytes were shown to be predictive of cardiovascular events in populations at risk.CMML is characterized by a persistent monocyte count of > 1000/microL of blood. 
The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. [SEP] Transmembrane protein 8A is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TMEM8A gene (16p13.3.). TMEM8A contains five transmembrane domains and one EGF-like domain which are all highly conserved in the ortholog space. Although there is no confirmed function of TMEM8A, through analyzing expression and experimental data, it is predicted that TMEM8A is an adhesion protein that plays a role in keeping T-cells in their resting state. Gene
Locus
The human gene TMEM8A is found on chromosome 16 at the band 16p13.3.The span of this gene on chromosome 16 spans from base pair 420,773 to 437,113 making this gene 16,340 base pairs in length. Protein
Primary sequence
The gene encodes a protein also called TMEM8A. Domains and motifs
TMEM8A is a transmembrane protein with five transmembrane domains, making it one of only three proteins found in the human body with five domains; the other two are CD47 and AC133. Secondary Structure
Expression
Expression
TMEM8A is found to be expressed ubiquitously throughout the human body; however, it has been shown to be downregulated during CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell activation. Interactions

TMEM8A has been shown to interact with the following proteins

ALPL
NDUFS5
NME4
MACF1
G5
ENSG00000234651
ENSG00000237431
ENSG00000237495


== References == 
The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. [SEP] In cancer research
CGH data from several studies of the same tumor type show consistent patterns of non-random genetic aberrations. Below are examples of types of cancers where the clinical implications of specific genomic aberrations are well established. Metastasis and primary cancer
It is theorized that metastasis always coincides with a primary cancer, and, as such, is a tumor that started from a cancer cell or cells in another part of the body. Diagnosis
The cells in a metastatic tumor resemble those in the primary tumor. For instance, breast cancer cells look the same whether they are found in the breast or have spread to another part of the body. When a second tumor is found in a patient that has been treated for cancer in the past, it is more often a metastasis than another primary tumor. Rather, it seems that the genetic state of the primary tumor reflects the ability of that cancer to metastasize. Metastases of breast cancer, medulloblastoma and prostate cancer all had similar expression patterns of these metastasis-associated genes.The identification of this metastasis-associated signature provides promise for identifying cells with metastatic potential within the primary tumor and hope for improving the prognosis of these metastatic-associated cancers. 
The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. [SEP] Some of the inherited genetic disorders that can cause colorectal cancer include familial adenomatous polyposis and hereditary non-polyposis colon cancer; however, these represent less than 5% of cases. A number of genetic syndromes are also associated with higher rates of colorectal cancer. Other syndromes that are strongly associated with colorectal cancer include Gardner syndrome and familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP). This gene is associated with the proliferation, invasion, and scattering of colon cancer cells in cell culture, and tumor growth and metastasis in mice. The most commonly mutated gene in all colorectal cancer is the APC gene, which produces the APC protein. DCC commonly has a deleted segment of a chromosome in colorectal cancer.Approximately 70% of all human genes are expressed in colorectal cancer, with just over 1% of having increased expression in colorectal cancer compared to other forms of cancer. As an example, 147 hypermethylations and 27 hypomethylations of protein coding genes were frequently associated with colorectal cancers. Prognosis
Fewer than 600 genes are linked to outcomes in colorectal cancer. 
The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. [SEP] Demethylation by TET enzymes (see second Figure), can alter the regulation of transcription. TET enzymes have central roles in DNA demethylation required during embryogenesis, gametogenesis, memory, learning, addiction and pain perception. TET proteins
The three related TET genes, TET1, TET2 and TET3 code respectively for three related mammalian proteins TET1, TET2, and TET3. TET proteins are large (∼180- to 230-kDa) multidomain enzymes. Different isoforms of the TET genes are expressed in different cells and tissues. Unbinding of TetR homodimers and TetO2 result in derepression of the gene of interest. It is the TetO that is recognized and bound by the TetR portion of Tet-On or Tet-Off. Others are harmful if they were to result in a loss of function of genes needed for survival. 
The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. [SEP] Forkhead box O3, also known as FOXO3 or FOXO3a, is a human protein encoded by the FOXO3 gene. Function
FOXO3 belongs to the O subclass of the forkhead family of transcription factors which are characterized by a distinct fork head DNA-binding domain. Clinical significance
Deregulation of FOXO3a is involved in tumorigenesis, for example translocation of this gene with the MLL gene is associated with secondary acute leukemia. Downregulation of FOXO3a activity is often seen in cancer (e.g. Association with longevity
Genetic variation in FOXO3 has been shown to be associated with healthspan and longevity in humans. Association with intelligence
In a meta-analysis of 78,308 individuals of European descent, a particular single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) (rs2490272) in an intronic region of FOXO3 and neighboring SNPs in the promoter region, had the strongest associations with intelligence. The University of Hawaii has found that the "longevity gene" FOXO3 that reduces the effects of aging is more commonly found in individuals of small body size. The University of Hawaii has found that the "longevity gene" FOXO3 that reduces the effects of aging is more commonly found in individuals of a small body size. 
The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. [SEP] It thus selectively enhances the differentiation of uncommitted mesoderm to cardiomyocytes, but not to vascular smooth muscle and endothelial cells.One project seeded decellularized mouse hearts with human iPSC-derived multipotential cardiovascular progenitor cells. The introduced cells migrated, proliferated and differentiated in situ into cardiomyocytes, smooth muscle cells and endothelial cells to reconstruct the hearts. Cardiac muscle (also called heart muscle or myocardium) is one of three types of vertebrate muscle tissues, with the other two being skeletal muscle and smooth muscle. The cardiac muscle (myocardium) forms a thick middle layer between the outer layer of the heart wall (the pericardium) and the inner layer (the endocardium), with blood supplied via the coronary circulation. Structure
Gross anatomy
Cardiac muscle tissue or myocardium forms the bulk of the heart. Blood is brought to the myocardium by the coronary arteries. The lateral plate mesoderm gives rise to the heart, blood vessels, and blood cells of the circulatory system, as well as to the mesodermal components of the limbs.Some of the mesoderm derivatives include the muscle (smooth, cardiac, and skeletal), the muscles of the tongue (occipital somites), the pharyngeal arches muscle (muscles of mastication, muscles of facial expressions), connective tissue, the dermis and subcutaneous layer of the skin, bone and cartilage, dura mater, the endothelium of blood vessels, red blood cells, white blood cells, microglia, the dentin of teeth, the kidneys, and the adrenal cortex. "Early Embryonic Mesoderm Development". 
The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. [SEP] The goal of the policy was to reduce the Vietnamese fertility rate to the replacement level of 2.1 by 2015, so that the country could have a stable population in the mid-21st century. Effects of this policy
Reduction of the birthrate
The total fertility rate in Vietnam dropped from 5.6 in 1979 to 3.2 by 1993, suggesting the two-child policy was successful in containing the population growth. This growth slowed because of the one-child policy instituted in 1979. The overall goal of the one-child policy was to keep the total population within 1.2 billion through the year 2000, on the premise that the Four Modernizations program would be of little value if population growth was not brought under control. The one-child policy was a highly ambitious population control program. In general, it was very successful in almost all urban areas but less successful in rural areas.Rapid fertility reduction associated with the one-child policy has potentially negative results. Government campaigns lowered the incidence of infanticide. One-Child policy
From 1980 to 2015, the government of China permitted the great majority of families to have only one child. 
The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. [SEP] Breast cancer, like other forms of cancer, can result from multiple environmental and hereditary risk factors. Some of these environmental factors are part of the physical environment, while others (such as diet and number of pregnancies) are primarily part of the social, cultural, or economic environment.Although many epidemiological risk factors have been identified, the cause of any individual breast cancer is most often unknowable. BRCA1 and BRCA2
In 5% of breast cancer cases, there is a strong inherited familial risk.Two autosomal dominant genes, BRCA1 and BRCA2, account for most of the cases of familial breast cancer. Sequence variants of these genes that are relatively common in the population may be associated with a small to moderate increased relative risk for breast cancer. Hormones
Persistently increased blood levels of estrogen are associated with an increased risk of breast cancer, as are increased levels of the androgens androstenedione and testosterone (which can be directly converted by aromatase to the estrogens estrone and estradiol, respectively). The P-1 preventative study demonstrated that tamoxifen can prevent breast cancer in high-risk individuals. Some studies suggest that the racial disparity in breast cancer outcomes may reflect cultural biases more than biological disease differences. However, the lack of diversity in clinical trials for breast cancer treatment may contribute to these disparities, with recent research indicating that black women are more likely to have estrogen receptor negative breast cancers, which are not responsive to hormone treatments that are effective for most white women. 
The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. [SEP] Three mechanisms exist to repair double-strand breaks (DSBs): non-homologous end joining (NHEJ), microhomology-mediated end joining (MMEJ), and homologous recombination (HR):

In NHEJ, DNA Ligase IV, a specialized DNA ligase that forms a complex with the cofactor XRCC4, directly joins the two ends. MMEJ is an additional error-prone inaccurate repair pathway for double-strand breaks. Knock-out mutations caused by CRISPR-Cas9 result from the repair of the double-stranded break by means of non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) or POLQ/ polymerase theta-mediated end-joining (TMEJ). the SpCas9 PAM sequence is 5'-NGG-3' and in the human genome occurs roughly every 8 to 12 base pairs).Once these sequences have been assembled into a plasmid and transfected into cells, the Cas9 protein with the help of the crRNA finds the correct sequence in the host cell's DNA and – depending on the Cas9 variant – creates a single- or double-stranded break at the appropriate location in the DNA.Properly spaced single-stranded breaks in the host DNA can trigger homology directed repair, which is less error-prone than the non-homologous end joining that typically follows a double-stranded break. Process
Double strand break repair
A common form of Genome editing relies on the concept of DNA double stranded break (DSB) repair mechanics. The nuclease can create double strand breaks at the target site that can be repaired by error-prone non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ), resulting in gene disruptions through the introduction of small insertions or deletions. An enzyme called Cas9, acts as a pair of ‘molecular scissors’ that can cut the two strands of DNA at a specific location in the genome so that specific pieces of DNA can then be added or removed. Double-strand breaks at the mutant paternal allele were repaired using the homologous wild-type gene. 
The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. [SEP] In those with distant spread of the disease, there may be bone pain, swollen lymph nodes, shortness of breath, or yellow skin.Risk factors for developing breast cancer include obesity, a lack of physical exercise, alcoholism, hormone replacement therapy during menopause, ionizing radiation, an early age at first menstruation, having children late in life or not at all, older age, having a prior history of breast cancer, and a family history of breast cancer. In 2016, a tentative association between low fiber intake during adolescence and breast cancer was observed.Smoking tobacco appears to increase the risk of breast cancer, with the greater the amount smoked and the earlier in life that smoking began, the higher the risk. This hypothesis was the subject of extensive scientific inquiry, which concluded that neither miscarriages nor abortions are associated with a heightened risk for breast cancer.Other risk factors include radiation and circadian disruptions related to shift-work and routine late-night eating. Medical conditions
Breast changes like atypical ductal hyperplasia and lobular carcinoma in situ, found in benign breast conditions such as fibrocystic breast changes, are correlated with an increased breast cancer risk. Diabetes mellitus might also increase the risk of breast cancer. Pregnancy
Pregnancy at an early age decreases the risk of developing breast cancer later in life. The gravidity of the patient is associated with risk for other conditions as well, including risk for breast, ovarian, and endometrial cancer. Nulliparity has been implicated in the development of various complications during pregnancy including preeclampsia, gestational diabetes and pre-term labor.Long-term and permanent nulliparity () are risk factors for breast cancer. 
The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. [SEP] Suicide possibility
The suicide rate for sexually abused males is 14 to 15 times higher than for other males. There is also a study that shows that rape victims are 4.1 times more likely to contemplate suicide and 13 times more likely to attempt suicide than non-crime victims.Males have a much higher rate of suicide than females. Differences between incarcerated women and men
Men make up the majority of prisoners in the United States, approximately ten times as many as women in 2013, but the growth rate for women has been dramatically higher than the growth rate for men over the past few decades, a difference that is especially pronounced in state facilities. Almost two times as many women in correctional facilities report suffering from a mental illness as men. Incarcerated women suffer from past sexual trauma at a much higher rate than incarcerated men.One 2009 study found that 70% of incarcerated women have experience severe physical violence by a parental figure, 59% have experienced some form of sexual abuse as a child, and more than 75% have experienced physical violence by an intimate partner in adulthood. Bureau of Justice Statistics figures show that women are at higher risk than men of inmate-on-inmate sexual victimization, and lower risk of staff sexual victimization:

The same study shows that women are less likely than men to be forcibly abused, but more likely to be persuaded. In regard to inmate-on-inmate abuse in prison, males (16%) were more likely than females (6%) to have been victimized 11 or more times, to have been bribed or blackmailed (42% compared to 26%), offered protection (39% compared to 19%), or threatened with harm (48% compared to 30%). As for the gender, age, and racial demographics of mentally ill offenders, the 2017 Bureau of Justice Statistics report found that female inmates, when compared to male inmates, had statistically significantly higher rates of serious psychological distress (20.5% of female prisoners and 32.3% of female jail inmates had serious psychological distress, versus 14% of male prisoners and 25.5% of male jail inmates) and a history of a mental health problem (65.8% of female prisoners and 67.9% of female jail inmates compared to 34.8% of male prisoners and 40.8% of male jail inmates). 
The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. [SEP] Familial amyloidosis symptoms are centered around neuropathological and cardiac problems. Symptoms and signs
Symptoms of cardiac amyloidosis are a combination of heart failure and amyloid deposition in various other organs. Amyloid deposition in the heart causes restrictive diastolic heart failure that progresses to systolic heart failure.Cardiac manifestations include:

Dyspnea on exertion
Peripheral edema and ascites
Pericardial effusion
Arrhythmias (secondary to disruption of the normal electrical system of the heart)
Atrial arrhythmias (such as atrial fibrillation)
First/second degree heart blocks
Syncope
Elevated neck veins and jugular venous pressure
Myocardial ischemia/Angina (secondary to amyloid deposition in the small arteries of the heart)Myocardial oxygen demand is increased in patients with cardiac amyloidosis, regardless of changes to coronary perfusion.For patients with light-chain amyloidosis, there can be depositions of amyloid into numerous different organs. Amyloidosis presents with ventricle and valvular thickening, biatrial enlargement, restrictive filling pattern, with normal to mildly reduced systolic function and decreased diastolic filling. Cardiac amyloidosis produces specific alterations to the functionality of the heart. Echocardiography can be utilized to detect this specific pattern (relative preservation of the apical myocardium with decreased longitudinal strain in the mid and basal sections), which is 90–95% sensitive and 80–85% specific for cardiac amyloidosis. As expected, with cardiac damage and dysfunction, there can be an elevation of these markers in patients with cardiac amyloidosis. T2 signal is also increased in AL-CM and ATTR-CM but the signal is greater in AL-CM before starting chemotherapy.Late gadolinum enhancement (LGE) can determine the severity of deposition of amyloid in heart tissue. 
The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. [SEP] The ERG is composed of electrical potentials contributed by different cell types within the retina, and the stimulus conditions (flash or pattern stimulus, whether a background light is present, and the colors of the stimulus and background) can elicit stronger response from certain components.If a dim flash ERG is performed on a dark-adapted eye, the response is primarily from the rod system. Sufficiently bright flashes will elicit ERGs containing an a-wave (initial negative deflection) followed by a b-wave (positive deflection). The pattern ERG (PERG), evoked by an alternating checkerboard stimulus, primarily reflects activity of retinal ganglion cells. The ERG is composed of electrical potentials contributed by different cell types within the retina, and the stimulus conditions (flash or pattern stimulus, whether a background light is present, and the colors of the stimulus and background) can elicit stronger response from certain components.If a dim flash ERG is performed on a dark-adapted eye, the response is primarily from the rod system. Sufficiently bright flashes will elicit ERGs containing an a-wave (initial negative deflection) followed by a b-wave (positive deflection). The pattern ERG (PERG), evoked by an alternating checkerboard stimulus, primarily reflects activity of retinal ganglion cells. As a part of the retina, bipolar cells exist between photoreceptors (rod cells and cone cells) and ganglion cells. Unlike most neurons, bipolar cells communicate via graded potentials, rather than action potentials. 
The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. [SEP] This discovery in kinesin-14 family proteins (such as Drosophila melanogaster NCD, budding yeast KAR3, and Arabidopsis thaliana ATK5) allows kinesin to walk in the opposite direction, toward microtubule minus end. Kinesins are important for proper spindle length and are involved in sliding microtubules apart within the spindle during prometaphase and metaphase, as well as depolymerizing microtubule minus ends at centrosomes during anaphase. Specifically, Kinesin-5 family proteins act within the spindle to slide microtubules apart, while the Kinesin 13 family act to depolymerize microtubules. The Kinesin 8 family has been shown to play an important role in chromosome alignment during mitosis. Kinesin 8 family members KIF18A in humans and Kip3 in  yeast have been shown to be in vivo plus-end directed microtubule depolymerizers. Spindle structure
Attachment of microtubules to chromosomes is mediated by kinetochores, which actively monitor spindle formation and prevent premature anaphase onset. Regulation of spindle assembly
Spindle assembly is largely regulated by phosphorylation events catalyzed by mitotic kinases. The chromosome plays an active role in the attachment of kinetochores to the spindle. 
The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. [SEP] The type VI secretion system (T6SS) is molecular machine used by a wide range of Gram-negative bacterial species to transport effectors from the interior (cytoplasm or cytosol) of a bacterial cell across the cellular envelope into an adjacent target cell. The T6SS of Vibrio cholerae has a dual role, being able to target both bacterial and eukaryotic cells. All characterized bacterial-targeting T6SS proteins act as toxins, either by killing or preventing the growth of target cells. Type VI
Type VI secretion systems (T6SS) were discovered by the team of John Mekalanos at the Harvard Medical School in 2006 from Vibrio cholerae and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The type VI secretion system (T6SS) is molecular machine used by a wide range of Gram-negative bacterial species to transport effectors from the interior (cytoplasm or cytosol) of a bacterial cell across the cellular envelope into an adjacent target cell. The T6SS of Vibrio cholerae has a dual role, being able to target both bacterial and eukaryotic cells. All characterized bacterial-targeting T6SS proteins act as toxins, either by killing or preventing the growth of target cells. Type VI secretion system (T6SS)
Type VI secretion systems  were originally identified in 2006 by the group of John Mekalanos at the Harvard Medical School (Boston, USA) in two bacterial pathogens, Vibrio cholerae and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 
The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. [SEP] In contrast, passive immunotherapy does not directly target tumor cells, but enhances the ability of the immune system to attack cancer cells. Passive antibody therapies aim to increase the activity of the immune system without specifically targeting cancer cells. Experimental work indicates that the Fc portion of cancer immunotherapy drugs can affect the outcome of treatment. Compared to rituximab, ofatumumab induces complement-dependent cytotoxicity at a lower dose with less immunogenicity. Blockade of negative feedback signaling to immune cells thus results in an enhanced immune response against tumors. In on-going trials the combination of CTLA-4 blockade with PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitors is tested on different types of cancer.However, patients treated with checkpoint blockade (specifically CTLA-4 blocking antibodies), or a combination of check-point blocking antibodies, are at high risk of having immune-related adverse events such as dermatologic, gastrointestinal, endocrine, or hepatic autoimmune reactions. Many cancer patients do not respond to immune checkpoint blockade. DMPA has little or no effect on coagulation and fibrinolytic factors. 
The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. [SEP] This risk is greater in those who are also on anticoagulants, antiplatelet agents and NSAIDs (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs), as well as with the co-existence of underlying diseases such as cirrhosis of the liver or liver failure. Taken together, this reduces the overall inflammatory immune response.In addition to affecting cytokine production, there is evidence that treatment with SSRIs has effects on the proliferation and viability of immune system cells involved in both innate and adaptive immunity. Other possible pathways include interference with calcium ion channels, or inducing cell death pathways like MAPK and Notch signaling pathway.The anti-inflammatory effects of SSRIs have prompted studies of the efficacy of SSRIs in the treatment of autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis, RA, inflammatory bowel diseases, and septic shock. Systemic symptoms
Systemic symptoms may occur due to the body's response to the cancer. Autoimmune diseases
There is an association between celiac disease and an increased risk of all cancers. Rates of gastrointestinal cancers are increased in people with Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis, due to chronic inflammation. Also, immunomodulators and biologic agents used to treat these diseases may promote developing extra-intestinal malignancies. Autoimmune diseases such as lupus erythematosus seem also to increase the risk for the acquisition of breast cancer.The major causes of sporadic breast cancer are associated with hormone levels. 
The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. [SEP] The central role of proteins as enzymes in living organisms was not fully appreciated until 1926, when James B. Sumner showed that the enzyme urease was in fact a protein.The difficulty in purifying proteins in large quantities made them very difficult for early protein biochemists to study. segments of a protein that fold into distinct structural units. UniProt the Universal Protein Resource

Tutorials and educational websites
"An Introduction to Proteins" from HOPES (Huntington's Disease Outreach Project for Education at Stanford)
Proteins: Biogenesis to Degradation – The Virtual Library of Biochemistry and Cell Biology Biography
Ure was born in Campsie, Stirlingshire. Early life, education, and the army
Andrew Ure was born in Glasgow in May 1778, the son of Anne and Alexander Ure, a cheesemonger. Historical accounts of the advancement of geology regularly make mention of Ure. Geology
Ure was a scriptural geologist and in 1829 published A New System of Geology and was elected an original member of the Geological Society of London . "Andrew Ure, M.D., F.R.S. 
The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. [SEP] Nickel sulfate is classified as a human carcinogen based on increased respiratory cancer risks observed in epidemiological studies of sulfidic ore refinery workers. In a 2-year study with daily oral administration of nickel sulfate hexahydrate to F344 rats, no evidence for increased carcinogenic activity was observed. Nickel nitrate is the inorganic compound Ni(NO3)2 or any hydrate thereof. Structure
Nickel(II) compounds with oxygenated ligands often feature octahedral coordination geometry. Safety
Like other nitrates, nickel nitrate is oxidizing. Nickel nitrate is a carcinogen, along with most other nickel compounds. The nickel ion is also toxic to aquatic organisms. Uses
Nickel(II) nitrate is primarily used in electrotyping and electroplating of metallic nickel. 
Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. [SEP] Dapsone, also known as 4,4'-sulfonyldianiline (SDA) or diaminodiphenyl sulfone (DDS), is an antibiotic commonly used in combination with rifampicin and clofazimine for the treatment of leprosy. Medical uses
Infections
Dapsone is commonly used in combination with rifampicin and clofazimine for the treatment of leprosy. It is also used for toxoplasmosis in people unable to tolerate trimethoprim with sulfamethoxazole.Dapsone by mouth was one of the first medications used to treat moderate to severe acne vulgaris, and is still occasionally prescribed for the treatment of severe cases. A topical form of dapsone is also effective with potentially less side effects.It is unclear if the combination with pyrimethamine is useful in the prevention of malaria. Dapsone is effective and safe in persons with moderate, severe, or refractory cutaneous lupus erythematosis. Dapsone is effective and safe for treatment of second-line therapy for people with chronic spontaneous urticaria in those for whom antihistamines and other first-line agents have failed. There are no clinical trials but there are many case reports that dapsone is effective at doses of 25 mg/day to 200 mg/day for treatment of relapsing polychondritis. However, dapsone can potentially cause severe side effects, meaning that sometimes steroids or other antibiotics should be used instead, although these alternative treatments are much less effective.An August 2015 review notes that dapsone is reported to be effective against generalized granuloma annulare.Dapsone has been used as a monomer in the design of dye adsorbent polymers. 
There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. [SEP] Component enrollment and the primary findings are summarized in the following two tables, respectively, with additional detail following subsequently:

Hormone therapy
The design of the hormone therapy trial (HT) was approached with the hypothesis that estrogen therapy would result in a decrease in coronary heart disease and osteoporosis-related fractures. Unopposed estrogen did reduce the risk for osteoporotic fractures and, unlike the estrogen/progestin treatment, showed a decrease in breast cancer risk.As a consequence of the findings, which indicated that the incurred risks of HT outweigh the identified benefits, the study authors recommended that HT not be prescribed for the purpose of chronic disease prevention in postmenopausal women. CaD component findings
Among the intervention cohort, a small but significant improvement in hip bone density was observed, although a significant reduction in hip fractures was not observed. However, subgroup analysis revealed a possible benefit to older women in terms of a reduced risk of hip fractures, attributable to calcium plus vitamin D supplementation.It was also found that the intervention did not have an effect on the incidence of colorectal cancer, possibly owing to the long latency associated with colorectal cancers. An inverse correlation between whole grain consumption and type-2 diabetes, which is in agreement with previous studies; however, this study found the benefit of whole grain consumption to be lost with any history of smoking. Women in the diet intervention group were more likely to report changes in statin use (either cessation or initiation) post-randomization than women in the comparison group.Secondary analyses concluded that the dietary intervention did not increase risk of diabetes, but instead slowed progression. Statins have also been investigated for their potential to reduce recurrent VTE rates, with some studies suggesting effectiveness. Of the statins, rosuvastatin appears to be the only one with the potential to reduce VTE risk. 
There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. [SEP] Clinical significance
Mutations in the HNF4A gene are associated with a form of diabetes called maturity onset diabetes of the young (MODY), specifically MODY 1. The genes are important, but they alone do not influence diabetes in this population. So, HbA1c levels in Japanese populations seem to not be affected by these other SNPs that influence HbA1c levels in European populations. This suggests that there’s no association or interaction with these three SNPs in the Japanese population. Polygenic
Genetic cause and mechanism of type 2 diabetes is largely unknown. As the risk of diabetes is combination of the gene regulations and the interplay between those gene products, certain genes may not pose a threat to increase the susceptibility. However, SNPs in TCF7L2 that would normally increase the risk of diabetes does not affect the susceptibility for Pima Indians. TCF7L2 rs290481T>C polymorphism, however, has shown no significant correlation to the susceptibility to gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) in a Chinese Han population, whereas the T alleles of rs7903146 and rs1799884 increase susceptibility to GDM in the Chinese Han population. 
Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. [SEP] Compression stockings are beneficial in reducing symptomless deep vein thrombosis among airline passengers flying for 7 hours or more.Pharmacological (warfarin, unfractionated heparin, low molecular weight heparin) and mechanical measures (graded compression stockings, intermittent pneumatic compression devices, and venous foot pumps) are used to prevent venous thromboembolism (VTE) in clinical practice. They concluded that graduated compression stockings are effective in deep vein thrombosis prophylaxis in patients who have undergone general and orthopedic surgery.Combining graduated compression stockings with other mechanical and pharmacological measures can increase the effectiveness of VTE prophylaxis by 60%. was done to compare knee-high and thigh-high graded compression stockings in regards of deep vein thrombosis prevention in medical and surgical patients. The analysis determined that there was a 6% risk of developing deep vein thrombosis when wearing knee-high stockings and 4% when wearing thigh-high stockings, but also found significant heterogeneity, and thus it concluded that there is not enough evidence that one length is superior to the other, and suggests that knee-high compression stockings should be the first choice for the deep vein thrombosis prevention in medical and surgical patients. Graduated compression stockings—which apply higher pressure at the ankles and a lower pressure around the knees can be trialed for symptomatic management of acute DVT symptoms, but they are not recommended for reducing the risk of post-thrombotic syndrome, as the potential benefit of using them for this goal "may be uncertain". Graduated compression stockings—which apply higher pressure at the ankles and a lower pressure around the knees can be trialed for symptomatic management of acute DVT symptoms, but they are not recommended for reducing the risk of post-thrombotic syndrome, as the potential benefit of using them for this goal "may be uncertain". Non-surgical medical conditions
In hospitalized people who have had a stroke and not had surgery, mechanical measures (compression stockings) resulted in skin damage and no clinical improvement. Data on the effectiveness of compression stockings among hospitalized non-surgical patients without stroke is scarce.The American College of Physicians (ACP) gave three strong recommendations with moderate quality evidence on VTE prevention in non-surgical patients:

that hospitalized patients be assessed for their risk of thromboembolism and bleeding before prophylaxis (prevention);
that heparin or a related drug is used if potential benefits are thought to outweigh potential harms;
and that graduated compression stockings not be used.In adults who have had their lower leg casted, braced, or otherwise immobilized for more than a week, LMWH may decrease the risk and severity of deep vein thrombosis, but does not have any effect on the incidence of pulmonary embolism. 
Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. [SEP] Twitch speed
Fibers can also be classified on their twitch capabilities, into fast and slow twitch. Some authors define a fast twitch fiber as one in which the myosin can split ATP very quickly. Fast twitch muscles are much better at generating short bursts of strength or speed than slow muscles, and so fatigue more quickly.The slow twitch fibers generate energy for ATP re-synthesis by means of a long term system of aerobic energy transfer. Aerobic exercise will shift the proportions towards slow twitch fibers, while explosive powerlifting and sprinting will transition fibers towards fast twitch. While the muscle fiber does not have smooth endoplasmic cisternae, it contains sarcoplasmic reticulum. Memory, as well as psychomotor speed, on the other hand, did not correlate with skeletal muscle mass. Smooth muscle has no myofibrils or sarcomeres and is therefore non-striated. The fusion of myoblasts is specific to skeletal muscle, and not cardiac muscle or smooth muscle. 
Transferred UCB T cells acquire a memory-like phenotype in recipients. [SEP] Memory T cells
Antigen-naive T cells expand and differentiate into memory and effector T cells after they encounter their cognate antigen within the context of an MHC molecule on the surface of a professional antigen presenting cell (e.g. Subsequently, numerous new populations of memory T cells were discovered including tissue-resident memory T (Trm) cells, stem memory TSCM cells, and virtual memory T cells. The single unifying theme for all memory T cell subtypes is that they are long-lived and can quickly expand to large numbers of effector T cells upon re-exposure to their cognate antigen. Memory T cells may be either CD4+ or CD8+ and usually express CD45RO.Memory T cell subtypes:

Central memory T cells (TCM cells) express CD45RO, C-C chemokine receptor type 7 (CCR7), and L-selectin (CD62L). In addition to possessing innate-like functions, this T cell subset supports the adaptive immune response and has a memory-like phenotype. This is also true for memory T cells, which is one example of learned immunity. Faster responses occur upon reinfection because memory T cells have already undergone confirmation and can produce effector cells much sooner. The single unifying theme for all memory T cell subtypes is that they are long-lived and can expand quickly to large numbers of effector T cells upon encountering their cognate antigen. 
Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. [SEP] Human cortical glial tumors contain neural stem-like cells expressing astroglial and neuronal markers in vitro. OECs and astrocytes interact with each other to form a new glia limitans. Furthermore, it was shown that human brain organoids could intrinsically develop integrated light-sensitive optic cups.The neural stem/progenitor cells are unique because they are able to self-renew and are multipotent. The spatial location and temporal attributes of neural progenitor cells can influence if the cells form neurons or glial cells. Gene expression
To test if the neural progenitor cells and stem cells are differentiating into specific neural tissues, several gene markers can be tested. Neuronal Cells:
Human bone marrow- and fibroblast-derived Muse cells spontaneously differentiate into neural lineage cells with a lower proportion on a gelatin culture. In a mouse intracerebral hemorrhage model, topically injected human bone marrow-Muse cells spontaneously differentiate into neuronal cells. They can also differentiate into neurons and neural cells to replace damaged cells. 
Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. [SEP] Difficulty of research
Because there are so many factors that contribute to the success or failure of neural tissue engineering, there are many difficulties that arise in using neural tissue engineering to treat CNS and PNS injuries. The varying physiology between human and other mammalian models limits the scope of study in neurological disorders. The spatial location and temporal attributes of neural progenitor cells can influence if the cells form neurons or glial cells. Microcephaly is not suitable for mouse models, which do not replicate the condition. Additionally, the patient-derived tissues displayed fewer and less frequent neuroepithelial tissues made of progenitors, decreased radial glial stem cells, and increased neurons. Because of this lack of oxygen and nutrients, neural progenitor cells are limited in their growth. Modeling of electrophysiological neurodevelopmental processes typical of development later in the neurodevelopmental timeline, such as synaptogenesis, is not yet suggested in cerebral organoid models. 29 January – Using stem cells generated from patients with schizophrenia, bipolar depression and other mental illnesses, scientists at the University of Edinburgh create neurones with brain tissue genetically identical to the person's brain. 
Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. [SEP] TNFR1 signaling tends to be pro-inflammatory and apoptotic, whereas TNFR2 signaling is anti-inflammatory and promotes cell proliferation. IL-1α and TNF are both acute-phase cytokines that act to promote fever and inflammation. IL-10 also inhibits IL-1α synthesis. Interleukin 6 (IL-6) is an interleukin that acts as both a pro-inflammatory cytokine and an anti-inflammatory myokine. IL-6's role as an anti-inflammatory myokine is mediated through its inhibitory effects on TNF-alpha and IL-1 and its activation of IL-1ra and IL-10. Interleukin 10 (IL-10), also known as human cytokine synthesis inhibitory factor (CSIF), is an anti-inflammatory cytokine. They include interleukin-1 (IL-1), IL-6, IL-12, and IL-18, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), interferon gamma (IFNγ), and granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) and play an important role in mediating the innate immune response. Therapies to treat inflammatory diseases include monoclonal antibodies that either neutralize inflammatory cytokines or their receptors.Inflammatory cytokines include interleukin-1 (IL-1), IL-12, and IL-18, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), interferon gamma (IFNγ), and granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF). 
UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. [SEP] TCR development
A critical step in T cell maturation is making a functional T cell receptor (TCR). Each mature T cell will ultimately contain a unique TCR that reacts to a random pattern, allowing the immune system to recognize many different types of pathogens. This process is essential in developing immunity to threats that the immune system has not encountered before, since due to random variation there will always be at least one TCR to match any new pathogen. Cytotoxic CD8+ T cells
Cytotoxic T cells (TC cells, CTLs, T-killer cells, killer T cells) destroy virus-infected cells and tumor cells, and are also implicated in transplant rejection. The majority of T cells express αβ TCR chains. It was shown that T cell response diminishes over time after kidney transplant. These data suggest T cell exhaustion plays an important role in tolerance of a graft mainly by depletion of alloreactive CD8 T cells. Several studies showed positive effect of chronic infection on graft acceptance and its long-term survival mediated partly by T cell exhaustion. 
UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. [SEP] TCR development
A critical step in T cell maturation is making a functional T cell receptor (TCR). Each mature T cell will ultimately contain a unique TCR that reacts to a random pattern, allowing the immune system to recognize many different types of pathogens. Cytotoxic CD8+ T cells
Cytotoxic T cells (TC cells, CTLs, T-killer cells, killer T cells) destroy virus-infected cells and tumor cells, and are also implicated in transplant rejection. The majority of T cells express αβ TCR chains. It was shown that T cell response diminishes over time after kidney transplant. These data suggest T cell exhaustion plays an important role in tolerance of a graft mainly by depletion of alloreactive CD8 T cells. While there are data showing that induction of T cell exhaustion can be beneficial for transplantation it also carries disadvantages among which can be counted increased number of infections and the risk of tumor development. The T cell receptor (TCR) consists of both constant and variable regions. 
Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. [SEP] E3 ubiquitin ligases catalyze polyubiquitination events much in the same way as the single ubiquitylation mechanism, using instead a lysine residue from a ubiquitin molecule currently attached to substrate protein to attack the C-terminus of a new ubiquitin molecule. Polyubiquitylation occurs when the C-terminus of another ubiquitin is linked to one of the seven lysine residues or the first methionine on the previously added ubiquitin molecule, creating a chain. The UBB and UBC genes code for polyubiquitin precursor proteins. Ligation: E3 ubiquitin ligases catalyse the final step of the ubiquitination cascade. Polyubiquitin chains
Polyubiquitination is the formation of a ubiquitin chain on a single lysine residue on the substrate protein. Polyubiquitylation occurs when the C-terminus of another ubiquitin is linked to one of the seven lysine residues or the first methionine on the previously added ubiquitin molecule, creating a chain. The UBB and UBC genes code for polyubiquitin precursor proteins. Ligation: E3 ubiquitin ligases catalyse the final step of the ubiquitination cascade. 
Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. [SEP] They cause a great deal of morbidity (harm) and deaths, and increase health care costs. It is thought this risk stems from activation of clotting substances in the blood by trauma to the vein during placement. Use of ultrasound reduces the number of needle insertions and redirections, and results in higher rates of successful lumbar puncture. Setting
Emergency ultrasound is used to quickly diagnose a limited set of injuries or pathologic conditions, specifically those where conventional diagnostic methods would either take too long or would introduce greater risk to a person (either by transporting the person away from the most closely monitored setting, or exposing them to ionizing radiation and/or intravenous contrast agents).Point of care ultrasound has been used in a wide variety of specialties and has increased in use in the last decade as ultrasound machines have become more compact and portable. Procedural guidance
Using ultrasound to guide needles during procedures may improve success and decrease complications in procedures performed by multiple specialties, including central and venous access, arterial cannulation, thoracentesis, paracentesis, pericardiocentesis, arthrocentesis, regional anesthesia, incision and drainage of abscesses, localization and removal of foreign bodies, lumbar puncture, biopsies, and other procedures. To describe each of these fully is beyond the scope of this entry, and impossible as the use of ultrasound is expanding rapidly:

Testicular Pain – Evaluation for testicular torsion, orchitis, epididymitis, hernia
Pelvic Pain – Evaluation for ovarian torsion, ovarian cyst, and ovarian cyst rupture
IVC – Evaluation of volume status and estimation of fluid responsiveness
The RUSH exam for Shock or Hypotension
Bones - Evaluation for fractures

Training
Emergency and point-of-care ultrasound is taught in a variety of settings. To achieve a sufficient image quality for diagnoses and reporting, the angiographic system uses up to 10 times higher x-ray doses than standard fluoroscopy. The latter is sometimes a difficult and dangerous undertaking during surgery with the many lines and catheters that must also be moved. 
Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. [SEP] Function
DNA damage and repair
p53 plays a role in regulation or progression through the cell cycle, apoptosis, and genomic stability by means of several mechanisms:

It can activate DNA repair proteins when DNA has sustained damage. Suppression of p53 plays important roles in cancer stem cell phenotype, induced pluripotent stem cells and other stem cell roles and behaviors, such as blastema formation. Other
Apart from the cellular and molecular effects above, p53 has a tissue-level anticancer effect that works by inhibiting angiogenesis. Regulation
p53 acts as a cellular stress sensor. First, the half-life of the p53 protein is increased drastically, leading to a quick accumulation of p53 in stressed cells. Role in disease
If the TP53 gene is damaged, tumor suppression is severely compromised. Loss of p53 creates genomic instability that most often results in an aneuploidy phenotype.Increasing the amount of p53 may seem a solution for treatment of tumors or prevention of their spreading. Thus, pharmacological reactivation of p53 presents itself as a viable cancer treatment option. 
Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. [SEP] West Nile virus (WNV) is a single-stranded RNA virus that causes West Nile fever. Climate change
Like other tropical diseases which are expected to have increased spread due to climate change, there is concern that changing weather conditions will increase West Nile Virus spread. Lists general information and resources for West Nile Virus West Nile fever is an infection by the West Nile virus, which is typically spread by mosquitoes. West Nile neuroinvasive disease (WNND), which occurs in less than 1 percent of cases, is when the virus infects the central nervous system resulting in meningitis, encephalitis, meningoencephalitis or a poliomyelitis-like syndrome. West Nile virus encephalitis (WNE) is the most common neuroinvasive manifestation of WNND. "West Nile Virus". Lists general information and resources for West Nile Virus. 
Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. [SEP] Medical uses
Depression
The evidence overall supports the efficacy of bupropion over placebo for the treatment of depression. Smoking cessation
Prescribed as an aid for smoking cessation bupropion reduces the severity of craving for nicotine and withdrawal symptoms such as depressed
mood, irritability, difficulty concentrating, and increased appetite. With time, however, this effect becomes negligible.The bupropion treatment course lasts for seven to twelve weeks, with the patient halting the use of tobacco about ten days into the course. After the course, the effectiveness of bupropion for maintaining abstinence from smoking declines over time, from 37% of tobacco abstinence at 3 months to 20% at one year. It is unclear whether extending bupropion treatment helps to prevent relapse of smoking.Overall, six months after the therapy, bupropion increases the likelihood of quitting smoking by approximately 1.6 fold as compared to placebo. In this respect, bupropion is as effective as nicotine replacement therapy but inferior to varenicline. Combining bupropion and nicotine replacement therapy does not improve the quitting rate.In children and adolescents, the use of bupropion for smoking cessation does not appear to offer any significant benefits. Obesity
Bupropion, when used for treating obesity over a period of 6 to 12 months, results in an average weight loss of 2.7 kg (5.9 lbs) over placebo. 
Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. [SEP] Unlike most capillary beds, the glomerular capillaries exit into efferent arterioles rather than venules. This provides tighter control over the blood flow through the glomerulus, since arterioles dilate and constrict more readily than venules, owing to their thick circular smooth muscle layer (tunica media). Smaller veins are called venules. The thin walls of the veins, and their greater internal diameters (lumens) enable them to hold a greater volume of blood, and this greater capacitance gives them the term of capacitance vessels. Post-capillary venules become muscular venules when they reach a diameter of 50 μm, and can reach a diameter of 1 mm. These larger venules feed into small veins. Veins have thinner walls than arteries, and a wider diameter that allow them to expand and hold a greater volume of blood. The arterioles supply capillaries, which in turn empty into venules. 
Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. [SEP] Smaller veins are called venules, and the smallest the post-capillary venules are microscopic that make up the veins of the microcirculation. Veins have less smooth muscle, and connective tissue, and wider internal diameters than arteries. Smaller veins are called venules. The smallest veins are the post-capillary venules. Post-capillary venules are too small to have a smooth muscle layer and are instead supported by pericytes that wrap around them. A venule  is a very small vein in the microcirculation that allows blood to return from the capillary beds to drain into the venous system via increasingly larger veins. The middle layer is poorly developed so that venules have thinner walls than arterioles. Compared with arterioles, the venules are larger with much weaker muscular coat. 
Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. [SEP] Low maternal vitamin B12, defined as serum concentration less than 148 pmol/L, increases the risk of miscarriage, preterm birth and newborn low birth weight. As it is recently absorbed vitamin content that more effectively reaches the placenta, the vitamin consumed by the mother-to-be is more important than that contained in her liver tissue. Endogenously synthesized vitamin D3 travels mainly with vitamin D-binding protein (DBP), which slows hepatic delivery of vitamin D and the availability in the plasma. Vitamin D levels vary for genetically mediated reasons as well as environmental ones. Animal research suggests that both excess and deficiency of vitamin D appears to cause abnormal functioning and premature aging. Case reports
In 2022, a man suffered from severe Vitamin D toxicity for three months. See also
Hypervitaminosis
Vitamin D and neurology
Vitamin D deficiency

References


== External links == There is little evidence to suggest that vitamin D supplementation improves prenatal outcomes in hypertensive disorders and gestational diabetes. 
Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. [SEP] This means that no other foods or drinks, other than vitamin D, are typically given. The size of the breast is not related to a mother's breastfeeding capability or the volume of milk she will produce. : 239 If the mother is not herself deficient in vitamins, breast milk normally supplies her baby's needs, with the exception of Vitamin D.  The CDC, National Health Service (UK), Canadian Paediatric Society, the American Academy of Pediatrics, and the American Academy of Family Physicians all agree that breast milk alone does not provide infants with an adequate amount of Vitamin D, thus they advise parents to supplement their infants with 400 IU Vitamin D daily. Providing this quantity of Vitamin D to breastfeeding infants has been shown to reduce rates of Vitamin D insufficiency (defined as 25‐OH vitamin D < 50 nmol/L). However, there was insufficient evidence in the most recent Cochrane Review, to determine if this quantity reduced rates of Vitamin D deficiency (defined as 25‐OH vitamin D < 30 nmol/L) or rickets. Term infants typically do not need iron supplementation. Lack of vitamin D
The hypothesis that vitamin D deficiency has a role in autism is biologically plausible, but not researched. Vitamin D deficiency is found more often in children with autism than in children who are considered to be healthy. 
Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. [SEP] Pregnancy
Pregnancy at an early age decreases the risk of developing breast cancer later in life. A 2006 study found that putting on 9.9 kg (22 lbs) after menopause increased the risk of developing breast cancer by 18%. There is evidence to suggest that excess body fat at the time of breast cancer diagnosis is associated with higher rates of cancer recurrence and death. Furthermore, studies have shown that obese women are more likely to have large tumors, greater lymph node involvement, and poorer breast cancer prognosis with 30% higher risk of mortality.Weight gain after diagnosis has also been linked to higher rates of breast cancer recurrence or mortality although this finding is not consistent. However, it also increased their risk of breast cancer. High mammographic density is associated with a higher risk of developing breast cancer, but the reasons for this link are not certain and are being studied. In the United States, excess body weight is associated with the development of many types of cancer and is a factor in 14–20% of cancer deaths. These higher hormone levels may explain their higher risk of breast cancer, even in the absence of a breast-cancer gene. 
aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. [SEP] Metastatic tumour, e.g. Roles in metabolism and cancer
Cancer cells rely on glutamine metabolism as carbon and nitrogen sources. Studies have indicated the importance of glutamine in certain tumors. For example, the inhibition of glutamine metabolism was reported to prevent growth of several tumors such as breast, liver, kidney and T-cell lymphoblastic leukemia. One of the most important functions of glutamine is its ability to be converted into α-KG, which helps to maintain the flow of the tricarboxylic acid cycle, generating ATPs. Although glutamine has no effect on the proliferation of tumor cells, it is still possible that glutamine supplementation may be detrimental in some cancer types.Ceasing glutamine supplementation in people adapted to very high consumption may initiate a withdrawal effect, raising the risk of health problems such as infections or impaired integrity of the intestine. Another perspective is that astrocyte swelling is due to glutamine accumulation. Phosphinothricin(PPT, Glufosinate): Phosphinothricin is an inhibitor that binds to the glutamate site. 
cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. [SEP] SMAC binds to proteins that inhibit apoptosis (IAPs) thereby deactivating them, and preventing the IAPs from arresting the process and therefore allowing apoptosis to proceed. Finally, adding p53-MDM2 complexes displaces p53 and activates the p53 pathway, leading to cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Formation
The initial interaction occurs between LFA-1 present in the p-SMAC of a T-cell, and non-specific adhesion molecules (such as ICAM-1 or ICAM-2) on a target cell. When bound to a target cell, the T-cell can extend pseudopodia and scan the surface of target cell to find a specific peptide:MHC complex.The process of formation begins when the T-cell receptor (TCR) binds to the peptide:MHC complex on the antigen-presenting cell and initiates signaling activation through formation of microclusters/lipid rafts. In the initiation step, NK cell approaches the target cell, either accidentally or intentionally due to the chemotactic signalling. If such signal is missing, a tight adhesion via LFA1 and MAC1 is promoted and enhanced by additional signals such as CD226-ligand and CD96-CD155 interactions.Lytic granules are secretory organelles filled with perforin, granzymes and other cytolytic enzymes. CEF scientists were able to provide new insights into the catalytic mechanism of ABC transporters. A team of CEF scientists resolved the mechanism of the subtype selectivity of human bradykinin receptors for their peptide agonists by integrating DNP-enhanced solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance with advanced molecular modeling and docking

CEF Research Area B - Composition and dynamics of macromolecular complexes in quality control and signalling
The characterization of function and structural composition of signalling complexes controlling cellular quality control programs was one of the major topics of CEF research. 
mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. [SEP] mTORC2 phosphorylates the serine/threonine protein kinase Akt/PKB at a serine residue S473 as well as serine residue S450. Regulation and signaling
mTORC2 appears to be regulated by insulin, growth factors, and serum. Downstream signaling
mTORC2 controls cell survival and proliferation mainly through phosphorylation of several members of the AGC (PKA/PKG/PKC) protein kinase family. mTORC2 plays a pivotal role in phosphorylation and thus in activation of Akt, which is a vital signaling component downstream from PI3K once active, and also in phosphorylation of SGK1, PKC  and HDACs. Role in disease
Since mTORC2 plays a crucial role in metabolic regulation, it can be linked to many human pathologies. mTORC2 has also been implicated in the control and maintenance of the actin cytoskeleton. mTORC2 has been shown to function as an important regulator of the actin cytoskeleton through its stimulation of F-actin stress fibers, paxillin, RhoA, Rac1, Cdc42, and protein kinase C α (PKCα). mTORC2 activation appears to mediate neurite outgrowth in differentiated mouse neuro2a cells. 
p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). [SEP] Tissue samples of primary oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) often display hypermethylation in the promoter regions of p16. It has been suggested that this process is responsible for the development of various forms of cancer serving as an alternative process to gene deletion or mutation.p16 positivity has been shown to be favorably prognostic in oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma. p16 status is so prognostic that the AJCC staging system has been revised to include p16 status in oropharyngeal squamous cell cancer group staging. Clinical use
Biomarker for cancer types
Expression of p16 is used as a prognostic biomarker for certain types of cancer. For patients with oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma, using immunohistochemistry to detect the presence of the p16 biomarker has been shown to be the strongest indicator of disease course. Role in cellular senescence
Concentrations of p16INK4a increase dramatically as tissue ages. Role in carcinogenesis
Since its discovery, p16 has become significant in the field of cancer research. The expression of p16INK4a increases with aging in many tissues of rodents and humans. 
