Can masks reduce corona infections when worn by a large proportion of the population? [SEP] Properly worn masks both limit the respiratory droplets and aerosols spread by infected individuals and help protect healthy individuals from infection.Reviews of various kinds of scientific studies have concluded that masking is effective in protecting the individual against COVID-19. In April 2020, the WHO acknowledged that wearing a medical mask can limit the spread of certain respiratory viral diseases including COVID-19 but claimed that medical masks would create a false sense of security and neglect of other necessary measures, such as hand hygiene.The early WHO advice on limited mask usage was scrutinized for several reasons. In August 2020, the CDC added that exhalation valves or vents in masks do not help prevent the person wearing the mask from spreading COVID-19 to others.In a November 2020 scientific brief, the CDC reiterated their recommendation for the community use of masks and specifically non-valved multi-layer cloth masks to prevent transmission of SARS-CoV-2. Efficacy
A systemic review and meta-analysis of the effectiveness of masks published in The BMJ in November 2021 showed that with 95% confidence, masks reduced COVID incidence by between 25% and 71%. Observational studies have shown evidence that masks reduce the community's spread of COVID-19. Filtration effectiveness generally improves with thread count.The use of a face mask can result in significant risk reduction of infection with epidemic-causative beta coronaviruses. A retrospective case-control study from Thailand documented that, among more than 1,000 people interviewed as part of contact tracing investigations, those who reported having always worn a mask during high-risk exposures experienced a greater than 70% reduced risk of acquiring infection compared with people who did not wear masks under these circumstances. In addition, the CDC said the benefit of universal masking, including reductions in infections and mortality, has been demonstrated in community-level analyses by a set of studies involving the Massachusetts hospital system, the German city Jena, the American state Arizona, a panel of 15 American states and Washington, D.C., Canada nationally, and the United States nationally.In addition to studying the impact of mask-wearing on transmission in a community, direct studies can be done on whether a mask filters out virus-carrying particles from the air. 
Can homeopathic preparations with Anamirta cocculus help against dizziness? [SEP] Its practitioners, called homeopaths, believe that a substance that causes symptoms of a disease in healthy people can cure similar symptoms in sick people; this doctrine is called similia similibus curentur, or "like cures like". Practitioners claim that such preparations, upon oral intake, can treat or cure disease.All relevant scientific knowledge about physics, chemistry, biochemistry and biology contradicts homeopathy. They also asked the Department of Health in the UK to add homeopathic remedies to the list of forbidden prescription items.In 2015, the National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia found that "there are no health conditions for which there is reliable evidence that homeopathy is effective". The lengthy records of self-experimentation by homeopaths have occasionally proven useful in the development of modern drugs: For example, evidence that nitroglycerin might be useful as a treatment for angina was discovered by looking through homeopathic provings, though homeopaths themselves never used it for that purpose at that time. The Russian Commission on Pseudoscience has said homeopathy is not safe because "patients spend significant amounts of money, buying medicines that do not work and disregard already known effective treatment." A related report concluded that claims of homeopathy effectiveness "are not accepted by most modern medical experts and do not constitute competent and reliable scientific evidence that these products have the claimed treatment effects." Plant Names in Homeopathy: An Annotated Checklist of Currently Accepted Names in Common Use. Anamirta cocculus (Marathi: काकमारी) is a Southeast Asian and Indian climbing plant. 
Can zeolite alleviate or prevent health problems? [SEP] Usefulness
Toothpastes are generally useful to maintain dental health. Triclosan or zinc chloride prevent gingivitis and, according to the American Dental Association, helps reduce tartar and bad breath. These ingredients are claimed by the manufacturers to fight plaque, bad breath and prevent gum disease. to manage hydrogen sulfide levels. Another method for phosphorus removal is to use granular laterite or zeolite.Some systems use both biological phosphorus removal and chemical phosphorus removal. Buckminsterfullerene has been demonstrated as having the ability of inducing the protection of reactive oxygen species and causing lipid peroxidation. German scientists develop zeolite thermal storage pellets that can store four times as much thermal energy as water, and can retain their energy almost indefinitely. These new materials could lead to a significant reduction in hospital infections and medical device failures. 
Does paxlovid protect unvaccinated people with risk factors from severe or even fatal covid 19 disease? [SEP] Initially, the US National Institutes of Health guidelines do not recommend any medication for prevention of COVID‑19, before or after exposure to the SARS-CoV-2 virus, outside the setting of a clinical trial. Therapeutics and COVID-19: living guideline, 14 January 2022 (Report). Vaccines
A COVID-19 vaccine is intended to provide acquired immunity against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS‑CoV‑2), the virus that causes coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). The COVID-19 vaccines are widely credited for their role in reducing the severity and death caused by COVID-19.As of March 2023, more than 5.5 billion people had received one or more doses (11.8 billion in total) in over 197 countries. According to a June 2022 study, COVID-19 vaccines prevented an additional 14.4 million to 19.8 million deaths in 185 countries and territories from 8 December 2020 to 8 December 2021.On 8 November 2022, the first recombinant protein-based COVID-19 vaccine (Novavax's booster Nuvaxovid) was authorized for use in adults in the United Kingdom. In 2021, the European Medicines Agency's (EMA) Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) approved the oral antiviral protease inhibitor, Paxlovid (nirmatrelvir plus AIDS drug ritonavir), to treat adult patients. In August 2021, Xi Jinping announced China's vaccine diplomacy goals of providing 2 billion vaccine doses to other countries by the end of the year.In August 2022, Pfizer signed an agreement to produce Paxlovid in China. In mid December 2022, however after the loosened restrictions and surging infections China Meheco Group signed an agreement with Pfizer to also import Paxlovid.As of February 2023, China is not using any mRNA vaccines; in November 2022, it rejected a deal to import Moderna. 
Does starting school later improve health, learning success, and quality of life in adolescents? [SEP] While some research has shown that structured after-school programs can lead to better test scores, improved homework completion, and higher grades, further research has questioned the effectiveness of after-school programs at improving youth outcomes such as externalizing behavior and school attendance. Scholars Chen and Lu researched the impact of academic after-school activities amongst secondary school students in Taiwan, and their 2009 study showed that after-school academic enrichment programs and private cram schools in Taiwan increase students’ educational achievement but have a negative effect on students’ psychological well-being. Benefits of after-school activities
Positive use of time
Some working parents wish for their children to be more supervised during after-school hours, which Mahoney, Larson, and Eccles's 2005 study discovered to be a leading reason for student enrollment in structured after-school programs. Academic growth
Studies show that afterschool programs are beneficial for both children and adolescents. Similarly, a 2010 study by Durlak, Weissberg, and Pachan showed that both children and adolescents experienced significant academic gains by taking part in afterschool programs.Several other studies (e.g., Morrison, Storino, Robertson, Weissglass, & Dondero, 2000; Tucker et al., 1995) have found that after-school academic tutoring or homework assistance may not result in an improvement in academic performance, but, rather, prevent a decline in performance that is evidenced by many at-risk youth. Together, these studies indicate that after-school academic support may play a protective role by helping to prevent a loss of school engagement even if it doesn't result in higher levels of functioning. The Posner and Vandell study showed that students who had taken part in an after-school program also exhibited more emotional stability and signs of social adjustment than their counterparts. In her 2005 study of efforts to address the racial achievement gap in urban areas, psychologist Julie Bryan noted that after-school activities can strongly benefit a student's socio-emotional health and academic performance. 
Does the F.X. Mayr cure have health benefits? Can it prevent diseases or treat them? [SEP] The embryo transplantion rate and successful pregnancy outcomes are improved when Hashimoto's is treated. This is done by slowing the infection rate to decrease the risk of health services being overwhelmed, allowing for better treatment of active cases, and delaying additional cases until effective treatments or a vaccine become available. This recommendation is meant to reduce the spread of the disease by asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic individuals and is complementary to established preventive measures such as social distancing. Combined with a serum ferritin blood test to identify a cytokine storm (also called cytokine storm syndrome, not to be confused with cytokine release syndrome), it is meant to counter such developments, which are thought to be the cause of death in some affected people. An updated Cochrane review in May 2021 found high certainty evidence that, for the treatment of people with moderate to severe COVID‑19, convalescent plasma did not reduce mortality or bring about symptom improvement. This allows it to be passed throughout the human population, increasing its fitness as a species. Loss of function mutations within this gene have been found to increase the fitness of the bacterium containing it. Early theorists proposed it conveyed improvements to the immune system or illness recovery or facilitates group-splitting. 
Does the consumption of soy foods or soy isoflavones affect the appearance of acne skin? [SEP] Other constituents
Soy contains isoflavones—polyphenolic compounds, produced by legumes including peanuts and chickpeas. A 2011 meta-analysis stated: "Our study suggests soy isoflavones intake is associated with a significant reduced risk of breast cancer incidence in Asian populations, but not in Western populations." A 2010 review showed that neither soy foods nor isoflavone supplements alter measures of bioavailable testosterone or estrogen concentrations in men. As of 2016, no cause-and-effect relationship has been shown in clinical research to indicate that soy isoflavones lower the risk of cardiovascular diseases. A 2011 meta-analysis stated: "Our study suggests soy isoflavones intake is associated with a significant reduced risk of breast cancer incidence in Asian populations, but not in Western populations." A 2010 review showed that neither soy foods nor isoflavone supplements alter measures of bioavailable testosterone or estrogen concentrations in men. As of 2016, no cause-and-effect relationship has been shown in clinical research to indicate that soy isoflavones lower the risk of cardiovascular diseases. Soy isoflavones can act as substrates for thyroid peroxidase, thereby  competitively inhibiting  thyroid hormone production.Despite the frequent use of isoflavone supplements, there are insufficient data on safety and adverse effects. 
Does extract from the Damiana plant (Turnera diffusa) help with erectile dysfunction? [SEP] Turnera diffusa, known as damiana, is a shrub native to southern Texas in the United States, Central America, Mexico, South America, and the Caribbean. In folklore, the plant was believed to be an aphrodisiac, hence its sometimes used binomial synonym, Turnera aphrodisiaca. The extract from damiana has been found to suppress aromatase activity, including the isolated compounds pinocembrin and acacetin. Turnera diffusa, known as damiana, is a shrub native to southern Texas in the United States, Central America, Mexico, South America, and the Caribbean. In folklore, the plant was believed to be an aphrodisiac, hence its sometimes used binomial synonym, Turnera aphrodisiaca. The extract from damiana has been found to suppress aromatase activity, including the isolated compounds pinocembrin and acacetin. Taking testosterone may help maintain an erection. A 2021 review indicated that ginseng had "only trivial effects on erectile function or satisfaction with intercourse compared to placebo". 
Is the homeopathic remedy Neradin effective for erectile dysfunction? [SEP] Erectile dysfunction (ED), also called impotence, is the type of sexual dysfunction in which the penis fails to become or stay erect during sexual activity. Taking testosterone may help maintain an erection. Many products are advertised as "herbal viagra" or "natural" sexual enhancement products, but no clinical trials or scientific studies support the effectiveness of these products for the treatment of ED, and synthetic chemical compounds similar to sildenafil have been found as adulterants in many of these products. A 2021 review indicated that ginseng had "only trivial effects on erectile function or satisfaction with intercourse compared to placebo". "Implants, Mechanical Devices, and Vascular Surgery for Erectile Dysfunction". Erectile dysfunction
Erectile dysfunction (ED), or impotence, is a sexual dysfunction characterized by the inability to develop or maintain an erection of the penis. Several oral medications like Viagra, Cialis, and Levitra have become available to alleviate ED and have become first line therapy. Technological advances have made the insertion of a penile implant a safe option for the treatment of ED, which provides the highest patient and partner satisfaction rates of all available ED treatment options.Pelvic floor physical therapy has been shown to be a valid treatment for men with sexual problems and pelvic pain.The 2020 guidelines from the American College of Physicians support the discussion of testosterone treatment in adult men with age-related low levels of testosterone who have sexual dysfunction. 
Does regular HPV testing in addition to the recommended Pap smear detect more precancerous lesions than just the Pap smear alone? [SEP] Further tests are unlikely to detect recurrence of cancer but do bring the risk of giving false positive results, which would lead to unnecessary further testing.More frequent Pap smears may be needed to follow up after an abnormal Pap smear, after treatment for abnormal Pap or biopsy results, or after treatment of cancer ( cervical, colon, etc. Pap smears may be supplemented with HPV DNA testing. Cervical cancer screening, such as the Papanicolaou test ("pap smear"), or examination of the cervix after applying acetic acid, can detect both early cancer and abnormal cells that may develop into cancer. Because of the link between HPV and cervical cancer, the ACS currently recommends early detection of cervical cancer in average-risk asymptomatic adults primarily with cervical cytology by Pap smear, regardless of HPV vaccination status. Co-testing with a Pap test and HPV test is recommended because it decreases the rate of false-negatives. These tests can detect HPV infections before cell abnormalities are evident. HPV vaccines, such as Gardasil and Cervarix, reduce the incidence of cervical cancer, by inoculating against the viral strains involved in cancer development.Potentially precancerous changes in the cervix can be detected by cervical screening, using methods including a Pap smear (also called a cervical smear), in which epithelial cells are scraped from the surface of the cervix and examined under a microscope. HPV screening happens either as a co-test with the Pap smear or can be done after a Pap smear showing abnormal cells, called reflex testing. 
Can monk's pepper reduce PMS symptoms? PMS is the abbreviation for premenstrual syndrome. This refers to complaints that occur in the days before menstruation. [SEP] Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) is a disruptive set of emotional and physical symptoms that regularly occur in the one to two weeks before the start of each menstrual period. Premenstrual symptoms generally do not cause substantial disruption, and qualify as PMS in approximately 20% of pre-menopausal women. Antidepressants of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors class may be used to treat the emotional symptoms of PMS.Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) is a more severe condition that has greater psychological symptoms. This class of medication may cause PMS-related symptoms in some and may reduce physical symptoms in others. Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) is a disruptive set of emotional and physical symptoms that regularly occur in the one to two weeks before the start of each menstrual period. Premenstrual symptoms generally do not cause substantial disruption, and qualify as PMS in approximately 20% of pre-menopausal women. Antidepressants of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors class may be used to treat the emotional symptoms of PMS.Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) is a more severe condition that has greater psychological symptoms. This class of medication may cause PMS-related symptoms in some and may reduce physical symptoms in others. 
Can olive leaf extract reduce high blood pressure? [SEP] Supercritical carbon dioxide extraction of olive leaves has been shown to require less solvent per measure of leaf than a traditional extraction – 141.7 g (5.00 oz) CO2 versus 194.4 g (6.86 oz) ethanol per 1 g (0.035 oz) olive leaf. An alcoholic extract of the leaf was shown, in laboratory rats, to protect the liver from damage from certain poisons. For most polyphenols, there is no evidence for an effect on cardiovascular regulation, although there are some reviews showing a minor effect of consuming polyphenols, such as chlorogenic acid or flavan-3-ols, on blood pressure. This method is typically used to produce the more traditional oils (e.g., olive, coconut etc. An alternative is to cut the top off the bulb, coat the cloves by dribbling olive oil (or other oil-based seasoning) over them, and roast them in an oven. Emulsifying garlic with olive oil produces aioli. Medical research
Cardiovascular
As of 2016, clinical research found that consuming garlic produces only a small reduction in blood pressure (4 mmHg), and there is no clear long-term effect on hypertension, cardiovascular morbidity or mortality. A 2016 meta-analysis indicated there was no effect of garlic consumption on blood levels of lipoprotein(a), a biomarker of atherosclerosis.Because garlic might reduce platelet aggregation, people taking anticoagulant medication are cautioned about consuming garlic. 
Do green-lipped mussel preparations improve the symptoms of osteoarthritis? [SEP] However, a 2006 systematic review of scientific research on supplementation with green-lipped mussel found "little consistent and compelling evidence" of any benefit for rheumatoid or osteoarthritis. Lines in the water: a history of Greenshell mussel farming in New Zealand. Some species of marine mussel, including the blue mussel (Mytilus edulis) and the New Zealand green-lipped mussel (Perna canaliculus), are also cultivated as a source of food. A number of studies have investigated mussel "glues" for industrial and surgical applications. As food
Humans have used mussels as food for thousands of years. In Turkey, mussels are either covered with flour and fried on skewers (midye tava), or filled with rice and served cold (midye dolma) and are usually consumed after alcohol (mostly raki or beer). In Brazil, it is common to see mussels being cooked and served with olive oil, usually accompanied by onion, garlic and other herbs. Some mussels might contain toxins. 
Can probiotics lower blood sugar in type 2 diabetes? [SEP] Some women with GDM use probiotics but it is very uncertain if there are any benefits in terms of blood glucose levels, high blood pressure disorders or induction of labour.If a diabetic diet or G.I. Modification by diet
Meta-analysis has shown probiotics to cause a statistically significant reduction in glycated hemoglobin in type 2 diabetics. Trials with multiple strains of probiotics had statistically significant reductions in glycated hemoglobin, whereas trials with single strains did not. Blood
Basil seeds may help regulate blood sugar levels by slowing down carbohydrate absorption in the intestines, which may be particularly beneficial for individuals with type 2 diabetes. Negative effects from this have led to interest in selective digestive tract decontamination, a treatment to kill only pathogenic bacteria and allow the re-establishment of healthy ones.Antibiotics alter the population of the microbiota in the gastrointestinal tract, and this may change the intra-community metabolic interactions, modify caloric intake by using carbohydrates, and globally affects host metabolic, hormonal and immune homeostasis.There is reasonable evidence that taking probiotics containing Lactobacillus species may help prevent antibiotic-associated diarrhea and that taking probiotics with Saccharomyces (e.g., Saccharomyces boulardii ) may help to prevent Clostridium difficile infection following systemic antibiotic treatment. Additionally, butyrate has also been shown to decrease insulin resistance, suggesting gut communities low in butyrate-producing microbes may increase chances of acquiring diabetes mellitus type 2. Generally, people with diabetes and those at risk are encouraged to  increase their fiber intake. Probiotics induce antimicrobial peptides such as β-defensin-2, they increase the production of T regulatory cells, and regulate cytokines and chemokines. 
Can the so-called Tupler technique help against rectus diastasis? [SEP] Crunches may increase the diastasis recti separation. In extreme cases diastasis recti is corrected with a cosmetic surgery procedure known as an abdominoplasty by creating a plication, or folding, of the linea alba and suturing it together, which results in a tighter abdominal wall. "Nevertheless, the following exercises are often recommended to help build abdominal strength, which may or may not help reduce the size of diastasis recti:
Core contraction – In a seated position, place both hands on abdominal muscles. Crunches may increase the diastasis recti separation. In extreme cases diastasis recti is corrected with a cosmetic surgery procedure known as an abdominoplasty by creating a plication, or folding, of the linea alba and suturing it together, which results in a tighter abdominal wall. "Nevertheless, the following exercises are often recommended to help build abdominal strength, which may or may not help reduce the size of diastasis recti:
Core contraction – In a seated position, place both hands on abdominal muscles. Crunches may increase the diastasis recti separation. "Nevertheless, the following exercises are often recommended to help build abdominal strength, which may or may not help reduce the size of diastasis recti:
Core contraction – In a seated position, place both hands on abdominal muscles. 
Can CBD (cannabidiol) help with migraines or other headaches? [SEP] Paracetamol may relieve pain in acute mild migraine but only slightly in episodic tension headache. The aspirin/paracetamol/caffeine combination also "has strong evidence of effectiveness and can be used as a first-line treatment for migraine". Regarding non-inhaled cannabis or cannabinoids, a 2021 review found that it provided little relief against chronic pain and sleep disturbance, and caused several transient adverse effects, such as cognitive impairment, nausea, and drowsiness.Short-term use increases the risk of minor and major adverse effects. When usual treatments are ineffective, cannabinoids have also been recommended for anorexia, arthritis, glaucoma, and migraine.It is unclear whether American states might be able to mitigate the adverse effects of the opioid epidemic by prescribing medical cannabis as an alternative pain management drug.Cannabis should not be used in pregnancy. Pain
A 2021 review found little effect of using non-inhaled cannabis to relieve chronic pain. According to a 2019 systematic review, there have been inconsistent results of using cannabis for neuropathic pain, spasms associated with multiple sclerosis and pain from rheumatic disorders, but was not effective treating chronic cancer pain. A 2022 review concluded that "oral, synthetic cannabis products with high THC-to-CBD ratios and sublingual, extracted cannabis products with comparable THC-to-CBD ratios may be associated with short-term improvements in chronic pain and increased risk for dizziness and sedation." According to his findings, medical cannabis proved to be helpful in the treatment of hysteria, asthma, pulmonary emphysema, migraine, exophthalmic goiter, facial hyperkinesia, as well as other neuroses originating from both the central and peripheral nervous systems, neuralgia of the peripheral nerves, the trigeminal nerves, the occipital cervical plexus, the brachial plexus, the lumbar plexus, and the sacral plexus. 
Can laser irradiation of blood by infusion needle (hemolaser treatment) relieve discomfort or help with diseases? [SEP] CO2 lasers may be used to treat certain skin conditions such as hirsuties papillaris genitalis by removing bumps or podules. Researchers in Israel are experimenting with using CO2 lasers to weld human tissue, as an alternative to traditional sutures.The 10.6 μm CO2 laser remains the best surgical laser for the soft tissue where both cutting and hemostasis are achieved photo-thermally (radiantly). CO2 lasers can be used in place of a scalpel for most procedures and are even used in places a scalpel would not be used, in delicate areas where mechanical trauma could damage the surgical site. Medicine
There are several laser types used in medicine for ablation, including argon, carbon dioxide (CO2), dye, erbium, excimer, Nd:YAG, and others. Laser ablation is used in a variety of medical specialties including ophthalmology, general surgery, neurosurgery, ENT, dentistry, oral and maxillofacial surgery, and veterinary. In soft-tissue surgeries, the CO2 laser beam ablates and cauterizes simultaneously, making it the most practical and most common soft-tissue laser.Laser ablation can be used on benign and malignant lesions in various organs, which is called laser-induced interstitial thermotherapy. The main applications currently involve the reduction of benign thyroid nodules and destruction of primary and secondary malignant liver lesions.Laser ablation is also used to treat chronic venous insufficiency.See also ablative brain surgery. Once Papper showed that the bone marrow space could be used with comparable success to administer IV fluids and drugs, intraosseous infusion was popularized during World War II in order to prevent soldiers' death via hemorrhagic shock. 
In everyday life, when breathing with an FFP2 mask or ordinary mouth-nose protection, do you get as much oxygen as without a mask? [SEP] FFP standard masks (where FFP stands for filtering facepiece) cover the nose, mouth and chin and may have inhalation and/or exhalation valves.EN 149 defines three classes of such particle half masks, called FFP1, FFP2 and FFP3, according to their filtering efficiency. The protection provided by an FFP2 (or FFP3) mask includes the protection provided by a mask of the lower-numbered classes. FFP2 mask
Aerosol filtration percentage: 94% minimum
Internal leak rate: maximum 8%This mask offers protection in various areas such as the glass industry, foundry, construction, pharmaceutical industry and agriculture. Nevertheless, FFP2 and FFP3 masks are commonly used for this purpose in medical practice. The certification grade of the mask (as N95 or FFP2) is about the mask itself and it does not warrant any safety about the air that is expelled by the wearer through the valve. Despite the aforementioned belief, a 2020 research by the NIOSH and CDC shows that an uncovered exhalation valve already provides source control on a level similar to, or even better than, surgical masks.During the COVID-19 pandemic, masks with unfiltered-exhalation valves did not meet the requirements of some mandatory mask orders. Uses
Filtering facepiece respirators
Filtering facepiece respirator (FFPs) are disposable face masks produced from a whole piece of filtering material. Shortcomings
The electrostatic filters in respirators are much easier to breathe through than cloth masks, however, when respirators are worn with additional coverings, such as surgical mask material, then they can make breathing harder for the wearer. 
Can CBD help with period pain? [SEP] CBD, which is known for its pain relieving and anti-aging properties, is also extracted from cannabis to be used as an ingredient for lip balms. Cannabidiol (CBD) is also a major constituent of temperate cannabis plants and a minor constituent in tropical varieties. Cannabidiol
Cannabidiol (CBD) is mildly psychotropic. It may play a role in promoting sleep and suppressing arousal.CBD shares a precursor with THC and is the main cannabinoid in CBD-dominant Cannabis strains. CBD has been shown to play a role in preventing the short-term memory loss associated with THC.There is tentative evidence that CBD has an anti-psychotic effect, but research in this area is limited. Two years later, in 1942, American chemist, Roger Adams, made history when he discovered Cannabidiol (CBD). CBD also acts as an allosteric modulator of the μ- and δ-opioid receptors. However, this is disputed by researchers.A 2015 review found that the use of high CBD-to-THC strains of cannabis showed significantly fewer positive symptoms, such as delusions and hallucinations, better cognitive function and both lower risk for developing psychosis, as well as a later age of onset of the illness, compared to cannabis with low CBD-to-THC ratios. 
Can a bioresonance device like "Bioscan" or "Vieva Vital Analyser" measure mineral and vitamin deficiencies or detect health problems? [SEP] Bioresonance therapy
Bioresonance therapy (including MORA therapy) is a pseudoscientific medical practice in which it is proposed that electromagnetic waves can be used to diagnose and treat human illness. WebMD states: "There is no reliable scientific evidence that bioresonance is an accurate indicator of medical conditions or disease or an effective treatment for any condition. An overview of the pseudoscience behind "bioresonance therapy":  "Electrodiagnostic" Devices Syncrometer:  A "bioresonance" device developed by Clark and claimed to detect contaminants in substances at an accuracy of one part per quadrillion (ppq). Government guidelines on vitamin deficiencies advise certain intakes for healthy people, with specific values for women, men, babies, children, the elderly, and during pregnancy or breastfeeding. Many countries have mandated vitamin food fortification programs to prevent commonly occurring vitamin deficiencies.Conversely, hypervitaminosis refers to symptoms caused by vitamin intakes in excess of needs, especially for fat-soluble vitamins that can accumulate in body tissues.The history of the discovery of vitamin deficiencies progressed over centuries from observations that certain conditions – for example, scurvy – could be prevented or treated with certain foods having high content of a necessary vitamin, to the identification and description of specific molecules essential for life and health. Individual vitamin deficiencies
Water-soluble vitamins
Fat-soluble vitamins
Prevention
Food fortification
Food fortification is the process of adding micronutrients (essential trace elements and vitamins) to food as a public health policy which aims to reduce the number of people with dietary deficiencies within a population. Classifications
Vitamin D deficiency is typically diagnosed by measuring the concentration of the 25-hydroxyvitamin D in the blood, which is the most accurate measure of stores of vitamin D in the body. 
Does arthroscopy (joint endoscopy) help with osteoarthritis of the knee joint? [SEP] Many studies have shown the outcomes from knee arthroscopic surgery for osteoarthritis and degenerative meniscal tears are no better than the outcomes from placebo (fake) surgery or other treatments (such as exercise therapy).During an average knee arthroscopy, a small fiberoptic camera (the arthroscope) is inserted into the joint through a small incision, about 4 mm (1/8 inch) width. Knee osteoarthritis
The BMJ Rapid Recommendations group makes a strong recommendation against arthroscopy for osteoarthritis on the basis that there is high quality evidence that there is no lasting benefit and less than 15% of people have a small short-term benefit. Arthroscopic surgery, however, does not appear to result in benefits to adults when performed for knee pain in patients with osteoarthritis who have a meniscal tear. Many studies have shown the outcomes from knee arthroscopic surgery for osteoarthritis and degenerative meniscal tears are no better than the outcomes from placebo (fake) surgery or other treatments (such as exercise therapy).During an average knee arthroscopy, a small fiberoptic camera (the arthroscope) is inserted into the joint through a small incision, about 4 mm (1/8 inch) width. Knee osteoarthritis
The BMJ Rapid Recommendations group makes a strong recommendation against arthroscopy for osteoarthritis on the basis that there is high quality evidence that there is no lasting benefit and less than 15% of people have a small short-term benefit. Other surgical options
Osteotomy may be useful in people with knee osteoarthritis, but has not been well studied and it is unclear whether it is more effective than non-surgical treatments or other types of surgery. Arthroscopic surgery is largely not recommended, as it does not improve outcomes in knee osteoarthritis, and may result in harm. Arthroscopic surgery for osteoarthritis of the knee provides no additional benefit to optimized physical and medical therapy. 
Do dietary supplements containing silicon (e.g. as "organic silicon" or silica) have health benefits? [SEP] Silicon is the basis of the widely used synthetic polymers called silicones. Thus, the vast majority of uses for silicon are as structural compounds, either as the silicate minerals or silica (crude silicon dioxide). Silicon is a component of some superalloys. Biological role
Although silicon is readily available in the form of silicates, very few organisms use it directly. Human nutrition
There is some evidence that silicon is important to human health for their nail, hair, bone, and skin tissues, for example, in studies that demonstrate that premenopausal women with higher dietary silicon intake have higher bone density, and that silicon supplementation can increase bone volume and density in patients with osteoporosis. "Silicon". Silicon compounds such as silicones, silanes, silsesquioxane, silica, and silicates, some of which were developed as alternatives to more toxic halogenated products, can considerably improve the flame retardancy of plastic materials. Traditional organometallic chemistry includes the carbon compounds of silicon (see organosilicon). 
Can regular intake of cranberry juice or cranberry extract prevent recurrent cystitis in women? [SEP] Research
Urinary tract infections
A comprehensive review in 2012 of available research concluded there is no evidence that cranberry juice or cranberry extract as tablets or capsules are effective in preventing urinary tract infections (UTIs). The European Food Safety Authority reviewed the evidence for one brand of cranberry extract and concluded a cause and effect relationship had not been established between cranberry consumption and reduced risk of UTIs.One 2017 systematic review showed that consuming cranberry products reduced the incidence of UTIs in women with recurrent infections. Another review of small clinical studies indicated that consuming cranberry products could reduce the risk of UTIs by 26% in otherwise healthy women, although the authors indicated that larger studies were needed to confirm such an effect.A 2021 systematic review found that there was insufficient evidence for or against using cranberry products to treat an acute UTI.When the quality of meta-analyses on the efficacy of consuming cranberry products for preventing or treating UTIs is examined, large variation and uncertainty of effect are seen, resulting from inconsistencies of clinical research design and inadequate numbers of subjects. However, there is no confirmation from human studies that consuming cranberry polyphenols provides anti-cancer, immune, or cardiovascular benefits. Potential is limited by poor absorption and rapid excretion.Cranberry juice contains a high molecular weight non-dializable material that is under research for its potential to affect formation of plaque by Streptococcus mutans pathogens that cause tooth decay. Cranberry juice components are also being studied for possible effects on kidney stone formation. Other safety concerns from consuming large quantities of cranberry juice or using cranberry supplements include potential for nausea, and  increasing stomach inflammation, sugar intake or kidney stone formation. Cranberry juice
Preliminary research indicates that cranberry (juice or capsules) may decrease the number of urinary tract infections in women with frequent infections, and a more substantial Cochrane review concludes that there is some evidence that cranberry products reduces the risk of symptomatic urinary tract infections for women, children and people following intervention, but not for the elderly, or people with bladder emptying problems, or for pregnant women. 
Will women who have recurrent bladder infections get rid of them faster if they take cranberry products only after the disease is already there??? [SEP] However, women with negative cultures may still improve with antibiotic treatment. Signs and symptoms are similar to a bladder infection. Antibiotics following short term urinary catheterization decreases the subsequent risk of a bladder infection. Alternative medicine
Some research suggests that cranberry (juice or capsules) may decrease the number of UTIs in those with frequent infections. Phenazopyridine is occasionally prescribed during the first few days in addition to antibiotics to help with the burning and urgency sometimes felt during a bladder infection. There is no good evidence for the use of cranberry products for treating current infections.Fosfomycin can be used as an effective treatment for both UTIs and complicated UTIs including acute pyelonephritis. Pyelonephritis
Pyelonephritis is treated more aggressively than a simple bladder infection using either a longer course of oral antibiotics or intravenous antibiotics. Drinking cranberry juice does not appear to provide much if any benefit in decreasing urinary tract infections. 
Can extract from St. John's wort relieve the symptoms of depression? Is it similarly effective as drugs against depression (antidepressants)? [SEP] In some patients with depression, DA-related disturbances improve upon treatment with antidepressants, it is presumed by acting on serotonergic or noradrenergic circuits, which then affect DA function. Data from clinical studies have shown that DA agonists, such as bromocriptine, pramipexole and ropinirole, exhibit antidepressant properties. Taking psychostimulants for the alleviation of depression is well proven strategy, although in a clinical setting the use of such drugs is usually prohibited because of their strong addiction propensity. This was explored in the treatment of depression, but was shown not to be effective. Depression
Amitriptyline is effective for depression, but it is rarely used as a first-line antidepressant due to its higher toxicity in overdose and generally poorer tolerability. It can be tried for depression as a second-line therapy, after the failure of other treatments. For treatment-resistant adolescent depression or for cancer-related depression amitriptyline is no better than placebo, however the number of treated patients in both studies was small. It is sometimes used for the treatment of depression in Parkinson's disease, but supporting evidence for that is lacking. 
Does the Zisano bracelet strengthen the immune system, increase endurance and performance or reduce fatigue? [SEP] Physical exercise
Physical exercise has a positive effect on the immune system and depending on the frequency and intensity, the pathogenic effects of diseases caused by bacteria and viruses are moderated. Immune: A Journey into the Mysterious System that Keeps You Alive. Adaptive immunity can provide long-lasting protection, sometimes for the person's entire lifetime. Stimulation of adaptive immunity
One of the most interesting developments in biomedical science during the past few decades has been elucidation of mechanisms mediating innate immunity. Increasing endurance has been proven to release endorphins resulting in a positive mind. The act of gaining endurance through physical activity has been shown to decrease anxiety, depression, and stress, or any chronic disease in total. Although a greater endurance can assist the cardiovascular system it does not imply that any cardiovascular disease can be guaranteed to improve. What quantitative/qualitative benefits follow? 
Does microimmunotherapy improve symptoms of allergies, cancer, joint inflammation, autoimmune diseases, dementia or various viral infections? [SEP] Psychotherapy may help patients manage the stress of being ill, apply self-management strategies for their symptoms, and cope with physical pain. A report by the Institute of Medicine published in 2015 states that it is unclear whether CBT helps to improve cognitive impairments experienced by patients. They are therefore used in medicine to treat diseases caused by an overactive immune system, such as allergies, asthma, autoimmune diseases, and sepsis. In much higher doses, oral or inhaled glucocorticoids are used to suppress various allergic, inflammatory, and autoimmune disorders. Allergy – Allergies, also known as allergic diseases, are a number of conditions caused by hypersensitivity of the immune system to typically harmless substances in the environment. These diseases include hay fever, food allergies, atopic dermatitis, allergic asthma, and anaphylaxis. It is associated with other autoimmune diseases, such as diabetes mellitus type 1 and thyroiditis, among others. Immunology has applications in numerous disciplines of medicine, particularly in the fields of organ transplantation, oncology, rheumatology, virology, bacteriology, parasitology, psychiatry, and dermatology. 
Can ginkgo extract improve mental performance in dementia patients? [SEP] Due to their differing mechanisms of action memantine and acetylcholinesterase inhibitors can be used in combination however the benefit is slight.An extract of Ginkgo biloba known as EGb 761 has been widely used for treating mild to moderate dementia and other neuropsychiatric disorders. Many studies of its use in mild to moderate dementia have shown it to significantly improve cognitive function, activities of daily living, neuropsychiatric symptoms, and quality of life. The combination of memantine and donepezil has been shown to be "of statistically significant but clinically marginal effectiveness".An extract of Ginkgo biloba known as EGb 761 has been used for treating Alzheimer's and other neuropsychiatric disorders. A 2016 review concluded that the quality of evidence from clinical trials on Ginkgo biloba has been insufficient to warrant its use for treating Alzheimer's disease.Atypical antipsychotics are modestly useful in reducing aggression and psychosis in people with Alzheimer's disease, but their advantages are offset by serious adverse effects, such as stroke, movement difficulties or cognitive decline. Ginkgo biloba –  An extract of Ginkgo biloba leaf is marketed in dietary supplement form with claims it can enhance cognitive function in people without known cognitive problems, although there is no high-quality evidence to support such effects on memory or attention in healthy people. Panax ginseng –  A review by the Cochrane Collaboration found that the results of its analysis "suggested improvement of some aspects of cognitive function, behavior and quality of life" but concluded that "there is a lack of convincing evidence to show a cognitive enhancing effect of Panax ginseng in healthy participants and no high quality evidence about its efficacy in patients with dementia." Nutrients and dietary supplements
A 2015 review found that use of omega-3 fatty acids, B vitamins, and vitamin E as nootropics was ineffective on cognitive function in normal middle-aged and older people. Vitamin B12 –  no cognition-enhancing effects in middle-aged and older adults without B12 deficiency. 
Does pine wood improve sleep? [SEP] In response, the pineal secretes the hormone melatonin. Several studies have indicated that pineal melatonin feeds back on SCN rhythmicity to modulate circadian patterns of activity and other processes. It is described as a kind of wood used to make beds, bedframes, furniture legs, chairs, foot-stools, baskets, containers, drinking vessels, and other prestigious goods. Hardwoods such as cedar, juniper, and ebony were also used. Ash wood was a wood was used to make furniture which was supposed to last an eternity. Wood was an important material not just structurally, but also religiously. It was believed that certain gods and goddesses preferred different types of wood. Cedar and pine bedding
Cedar and pine wood contains harmful oils that have been known to cause respiratory infections in small animals. 
Do spermidine supplements or a spermidine-rich diet reduce the risk of Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia? Do they help with existing dementia? [SEP] due to results about various mechanistic effects) to the regular dietary consumption patterns (see also: functional food)increasing the intake of high-spermidine foods – studies suggest spermidine could extend lifespan, with high amounts that are larger than common supplements being present in fungi (e.g. Spermidine regulates biological processes, such as Ca2+ influx by glutamatergic N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDA receptor), which has been associated with nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and cGMP/PKG pathway activation and a decrease of Na+,K+-ATPase activity in cerebral cortex synaptosomes. Spermidine is a longevity agent in mammals due to various mechanisms of action, which are just beginning to be understood. Spermidine has also been found to “upregulate expression of the epithelial stem cell-associated keratins K15 and K19, and dose-dependently modulated K15 promoter activity in situ and the colony forming efficiency, proliferation and K15 expression of isolated human K15-GFP+ cells in vitro.”

Biochemical actions
Spermidine's known actions include:

Inhibits neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS)
Binds and precipitates DNA
Polyamine plant growth regulator

Sources
Good dietary sources of spermidine are aged cheese, mushrooms, soy products, legumes, corn, and whole grains. Spermidine has also been reported to protect the heart from aging and prolong the lifespan of mice, while in humans it was correlated with lower blood pressure. Spermidine may play a role in male and female fertility. Fertile men have higher spermidine levels than men who are infertile, and spermidine supplementation has been shown to help maintain a healthy hormone balance and reduce oxidative stress. due to results about various mechanistic effects) to the regular dietary consumption patterns (see also: functional food)increasing the intake of high-spermidine foods – studies suggest spermidine could extend lifespan, with high amounts that are larger than common supplements being present in fungi (e.g. 
Do green-lipped mussel preparations improve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis? [SEP] However, a 2006 systematic review of scientific research on supplementation with green-lipped mussel found "little consistent and compelling evidence" of any benefit for rheumatoid or osteoarthritis. Some species of marine mussel, including the blue mussel (Mytilus edulis) and the New Zealand green-lipped mussel (Perna canaliculus), are also cultivated as a source of food. A number of studies have investigated mussel "glues" for industrial and surgical applications. As food
Humans have used mussels as food for thousands of years. In Belgium, mussels are sometimes served with fresh herbs and flavorful vegetables in a stock of butter and white wine. In Turkey, mussels are either covered with flour and fried on skewers (midye tava), or filled with rice and served cold (midye dolma) and are usually consumed after alcohol (mostly raki or beer). In Brazil, it is common to see mussels being cooked and served with olive oil, usually accompanied by onion, garlic and other herbs. Some mussels might contain toxins. 
Does covid vaccination reduce the likelihood of getting long-lasting symptoms (long covid) in case of corona infection? [SEP] Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a contagious disease caused by the virus severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). Treatment
Prognosis and risk factors
The severity of COVID‑19 varies. Longer-term effects
Some early studies suggest that 10–20% of people with COVID‑19 will experience symptoms lasting longer than a month. Since SARS-CoV-2 has been in the human population only since December 2019, it remains unknown if the immunity is long-lasting in people who recover from the disease. The WHO recommends systemic corticosteroids rather than no systemic corticosteroids for the treatment of people with severe and critical COVID‑19 (strong recommendation, based on moderate certainty evidence). An updated Cochrane review in May 2021 found high certainty evidence that, for the treatment of people with moderate to severe COVID‑19, convalescent plasma did not reduce mortality or bring about symptom improvement. COVID-19 vaccines can cause mild, short term side effects, such as a low-grade fever or pain or redness at the injection site much like other vaccines and injected medications. As of the 4 August 2021 update, ATAGI reinforces that the benefits of vaccination with COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca strongly outweigh the risks of adverse effects in all Australians aged 60 years or older. 
Can the preventive intake of lysine prevent cold sores (lip herpes) and genital herpes? Can lysine help when the blisters are already there? [SEP] This has led to athletes using lysine as a means of promoting muscle growth while training, however, no significant evidence to support this application of lysine has been found to date.Because herpes simplex virus (HSV) proteins are richer in arginine and poorer in lysine than the cells they infect, lysine supplements have been tried as a treatment. In response to product claims that lysine could improve immune responses to HSV, a review by the European Food Safety Authority found no evidence of a cause–effect relationship. A cold sore, also known as a fever blister and herpes labialis, is a type of infection by the herpes simplex virus that affects primarily the lip. When reactivation occurs, the virus travels down the nerves to the skin where it may cause blisters (cold sores) around the lips or mouth area.In case of Herpes zoster the nose can be affected.Cold sore outbreaks may be influenced by stress, menstruation, sunlight, sunburn, fever, dehydration, or local skin trauma. Herpes-Simplex Virus (Cold sores)
Research from 1964 into amino acid requirements of herpes simplex virus in human cells indicated that "...the lack of arginine or histidine, and possibly the presence of lysine, would interfere markedly with virus synthesis", but concludes that "no ready explanation is available for any of these observations".Further medical evidence indicates that "absorbing more arginine may indirectly cause cold sores by disrupting the body's balance of arginine and another amino acid called lysine. "Further reviews conclude that "lysine's efficacy for herpes labialis may lie more in prevention than treatment." A 2017 study concludes that "clinicians could consider advising patients that there is a theoretical role of lysine supplementation in the prevention of herpes simplex sores but the research evidence is insufficient to back this. When reactivation occurs, the virus travels down the nerves to the skin where it may cause blisters (cold sores) around the lips or mouth area.In case of Herpes zoster the nose can be affected.Cold sore outbreaks may be influenced by stress, menstruation, sunlight, sunburn, fever, dehydration, or local skin trauma. 
Do hormonal contraceptives to swallow (the "pill") affect endurance performance in women? [SEP] The latter reduces aerobic endurance performance and results in increased body temperature, heart rate, perceived exertion, and possibly increased reliance on carbohydrate as a fuel source. Hypohydration reduces aerobic endurance, but its effects on muscle strength and endurance are not consistent and require further study. Moderate exercise has been associated with a 29% decreased incidence of upper respiratory tract infections (URTI), but studies of marathon runners found that their prolonged high-intensity exercise was associated with an increased risk of infection occurrence. Athletes may have a slightly elevated natural killer cell count and cytolytic action, but these are unlikely to be clinically significant.Vitamin C supplementation has been associated with a lower incidence of upper respiratory tract infections in marathon runners.Biomarkers of inflammation such as C-reactive protein, which are associated with chronic diseases, are reduced in active individuals relative to sedentary individuals, and the positive effects of exercise may be due to its anti-inflammatory effects. Symptoms can be exacerbated by dehydration or by pre-exercise ingestion of certain foods and hypertonic liquids, and lessened by adequate training.Ingestion of 800 mg of cimetidine two hours before running a marathon did not significantly affect the frequency of gastrointestinal symptoms or occult gastrointestinal bleeding. Conversely, 800 mg of cimetidine 1 hr before the start and again at 50 miles of a 100-mile running race substantially decreased GI symptoms and post-race guaiac test positivity but did not affect race performance. You want to see pills? That is not a stimulant, just a strengthener. 
Does the pill affect the muscle strength of women?? [SEP] It tends to affect more women than men. These compounds which are related to the hormone testosterone, can quickly build mass and strength, but have many adverse effects such as high blood pressure and negative gender specific effects. Birth control pills also appear to decrease the risk of ACL injury. Ongoing research has observed a greater occurrence of ACL injuries in females during ovulation and fewer injuries during the follicular and luteal phases of the menstrual cycle.Study results have shown that female collegiate athletes with concentration levels of relaxin that are greater than 6.0 pg/mL are at four times higher risk of an ACL tear than those with lower concentrations.Additionally, female pelvises widen during puberty through the influence of sex hormones. ACL, muscular stiffness, and strength
During puberty, sex hormones also affect the remodeled shape of soft tissues throughout the body. According to a study undertaken on female athletes at the University of Michigan, 31% of female athletes recruited the quadriceps femoris muscle first as compared to 17% in males. Changing levels of estrogen and progesterone across the menstrual cycle exert systemic effects on aspects of physiology including the brain, metabolism, and musculoskeletal system. The result can be subtle physiological and observable changes to women's athletic performance including strength, aerobic, and anaerobic performance.Changes to the brain have also been observed throughout the menstrual cycle but do not translate into measurable changes in intellectual achievement – including academic performance, problem-solving, memory, and creativity. 
Does whole-body cryotherapy in the cold chamber improve health? [SEP] Cryotherapy decreases the temperature of tissue surface to minimize hypoxic cell death, edema accumulation, and muscle spasms, all of which ultimately alleviate discomfort and inflammation. Main uses
Proponents say that cryotherapy may reduce pain and inflammation, help with mental disorders, support exercise recovery performance and improves joint function. Whole body cryotherapy
An increasing amount of research is done on the effects of whole-body cryotherapy (WBC) on exercise, beauty, and health. The FDA points out that the effects of Whole Body Cryotherapy lacks evidence and should be researched more.Cryotherapy treatment involves exposing individuals to extremely cold dry air (below −100 °C) for two to four minutes. Cryotherapy decreases the temperature of tissue surface to minimize hypoxic cell death, edema accumulation, and muscle spasms, all of which ultimately alleviate discomfort and inflammation. Main uses
Proponents say that cryotherapy may reduce pain and inflammation, help with mental disorders, support exercise recovery performance and improves joint function. Whole body cryotherapy
An increasing amount of research is done on the effects of whole-body cryotherapy (WBC) on exercise, beauty, and health. The FDA points out that the effects of Whole Body Cryotherapy lacks evidence and should be researched more.Cryotherapy treatment involves exposing individuals to extremely cold dry air (below −100 °C) for two to four minutes. 
Does transcranial pulse stimulation (TPS) improve mental performance in people with Alzheimer's dementia? Can the treatment improve the quality of life of those affected? [SEP] Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a noninvasive form of brain stimulation in which a changing magnetic field is used to induce an electric current at a specific area of the brain through electromagnetic induction. TMS stimulates cortical tissue without the pain sensations produced in transcranial electrical stimulation. This led to a backlash in the 1970s.In 1980 Merton and Morton successfully used transcranial electrical stimulation (TES) to stimulate the motor cortex. Research
TMS has shown potential therapeutic effect on neurologic conditions such as Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, persistent vegetative states, epilepsy, stroke related disability, tinnitus, multiple sclerosis, schizophrenia, and traumatic brain injury.With Parkinson's disease, early results suggest that low frequency stimulation may have an effect on medication associated dyskinesia, and that high frequency stimulation improves motor function. It can be contrasted with cranial electrotherapy stimulation, which generally uses alternating current the same way, as well as transcranial magnetic stimulation.Research shows increasing evidence for tDCS as a treatment for depression. There is evidence of very low to moderate quality that tDCS can improve activities of daily living assessment after stroke but further research is needed to evaluate how long this effect is sustained.Transcranial direct-current stimulaiton is also used to augment speech therapy in patients with acquired language disorders like aphasia, or to help maintain language abilities in the case of primary progressive aphasia, a neurodegenerative condition. The lasting modulation of cortical excitability produced by tDCS makes it an effective solution to facilitate rehabilitation and treat a range of neuropsychiatric disorders. Research conducted as of 2013 suggests that tDCS may be effective for improve vision deficits following stroke.Motor Learning and Memory Function
There is evidence that certain tDCS montages can increase learning rates for particular tasks in healthy individuals, namely motor tasks and memory function. 
Can low-level laser therapy reduce pain from knee or hip osteoarthritis? [SEP] Physical measures
Moderate exercise may be beneficial with respect to pain and function in those with osteoarthritis of the knee and hip. Other surgical options
Osteotomy may be useful in people with knee osteoarthritis, but has not been well studied and it is unclear whether it is more effective than non-surgical treatments or other types of surgery. A Cochrane review of low-level laser therapy found unclear evidence of benefit, whereas another review found short-term pain relief for osteoarthritic knees.Further research is needed to determine if balnotherapy for osteoarthritis (mineral baths or spa treatments) improves a person's quality of life or ability to function. It is safe treatment to relieve pain and improve physical function in patients with knee osteoarthritis.Continuous and pulsed ultrasound modes (especially 1 MHz, 2.5 W/cm2, 15min/ session, 3 session/ week, during 8 weeks protocol) can be effective in improving patients physical function and pain.There is weak evidence suggesting that electromagnetic field treatment may result in moderate pain relief; however, further research is necessary and it is not known if electromagnetic field treatment can improve quality of life or function.Viscosupplementation for osteoarthritis of the knee may have positive effects on pain and function at 5 to 13 weeks post-injection. Light therapy
Research has not found evidence that light therapy such as low level laser therapy is an  effective therapy for relieving low back pain. Intra-articular ozone therapy
Intra-articular ozone therapy has been seen to efficiently alleviate chronic pain in patients with knee osteoarthritis. Studies showing beneficial effects in RA on a wide variety of CAM modalities are often affected by publication bias and are generally not high quality evidence such as randomized controlled trials (RCTs).A 2005 Cochrane review states that low level laser therapy can be tried to improve pain and morning stiffness due to rheumatoid arthritis as there are few side-effects.There is limited evidence that Tai Chi might improve the range of motion of a joint in persons with rheumatoid arthritis. Alternative medicine
Further research is required to determine if transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) for knee osteoarthritis is effective for controlling pain.Low level laser therapy may be considered for relief of pain and stiffness associated with arthritis. 
Can low-level laser therapy reduce wrist osteoarthritis pain? [SEP] Weak evidence supports the use of wax baths (thermotherapy) to treat arthritis in the hands.Educational approaches that inform people about tools and strategies available to help them cope with rheumatoid arthritis may improve a person's psychological status and level of depression in the shorter-term. Studies showing beneficial effects in RA on a wide variety of CAM modalities are often affected by publication bias and are generally not high quality evidence such as randomized controlled trials (RCTs).A 2005 Cochrane review states that low level laser therapy can be tried to improve pain and morning stiffness due to rheumatoid arthritis as there are few side-effects.There is limited evidence that Tai Chi might improve the range of motion of a joint in persons with rheumatoid arthritis. Low-quality evidence suggests the use of therapeutic ultrasound on arthritic hands. Acupuncture‐like TENS (AL-TENS) may decrease pain intensity and improve muscle power scores.Low-quality evidence suggests people with active RA may benefit from assistive technology. Gamma-linolenic acid, an omega-6 fatty acid, may reduce pain, tender joint count and stiffness, and is generally safe. Physical therapy
In general, studies have shown that physical exercise of the affected joint can noticeably improve long-term pain relief. Alternative medicine
Further research is required to determine if transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) for knee osteoarthritis is effective for controlling pain.Low level laser therapy may be considered for relief of pain and stiffness associated with arthritis. Other treatments
A review found tentative evidence of benefit of low level laser therapy and concluded that it could be considered for relief of pain and stiffness associated RA.Photochemotherapy with methoxy psoralen and long-wave ultraviolet light (PUVA therapy) are used for severe skin lesions. 
Does blood type affect the likelihood that Covid 19 disease will take a severe course or lead to death? [SEP] Blood vessel dysfunction and clot formation (as suggested by high D-dimer levels caused by blood clots) may have a significant role in mortality, incidents of clots leading to pulmonary embolisms, and ischaemic events (strokes) within the brain found as complications leading to death in people infected with COVID‑19. On the other hand, COVID-19 infection may cause increased rates of unfavourable outcomes in the course of the pregnancy. Treatment
Prognosis and risk factors
The severity of COVID‑19 varies. An analysis of those IFR rates indicates that COVID‑19 is hazardous not only for the elderly but also for middle-aged adults, for whom the infection fatality rate of COVID-19 is two orders of magnitude greater than the annualised risk of a fatal automobile accident and far more dangerous than seasonal influenza. Ethnic differences
In the US, a greater proportion of deaths due to COVID‑19 have occurred among African Americans and other minority groups. In the UK, a greater proportion of deaths due to COVID‑19 have occurred in those of a Black, Asian, and other ethnic minority background. Comorbidities
Biological factors (immune response) and the general behaviour (habits) can strongly determine the consequences of COVID‑19. Most of those who die of COVID‑19 have pre-existing (underlying) conditions, including hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and cardiovascular disease. 
Do mouth rinses with hydroxyapatite, for example the products "Linola sept mouth rinse" and "Karex Abwehr", protect against SARS-CoV-2 infection? [SEP] Hydroxyapatite is the main mineral component of enamel in teeth. Nano-hydroxylapatite was proven to be better than other treatments at reducing sensitivity against evaporative stimuli, such as an air blast, and tactile stimuli, such as tapping the tooth with a dental instrument. Hydroxylapatite has shown significant medium and long-term desensitizing effects on dentine hypersensitivity using evaporative stimuli and the visual analogue scale (alongside potassium nitrate, arginine, glutaraldehyde with hydroxyethyl methacrylate, hydroxylapatite, adhesive systems, glass ionomer cements and laser). Caries prevention
Nano-hydroxylapatite possesses a remineralising effect on teeth and can be used to prevent damage from carious attacks. In the event of an acid attack by cariogenic bacteria, nano-hydroxylapatite particles can infiltrate pores on the tooth surface to form a protective layer. As a dental material
Hydroxylapatite is widely used within dentistry and oral and maxillofacial surgery, due to its chemical similarity to hard tissue.In some toothpaste hydroxylapatite can be found in the form of nanocrystals (as these are easily dissolved). In recent years, hydroxylapatite nanocrystals (nHA) have been used in toothpaste to combat dental hypersensitivity. In various studies the use of nano hydroxylapatite in toothpaste showed positive results in aiding the remineralisation of dental enamel.Synthetic hydroxylapatite (SHA) is proven to provide successful outcomes in alveolar socket preservation. 
Does CBD (cannabidiol) relieve symptoms of mild to moderate covid-19 disease? [SEP] CBD may show antipsychotic and neuroprotective properties, acting as an antagonist to some of the effects of THC. Research has suggested that CBD can safely reduce some symptoms of psychosis in general.A 2014 review examined psychological therapy as add-on for people with schizophrenia who are using cannabis:

Transient psychosis
As of 2017 there was clear evidence that long-term use of cannabis increases the risk of psychosis, regardless of confounding factors, and particularly for people who have genetic risk factors, but see previous section. Some studies indicate that the effects of two active compounds in cannabis, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD), have opposite effects with respect to psychosis. While THC can induce psychotic symptoms in healthy individuals, limited evidence suggests that CBD may have antipsychotic effects. Oral CBD has not shown efficacy in reducing the signs or symptoms of cannabis use, and likely has no benefit in cannabis use withdrawal symptoms. Comparative studies have found cannabinoids to be more effective than some conventional antiemetics such as prochlorperazine, promethazine, and metoclopramide in controlling CINV, but these are used less frequently because of side effects including dizziness, dysphoria, and hallucinations. Mental disorders
A 2019 systematic review found that there is a lack of evidence that cannabinoids are effective in treating depressive or anxiety disorders, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), Tourette syndrome, post-traumatic stress disorder, or psychosis. A 2022 review concluded that "oral, synthetic cannabis products with high THC-to-CBD ratios and sublingual, extracted cannabis products with comparable THC-to-CBD ratios may be associated with short-term improvements in chronic pain and increased risk for dizziness and sedation." 
Does CBD or cannabis use protect against covid-19 disease??? [SEP] However, this is disputed by researchers.A 2015 review found that the use of high CBD-to-THC strains of cannabis showed significantly fewer positive symptoms, such as delusions and hallucinations, better cognitive function and both lower risk for developing psychosis, as well as a later age of onset of the illness, compared to cannabis with low CBD-to-THC ratios. Although some assert that cannabidiol (CBD), another cannabinoid found in cannabis in varying amounts, may alleviate the adverse effects of THC that some users experience, little is known about CBD effects on humans. Cannabidiol
Cannabidiol (CBD) is a non-psychoactive cannabinoid extracted from the cannabis plant. Research has suggested that CBD can safely reduce some symptoms of psychosis in general.A 2014 review examined psychological therapy as add-on for people with schizophrenia who are using cannabis:

Transient psychosis
As of 2017 there was clear evidence that long-term use of cannabis increases the risk of psychosis, regardless of confounding factors, and particularly for people who have genetic risk factors, but see previous section. A claim that cannabis could protect against the coronavirus appeared on YouTube, along with a petition to legalize cannabis in Sri Lanka. Sri Lankan Health authorities pointed out that there was no evidence that cannabis protected against COVID-19. Herbs and spices
Garlic was said to prevent COVID-19 on Facebook. In particular, dedicated studies show that CBD is able to inhibit the lipogenic action of several substances that can be found in cell tissues, reduce the proliferation of sebocytes, and have an anti-inflammatory effect on cells affected by acne. 
Do sedatives and sleeping pills such as benzodiazepines and related substances increase the risk of Alzheimer's disease or other forms of dementia? [SEP] Nonbenzodiazepines such as zaleplon and zolpidem and low doses of sedating antidepressants are sometimes used as alternatives to benzodiazepines.Long-term use of benzodiazepines is associated with increased risk of cognitive impairment and dementia, and reduction in prescribing levels is likely to reduce dementia risk. The association of a history of benzodiazepine use and cognitive decline is unclear, with some studies reporting a lower risk of cognitive decline in former users, some finding no association and some indicating an increased risk of cognitive decline.Benzodiazepines are sometimes prescribed to treat behavioral symptoms of dementia. Cognitive impairing effects of benzodiazepines that occur frequently in the elderly can also worsen dementia. This meta-analysis found that long-term use of benzodiazepines was associated with moderate to large adverse effects on all areas of cognition, with visuospatial memory being the most commonly detected impairment. Controversial associations
Beyond the well established link between benzodiazepines and psychomotor impairment resulting in motor vehicle accidents and falls leading to fracture; research in the 2000s and 2010s has raised the association between benzodiazepines (and Z-drugs) and other, as of yet unproven, adverse effects including dementia, cancer, infections, pancreatitis and respiratory disease exacerbations. Dementia
A number of studies have drawn an association between long-term benzodiazepine use and neuro-degenerative disease, particularly Alzheimer's disease. It has been determined that long-term use of benzodiazepines is associated with increased dementia risk, even after controlling for protopathic bias. Benzodiazepines, while inducing unconsciousness, actually worsen sleep as – like alcohol – they promote light sleep while decreasing time spent in deep sleep. 
Does taking polyunsaturated fatty acids, such as omega-3 and omega-6, reduce ADHD symptoms in children? [SEP] Developmental disabilities
One meta-analysis concluded that omega−3 fatty acid supplementation demonstrated a modest effect for improving ADHD symptoms. A Cochrane review of PUFA (not necessarily omega−3) supplementation found "there is little evidence that PUFA supplementation provides any benefit for the symptoms of ADHD in children and adolescents", while a different review found "insufficient evidence to draw any conclusion about the use of PUFAs for children with specific learning disorders". Another review concluded that the evidence is inconclusive for the use of omega−3 fatty acids in behavior and non-neurodegenerative neuropsychiatric disorders such as ADHD and depression.A 2015 meta-analysis of the effect of omega−3 supplementation during pregnancy did not demonstrate a decrease in the rate of preterm birth or improve outcomes in women with singleton pregnancies with no prior preterm births. A 2020 review suggested that omega 3 supplementation has no effect on global cognitive function but has a mild benefit in improving memory in non-demented adults.A 2022 review found promising evidence for prevention of cognitive decline in people who regularly eat long-chain omega 3 rich foods. Asthma
As of 2015, there was no evidence that taking omega−3 supplements can prevent asthma attacks in children. Omega-3 fatty acids – There is no evidence that supplementation with omega-3 or other polyunsaturated fatty acids provides any improvement in the symptoms of ADHD in children or adolescents. Essential Fatty Acids
There is insufficient evidence to determine that omega-3 fatty acid has any effect on depression. Another review finds that omega-3 fatty acids and vitamin D are among the nutritional factors known to have a beneficial effect on mental health. 
Do infusions of vitamin C relieve symptoms of chronic fatigue or long covid? [SEP] Dietary fiber interventions, such as psyillium supplementation (a mixture of soluble and insoluble fibers), may relieve symptoms as well as induce/maintain remission by altering the microbiome composition of the GI tract, thereby improving regulation of immune function, reducing inflammation, and helping to restore the intestinal mucosal lining.Anaemia is commonly present in both ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. Hepcidin itself is also an anti-inflammatory agent. The best supportive evidence was found for herbal therapy, with Plantago ovata and curcumin in UC maintenance therapy, wormwood in CD, mind/body therapy and self-intervention in UC, and acupuncture in UC and CD. The current approaches for DC-based vaccination are mainly based on antigen loading on in vitro-generated DCs from monocytes or CD34+ cells, activating them with different TLR ligands, cytokine combinations, and injecting them back to the patients. Future approach may target DC subsets based on their specifically expressed C-type lectin receptors or chemokine receptors. The therapy has been tested against Hepatitis C, Chronic fatigue syndrome and HHV6 infection. It has been observed in a preclinical trial that regulation of the immune system by small immunosuppressive molecules such as Vitamin D, Dexamethasone, and Curcumin administered under a low-dose regimen and subcutaneously, could be helpful in preventing or treating chronic inflammation. The fatigue often sets in during the middle of a course of treatment and can last for weeks after treatment ends. 
Does taking probiotics shorten the duration of acute infectious diarrhea? [SEP] Diarrhea
Some probiotics are suggested as a possible treatment for various forms of gastroenteritis. As a treatment for infectious diarrhea probiotics are of no benefit to people who have the condition for more than two days, and there is no evidence they lessen the duration of diarrhea overall. Necrotizing enterocolitis
Several clinical studies provide evidence for the potential of probiotics to lower the risk of necrotizing enterocolitis and mortality in premature infants. The BRAT diet (bananas, rice, applesauce, toast and tea) is no longer recommended, as it contains insufficient nutrients and has no benefit over normal feeding.A Cochrane Review from 2020 concludes that probiotics make little or no difference to people who have diarrhea lasting 2 days or longer and that there is no proof that they reduce its duration. Others
Probiotics decrease the risk of diarrhea in those taking antibiotics. A Cochrane Review from 2020 concludes that probiotics make little or no difference to people who have diarrhoea lasting 2 days or longer and that there is no proof that they reduce its duration. The probiotic lactobacillus can help prevent antibiotic-associated diarrhea in adults but possibly not children. Subsequent reviews, however, did not find an increase in adverse effects with treatment, and overall treatment appears safe and moderately effective in preventing Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea.One study in particular found that there does appear to be a "protective effect" of probiotics, specifically reducing the risk of antibiotic-associated diarrhea (AAD) by 51% in 3,631 outpatients, but it is important to note that the types of infections in the subjects were not specified. 
Does high-dose vitamin D slow down the course of disease in multiple sclerosis (MS)? [SEP] Treatments of unproven benefit used by people with MS include dietary supplementation and regimens, vitamin D, relaxation techniques such as yoga, herbal medicine (including medical cannabis), hyperbaric oxygen therapy, self-infection with hookworms, reflexology, acupuncture, and mindfulness. Evidence suggests vitamin D supplementation, irrespective of the form and dose, provides no benefit for people with MS; this includes for measures such as relapse recurrence, disability, and MRI lesions while effects on health‐related quality of life and fatigue are unclear. Prognosis
The availability of treatments that modify the course of multiple sclerosis beginning in the 1990s, known as disease-modifying therapies (DMTs), has improved prognosis. A 60-year longitudinal population study conducted in Norway found a 7-year shorter life expectancy in MS compared with the general population and a rise in survival in MS during the observation period. through Ocrelizumab therapy, the course of multiple sclerosis symptoms will be improved. Vitamin D levels have also been correlated with MS; lower levels of vitamin D correspond to an increased risk of MS, suggesting a reduced prevalence in the tropics – an area with more Vitamin D-rich sunlight – strengthening the impact of geographical location on MS development. Multiple Sclerosis
Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is a demyelinating neurodegenerative disease that does not have a confirmed cause, but is widely considered to be an autoimmune disease in nature. There is limited evidence that vitamin D supplementation is of value in alleviating the symptoms of depression in individuals who are vitamin D-deficient. 
Does taking taiga root extract strengthen the immune system? Can it make vaccinations more effective or tolerable? [SEP] Immunostimulation
Claims made by marketers of various products and alternative health providers, such as chiropractors, homeopaths, and acupuncturists to be able to stimulate or "boost" the immune system generally lack meaningful explanation and evidence of effectiveness. The principle behind vaccination (also called immunization) is to introduce an antigen from a pathogen to stimulate the immune system and develop specific immunity against that particular pathogen without causing disease associated with that organism. With infectious disease remaining one of the leading causes of death in the human population, vaccination represents the most effective manipulation of the immune system mankind has developed.Many vaccines are based on acellular components of micro-organisms, including harmless toxin components. Immunization (commonly referred to as vaccination) is the deliberate induction of an immune response, and represents the single most effective manipulation of the immune system that scientists have developed. Vaccination is the administration of a vaccine to help the immune system develop immunity from a disease. Vaccines given after exposure to smallpox are reported to offer some protection from disease or may reduce the severity of disease. It is widely accepted that the benefits of preventing serious illness and death from infectious diseases greatly outweigh the risks of rare serious adverse effects following immunization. Costs and benefits
On the whole, vaccinations induce a net benefit to society. 
Can ozone therapy, in which autologous blood is treated with ozone and recycled, favorably influence the course of COVID-19 disease? [SEP] Ozone therapy is an alternative medical treatment that introduces ozone or ozonides to the body. Ozone can also be introduced via autohemotherapy, in which blood is drawn from the patient, exposed to ozone and re-injected into the patient.This therapy has been proposed as a primary or adjunct therapy for various diseases, including osteoarthritis, herniated disk, chronic wounds, hepatitis B and C, herpes zoster, HIV-AIDS, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, Alzheimer's dementia, and Lyme disease, though supportive evidence for some of these applications is limited. For treatment of HIV/AIDS, although ozone deactivates the viral particles outside the body, well-designed studies have shown there is no benefit for living patients.The United States Food and Drug Administration initially stated in 1976, and reiterated its position in 2006, that when inhaled, ozone is a toxic gas which has no demonstrated safe medical application, though their position statements primarily deal with its potential for causing inflammation and pulmonary edema in the lungs. Proponents suggest that its effects are tissue dependent, though the subject is still debated.Other serious incidents reported include transmission of hepatitis C, and one case of a heart attack following some hours after autohemotherapy.Ozone-based treatments can be associated with central nervous system toxicity, termed Ozone Induced Encephalopathy (OIE). Forms include platelet-rich plasma (PRP), and autologous conditioned serum (ACS).It is possible that ozonated or UV autohemotherapy may have real efficacy and effectiveness in autoimmune diseases, if they are immunomodulatory in some way (such as by interfering with the deranged autoantibodies), but this mechanism of action, if it exists, is not yet well understood; it is also logical that whatever molecular changes the ozone and UV bring about are unlikely to act specifically on just the desired target molecules, meaning that risks are involved. One study finds significant positive associations between chronic ozone and all-cause, circulatory, and respiratory mortality with 2%, 3%, and 12% increases in risk per 10 ppb and report an association (95% CI) of annual ozone and all-cause mortality with a hazard ratio of 1.02 (1.01–1.04), and with cardiovascular mortality of 1.03 (1.01–1.05). Moreover, it is believed that the powerful oxidizing properties of ozone may be a contributing factor of inflammation. The rooms are cleaned and then sealed airtight before being filled with ozone which effectively kills or neutralizes all remaining bacteria.Ozone is used as an alternative to chlorine or chlorine dioxide in the bleaching of wood pulp. 
Does dimenhydrinate relieve travel nausea better than a placebo? [SEP] Nausea
Diphenhydramine also has antiemetic properties, which make it useful in treating the nausea that occurs in vertigo and motion sickness. This use is without indication and topical diphenhydramine should not be used as treatment for nausea because research has not shown that this therapy is more effective than others.There were no documented cases of clinically apparent acute liver injury caused by normal doses of diphenhydramine. It appears to be superior to placebo for behavioural disturbances associated with dementia. Its absorption does not increase when taken with food, but doing so can help prevent nausea. Generalized anxiety disorder
Duloxetine is more effective than placebo in the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). A 2013 meta-analysis concluded that duloxetine decreased incontinence episodes more than placebo with people about 56% more likely than placebo to experience a 50% decrease in episodes. It is used in the treatment of itchiness, insomnia, anxiety, and nausea, including that due to motion sickness. Limited evidence from published clinical trials suggests the use of medications to treat hyperemesis gravidarum.While pyridoxine/doxylamine, a combination of vitamin B6 and doxylamine, is effective in nausea and vomiting of pregnancy, some have questioned its effectiveness in HG.Ondansetron may be beneficial, however, there are some concerns regarding an association with cleft palate, and there is little high-quality data. 
Does dimenhydrinate relieve travel nausea as well as the proven drug scopolamine??? [SEP] Scopolamine, also known as hyoscine, or Devil's Breath, is a natural or synthetically produced tropane alkaloid and anticholinergic drug that is used as a medication to treat motion sickness and postoperative nausea and vomiting. Such drugs taken to relieve typical symptoms of motion sickness (including nausea, dizziness, etc.) Additionally, scopolamine has also proven to be clinically effective for palliatively treating more obscure forms of motion sickness, such as the poorly understood Sopite Syndrome; which can change mood, cognitive functions and a sufferer's overall sense of well-being in a more profound way than the stereotypical symptoms of motion sickness like nausea and vertigo. Anticholinergics such as scopolamine, despite showing effectiveness against the more uncomfortable, nauseating and disorienting aspects of motion sickness disorders, it may still induce its own form of drowsiness, or type of intoxicating narcotic-like sedation, rather than that of the true pathological fatigue associated with the syndrome itself. Motion sickness (with stimulants)
Scopolamine has been studied extensively for treatment of motion sickness, including atypical forms such as Sopite syndrome. With a precise dosage, the NASA spray formulation has been shown to work faster and more reliably than the oral form to treat motion sickness.Although certain pharmacological agents such as stimulant drugs could pose theoretical contraindications due to their possible physiological potentiation or synergism in regards to cardiovascular stress when paired with scopolamine, stimulants in combination with scopolamine have still been safely studied and even shown effective for combating symptoms of severe motion sickness. The combination of scopolamine and d-amphetamine is reportedly the most effective in preventing the symptoms of severe motion sickness, but due to the abuse potential of amphetamine; it is not usually included or suggested in the medical literature. A 2016 study published in the journal of CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics tested scopolamine at different doses in combination with d-amphetamine, modafinil, and caffeine for motion sickness. 
Does short-term fasting improve quality of life in cancer? [SEP] Evidence suggests that exercise may positively affect the quality of life in cancer survivors, including factors such as anxiety, self-esteem and emotional well-being. For people with cancer undergoing active treatment, exercise may also have positive effects on health-related quality of life, such as fatigue and physical functioning. Fasting and intermittent fasting – not eating or drinking for a period – a practice which has been claimed by some alternative medicine practitioners to help fight cancer, perhaps by "starving" tumors. However, according to the American Cancer Society, "available scientific evidence does not support claims that fasting is effective for preventing or treating cancer in humans". According to the American Cancer Society, "available scientific evidence does not support claims that faith healing can actually cure physical ailments". According to the American Cancer Society while meditation "may help to improve the quality of life for people with cancer", "available scientific evidence does not suggest that meditation is effective in treating cancer or any other disease." Although it may cause a temporary reduction in tumor size for some patients, there is no evidence that it improves survival time or any other main outcomes. There is low-certainty evidence that peri-operative care approaches, such as 'fast-track surgery' or 'enhanced recovery programmes' may lower surgical stress and improve recovery after gynaecological cancer surgery.Microinvasive cancer (stage IA) may be treated by hysterectomy (removal of the whole uterus including part of the vagina). 
Does short-term fasting reduce the side effects of chemotherapy for cancer??? [SEP] Research suggests that in children and young people undergoing cancer treatment, parenteral nutrition may help with this leading to weight gain and increased calorie and protein intake, when compared to enteral nutrition. Alternate-day fasting does not affect lean body mass, although one review found a small decrease.Alternate-day fasting improves cardiovascular and metabolic biomarkers similarly to a calorie restriction diet in people who are overweight, obese or have metabolic syndrome. Other effects
Intermittent fasting is not recommended to treat cancer in France, the United Kingdom, or the United States, although a few small-scale clinical studies suggest that it may reduce chemotherapy side effects. Side effects
Reviews of preliminary clinical studies found that short-term intermittent fasting may produce minor side effects, such as continuous feelings of hunger, irritability, dizziness, nausea, headaches, and impaired thinking, although these effects disappear within a month from beginning the fasting practice. Intermittent fasting in poultry appears to increase food consumption but reduce appetitive behaviors such as foraging. A review of the metabolic effects of fasting showed that religious fasting proved to be beneficial in terms of "body weight and glycemia, cardiometabolic risk markers, and oxidative stress parameters", where animals, in the study, that followed a diet regimen consistent with that of religious fasting, were observed to have weight loss in addition to "lowered plasma levels of glucose, triacylglycerols, and insulin growth factor-1". Fasting and intermittent fasting – not eating or drinking for a period – a practice which has been claimed by some alternative medicine practitioners to help fight cancer, perhaps by "starving" tumors. However, according to the American Cancer Society, "available scientific evidence does not support claims that fasting is effective for preventing or treating cancer in humans". 
Are extracts of Artemisa annua (annual mugwort) or the active ingredient artemisinin obtained from it effective against coronavirus? [SEP] Species
Species in the genus Artemisia called mugwort include:

Artemisia absinthium L. — wormwood, traditionally used in the production of Absinthe. — Oriental mugwort
Artemisia japonica Thunb. — white mugwort
Artemisia norvegica Fr. — Norwegian mugwort
Artemisia princeps Pamp. — hoary mugwort
Artemisia verlotiorum Lamotte — Chinese mugwort
Artemisia vulgaris L. — common mugwort, used as a culinary herb and medicinally throughout the world

Uses
Mugwort has seen continuous use in many cultures throughout the world as a medicinal, spiritual, and culinary ingredient since at least the Iron Age. The mugwort plant has been used as an anthelminthic, so it is sometimes confused with wormwood (Artemisia absinthium). Mugwort (Artemisia vulgaris), or common wormwood, is a medicinal and culinary herb native to Eurasia and northern Africa. Mugwort may also refer to:

Plants in the genus Artemisia
Artemisia absinthium, – mugwort, wormwood 
Artemisia annua – annual mugwort
Artemisia argyi - Chinese mugwort, used in traditional Chinese medicine
Artemisia douglasiana – Douglas mugwort, native to western North America
Artemisia glacialis – alpine mugwort
Artemisia indica - Japanese mugwort
Artemisia japonica - Oriental mugwort
Artemisia ludoviciana - western mugwort, native to North America
Artemisia norvegica – Norwegian mugwort
Artemisia princeps – Japanese mugwort ("yomogi"), Korean mugwort ("ssuk"), used as a culinary herb and in traditional Chinese medicine. 
Can zinc mitigate the progression of Covid-19? [SEP] Background
Outbreaks of novel emerging infections such as COVID-19 pose unique challenges to discover treatments appropriate for clinical use, given the small amount of time available for drug discovery. It has been studied to see if it can improve the prognosis for patients with COVID-19 pneumonia and systemic hyperinflammation. In December 2020, scientists reported that the antiviral drug molnupiravir developed for the treatment of influenza can completely suppress SARS-CoV-2 transmission within 24 hours in ferrets whose COVID-19 transmission they find to closely resemble SARS-CoV-2 spread in human young-adult populations. A clinical trial, which has not as of 1 October 2021 been peer reviewed, suggests molnupiravir taken orally can reduce the risk of hospitalization and prevent death in patients diagnosed with COVID-19. Vitamin D
During the COVID-19 pandemic, there has been interest in vitamin D status and supplements, given the significant overlap in the risk factors for severe COVID-19 and vitamin D deficiency. Minerals
Zinc
The National Institutes of Health (NIH) COVID-19 Treatment Guidelines states "there is insufficient evidence to recommend either for or against the use of zinc for the treatment of COVID-19" and that "the Panel recommends against using zinc supplementation above the recommended dietary allowance for the prevention of COVID-19, except in a clinical trial (BIII)." Cimetidine has been suggested as a treatment for COVID-19. Therapeutics and COVID-19: living guideline, 24 September 2021 (Report). 
Does zinc preventively protect against covid-19 disease??? [SEP] "During March through July 2020, vitamin C was the subject of more US FDA warning letters than any other ingredient for prevention and/or treatment of COVID-19.As of April 2021, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) COVID-19 Treatment Guidelines stated that "there are insufficient data to recommend either for or against the use of vitamin C for the prevention or treatment of COVID-19." Zinc supplementation in children 2 months to five years old appears to reduce rates of pneumonia.For people with low levels of vitamin C in their diet or blood, taking vitamin C supplements may be suggested to decrease the risk of pneumonia, although there is no strong evidence of benefit. Over-the-counter cough medicine has not been found to be effective, nor has the use of zinc supplementation in children. Important nutritional measures include the promotion of breastfeeding and zinc supplementation. Health interventions
Global interventions for improved child health and survival include the promotion of breastfeeding, zinc supplementation, vitamin A fortification, salt iodization, hygiene interventions such as hand-washing, vaccinations, and treatments of severe acute malnutrition. 0.03%), there is moderate substantivity, broad spectrum anti-bacterial action, some anti-fungal action, and significant anti-plaque effect, especially when combined with a copolymer or zinc citrate. Zinc
Astringents like zinc chloride provide a pleasant-tasting sensation and shrink tissues. Zinc, when used in combination with other antiseptic agents, can limit the buildup of tartar. 
Does a cold spray with trypsin protect against colds or covid-19? Does the spray reduce symptoms and duration of illness? [SEP] A trypsin inhibitor (TI) is a protein and a type of serine protease inhibitor (serpin) that reduces the biological activity of trypsin by controlling the activation and catalytic reactions of proteins. Function
Trypsin inhibitor is present in various foods such as soybeans, grains, cereals and various additional legumes. The main function of trypsin inhibitors in these foods is to act as a defense mechanism. Trypsin inhibitor can also be essential for biological processes within the plant. Applications in commercial industries
The most prominent application of trypsin inhibitor is livestock feed. Soybeans are a popular ingredient in livestock feed therefore trypsin inhibitor can be a concern due to the presence of it in soybeans. References
External links
Trypsin+Inhibitor,+Kunitz+Soybean at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)
Rawlings ND, Morton FR, Kok CY, Kong J, Barrett AJ. Therapeutics and COVID-19: living guideline, 14 January 2022 (Report). 
Does injecting low-dose Corona vaccine into the skin (mesotherapy vaccination, microvaccination) protect against Covid-19 as well as proven full-dose vaccination into muscle? [SEP] A COVID‑19 vaccine is a vaccine intended to provide acquired immunity against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), the virus that causes coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID‑19). COVID-19 vaccines may protect against myocarditis due to subsequent COVID-19 infection. CoronaVac, also known as the Sinovac COVID-19 vaccine, is a whole inactivated virus COVID-19 vaccine developed by the Chinese company Sinovac Biotech. As of July 2021, CoronaVac was the most widely used COVID-19 vaccine in the world, with 943 million doses delivered.As of October 14, 2021, CoronaVac is the COVID-19 vaccine with the most doses administered worldwide.It was reported in December, 2021, that a study jointly conducted by the LKS Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong (HKUMed), and the Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CU Medicine), showed that a third dose of the Comirnaty vaccine given to those who received two doses of either Comirnaty or CoronaVac provides protective levels of measured antibodies against the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2. Three doses of CoronaVac, however, did not provide adequate levels of protective antibodies by the same measure, in direct contradiction to claims made by the vaccine manufacturer.In October 2022, a Hong Kong study found that two doses of CoronaVac gave a protection of only 64% to 75% for older adults. The effectiveness of CoronaVac vaccine after the second dose was 66% (95% CI, 65–67%) in preventing symptomatic disease, 88% (87–88%) for hospitalization, 90% (89–91%) for ICU admission, and 86% (85–88%) in preventing COVID-19 related deaths. The greatest increases were seen with a heterologous Oxford–AstraZeneca vaccine booster, resulting in 96% effectiveness against hospitalization and 93% against symptomatic disease.A study by the University of Hong Kong in December 2021 found that a third dose of CoronaVac does not provide sufficient protection against the Omicron variant, directly contradicting the vaccine manufacturer's claim and a study by the Pontifical Catholic University of Chile that it does.In April 2022, a Singapore study by infectious diseases experts from the National Centre for Infectious Diseases and the Ministry of Health found that CoronaVac recipients were 4.59 times more likely to have severe COVID-19 as well as 2.37 times more likely to be infected, compared to those who took the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. In the vaccine group (N=4953), there were 85 COVID cases, 5 cases requiring medical attention, and no severe cases or deaths.On 1 April 2021, a preliminary report from a phase III clinical trial in Chile revealed that CoronaVac is safe and induces humoral and cell-mediated immunity in adults (18–59 years old) and the elderly (60 years or older) similar to previous phase II trials conducted in China with the same age groups and immunization schedule consisting of two doses with a 14-day interval. 
Do herbal remedies with nasturtium and horseradish (Kren) prevent recurrent cystitis? [SEP] Few studies are available on the safety of herbs for pregnant women, and one study found that use of complementary and alternative medicines are associated with a 30% lower ongoing pregnancy and live birth rate during fertility treatment.Examples of herbal treatments with likely cause-effect relationships with adverse events include aconite (which is often a legally restricted herb), Ayurvedic remedies, broom, chaparral, Chinese herb mixtures, comfrey, herbs containing certain flavonoids, germander, guar gum, liquorice root, and pennyroyal. Meyler's Side Effects of Herbal Medicines. Herbs and Natural Supplements: An Evidence-Based Guide. Native American traditional herbal medicine introduced cures for malaria, dysentery, scurvy, non-venereal syphilis, and goiter problems. Nasturtium may refer to:

Tropaeolum, a plant genus in the family Tropaeolaceae, commonly known as nasturtium
Nasturtium (plant genus), a plant genus in the family Brassicaceae, which includes watercress
Nasturtiums (E. Phillips Fox) a 1912 painting by E. Phillips Fox
Nasturtiums, a 1903 painting by Tudor St. George Tucker
Nasturtium (horse) (1899–1916), an American Champion Thoroughbred racehorse
Senecio tropaeolifolius, a succulent plant that is known as "false nasturtium" Despite the Latin name, watercress is not particularly closely related to the flowers popularly known as nasturtiums (Tropaeolum majus). Concerns
Watercress crops grown in the presence of manure can be an environment for parasites such as the liver fluke, Fasciola hepatica.By inhibiting the cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP2E1, compounds in watercress may alter drug metabolism in individuals on certain medications such as chlorzoxazone.Due to its fast-growing nature and invasive species status, Nasturtium officinale is prohibited in Illinois. Native Americans used it to stimulate the glands, stave off scurvy, and as a diaphoretic treatment for the common cold.William Turner mentions horseradish as Red Cole in his "Herbal" (1551–1568), but not as a condiment. 
Do herbal remedies with nasturtium and horseradish alleviate the symptoms of cystitis as well as an antibiotic??? [SEP] Few studies are available on the safety of herbs for pregnant women, and one study found that use of complementary and alternative medicines are associated with a 30% lower ongoing pregnancy and live birth rate during fertility treatment.Examples of herbal treatments with likely cause-effect relationships with adverse events include aconite (which is often a legally restricted herb), Ayurvedic remedies, broom, chaparral, Chinese herb mixtures, comfrey, herbs containing certain flavonoids, germander, guar gum, liquorice root, and pennyroyal. Meyler's Side Effects of Herbal Medicines. Herbs and Natural Supplements: An Evidence-Based Guide. Traditional medicine is often contrasted with scientific medicine. Native American traditional herbal medicine introduced cures for malaria, dysentery, scurvy, non-venereal syphilis, and goiter problems. Nasturtium may refer to:

Tropaeolum, a plant genus in the family Tropaeolaceae, commonly known as nasturtium
Nasturtium (plant genus), a plant genus in the family Brassicaceae, which includes watercress
Nasturtiums (E. Phillips Fox) a 1912 painting by E. Phillips Fox
Nasturtiums, a 1903 painting by Tudor St. George Tucker
Nasturtium (horse) (1899–1916), an American Champion Thoroughbred racehorse
Senecio tropaeolifolius, a succulent plant that is known as "false nasturtium" Despite the Latin name, watercress is not particularly closely related to the flowers popularly known as nasturtiums (Tropaeolum majus). Concerns
Watercress crops grown in the presence of manure can be an environment for parasites such as the liver fluke, Fasciola hepatica.By inhibiting the cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP2E1, compounds in watercress may alter drug metabolism in individuals on certain medications such as chlorzoxazone.Due to its fast-growing nature and invasive species status, Nasturtium officinale is prohibited in Illinois. 
Does mistletoe therapy help against cancer or can it improve the quality of life of cancer patients? [SEP] The evidence for music therapy is equivocal, and some herbal interventions such as PC-SPES, mistletoe, and saw palmetto are known to be toxic to some cancer patients. Hypnosis and meditation may improve the quality of life of cancer patients. There is some evidence that aromatherapy improves general well-being, but it has also been promoted for its ability to fight diseases, including cancer. According to Cancer Research UK, "there is currently no strong evidence from studies in people that herbal remedies can treat, prevent or cure cancer". Mistletoe (or Iscador) – a plant used in anthroposophical medicine, proposed as a cancer cure by Rudolf Steiner (1861–1925), who believed it needed to be harvested when planetary alignment most influenced its potency. According to the American Cancer Society, "available evidence from well-designed clinical trials does not support claims that mistletoe can improve length or quality of life". According to the American Cancer Society while meditation "may help to improve the quality of life for people with cancer", "available scientific evidence does not suggest that meditation is effective in treating cancer or any other disease." There is weak evidence for a modest benefit from hypnosis; studies of massage therapy produced mixed results and none found pain relief after 4 weeks; Reiki, and touch therapy results were inconclusive; acupuncture, the most studied such treatment, has demonstrated no benefit as an adjunct analgesic in cancer pain; the evidence for music therapy is equivocal; and some herbal interventions such as PC-SPES, mistletoe, and saw palmetto are known to be toxic to some people with cancer. 
Can homeopathic remedies prevent colds in children? [SEP] Do consumers and health care providers have adequate information to make informed decisions about drug products labeled as homeopathic? "Other meta-analyses include homeopathic treatments to reduce cancer therapy side-effects following radiotherapy and chemotherapy, allergic rhinitis, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and childhood diarrhoea, adenoid vegetation, asthma, upper respiratory tract infection in children, insomnia, fibromyalgia, psychiatric conditions and Cochrane Library systematic reviews of homeopathic treatments for asthma, dementia, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, induction of labour, upper respiratory tract infections in children, and irritable bowel syndrome. They warned against the use of homeopathy for serious conditions such as depression, HIV and malaria.The American College of Medical Toxicology and the American Academy of Clinical Toxicology recommend that no one use homeopathic treatment for disease or as a preventive health measure. These organizations report that no evidence exists that homeopathic treatment is effective, but that there is evidence that using these treatments produces harm and can bring indirect health risks by delaying conventional treatment. The Russian Academy of Sciences considers homeopathy a "dangerous 'pseudoscience' that does not work", and "urges people to treat homeopathy 'on a par with magic'". References
External links
The evidence for homeopathy (by Robert Hahn) at Homeopath UK Homeopathic remedies such as this one have no active ingredients and cannot protect against flu, colds, or COVID-19, said University of Auckland associate professor and microbiologist Dr Siouxsie Wiles. A recipe consisting of ingredients often purported to prevent and cure colds, including lemon grass, elder, ginger, black pepper, lemon and honey, was promoted by María Alejandra Díaz, a member of the Venezuelan Constituent Assembly as a cure for COVID-19. 
Can homeopathic remedies relieve colds in children?? [SEP] Some cultures rub hot herbal ointment across the patient's eyelids to treat headaches. Fever and influenza are treated by consuming a leaf decoction or steaming. Homeopathy – the belief that a patient with symptoms of an illness can be treated with extremely dilute remedies that are thought to produce those same symptoms in healthy people. Urine therapy – drinking either one's own undiluted urine or homeopathic potions of urine for treatment of a wide variety of diseases is based on pseudoscience. Homeopathic remedies such as this one have no active ingredients and cannot protect against flu, colds, or COVID-19, said University of Auckland associate professor and microbiologist Dr Siouxsie Wiles. A recipe consisting of ingredients often purported to prevent and cure colds, including lemon grass, elder, ginger, black pepper, lemon and honey, was promoted by María Alejandra Díaz, a member of the Venezuelan Constituent Assembly as a cure for COVID-19. A 2012 Cochrane review found weak evidence suggesting that some Chinese medicinal herbs have a similar effect at preventing and treating influenza as antiviral medication. Due to the poor quality of these medical studies, there is insufficient evidence to support or dismiss the use of Chinese medicinal herbs for the treatment of influenza. 
Do agents containing uridine and/or cytidine improve the symptoms of polyneuropathy? [SEP] Uridine (symbol U or Urd) is a glycosylated pyrimidine analog containing uracil attached to a ribose ring (or more specifically, a ribofuranose) via a β-N1-glycosidic bond. High levels of purines are known to increase uric acid production and may aggravate or lead to conditions such as gout.Harvard researchers report that omega-3 fatty acids and uridine, two substances in foods such as fish, walnuts, molasses, and sugar beets, prevented depression in rats as effectively as antidepressant drugs. In foods
In brain research studies, uridine monophosphate is used as a convenient delivery compound for uridine. Uridine is the active component of this compound. Uridine is present in many foods, mainly in the form of RNA. Cytidine is a component of RNA. In humans, dietary cytidine is converted into uridine, which is probably the compound behind cytidine's metabolic effects. Biological actions
In addition to its role as a pyrimidine component of RNA, cytidine has been found to control neuronal-glial glutamate cycling, with supplementation decreasing midfrontal/cerebral glutamate/glutamine levels. 
Can treatments with ultrasound relieve the pain of osteoarthritis? [SEP] Physical measures
Moderate exercise may be beneficial with respect to pain and function in those with osteoarthritis of the knee and hip. Hydrotherapy might also be an advantage on the management of pain, disability and quality of life reported by people with osteoarthritis. Oral steroids are not recommended in the treatment of osteoarthritis.Use of the antibiotic doxycycline orally for treating osteoarthritis is not associated with clinical improvements in function or joint pain. There is no evidence of benefit from placing hot packs on joints.There is low quality evidence that therapeutic ultrasound may be beneficial for people with osteoarthritis of the knee; however, further research is needed to confirm and determine the degree and significance of this potential benefit.Therapeutic ultrasound may relieve pain compared to conventional non-drug ultrasound however phonopheresis does not produce additional benefits to functional improvement. It is safe treatment to relieve pain and improve physical function in patients with knee osteoarthritis.Continuous and pulsed ultrasound modes (especially 1 MHz, 2.5 W/cm2, 15min/ session, 3 session/ week, during 8 weeks protocol) can be effective in improving patients physical function and pain.There is weak evidence suggesting that electromagnetic field treatment may result in moderate pain relief; however, further research is necessary and it is not known if electromagnetic field treatment can improve quality of life or function.Viscosupplementation for osteoarthritis of the knee may have positive effects on pain and function at 5 to 13 weeks post-injection. References
External links

"Osteoarthritis". While there is no high quality evidence to support ultrasound, it has been found to have a small effect on improving function in non-specific chronic low back pain.Psychological treatments, including cognitive behavioral therapy and acceptance and commitment therapy can be helpful for improving quality of life and reducing pain interference. Low-quality evidence suggests the use of therapeutic ultrasound on arthritic hands. 
Does regular exercise reduce the severity and duration of colds and other respiratory infections? [SEP] It is regarded as safe to perform moderate exercise if the symptoms are confined to the head, including runny nose, nasal congestion, sneezing, or a minor sore throat. Vitamins C and D
Vitamin C supplementation does not affect the incidence of the common cold, but may reduce its duration. Following a hospital admission pulmonary rehabilitation has been shown to significantly reduce future hospital admissions, mortality and improve quality of life.The optimal exercise routine, use of noninvasive ventilation during exercise and intensity of exercise suggested for people with COPD, is unknown. When combined with regular exercise or a pulmonary rehabilitation program, this can lead to improvements in COPD symptoms. There is insufficient evidence to suggest that dehumidifiers are helpful for controlling asthma.Overall, exercise is beneficial in people with stable asthma. There is some evidence that regular use of supplements may reduce the duration of the common cold, but it does not appear to prevent infection. A subset of trials in adults reported that supplementation reduced the incidence of colds by half in marathon runners, skiers, or soldiers in subarctic conditions. The CDC states that physical exercise can reduce the risks of heart disease, cancer, type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure, obesity, depression, and anxiety. 
Can regular exercise prevent you from getting a cold or other respiratory infections??? [SEP] Weather
A common misconception is that one can "catch a cold" merely through prolonged exposure to cold weather. Routine vitamin C supplements do not reduce the risk or severity of the common cold, though they may reduce its duration. It is regarded as safe to perform moderate exercise if the symptoms are confined to the head, including runny nose, nasal congestion, sneezing, or a minor sore throat. Vitamins C and D
Vitamin C supplementation does not affect the incidence of the common cold, but may reduce its duration. Exercise
Physical exercise enhances or maintains physical fitness and overall health and wellness. The CDC states that physical exercise can reduce the risks of heart disease, cancer, type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure, obesity, depression, and anxiety. Participating in any exercising, whether it is housework, yardwork, walking or standing up when talking on the phone, is often thought to be better than none when it comes to health. (September 2020), which links the seasonality of respiratory viral diseases to decreased air humidity due to indoor heating, argues that mask-wearing helps limit respiratory virus transmission in winter because masks keep the nose warm and moist.Social media claims that masks could reduce the oxygen levels in older people were refuted by a small study of SpO2 levels, the results of which were published by JAMA. 
Can cold showers, cold baths or cold water treading according to Kneipp prevent colds and respiratory infections in adults? [SEP] Showering is generally faster than bathing and can use less water. Showering has also developed the reputation as a relaxing and generally therapeutic activity. In sports therapy, an ice bath, or sometimes cold-water immersion or cold therapy, is a training regimen usually following a period of intense exercise in which a substantial part of a human body is immersed in a bath of ice or ice-water for a limited duration.While it is becoming increasingly popular and accepted among athletes in a variety of sports, the method is controversial, with a risk of hypothermia, with the possibility of shock leading to sudden death. Evidence supporting cold water immersion as part of an athletic training regimen remains inconclusive, with some studies suggesting a mild benefit such as reducing muscle damage and discomfort and alleviating delayed onset muscle soreness, with other studies suggesting that cold water immersion may slow muscle growth and interfere with an overall training regimen. Ice baths versus cold baths
Several sources suggest that cold baths (60–75 °F, 16–24 °C) were preferable to ice baths. Physiotherapist Tony Wilson of the University of Southampton said that extremely cold temperatures were unnecessary and a "cold bath" would be just as effective as an ice bath. Research has shown that ice baths four times per week in a congested training schedule of professional rugby players reduced muscle soreness while attenuating the decline in jump performance compared to those who didn't ice bath. Basketball player Manny Harris reportedly used a Cryon-X machine featuring extreme low temperatures around minus 166 degrees Fahrenheit, but used it with wet socks resulting in a serious freezer burn.Occasionally ice baths have been an ill-advised treatment of fever in young children, but that doctors were counseled not to use this technique because of the risk of hypothermia. 
Can the Wim Hof method - consisting of breathing training, meditation and acclimatization to cold - strengthen the immune system of healthy people and thus prevent infectious diseases? [SEP] He attributes these feats to his Wim Hof Method (WHM), a combination of frequent cold exposure, breathing techniques and meditation. Wim Hof Method
Hof markets a regimen called the Wim Hof Method (WHM), which involves willpower, exposure to cold water, and breathing techniques.Hof states that his method can reduce symptoms of several diseases including: rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis , coronavirus and Parkinson's disease. Studies on Hof individually
In 2012, a case study led by a group of researchers in The Netherlands and published by the journal Psychosomatic Medicine found that his "concentration/meditation during ice immersion" greatly reduced his "ex vivo proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokine response":"The concentration/meditation technique used by this particular individual seems to evoke a controlled stress response. Studies on Wim Hof Method
In 2014, a paper published in PNAS extended the 2012 case study of Wim Hof with a randomized group of twenty-four healthy volunteers, twelve of whom were trained with the Wim Hof Method:"In conclusion, we demonstrate that voluntary activation of the sympathetic nervous system results in epinephrine release and subsequent suppression of the innate immune response in humans in vivo. Kilimanjaro, a group of 26 trekkers who were trained in the Wim Hof Method used the breathing techniques to largely prevent and, if needed, reverse symptoms of AMS:"In comparison with previous studies, this report may suggest that acclimatization, as well as AMS symptom relief, can be safely accelerated. "In 2015, a proof-of-principle study demonstrated that the WHM can attenuate the inflammatory response, "through practicing techniques that are relatively easy to learn within a short time frame", but "It remains to be determined whether the results of this study using an acute model of inflammation in healthy volunteers can be extrapolated to patients with chronic autoimmune diseases. A 2022 study found that a "4 week intervention exercise based on the pillar of the Wim Hof breathing method was not effective in improving the breathing economy of adolescent elite endurance runners." Cold exposure therapy: "There is some science behind Mr Hof's claims... 
Do saw palmetto preparations improve the symptoms of benign enlarged prostate (benign prostatic hyperplasia) in the longer term compared to placebo? [SEP] Enlarged prostate
Physicians sometimes prescribe finasteride for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), informally known as an enlarged prostate. Finasteride may improve the symptoms associated with BPH such as difficulty urinating, getting up during the night to urinate, hesitation at the start and end of urination, and decreased urinary flow.The use of the drug showed significant sexual adverse effects such as erectile dysfunction and less sexual desire, in particular when obstructive symptoms due to an enlarged prostate were present. In the prostate, this reduces prostate volume, which improves BPH and reduces risk of prostate cancer. Finasteride reduces prostate volume by 20 to 30% in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia. Enlarged prostate
Flutamide has been studied in the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH; enlarged prostate) in men in several clinical studies. Research
Prostate conditions
Spironolactone has been studied at a high dosage in the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH; enlarged prostate). It was found to be better than placebo in terms of symptom relief following three months of treatment. On the basis of these results, it has been said that spironolactone has no place in the treatment of BPH.Spironolactone has been studied and used limitedly in the treatment of prostate cancer. 
Does honey help against acute cough in children? [SEP] In adults with a chronic cough, i.e. There is tentative evidence that the use of honey is better than no treatment or diphenhydramine in decreasing coughing. Cough
For chronic and acute coughs, a Cochrane review found no strong evidence for or against the use of honey. For treating children, the systematic review concluded with moderate to low evidence that honey helps more than no treatment, diphenhydramine, and placebo at giving relief from coughing. Honey does not appear to work better than dextromethorphan at relieving coughing in children. Other reviews have also supported the use of honey for treating children.The UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency recommends avoiding giving over-the-counter cough and common cold medication to children under six, and suggests "a homemade remedy containing honey and lemon is likely to be just as useful and safer to take", but warns that honey should not be given to babies because of the risk of infant botulism. The World Health Organization recommends honey as a treatment for coughs and sore throats, including for children, stating that no reason exists to believe it is less effective than a commercial remedy. Tentative evidence supports honey and pelargonium to help with symptoms. 
Can Artemisia tea cure malaria as well as drugs? [SEP] However, the WHO does not recommend the use of A. annua plant materials, including tea, for the prevention and treatment of malaria.In 2013, Sanofi announced the launch of a production facility in Garessio, Italy, to manufacture the antiplasmodial drug on a large scale. A 2012 review reported that artemisinin-based therapies were the most effective drugs for treatment of malaria at that time; it was also reported to clear malaria parasites from patients' bodies faster than other drugs. Artemisinin drugs are effective and safe in treating uncomplicated malaria. Artemisinin-naphthoquine combination therapy showed promising results in treating falciparum malaria. In the 1940s, chloroquine replaced quinine as the treatment of both uncomplicated and severe malaria until resistance supervened, first in Southeast Asia and South America in the 1950s and then globally in the 1980s.The medicinal value of Artemisia annua has been used by Chinese herbalists in traditional Chinese medicines for 2,000 years. Artemisinins, discovered by Chinese scientist Tu Youyou and colleagues in the 1970s from the plant Artemisia annua, became the recommended treatment for P. falciparum malaria, administered in severe cases in combination with other antimalarials. With worldwide research into pharmacology, some herbal medicines have been translated into modern remedies, such as the anti-malarial group of drugs called artemisinin isolated from Artemisia annua, a herb that was known in Chinese medicine to treat fever. The plant extracts often used in TCM  are antimalarial, due to the presence of artemisinin.However, it has been questioned as to whether tea made from A. annua is effective against malaria, since artemesinin is not soluble in water and the resulting tea would not be expected to contain any significant amount of artemesinin. 
Does thyme help against cough? [SEP] It is also a popular herb to cultivate and hybridize with other Thymus species due to its diverse aromatics. Cough
For chronic and acute coughs, a Cochrane review found no strong evidence for or against the use of honey. For treating children, the systematic review concluded with moderate to low evidence that honey helps more than no treatment, diphenhydramine, and placebo at giving relief from coughing. Honey does not appear to work better than dextromethorphan at relieving coughing in children. The World Health Organization recommends honey as a treatment for coughs and sore throats, including for children, stating that no reason exists to believe it is less effective than a commercial remedy. Essential oils
Many essential oils included in herbal pharmacopoeias are claimed to possess antimicrobial activity, with the oils of bay, cinnamon, clove and thyme reported to be the most potent in studies with foodborne bacterial pathogens. Some act as local anesthetic counterirritants and, thereby, exert an antitussive (cough suppressing) effect. As a smoking tobacco additive in some cigarette brands, for flavor, and to reduce throat and sinus irritation caused by smoking. 
Does coenzyme Q10 relieve muscle discomfort during treatment with statins? [SEP] The patients in the Coenzyme Q10 treatment group had significantly reduced risk of heart disease death and death from all causes and significantly fewer hospital stays for heart failure complications.A later sub-analysis including only the European segment of the Q-Symbio Study showed that the Coenzyme Q10 therapy was also positively associated with a significant improvement in ejection fraction. Treatment with Coenzyme Q10 300 milligrams per day in addition to conventional heart failure medications was safe, well tolerated, and effective at reducing symptoms and improving survival rates of chronic heart failure patients. The patients in the Coenzyme Q10 adjunctive treatment group had significantly fewer major adverse cardiovascular events, significantly reduced risk of cardiovascular death and all-cause death, and significantly fewer hospital stays for heart failure complications. The European sub-group study provides confirmatory evidence that the treatment with 300 mg/day of Coenzyme Q10 in additional to conventional heart failure therapy is safe, well tolerated, and effective in improving the symptoms and survival of chronic heart failure patients. Statins
It has been suggested that the myo-toxicity of statins is due to impairment of CoQ biosynthesis, but the evidence supporting this was deemed controversial in 2011.While statins may reduce coenzyme Q10 in the blood it is unclear if they reduce coenzyme Q10 in muscle. Statin myopathy
CoQ10 has been routinely used to treat muscle breakdown associated as a side effect of use of statin medications. A 2018 meta-analysis concluded that there was preliminary evidence for oral CoQ10 reducing statin-associated muscle symptoms, including muscle pain, muscle weakness, muscle cramps and muscle tiredness. Research has shown that Coenzyme Q10 supplementation helps to counteract endothelial dysfunction and has anti-inflammatory effects. 
Does Chaga mushroom help against cancer or other diseases? [SEP] According to Cancer Research UK, "there is currently no strong evidence from studies in people that herbal remedies can treat, prevent or cure cancer". Cancer Research UK state that: "We don't recommend that you take chaparral to treat or prevent any type of cancer." Supplements made from it are promoted as cancer treatment; however, according to the American Cancer Society, "available scientific evidence does not support claims of its effectiveness for treating cancer or any other disease in humans". Inonotus obliquus – commonly known as chaga mushroom. According to Cancer Research UK, it has "not been shown to have any activity in fighting cancer in people". Mushrooms – promoted on the internet as useful for cancer treatment. According to Cancer Research UK, "there is currently no evidence that any type of mushroom or mushroom extract can prevent or cure cancer". Health and nutrition
Higher mushroom consumption has been associated with lower risk of breast cancer. 
Can filtering out blue light using blue filter glasses or night mode settings on smartphone, tablet or laptop screens have a beneficial effect on sleep? [SEP] Depending on the company, these computer or gaming glasses can also filter out high energy blue and ultra-violet light from LCD screens, fluorescent lighting, and other sources of light. Blue-light blocking glasses
Eyeglasses that filter out blue light from computers, smartphones and tablets are becoming increasingly popular in response to concerns about problems caused by blue light overexposure. Decreasing evening screen time and setting devices to night mode will improve sleep. Several studies have shown that blue light from computers does not lead to eye diseases, including macular degeneration.The American Academy of Ophthalmology (AAO) does not recommend special eyewear for computer use,
although it recommends using prescription glasses measured specifically for computer screen distance (depending on individuals, but possibly 20–26 inches from the face), which are not the same as "blue-light blocking" glasses. The position of the College of Optometrists (UK) is "the best scientific evidence currently available does not support the use of blue-blocking spectacle lenses in the general population to improve visual performance, alleviate the symptoms of eye fatigue or visual discomfort, improve sleep quality or conserve macula health." A study conducted by the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute's (RPI) Lighting Research Center (LRC) concluded that smartphones, or any backlit devices, can seriously affect sleep cycles. Sleep
Using smartphones late at night can disturb sleep, due to the blue light and brightly lit screen, which affects melatonin levels and sleep cycles. In an effort to alleviate these issues, "Night Mode" functionality to change the color temperature of a screen to a warmer hue based on the time of day to reduce the amount of blue light generated became available through several apps for Android and the f.lux software for jailbroken iPhones. 
Is strophanthin an effective cardiovascular drug? [SEP] Cardiovascular Drugs and Therapy is a bimonthly peer-reviewed medical journal covering pharmacotherapy as it relates to cardiology. Statin treatment reduces cardiovascular mortality by about 31%. People receiving simvastatin experienced 38% fewer nonfatal heart attacks and 25% fewer strokes.Statins in general have been proposed as beneficial in reducing the progression of Age-related Macular Degeneration (AMD). Simvastatin is an effective serum lipid-lowering drug that can decrease low density lipoprotein (LDL) levels by up to 50%. Compared to the placebo group, those treated with simvastatin experienced a 30% decrease in overall mortality, a 42% reduction in coronary death, a 34% reduction in major coronary events, and a 37% reduction in revascularization procedures. anticholinergics) or target the heart (e.g. antihypertensives and anticoagulants). Cardiovascular disease
There is a correlation between uric acid levels and cardiovascular disease and mortality, and so allopurinol has been explored as a potential treatment to reduce risk of cardiac disease. 
Can regular intake of vitamin C prevent colds? [SEP] There is some evidence that regular use of supplements may reduce the duration of the common cold, but it does not appear to prevent infection. Common cold
Research on vitamin C in the common cold has been divided into effects on prevention, duration, and severity. A Cochrane review which looked at at least 200 mg/day concluded that vitamin C taken on a regular basis was not effective in prevention of the common cold. However, taking vitamin C on a regular basis did reduce the average duration by 8% in adults and 14% in children, and also reduced severity of colds. The authors of the Cochrane review concluded that:

The failure of vitamin C supplementation to reduce the incidence of colds in the general population indicates that routine vitamin C supplementation is not justified … Regular supplementation trials have shown that vitamin C reduces the duration of colds, but this was not replicated in the few therapeutic trials that have been carried out. Nevertheless, given the consistent effect of vitamin C on the duration and severity of colds in the regular supplementation studies, and the low cost and safety, it may be worthwhile for common cold patients to test on an individual basis whether therapeutic vitamin C is beneficial for them." Routine vitamin C supplements do not reduce the risk or severity of the common cold, though they may reduce its duration. Vitamins C and D
Vitamin C supplementation does not affect the incidence of the common cold, but may reduce its duration. 
Can taking vitamin C after the onset of a cold relieve symptoms or shorten the illness? [SEP] From these studies I can conclude that vitamin C supplementation may be more effective for the pain associated with RA however long-term use might aggravate onset of osteoarthritis. This works in a similar pattern to aspirin and vitamin E supplementation. The usual cause of an exacerbation is a viral infection, most often the common cold. These drugs can reduce the severity of symptoms if taken soon after infection and can also be taken to decrease the risk of infection. Generally, anti-viral drugs work optimally when taken within a few days of the onset of symptoms. A meta-analysis of 13 studies indicated some support for adjunctive vitamin D therapy for influenza, but called for more rigorous clinical trials to settle the issue conclusively.A recent review discussing herbal and alternative medicines in influenza treatment details evidence suggesting that N-acetylcysteine, elderberry, or a combination of Eleutherococcus senticosus and Andrographis paniculata may help to shorten the course of influenza infection. In 1997 a randomized clinical trial found that volunteers taking 1.2 grams of N-acetylcysteine daily for six months were as likely as those taking placebo to be infected by influenza, but only 25% of them experienced clinical symptoms, as contrasted with 67% of the control group. The preparation has been reported to reduce the duration of influenza symptoms by raising levels of cytokines. 
Do saline nasal rinses and nasal sprays or inhaling with steam from saline solution help with colds? [SEP] ongoing diarrhea or heart failure).Saline is also often used for nasal washes to relieve some of the symptoms of rhinitis and the common cold. Nose
There is tentative evidence that saline nasal irrigation may help with long term cases of rhinosinusitis. Inhalation of hypertonic saline has also been shown to help in other respiratory problems, specifically bronchiolitis. Medical uses
Nasal irrigation can be an effective therapy to relieve symptoms of acute sinusitis caused by upper respiratory tract infections such as the common cold. Mechanism of action
Flushing the nasal cavity can soothe inflamed tissue and remove irritants like allergens; it may help clear mucus.Typical use involves the pouring or pumping of saline water through one nostril and letting it drain from the other. Isotonic saline nasal sprays are commonly used in infants and children to wash out the thick mucus from the nose in case of allergic rhinitis. Hypertonic solutions may be more useful at drawing moisture from the mucous membrane and relieving nasal congestion. Nasal sprays for local effect are quite common. 
Do remedies with ginseng help with erectile dysfunction? [SEP] Erectile dysfunction (ED), also called impotence, is the type of sexual dysfunction in which the penis fails to become or stay erect during sexual activity. Taking testosterone may help maintain an erection. Many products are advertised as "herbal viagra" or "natural" sexual enhancement products, but no clinical trials or scientific studies support the effectiveness of these products for the treatment of ED, and synthetic chemical compounds similar to sildenafil have been found as adulterants in many of these products. A 2021 review indicated that ginseng had "only trivial effects on erectile function or satisfaction with intercourse compared to placebo". In the 13th century Albertus Magnus recommended ingesting roasted wolf penis as a remedy for impotence.During the late 16th and 17th centuries in France, male impotence was considered a crime, as well as legal grounds for a divorce. Ginseng's active ingredients are ginsenosides and saponin glycosides. Red ginseng has been reported to be the most effective aphrodisiac of the three. It has been used as a tonic to improve sexual performance. 
Can taking spermidine prolong life? Can it prevent diseases? [SEP] These effects may, at least in part, explain its cardiovascular benefits. Decrease non-HDL cholesterol. Lower blood pressure, if elevated. Diet
A diet high in fruits and vegetables decreases the risk of cardiovascular disease and death.A 2021 review found that plant-based diets can provide a risk reduction for CVD if a healthy plant-based diet is consumed. In those at risk, but without a history of cardiovascular disease (primary prevention), statins decrease the risk of death and combined fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular disease. Fibrates lower the risk of cardiovascular and coronary events, but there is no evidence to suggest that they reduce all-cause mortality.Anti-diabetic medication may reduce cardiovascular risk in people with Type 2 diabetes, although evidence is not conclusive. The United States Preventive Services Task Force recommends against use of aspirin for prevention in women less than 55 and men less than 45 years old; however, it is recommended for some older people.The use of vasoactive agents for people with pulmonary hypertension with left heart disease or hypoxemic lung diseases may cause harm and unnecessary expense.Antibiotics for secondary prevention of coronary heart disease
Antibiotics may help patients with coronary disease to reduce the risk of heart attacks and strokes. A 2022 review found that some dietary supplements, including micronutrients, may reduce risk factors for cardiovascular disease. 
Can capsules or tablets with lactase improve the symptoms of lactose intolerance and make dairy products more tolerable? [SEP] People who have deficiency of lactase, and consume dairy products, may experience the symptoms of lactose intolerance. Lactase can be purchased as a food supplement, and is added to milk to produce "lactose-free" milk products. Medical use
Lactase supplements are sometimes used to treat lactose intolerance. Its primary commercial use, in supplements and products such as those from Lacteeze and Lactaid, is to break down lactose in milk to make it suitable for people with lactose intolerance. Regular consumption of dairy food by lactase deficient individuals may also reduce symptoms of intolerance by promoting colonic bacteria adaptation. Some bacteria found in yogurt also produce their own lactase, which facilitates digestion in the intestines of lactose intolerant individuals. Rehabituation to dairy products
Regular consumption of dairy foods containing lactose can promote a colonic bacteria adaptation, enhancing a favorable microbiome, which allows people with primary lactase deficiency to diminish their intolerance and to consume more dairy foods. Lactose intolerance can also be managed by ingesting live yogurt cultures containing lactobacilli that are able to digest the lactose in other dairy products. 
Can weighted blankets help with sleep disorders? [SEP] A weighted blanket is a heavy blanket that is used to aid sleep and reduce anxiety. Scientific evidence for their efficacy is inconclusive, and experts assert that more research is needed to determine if weighted blankets actually lessen the impact of anxiety or insomnia. Although early research indicates that weighted blankets may be an appropriate therapeutic tool when it comes to reducing anxiety, reviews of current medical literature note that research in this area is sparse.Other studies have indicated that weighted blankets may reduce anxiety and, as a result, allow the wearer to fall asleep more quickly. Safety and efficacy
A 2018 systematic review, which investigated the effectiveness of using weighted blankets to decrease anxiety and insomnia, found that weighted blankets may be an appropriate therapeutic tool in reducing anxiety in limited settings and populations. However, the researchers also found that there is not enough evidence to suggest they are helpful with insomnia, and that more research is needed to "define guidelines for the use of weighted blankets in clinical practice and to investigate the underlying mechanism of action. Weighted blankets did not significantly improve anxiety or sleep in the study.Scientists caution that studies on the safety of weighted blankets in healthy adults cannot be generalized to children, and even less so to children with disabilities. In a 2014 study, researchers tried to use weighted blankets to improve the sleep quality of autistic children. The study found that use of a weighted blanket did not help the children sleep for a longer period of time, fall asleep significantly faster, or wake less often. 
Does the drug remdesivir prevent COVID-19 deaths? [SEP] During the COVID‑19 pandemic, remdesivir was approved or authorized for emergency use to treat COVID‑19 in numerous countries.Remdesivir was originally developed to treat hepatitis C, and was subsequently investigated for Ebola virus disease and Marburg virus infections before being studied as a post-infection treatment for COVID‑19.Remdesivir is a prodrug that is intended to allow intracellular delivery of GS-441524 monophosphate and subsequent biotransformation into GS-441524 triphosphate, a ribonucleotide analogue inhibitor of viral RNA polymerase.The most common side effect in healthy volunteers is raised blood levels of liver enzymes. In vitro experiments
An in vitro study of remdesivir assessing antiviral activity against SARS-CoV-2 was performed. The results found that remdesivir functioned well as an inhibitor of the infection. The FDA approved remdesivir based primarily on evidence from three clinical trials (NCT04280705, NCT04292899, and NCT04292730) of 2043 hospitalized participants with COVID‑19. Meanwhile, the Public Health Agency of Canada's COVID-19 Clinical Pharmacology Task Group recommended that remdesivir only be administered to hospitalized patients as part of a randomized controlled trial due to limited information on risks and benefits.In January 2022, the Canadian component of the WHO Solidarity Trial reported that in-hospital people with COVID‑19 treated with remdesivir had 17% lower relative risk of death (18.7% versus 22.6% death rates) and 47% reduced relative risk for needing oxygen and mechanical ventilation (8.0% versus 15.0%) compared to people receiving standard-of-care treatments.In September 2022, the WHO updated their guidelines to recommend use of remdesivir for both non-hospitalized and hospitalized patients. Because GS-441524 is the main circulating metabolite of remdesivir and because GS-441524 has similar potency against SARS-Cov-2 in vitro, some researchers have argued for the direct administration of GS-441524 as a COVID‑19 treatment. "How Remdesivir, New Hope for Covid-19 Patients, Was Resurrected". Remdesivir is a candidate for treating COVID-19; at the time the status was granted, fewer than 200,000 Americans had COVID-19, but numbers were climbing rapidly as the COVID-19 pandemic reached the US, and crossing the threshold soon was considered inevitable. 
Does magnetic resonance therapy improve complaints of knee osteoarthritis or herniated discs (e.g. pain)? [SEP] Reviews
Several systematic reviews have shown EMT is not a useful therapy:

In 2009 no significant difference from control was found for management of pain or stiffness for osteoarthritis. See also
References
External links
Magnetic Therapy: Can magnets alleviate pain? Physical measures
Moderate exercise may be beneficial with respect to pain and function in those with osteoarthritis of the knee and hip. There is no evidence of benefit from placing hot packs on joints.There is low quality evidence that therapeutic ultrasound may be beneficial for people with osteoarthritis of the knee; however, further research is needed to confirm and determine the degree and significance of this potential benefit.Therapeutic ultrasound may relieve pain compared to conventional non-drug ultrasound however phonopheresis does not produce additional benefits to functional improvement. It is safe treatment to relieve pain and improve physical function in patients with knee osteoarthritis.Continuous and pulsed ultrasound modes (especially 1 MHz, 2.5 W/cm2, 15min/ session, 3 session/ week, during 8 weeks protocol) can be effective in improving patients physical function and pain.There is weak evidence suggesting that electromagnetic field treatment may result in moderate pain relief; however, further research is necessary and it is not known if electromagnetic field treatment can improve quality of life or function.Viscosupplementation for osteoarthritis of the knee may have positive effects on pain and function at 5 to 13 weeks post-injection. Alternative medicine
Alternative medicine interventions undertaken for pain relief in arthritis of the knee include acupuncture, and magnetic pulse therapy. The most conclusive diagnostic tool for disc herniation is MRI, and treatment may range from painkillers to surgery. Surgery
Surgery may be useful when a herniated disc is causing significant pain radiating into the leg, significant leg weakness, bladder problems, or loss of bowel control. 
Are oral zinc supplements effective for treating a cold (chill)? [SEP] Zinc may reduce the duration and severity of symptoms if started shortly after the onset of symptoms. Zinc
Zinc supplements may shorten the duration of colds by up to 33% and reduce the severity of symptoms if supplementation begins within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms. A 2017 review did not recommend the use of zinc for the common cold for various reasons; whereas a 2017 and 2018 review both recommended the use of zinc, but also advocated further research on the topic. Zinc supplement is an effective treatment for acrodermatitis enteropathica, a genetic disorder affecting zinc absorption that was previously fatal to affected infants. Zinc may help individuals sleep more. Zinc supplements help prevent disease and reduce mortality, especially among children with low birth weight or stunted growth. In children, Zinc supplementation has also been found to improve outcomes. Zinc supplementation in children 2 months to five years old appears to reduce rates of pneumonia.For people with low levels of vitamin C in their diet or blood, taking vitamin C supplements may be suggested to decrease the risk of pneumonia, although there is no strong evidence of benefit. 
Do oral zinc supplements prevent a cold??? [SEP] Zinc may reduce the duration and severity of symptoms if started shortly after the onset of symptoms. Zinc
Zinc supplements may shorten the duration of colds by up to 33% and reduce the severity of symptoms if supplementation begins within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms. A 2017 review did not recommend the use of zinc for the common cold for various reasons; whereas a 2017 and 2018 review both recommended the use of zinc, but also advocated further research on the topic. Zinc may help individuals sleep more. Zinc supplements help prevent disease and reduce mortality, especially among children with low birth weight or stunted growth. A decrease in copper levels and hematological changes have been reported; however, those changes were completely reversed with the cessation of zinc intake.Zinc has been popularly used as zinc gluconate or zinc acetate lozenges for treating the common cold, and therefore the safety of usage at about 100 mg/day level is a relevant question. There is some evidence that regular use of supplements may reduce the duration of the common cold, but it does not appear to prevent infection. In children, Zinc supplementation has also been found to improve outcomes. 
Is colloidal gold good for health? [SEP] Colloidal gold is a sol or colloidal suspension of nanoparticles of gold in a fluid, usually water. The book introduces information on the formation of colloidal gold and its medical uses. Colloidal gold is used in research applications in medicine, biology and materials science. Toxicity
Pure metallic (elemental) gold is non-toxic and non-irritating when ingested and is sometimes used as a food decoration in the form of gold leaf. Since about 1990, there has been a resurgence of the promotion of colloidal silver as a dietary supplement, marketed with claims of it being an essential mineral supplement, or that it can prevent or treat numerous diseases, such as cancer, diabetes, arthritis, HIV/AIDS, herpes, and tuberculosis. Quackwatch states that colloidal silver dietary supplements have not been found safe or effective for the treatment of any condition. Consumer Reports lists colloidal silver as a "supplement to avoid", describing it as "likely unsafe". "Integrative Medicine: Colloidal Silver". 
Do probiotics alleviate the symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome? [SEP] Three RCTs showed a significant improvement in Irritable Bowel Syndrome – Severity Scoring System, while 1 RCT showed a significant improvement only in symptoms of constipation. Probiotics
Probiotics can be beneficial in the treatment of IBS; taking 10 billion to 100 billion beneficial bacteria per day is recommended for beneficial results. Some yogurt is made using probiotics that may help ease symptoms of IBS. A probiotic yeast called Saccharomyces boulardii has some evidence of effectiveness in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome.Certain probiotics have different effects on certain symptoms of IBS. The evidence is conflicting for whether probiotics improve overall quality of life scores.Probiotics may exert their beneficial effects on IBS symptoms via preserving the gut microbiota, normalisation of cytokine blood levels, improving the intestinal transit time, decreasing small intestine permeability, and by treating small intestinal bacterial overgrowth of fermenting bacteria. Inflammatory bowel disease
The use of oral probiotic supplements to modify the composition and behaviour of the microbiome has been considered as a possible therapy for both induction and maintenance of remission in people with Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. Irritable bowel syndrome
Probiotics are under study for their potential to affect irritable bowel syndrome, although uncertainty remains around which type of probiotic works best, and around the size of possible effect. Irritable bowel syndrome
The Lactobacillus paracasei may reduce GI symptom severity and improve the psychological well-being of individuals with certain IBS subtypes. 
Do you get a stomach ache if you eat cherries or other stone fruit and then drink water? [SEP] Diverse Fruits, (Apple, Crabapple, Pear, Peach, Apricot, Cherry, Mulberry, Walnut, Melon, Water Melon, Greengage, Gooseberry, Currants, Raspberry, Strawberry, Sour Cherry). Pomegranates. Cherries are a fruit of late spring and summer. If apples are on the sweeter side, a few drops of lemon juice are added. Aelchi Chetein, sour cherries with a bit of salt. Gaer Gojje, water chestnuts. The most characteristic ones are based on fruits such as cherries, quinces, or apricots. The native fruits of the Blue Quandong (Elaeocarpus grandis), Crab Apple (Schizomeria ovata), Blueberry Lily (Dianella caerulea), Native Cherry (Exocarpos cupressiformis), Tuckeroo (Cupaniopsis anacardioides), Lilli Pilli (Acmena smithii), Scrub Cherry (Syzygium australe), Native Tamarind (Diploglottis australis), Wombat Berry (Eustrephus latifolius) and various Ficus species were consumed, in addition to the berries of the Barbwire Vine (Smilax australis), Passionfruit (Passiflora aurantia), Raspberry (Rubus hillii), Roseleaf Bramble (Rubus rosifolius) and Pink-Flowered Raspberry (Rubus parvfolius). 
Can acoustic CR ® neuromodulation according to Tass help with tinnitus? [SEP] Other uses
Neuromodulation also refers to an emerging class of medical therapies that target the nervous system for restoration of function (such as in cochlear implants), relief of pain, or control of symptoms, such as tremor seen in movement disorders like Parkinson's disease. Although the exact mechanisms of neurostimulation are not known, the empirical effectiveness has led to considerable application clinically. Existing and emerging neuromodulation treatments also include application in medication-resistant epilepsy, chronic head pain conditions, and functional therapy ranging from bladder and bowel or respiratory control to improvement of sensory deficits, such as hearing (cochlear implants and auditory brainstem implants) and vision (retinal implants). Technical improvements include a trend toward minimally invasive (or noninvasive) systems; as well as smaller, more sophisticated devices that may have automated feedback control, and conditional compatibility with magnetic resonance imaging.Neuromodulation therapy has been investigated for other chronic conditions, such as Alzheimer's disease, depression, chronic pain, and as an adjunctive treatment in recovery from stroke. It has also shown promise for Tourette syndrome, torticollis, and tardive dyskinesia. Other invasive electrical methods
Auditory brainstem implant, which provides a sense of sound to a person who cannot use a cochlear implant due to a damaged or missing cochlea or auditory nerve
Functional electrical stimulation (FES)
Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS)
Hypoglossal nerve stimulation, an option for some patients who have obstructive sleep apnea
Percutaneous tibial nerve stimulation (PTNS) for the treatment of incontinence. Methods include:

Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS)
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) and a prescription variant of TENS, transcutaneous afferent patterned stimulation (TAPS)
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT)

Non-invasive magnetic methods
Magnetic methods of neuromodulation are normally non-invasive: no surgery is required to allow a magnetic field to enter the body because the magnetic permeability of tissue is similar to that of air. : 13–16 However, near this time in France and elsewhere, DBS was investigated as a substitute for lesioning of brain nuclei to control motor symptoms of movement disorders such as Parkinson's disease, and by the mid-1990s, this reversible, non-destructive stimulation therapy had become the primary application of DBS in appropriate patients, to slow progression of movement impairment from the disease and reduce side effects from long-term, escalating medication use.In parallel to the development of neuromodulation systems to address motor impairment, cochlear implants were the first neuromodulation system to reach a broad commercial stage to address a functional deficit; they provide sound perception in users who are hearing-impaired due to missing or damaged sensory cells (cilia) in the inner ear. 
Is ivermectin an effective drug for treating covid 19 disease? [SEP] The World Health Organization (WHO), the European Medicines Agency (EMA), the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) all advise against using ivermectin in an attempt to treat or prevent COVID-19. Early in the COVID-19 pandemic, laboratory research suggested ivermectin might have a role in preventing or treating COVID-19. Clinical guidance
In February 2021, Merck, the developer of the drug, issued a statement saying that there is no good evidence ivermectin is effective against COVID‑19, and that attempting such use may be unsafe. Ivermectin is not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in treating any viral illness, and the U.S. National Institutes of Health COVID‑19 Treatment Guidelines state that there is insufficient evidence for ivermectin to allow for a recommendation for or against its use. The World Health Organization advised that ivermectin should not be used to treat COVID‑19 except in a clinical trial. Multiple major health organizations, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the European Medicines Agency, and the World Health Organization have stated that ivermectin is not authorized or approved to treat COVID-19. COVID-19
During the COVID-19 pandemic, ivermectin was researched for possible utility in preventing and treating COVID-19, but no good evidence of benefit was found. Ivermectin, a medication used to treat parasitic infections, was suggested as a possible COVID-19 treatment in an online preprint which utilized a flawed statistical methodology. 
Does ivermectin lower the risk of death in covid-19? [SEP] The World Health Organization (WHO), the European Medicines Agency (EMA), the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) all advise against using ivermectin in an attempt to treat or prevent COVID-19. Early in the COVID-19 pandemic, laboratory research suggested ivermectin might have a role in preventing or treating COVID-19. Clinical guidance
In February 2021, Merck, the developer of the drug, issued a statement saying that there is no good evidence ivermectin is effective against COVID‑19, and that attempting such use may be unsafe. After reviewing the evidence on ivermectin, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) advised against its use for prevention or treatment of COVID‑19 and that "the available data do not support its use for COVID‑19 outside well-designed clinical trials." The World Health Organization advised that ivermectin should not be used to treat COVID‑19 except in a clinical trial. The Brazilian Health Regulatory Agency, Brazilian Society of Infectious Diseases, and Brazilian Thoracic Society issued position statements advising against the use of ivermectin for prevention or treatment of early-stage COVID‑19. Scientists targeted
In July 2021 Andrew Hill, a senior research fellow at Liverpool University, published a meta-analysis of ivermectin use for COVID which suggested it may be beneficial. COVID-19
During the COVID-19 pandemic, ivermectin was researched for possible utility in preventing and treating COVID-19, but no good evidence of benefit was found. 
Can green tea protect against coronavirus infection or help treat covid-19? [SEP] Boiled betel leaves will not cure COVID-19. A complex Sri Lankan herbal drink was said to remedy all virus infections which can affect humans, including COVID-19, with reposts circulating widely on Facebook. The President of Madagascar, Andry Rajoelina launched and promoted Covid-Organics in April 2020: a herbal drink based on an artemisia plant as a miracle cure that can treat and prevent COVID-19 despite a lack of medical evidence. Juice of bittergourd, a vegetable used in traditional medicine, was suggested as a cure for COVID-19 on social media. Various retailers have marketed herbal products and essential oils fraudulently claimed to cure or prevent COVID-19. Tea was said to be effective against COVID-19 in claims circulating on social media, which said that since tea contained the stimulants methylxanthine, theobromine and theophylline, it was capable of warding off the virus. Fennel tea (supposedly similar to the medicine Tamiflu—itself ineffective against coronaviruses—according to a false e-mail attributed to a hospital director) was claimed to be a cure in Brazil. So-called cures in messages spreading in Brazil included avocado and mint tea, hot whiskey and honey, essential oils, and vitamins C and D.
Facebook claims that 'gargling salt water, drinking hot liquids like tea and avoiding ice cream can stop the transmission of COVID-19' have been criticized by health professionals. 
Does vitamin D alleviate autism symptoms in children? [SEP] Some studies have determined the role of CHD8 in autism spectrum disorder (ASD). In 2002 Thiamine tetrahydrofurfuryl disulfide (TTFD) was hypothesized to act as a chelating agent in children with autism and a 2002 pilot study administered TTFD rectally to ten autism spectrum children, and seemed to find beneficial clinical effect. There is not sufficient evidence to support the use of thiamine (vitamin B1) to treat autism. Seventy percent of therapies used in the ASD group were biologically based therapies consisting of special diets or supplements, and parents felt that 75% of the therapies used were beneficial.For example, a 2008 study found that autistic boys on casein-free diets had significantly thinner bones than usual, presumably because the diets contribute to calcium and vitamin D deficiencies. The hypothesized yeast overgrowth has not been confirmed by endoscopy, the mechanism connecting yeast overgrowth to autism is only hypothetical, and no clinical trials as of 2005 had been published in the peer-reviewed literature.Dimethylglycine (DMG) was hypothesized to improve speech and 'reduce autistic behaviors', and was a commonly used supplement. Several other supplements were hypothesized 'to relieve autism symptoms', including BDTH2, carnosine, cholesterol, cyproheptadine, D-cycloserine, folic acid, glutathione, metallothionein promoters, other PUFA such as omega-6 fatty acids, tryptophan, tyrosine, thiamine (see Chelation therapy), vitamin B12, and zinc. The results of several trials with children diagnosed as having autism spectrum disorder (ASD) treated with high dose vitamin B6 and magnesium did not result in treatment effect on the severity of symptoms of ASD. There is limited evidence that vitamin D supplementation is of value in alleviating the symptoms of depression in individuals who are vitamin D-deficient. 
Does glutathione improve the tolerability of chemotherapy for cancer? [SEP] They can also give cause to reduce or discontinue chemotherapy. The mechanisms, side effects, and symptom duration for each of these groups are summarized below.1) Platinum-based compounds, namely oxaliplatin, cisplatin, and carboplatin (which is noticeably less neurotoxic than cisplatin), are used to treat several types of solid tumors, such as stomach, liver, lung, ovarian, brain, and uterine cancers. The US National Institutes of Health, Office of Dietary Supplements, raises a concern that co-administration of vitamin E could counter the mechanisms of anti-cancer radiation therapy and some types of chemotherapy, and so advises against its use in these patient populations. The references it cited reported instances of reduced treatment adverse effects, but also poorer cancer survival, raising the possibility of tumor protection from the intended oxidative damage by the treatments. An inverse relationship between dietary vitamin E and lung cancer was reported in observational studies. Conversely, the SELECT trial of selenium and vitamin E for prostate cancer enrolled men ages 55 or older, mostly non-smokers, to consume a placebo or a 400 IU/day dietary supplement. One review reported a modest increase in cancer risk with vitamin E supplementation while stating that more than 90% of the cited clinical trials used the synthetic, racemic form dl-alpha-tocopherol. Nilutamide monotherapy is known to eventually induce gynecomastia in 40 to 80% of men treated with it for prostate cancer, usually within 6 to 9 months of treatment initiation.Relative to other NSAAs, nilutamide has been uniquely associated with mild and reversible visual disturbances (31–58%) including delayed ocular adaptation to darkness and impaired color vision, a disulfiram-like alcohol intolerance (19%), interstitial pneumonitis (0.77–2.4%) (which can result in dyspnea (1%) as a secondary effect and can progress to pulmonary fibrosis), and hepatitis (1%), and has a higher incidence of nausea and vomiting compared to other NSAAs. 
Does carnosine relieve autism symptoms in children? [SEP] A series of five children with cerebral folate deficiency and low functioning autism with neurological deficits found a complete reduction of ASD symptoms with the use of folinic acid in a child and substantial improvements in communication in two other children. Several other treatments that have antioxidant properties, including carnosine, have also been reported to significantly improve ASD behaviors, suggesting that treatment of oxidative stress could be beneficial for children with ASD. The review found that CBT was moderately to highly effective at reducing anxiety in school children with autism spectrum disorder, but that effects varied depending on whether they were reported by clinicians, parents or self-reported. It has been used for decades to treat children with several unrelated neurologic disorders, including autism. In small studies, memantine has been shown to significantly improve language function and social behavior in children with autism. Diets and dietary supplements
1990s hypotheses
In the early 1990s, it was hypothesized that autism could be caused or aggravated by opioid peptides like casomorphine that are metabolic products of gluten and casein. Several other supplements were hypothesized 'to relieve autism symptoms', including BDTH2, carnosine, cholesterol, cyproheptadine, D-cycloserine, folic acid, glutathione, metallothionein promoters, other PUFA such as omega-6 fatty acids, tryptophan, tyrosine, thiamine (see Chelation therapy), vitamin B12, and zinc. A 2018 review concluded that it may be a therapeutic option for specific groups of children with autism, such as those with known food intolerances or allergies, or with food intolerance markers. 
Can echinacea protect against Sars-CoV-2 infection or help treat covid-19? [SEP] The drink has been exported to other African countries.Based on in-vitro studies, extracts of E. purpurea (Echinaforce) showed virucidal activity against coronaviruses, including SARS-CoV-2. As a result, regulatory agencies have not recommended the use of Echinacea preparations for the prophylaxis and treatment of COVID-19. Some Plains tribes used Echinacea for cold symptoms. Infectious diseases
Echinacea preparations have been advocated as antimicrobials and immunomodulators. Echinacea extracts inhibited growth of three species of trypanosomatids: Leishmania donovani, Leishmania major, and Trypanosoma brucei.While one 2014 systematic review found that Echinacea products are not effective to treat or prevent the common cold, a 2016 meta-analysis found tentative evidence that use of Echinacea extracts reduced the risk of repeated respiratory infections. A 2015 monograph by the European Medicines Agency stated that oral consumption of "expressed juice" or dried expressed juice of Echinacea could prevent or reduce symptoms of a common cold at its onset. Well-controlled clinical trials are limited and low in quality, with little scientific evidence that Echinacea supplement products are useful for treating any disease.According to Cancer Research UK, "There is no scientific evidence to show that echinacea can help treat, prevent or cure cancer in any way. Some therapists have claimed that echinacea can help relieve side effects from cancer treatments such as chemotherapy and radiotherapy, but this has not been proven either. 
Does amygdalin, the toxin from the seeds of apricots and other stone fruits, help against cancer? [SEP] Of current research interest for its potential anti-carcinogenic properties. High in omega-3 and lignans, which can be used medicinally. A topic of current medical research for treating and preventing cancer. The oil has been shown to be effective in treating certain cancers. It is not likely that the acrylamides in burnt or well-cooked food causes cancer in humans. The diet of flamingos is rich in carotenoids, imparting the orange-colored feathers of these birds.Reviews of preliminary research in 2015 indicated that foods high in carotenoids may reduce the risk of head and neck cancers and prostate cancer. Sharks can get cancer. These foods may actually have a protective effect. 
Can ginkgo extract relieve the symptoms of tinnitus? [SEP] It is commonly prescribed for balance disorders or to alleviate vertigo symptoms. There have been studies of the use of betahistine which showed a reduction in symptoms of vertigo and to a lesser extent, tinnitus, in subjects, but conclusive evidence is lacking at present. The Cochrane Library concluded in 2001 that “Most trials suggested a reduction of vertigo with betahistine and some suggested a reduction in tinnitus but all these effects may have been caused by bias in the methods. One trial with good methods showed no effect of betahistine on tinnitus compared with placebo in 35 patients. Betahistine seems to dilate the blood vessels within the inner ear which can relieve pressure from excess fluid and act on the smooth muscle. High doses may result in ringing in the ears.A precursor to aspirin found in the bark of the willow tree (genus Salix) has been used for its health effects for at least 2,400 years. Willow bark extract became recognized for its specific effects on fever, pain, and inflammation in the mid-eighteenth century. Central effects
Large doses of salicylate, a metabolite of aspirin, cause temporary tinnitus (ringing in the ears) based on experiments in rats, via the action on arachidonic acid and NMDA receptors cascade. 
Do remedies with ginkgo help against tinnitus in people with dementia? [SEP] Medical research
Although extracts of Ginkgo biloba leaf are often marketed as cognitive enhancers, there is no evidence for effects on memory or attention in healthy people. Systematic reviews have shown there is no evidence for effectiveness of ginkgo in treating high blood pressure, menopause-related cognitive decline, tinnitus, post-stroke recovery, or altitude sickness. There is weak preliminary evidence for ginkgo affecting dementia and tardive dyskinesia symptoms in people with schizophrenia. Ginkgo seeds, leaves, and nuts have traditionally been used to treat various ailments, such as dementia, asthma, bronchitis, and kidney and bladder disorders. However, there is no conclusive evidence that ginkgo is useful for any of these conditions.The European Medicines Agency Committee on Herbal Medicinal Products concluded that medicines containing ginkgo leaf can be used for treating mild age-related dementia and mild peripheral vascular disease in adults after serious conditions have been excluded by a physician. Tinnitus: pathophysiology and treatment. alternative medicine – Vitamin, antioxidant, and herbal preparations (notably Ginkgo biloba extract, also called EGb761) are advertised as treatments or cures for tinnitus. Tinnitus Retraining Therapy: Clinical Guidelines. 
Does garlic protect against corona infections? [SEP] Soap is effective at removing coronaviruses, but antibacterial soap is not better than plain soap. Claims that vinegar was more effective than hand sanitizer against the coronavirus were made in a video that was shared in Brazil. Steam inhalation was suggested as a cure for coronavirus infection that circulated on Facebook. Herbs and spices
Garlic was said to prevent COVID-19 on Facebook. There is no evidence that garlic protects against COVID-19. There is no evidence that this prevents or cures any coronavirus infection, Mark Kristoffer Pasayan, a fellow at the Philippine Society for Microbiology and Infectious Diseases, said. There is no firm evidence that Echinacea products or garlic provide any meaningful benefit in treating or preventing colds. Other viral pieces of misinformation include that Vitamin C and garlic could cure the virus even though this claim was never substantiated by health professionals. 
Does garlic protect against a cold (chill)?? [SEP] Although normal exposure to cold does not increase one's risk of infection, severe exposure leading to significant reduction of body temperature (hypothermia) may put one at a greater risk for the common cold; although controversial, the majority of evidence suggests that it may increase susceptibility to infection. Prevention
The only useful ways to reduce the spread of cold viruses are physical measures such as using correct hand washing technique and face masks; in the healthcare environment, gowns and disposable gloves are also used. There is a popular belief that having a hot drink can help with cold symptoms, but evidence to support this is very limited. Alternative medicine
While there are many alternative medicines and Chinese herbal medicines supposed to treat the common cold, there is insufficient scientific evidence to support their use. There is no firm evidence that Echinacea products or garlic provide any meaningful benefit in treating or preventing colds. Vitamins C and D
Vitamin C supplementation does not affect the incidence of the common cold, but may reduce its duration. The name "cold" came into use in the 16th century, due to the similarity between its symptoms and those of exposure to cold weather.In the United Kingdom, the Common Cold Unit (CCU) was set up by the Medical Research Council in 1946 and it was where the rhinovirus was discovered in 1956. Cold (寒; hán): cold sensations, aversion to cold, relief of symptoms by warmth, watery/clear excreta, severe pain, abdominal pain, contracture/hypertonicity of muscles, (slimy) white tongue fur, "deep"/"hidden" or "string-like" pulse, or slow pulse. 
Do dietary supplements with magnesium and/or zinc improve symptoms in children with ADHD? [SEP] ADHD stimulants also improve persistence and task performance in children with ADHD. A 2013 meta-analysis found less than a third of children with ADHD see some improvement in symptoms with free fatty acid supplementation or decreased eating of artificial food colouring. Chronic deficiencies of iron, magnesium and iodine may have a negative impact on ADHD symptoms. There is a small amount of evidence that lower tissue zinc levels may be associated with ADHD. In the absence of a demonstrated zinc deficiency (which is rare outside of developing countries), zinc supplementation is not recommended as treatment for ADHD. However, zinc supplementation may reduce the minimum effective dose of amphetamine when it is used with amphetamine for the treatment of ADHD. A 2012 meta-analysis found that zinc supplementation as an adjunct to antidepressant drug treatment significantly lowered depressive symptom scores of depressed patients. Zinc supplementation has been reported to improve symptoms of ADHD and depression. 
Does a nasal spray with carrageenan from red algae relieve discomfort from a cold ("chill")? [SEP] They can reduce inflammation and histamine production in the nasal passages, and have been shown to relieve nasal congestion, runny nose, itchy nose and sneezing. Natural nasal sprays that include chemical complexes derived from plant sources such as ginger, capsaicin and tea-tree oil are also available. Nasal sprays are locally acting drugs such as decongestants for cold and allergy treatment, whose systemic effects are usually minimal. Nasal sprays for local effect are quite common. Carrageenans or carrageenins ( KARR-ə-GHEE-nənz; from Irish  carraigín 'little rock') are a family of natural linear sulfated polysaccharides that are extracted from red edible seaweeds. Carrageenans, The Seaweed Site: information on marine algae. Uses
C. crispus is an industrial source of carrageenan commonly used as a thickener and stabilizer in milk products, such as ice cream and processed foods. Stabilizing substances
Carrageenan, from the red alga Chondrus crispus, is used as a stabilizer in milk products. 
Does a nasal spray with carrageenan from red algae prevent colds? [SEP] Many pharmaceutical drugs exist as nasal sprays for systemic administration (e.g. They can reduce inflammation and histamine production in the nasal passages, and have been shown to relieve nasal congestion, runny nose, itchy nose and sneezing. This is a form of nasal irrigation. They can also relieve nasal congestion and remove airborne irritants such as pollen and dust thereby providing sinus allergy relief. Natural nasal sprays that include chemical complexes derived from plant sources such as ginger, capsaicin and tea-tree oil are also available. Nasal sprays are locally acting drugs such as decongestants for cold and allergy treatment, whose systemic effects are usually minimal. Nasal sprays for local effect are quite common. Carrageenans or carrageenins ( KARR-ə-GHEE-nənz; from Irish  carraigín 'little rock') are a family of natural linear sulfated polysaccharides that are extracted from red edible seaweeds. 
Can the "Miracle Mineral Supplement" MMS (sodium chlorite) cure diseases or alleviate ailments? [SEP] Miracle Mineral Supplement, often referred to as Miracle Mineral Solution, Master Mineral Solution, MMS or the CD protocol, is a branded name for an aqueous solution of chlorine dioxide, an industrial bleaching agent, that has been falsely promoted as a cure for illnesses including HIV, cancer and the common cold. In August 2009, a Mexican woman travelling with her American husband on a yacht in Vanuatu took MMS to supposedly prevent malaria. In the UK, the Food Standards Agency released a warning, following the initial warnings from Health Canada and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, stating that "MMS is a 28% sodium chlorite solution which is equivalent to industrial-strength bleach. They also warned that patients affected by serious diseases could be tempted to stop their treatments in favour of this fraudulent treatment.A similar notice was released in July 2010 by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration warning that MMS, which is prepared by mixing sodium chlorite solution with an acid (such as the juice of citrus fruits), produces chlorine dioxide, "a potent bleach used for stripping textiles and industrial water treatment." However, the claim that MMS can cure COVID-19, or any other disease, is not based on any scientific evidence. Science activism
Miracle Mineral Supplement
Morgan first learned of Miracle Mineral Supplement (MMS) in 2010 after he was diagnosed with Crohn's disease and, while researching his condition, came across the Crohn's Disease Forum, a website run by a patient support group. One of these was a product called Miracle Mineral Solution (MMS), which was being advertised with claims that it cured cancer, AIDS, malaria, and a variety of other medical conditions. The EPA has set a maximum contaminant level of 1 milligram of chlorite per liter (1 mg/L) in drinking water.Sellers of “Miracle Mineral Solution”, a mixture of sodium chlorite and citric acid also known as "MMS" that is promoted as a cure-all have been convicted, fined, or otherwise disciplined in multiple jurisdictions around the world. 
Does MMS help with an infection with the coronavirus (Covid-19)? [SEP] Sellers sometimes describe MMS as a water purifier to circumvent medical regulations. In 2016, Humble said that MMS "cures nothing". In August 2009, a Mexican woman travelling with her American husband on a yacht in Vanuatu took MMS to supposedly prevent malaria. COVID-19
During the COVID-19 pandemic many previous promoters of MMS for other diseases, such as QAnon proponent Jordan Sather and the Genesis II Church of Health and Healing, began touting it as a cure for COVID-19. However, the claim that MMS can cure COVID-19, or any other disease, is not based on any scientific evidence. Bolivia
In Bolivia, officials in Cochabamba promoted MMS as a cure for COVID-19 and the Congress passed a bill to authorise “manufacture, marketing, supply and use of chlorine dioxide solution for the prevention and treatment of coronavirus”. From Germany, Rivera promoted MMS to treat COVID-19.MMS was a cure touted by an Australian couple targeting the Seattle area. Additionally, Baldwin allegedly said: "I don't call it 'MMS', I call it 'healing water', to protect myself ... Facebook has algorithms that can recognize 'MMS'. 
Does colloidal silver ("silver water") work against infection with the coronavirus or other pathogens? Does it have any other health benefits? [SEP] The antibacterial action of electrodes coated with silver nanostructures is greatly improved in the presence of an electric field.Silver, used as a topical antiseptic, is incorporated by bacteria it kills. : 29  The World Health Organization (WHO) includes silver in a colloidal state produced by electrolysis of silver electrodes in water, and colloidal silver in water filters as two of a number of water disinfection methods specified to provide safe drinking water in developing countries. Since about 1990, there has been a resurgence of the promotion of colloidal silver as a dietary supplement, marketed with claims of it being an essential mineral supplement, or that it can prevent or treat numerous diseases, such as cancer, diabetes, arthritis, HIV/AIDS, herpes, and tuberculosis. There is no evidence that colloidal silver treats or prevents any medical condition, and it can cause serious and potentially irreversible side effects such as argyria.In August 1999, the U.S. FDA banned colloidal silver sellers from claiming any therapeutic or preventive value for the product, although silver-containing products continue to be promoted as dietary supplements in the U.S. under the looser regulatory standards applied to supplements. Quackwatch states that colloidal silver dietary supplements have not been found safe or effective for the treatment of any condition. The Los Angeles Times stated that "colloidal silver as a cure-all is a fraud with a long history, with quacks claiming it could cure cancer, AIDS, tuberculosis, diabetes, and numerous other diseases".It may be illegal to market as preventing or treating cancer, and in some jurisdictions illegal to sell colloidal silver for consumption. This produced very favorable results when compared with its predecessors, silk and catgut.Prior to the introduction of modern antibiotics, colloidal silver was used as a germicide and disinfectant. "Integrative Medicine: Colloidal Silver". 
Is whole-body vibration therapy effective in preventing bone fractures in osteoporosis sufferers? [SEP] A 2018 meta-analysis showed that whole body vibration can improve bone mineral density in the lumbar spine of postmenopausal women as well as the femoral neck density of postmenopausal women younger than 65. Training effects
A 2018 meta-analysis concluded that whole body vibration improved lumbar spine bone mineral density (BMD) in postmenopausal women, and enhanced femoral neck BMD in postmenopausal women younger than 65 years.A review in 2014 concluded that there is little and inconsistent evidence that acute or chronic whole body vibration could improve the performance of competitive or elite athletes.Cochrane reviews have concluded that there is insufficient evidence of effect of whole body vibration training on functional performance of people with neurodegenerative disease, or in disease-related problems in people with fibromyalgia.Some research supports benefits for arthritis and knee pain. Physical therapy interventions were also designed to slow the rate of bone loss through home exercise programs.Whole body vibration therapy has also been suggested as a physical therapy intervention. Moderate to low-quality evidence indicates that whole body vibration therapy may reduce the risk of falls. There are conflicting reviews as to whether vibration therapy improves bone mineral density.Physical therapy can aid in overall prevention in the development of osteoporosis through therapeutic exercise. There is tentative evidence of benefit in males with osteoporosis.Fluoride supplementation does not appear to be effective in postmenopausal osteoporosis, as even though it increases bone density, it does not decrease the risk of fractures.Teriparatide (a recombinant parathyroid hormone) has been shown to be effective in treatment of women with postmenopausal osteoporosis. Some evidence also indicates strontium ranelate is effective in decreasing the risk of vertebral and nonvertebral fractures in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. Bone Health and Osteoporosis: A Report of the Surgeon General. 
Does regular gargling with antimicrobial mouthwashes protect against contracting coronavirus? Does it help get better faster if you have Covid 19 disease? [SEP] A fluoride mouthrinse can be used at a different time of the day to brushing.Gargling is where the head is tilted back, allowing the mouthwash to sit in the back of the mouth while exhaling, causing the liquid to bubble. Gargling is practiced in Japan for perceived prevention of viral infection. Some manufacturers of mouthwash state that their antiseptic and antiplaque mouthwashes kill the bacterial plaque that causes cavities, gingivitis, and bad breath. Povidone/iodine (PVP-I)
A 2005 study found that gargling three times a day with simple water or with a povidone-iodine solution was effective in preventing upper respiratory infection and decreasing the severity of symptoms if contracted. It is also the washing of one's mouth and throat with a liquid, such as mouthwash, that is kept in motion by breathing through it with a gurgling sound.A traditional home remedy of gargling warm saltwater is sometimes recommended to soothe a sore throat.One study in Japan has shown that gargling water a few times a day will lower the chance of upper respiratory infections such as common colds, though some medical authorities are skeptical. Gargling is practiced in Japan for perceived prevention of viral infection. Some manufacturers of mouthwash state that their antiseptic and antiplaque mouthwashes kill the bacterial plaque that causes cavities, gingivitis, and bad breath. Povidone/iodine (PVP-I)
A 2005 study found that gargling three times a day with simple water or with a povidone-iodine solution was effective in preventing upper respiratory infection and decreasing the severity of symptoms if contracted. 
Can inhalation with budesonide spray relieve symptoms of covid-19? [SEP] Medical uses
Asthma
Budesonide is given by metered-dose inhaler or nebulizer for maintenance and prophylactic treatment of asthma, including patients who require oral corticosteroids and those who may benefit from a systemic dose reduction. Allergic rhinitis
Budesonide in the form of nasal sprays is a treatment for allergic rhinitis. Research
COVID-19
Budesonide was recommended in April 2021 by the UK's NHS to treat COVID-19 on a case-by-case basis for those aged 50 years of age and older. After a University of Oxford research team found in a trial with 1,700 patients that budesonide could benefit many people over 50 with COVID-19 symptoms, it was recommended from 12 April 2021, by the National Health Service in the UK for general practitioners (GPs) to treat COVID-19 on a case-by-case basis. Results of a large-scale trial published in August 2021 suggest that inhaled budesonide improves the time of recovery and people's well-being during the recovery process. The recommendation was withdrawn in December 2021 citing the need for more research.Inhalational budesonide was added to the recommended treatment for cases of COVID-19 in India in April 2021. References
External links
"Budesonide Nasal Spray". "Budesonide Oral Inhalation". 
Can budesonide spray inhalation for covid-19 reduce the risk of hospitalization, severe or even fatal outcome? [SEP] Medical uses
Asthma
Budesonide is given by metered-dose inhaler or nebulizer for maintenance and prophylactic treatment of asthma, including patients who require oral corticosteroids and those who may benefit from a systemic dose reduction. Allergic rhinitis
Budesonide in the form of nasal sprays is a treatment for allergic rhinitis. Research
COVID-19
Budesonide was recommended in April 2021 by the UK's NHS to treat COVID-19 on a case-by-case basis for those aged 50 years of age and older. After a University of Oxford research team found in a trial with 1,700 patients that budesonide could benefit many people over 50 with COVID-19 symptoms, it was recommended from 12 April 2021, by the National Health Service in the UK for general practitioners (GPs) to treat COVID-19 on a case-by-case basis. Results of a large-scale trial published in August 2021 suggest that inhaled budesonide improves the time of recovery and people's well-being during the recovery process. The recommendation was withdrawn in December 2021 citing the need for more research.Inhalational budesonide was added to the recommended treatment for cases of COVID-19 in India in April 2021. References
External links
"Budesonide Nasal Spray". "Budesonide Oral Inhalation". 
Does a nasal spray with carrageenan from red algae prevent infection with coronavirus? Can it alleviate a covid 19 disease that has already broken out? [SEP] Carrageenans or carrageenins ( KARR-ə-GHEE-nənz; from Irish  carraigín 'little rock') are a family of natural linear sulfated polysaccharides that are extracted from red edible seaweeds. Carrageenan is a vegetarian and vegan alternative to gelatin in some applications, so may be used to replace gelatin in confectionery and other food. Many red algal species produce different types of carrageenans during their developmental history. The resulting carrageenan solution is then concentrated by evaporation. Uses and applications
Food and other domestic uses
Desserts, ice cream, cream, milkshakes, yogurts, salad dressings, sweetened condensed milks
Sauces: to increase viscosity
Beer: clarifier to remove haze-causing proteins
Pâtés and processed meats (e.g., ham): substitute for fat, increase water retention, increase volume, or improve slicing
Toothpaste: stabilizer to prevent constituents separatingFire fighting foam: thickener to cause foam to become sticky
Shampoo and cosmetic creams: thickener
Air freshener gels
Marbling: the ancient art of paper and fabric marbling uses a carrageenan mixture on which to float paints or inks; the paper or fabric is then laid on it, absorbing the colours
Shoe polish: to increase viscosity
Biotechnology: to immobilize cells and enzymes
Pharmaceuticals: used as an inactive excipient in pills and tablets
Soy milk and other plant milks: to thicken
Diet sodas: to enhance texture and suspend flavours
Pet food
Personal lubricants
Vegetarian hot dogs

Regulatory status
In the U.S., carrageenan is allowed under FDA regulations as a direct food additive and is considered safe when used in the amount necessary as an emulsifier, stabilizer, or thickener in foods, except those standardized foods that do not provide for such use. Carrageenans, The Seaweed Site: information on marine algae. Carrageenan may be extracted from tropical seaweeds of the genera Kappaphycus and Eucheuma. They contain the sulfated polysaccharide carrageenan in the amorphous sections of their cell walls, although red algae from the genus Porphyra contain porphyran. 
Does the product "BestProvita Diabetin" improve blood glucose levels in type 2 diabetes or does it prevent secondary diseases? [SEP] Apart from blood sugar control, gliflozins have been shown to provide significant cardiovascular benefit in patients with type II diabetes (T2DM). In studies on canagliflozin, a member of this class, the medication was found to enhance blood sugar control as well as reduce body weight and systolic and diastolic blood pressure. Medical uses
The 2022 ADA standards of medical care in diabetes include SGLT2 inhibitors as a first line pharmacological therapy for type 2 diabetes (usually together with metformin), specifically in patients with chronic kidney disease, cardiovascular disease or heart failure.A systematic review and network meta-analysis comparing SGLT-2 inhibitors, GLP-1 agonists, and DPP-4 inhibitors demonstrated that use of SGLT2 inhibitors was associated with a 20% reduction in death compared with placebo or no treatment. This oral medicine for type 2 diabetes has been shown to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death. Although exercise may not offer any direct benefit to lower blood glucose levels in those with type one diabetes, there are still many benefits such as a decreased risk of cardiovascular diseases, including blood pressure, lipid profiles, endothelial function, body composition and insulin sensitivity.The two most effective forms of exercise for people with type two diabetes are aerobic and resistance training. However, both type 1 and type 2 diabetics can see dramatic improvements in blood sugars through modifying their diet, and some type 2 diabetics can fully control the disease by dietary modification. Type 2 diabetes
In 2014, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved a qualified health claim for psyllium as a possible benefit for people with diabetes, requiring FDA-approved wording on a product label: "Psyllium husk may reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes, although the FDA has concluded that there is very little scientific evidence for this claim." A meta-analysis published after the FDA decision reported that psyllium provided before meals improved fasting blood glucose and glycated hemoglobin, but that the larger effect was seen in people diagnosed with and being treated for type 2 diabetes, and only a modest improvement for people classified as pre-diabetic. 
Do blueberries improve blood sugar levels in type 2 diabetes or do they prevent secondary diseases? [SEP] Wines can be made by fermentation of other fruit crops such as plum, cherry, pomegranate, blueberry, currant and elderberry. Dessert
This refers to sweet wines that have a high level of sugar remaining after fermentation. There are various ways of increasing the amount of sugar in a wine, yielding products with different strengths and names. From other fruits and foods
Fruit
Wines from other fruits, such as apples and berries, are usually named after the fruit from which they are produced, and combined with the word "wine" (for example, apple wine and elderberry wine) and are generically called fruit wine or country wine (similar to French term vin de pays). Other than the grape varieties traditionally used for wine-making, most fruits naturally lack either sufficient fermentable sugars, proper amount of acidity, yeast amounts needed to promote or maintain fermentation, or a combination of these three materials. The sweetness of wine is determined by the amount of residual sugar in the wine after fermentation, relative to the acidity present in the wine. Dry wine, for example, has only a small amount of residual sugar. Some studies have concluded that drinking small quantities of alcohol (less than one drink daily in women and two drinks daily in men) is associated with a decreased risk of heart disease, stroke, diabetes mellitus, and early death. 
Do self-performed nasal drill tests in symptom-free individuals detect coronavirus infection as reliably as professionally performed rapid tests using swabs from the nasopharynx? [SEP] Etymology
The name "coronavirus" is derived from Latin corona, meaning "crown" or "wreath", itself a borrowing from Greek κορώνη korṓnē, "garland, wreath". This morphology is created by the viral spike peplomers, which are proteins on the surface of the virus.The scientific name Coronavirus was accepted as a genus name by the International Committee for the Nomenclature of Viruses (later renamed International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses) in 1971. The spikes are the most distinguishing feature of coronaviruses and are responsible for the corona- or halo-like surface. Genome
Coronaviruses contain a positive-sense, single-stranded RNA genome. Coronaviruses can cause colds with major symptoms, such as fever, and a sore throat from swollen adenoids. Common cold
Although the common cold is usually caused by rhinoviruses, in about 15% of cases the cause is a coronavirus. Diagnosis
The standard method of testing for presence of SARS-CoV-2 is a nucleic acid test, which detects the presence of viral RNA fragments. The test is typically done on respiratory samples obtained by a nasopharyngeal swab; however, a nasal swab or sputum sample may also be used. 
Are rapid antigen tests as reliable as slower PCR tests? Does a negative (inconspicuous) rapid test result reliably exclude an infection with the coronavirus? [SEP] Rapid tests generally give a result in 5 to 30 minutes, require minimal training or infrastructure, and have significant cost advantages. Rapid antigen tests for the detection of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, have been commonly used during the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the tests have a sensitivity of 70%-72%, which is lower than COVID-19 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests' sensitivity of 88%-96%. Médecins Sans Frontières strongly endorsed the use of rapid tests in lower- and middle-income countries, noting "COVID-19 antigen tests can deliver rapid and actionable results, ensuring timely identification of people infected with the virus at the community level". COVID-19 rapid antigen tests (RATs) detect antigenic proteins on the surface of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus. Both studies suggested that rapid antigen mass testing helped to suppress the pandemic in the country, although according to the former study the effect of mass testing on the pandemic was temporary and started to dissipate after about two weeks.The United Kingdom continued their ongoing rapid test development programme using the Innova rapid test, with increasing urgency as COVID-19 cases increased across Europe. Stella Kyriakides, commissioner for Health and Food Safety, said "Rapid antigen tests offer us speed, reliability and quick responses to isolate COVID cases. 2021
By January 2021, the Council of the European Union advocated greater use of rapid tests, noting that "should research prove that rapid antigen tests can be conducted by the testee themselves.... self-testing with or without professional guidance could also be considered." 
Does CBD help with sleep disorders? [SEP] As of 2019, clinical research on CBD included studies related to anxiety, cognition, movement disorders, and pain, but there is insufficient high-quality evidence that cannabidiol is effective for these conditions. However, despite the numerous case reports presented by veterinary neurologists supporting the benefits of CBD as adjunctive therapy, as of December 2020, published controlled studies have not shown a statistically significant decrease in the number of seizures across the groups receiving CBD. CBD has been shown to act as a serotonin 5-HT1A receptor partial agonist. Sleep
Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC)
While the psychoactive component THC, has been shown to reduce time to get to sleep, studies indicate disrupted circadian rhythms when using THC. Furthermore, THC is shown to have a quicker development of tolerance to sleep-inducing effects. It is worth noting that synthetic THC has also shown the same effects of developed tolerance to sleep latency effects.However, individuals diagnosed with high PTSD scores have endorsed the use of medical cannabis for sleeping. In laboratory studies with rats, CBD has been shown to reduce sleep latency due to anxiety in REM sleep, with no negative changes to other aspects of sleep. While THC can induce psychotic symptoms in healthy individuals, limited evidence suggests that CBD may have antipsychotic effects. 
Are heavy (ex-)smokers less likely to die of lung cancer if they regularly participate in lung cancer screening by computed tomography (CT)? [SEP] Screening
Some countries recommend that people who are at a high risk of developing lung cancer be screened at different intervals using low-dose CT lung scans. There is evidence that regular low-dose CT scans in people at high risk of developing lung cancer reduces total lung cancer deaths by as much as 20%. The European Commission recommends that cancer screening programs across the European Union be extended to include low-dose CT lung scans for current or previous smokers. Lung cancer screening is critically important because of the incidence and prevalence of lung cancer. Current guidelines
The 2021 U.S. Preventive Services Task Force guidelines recommends annual screening for lung cancer with low-dose computed tomography in adults aged 50 to 80 years who have a 20 pack-year smoking history and currently smoke or have quit within the past 15 years. It has been estimated that radiation exposure from repeated screening studies could induce cancer formation in a small percentage of screened subjects, so this risk should be mitigated by a (relatively) high prevalence of lung cancer in the population being screened. This trial led to a recommendation in the United States that CT screening be used on people at high risk for developing lung cancer in an effort to detect the cancer earlier and reduce mortality. A comprehensive evidence review by the European Commission's Scientific Advice Mechanism recommended lung cancer screening for current and ex-smokers, combined with smoking cessation programmes. 
Can lung cancer screening by computed tomography (CT) also do harm??? [SEP] Adverse effects
Cancer
The radiation used in CT scans can damage body cells, including DNA molecules, which can lead to radiation-induced cancer. Screening for cancer can lead to cancer prevention and earlier diagnosis. In general, cancer screening has risks and should not be done except with a medical indication.Different kinds of cancer screening procedures have different risks, but good tests share some characteristics. Screening
Some countries recommend that people who are at a high risk of developing lung cancer be screened at different intervals using low-dose CT lung scans. Screening programs may result in early detection of lung tumors in people who are not yet experiencing symptoms of lung cancer, ideally, early enough that the tumors can be successfully treated and result in decreased mortality. There is evidence that regular low-dose CT scans in people at high risk of developing lung cancer reduces total lung cancer deaths by as much as 20%. The European Commission recommends that cancer screening programs across the European Union be extended to include low-dose CT lung scans for current or previous smokers. The rationale behind this decision is that further testing (specifically CT angiogram of the chest) may cause more harm (from radiation exposure and contrast dye) than the risk of PE. 
Does hydroxychloroquine reduce the likelihood of dying from covid-19 disease? [SEP] By May 2020, France, Italy, and Belgium had banned the use of hydroxychloroquine as a COVID‑19 treatment.In June, initial results from the randomised RECOVERY Trial in the United Kingdom showed that dexamethasone reduced mortality by one third for people who are critically ill on ventilators and one fifth for those receiving supplemental oxygen. On March 28, the FDA issued an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) which allowed certain hospitalized COVID-19 patients to be treated with hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine. On June 15, the FDA revoked the EUA for hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine as potential treatments for COVID-19, saying the available evidence showed "no benefit for decreasing the likelihood of death or speeding recovery". Chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine
There were claims that chloroquine was used to cure more than 12,000 COVID-19 patients in Nigeria.On 11 March 2020, Adrian Bye, a tech startup leader who is not a doctor, suggested to cryptocurrency investors Gregory Rigano and James Todaro that "chloroquine will keep most people out of hospital". Hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine
In early March, President Trump directed the FDA to test certain medications to discover if they had the potential to treat COVID-19 patients. One of Didier's COVID-19 studies was later retracted by the International Journal of Antimicrobial Agents.On March 28, the FDA issued an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) which allowed certain hospitalized COVID-19 patients to be treated with hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine. On June 15, the FDA revoked the EUA for hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine as potential treatments for COVID-19. On July 1, the FDA published a review of safety issues associated with the drugs, including fatal cardiac arrhythmias among other side effects.In late July, President Trump continued to promote the use of hydroxychloroquine for COVID-19. 
Does hydroxychloroquine prevent covid-19 infection??? [SEP] Chloroquine, along with hydroxychloroquine, was an early  experimental treatment for COVID-19. Hydroxychloroquine inhibits the action of cathepsin L in endolysosomes, but because cathepsin L cleavage is minor compared to TMPRSS2 cleavage, hydroxychloroquine does little to inhibit SARS-CoV-2 infection.Several countries initially used chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine for treatment of persons hospitalized with COVID-19 (as of March 2020), though the drug was not  formally approved through clinical trials. In fall of 2020, the National Institutes of Health issued treatment guidelines recommending against the use of hydroxychloroquine for COVID-19 except as part of a clinical trial.In 2021, hydroxychloroquine was part of the recommended treatment for mild cases in India.In 2020, the speculative use of hydroxychloroquine for COVID-19 threatened its availability for people with established indications (malaria and auto-immune diseases). Beginning in March 2020, Trump began promoting hydroxychloroquine to prevent or treat COVID-19, citing small numbers of anecdotal reports. The authors came to the conclusion that no further trials of hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine for treatment of COVID-19 should be carried out.On 26 April 2021, in its amended clinical management protocol for COVID-19, the Indian Ministry of Health lists hydroxycholoquine for use in patients during the early course of the disease. Researchers supporting prophylactic administration of hydroxychloquine note that results from human trials have suggested that hydroxychloroquine may decrease the duration of both viral shedding and symptoms if the drug is administered early.On 3 June, results were published from a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of 821 participants which found that hydroxychloroquine did not prevent symptomatic COVID-19 illness when used for post-exposure prophylaxis. A randomized, multicenter, placebo-controlled trial amongst healthcare workers found that oral hydroxychloroquine did not help prevent COVID-19 infections when used as pre-exposure prophylaxis.British researchers are studying whether the drug is effective when used for prevention. COVID-19
References
External links

"Hydroxychloroquine". 
Do preparations containing rockrose have a preventive or soothing effect on colds (chills) and other upper respiratory tract infections? Can they protect against infections with the coronavirus? [SEP] Rock rose, rock-rose, and rockrose are common names of various plants, including:

Cistaceae
Cistus
Halimium
Helianthemum
Pavonia lasiopetala
Phemeranthus
Portulaca grandiflora Cistus × purpureus, commonly known as orchid rockrose, is one of the most commonly cultivated varieties of rockrose. There are many methods for prevention of disease. Effectiveness
There is no general consensus as to whether or not preventive healthcare measures are cost-effective, but they increase the quality of life dramatically. Preventive care can lead to improved health outcomes and cost savings potential. Preventive care can be a good investment as supported by the evidence base and can drive population health management objectives. The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation evaluated the prevention cost-effectiveness literature, and found that many preventive measures meet the benchmark of <$100,000 per QALY and are considered to be favorably cost-effective. Ahweh bayda is traditionally thought to have a soothing effect when taken. 
Can Medistus Antivirus Lozenges protect against colds, flu, covid-19, or other respiratory infections? [SEP] Antibiotics, however, should not be used, as all colds are caused by viruses, and there is no good evidence that cough medicines are effective.The common cold is the most frequent infectious disease in humans. Intranasal corticosteroids have not been found to be useful.In adults short term use of nasal decongestants may have a small benefit. Antibiotics and antivirals
Antibiotics have no effect against viral infections, including the common cold. Research directions
Antivirals have been tested for effectiveness in the common cold; as of 2009, none had been both found effective and licensed for use. Antibiotics, however, should not be used, as all colds are caused by viruses, and there is no good evidence that cough medicines are effective.The common cold is the most frequent infectious disease in humans. Intranasal corticosteroids have not been found to be useful.In adults short term use of nasal decongestants may have a small benefit. Research directions
Antivirals have been tested for effectiveness in the common cold; as of 2009, none had been both found effective and licensed for use. Cough drops and throat sprays may be beneficial for sore throat. 
Does Spirulina help with obesity? [SEP] Pseudovitamin B12 is the majority corrinoid in spirulina, an algal health food sometimes erroneously claimed as having this vitamin activity. Most cyanobacteria, including Spirulina, and some algae, such as Porphyra tenera (used to make a dried seaweed food called nori in Japan), have been found to contain mostly pseudovitamin-B12 instead of biologically active B12. A Mayo Clinic review concluded that there is no solid evidence that vitamin B12 injections provide an energy boost or aid weight loss.There is evidence that for elderly people, physicians often repeatedly prescribe and administer cyanocobalamin injections inappropriately, evidenced by the majority of subjects in one large study either having had normal serum concentrations or had not been tested prior to the injections. Juice provides nutrients such as carotenoids, polyphenols and vitamin  C that offer health benefits.High consumption of fruit juice with added sugar may be linked to weight gain, but not all studies have shown this effect. ), vitamins (Vitamin C, B vitamins, vitamin A, etc. They also play a large role in the production of anti-inflammatory eicosanoids, which has been shown to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and other inflammatory diseases. Improper or excluded caloric information and body weight recommendations increase the risk of energy over-consumption leading to obesity. Such diets have been associated with benefits such as improved coat condition, allergy control, weight control, increased overall health and vitality, arthritis regression, diabetes regression, cataract resolution, and decreased incidences of endocrine diseases like hypothyroidism. 
Does spirulina have a health-promoting effect??? [SEP] Purslane contains more Omega 3 than any other known leafy green. However, certain algae such as spirulina are good sources of gamma-linolenic acid (GLA), alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), linoleic acid (LA), stearidonic acid (SDA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), and arachidonic acid (AA). Pseudovitamin B12 is the majority corrinoid in spirulina, an algal health food sometimes erroneously claimed as having this vitamin activity. Most cyanobacteria, including Spirulina, and some algae, such as Porphyra tenera (used to make a dried seaweed food called nori in Japan), have been found to contain mostly pseudovitamin-B12 instead of biologically active B12. While cyanobacteria can naturally produce various secondary metabolites, they can serve as advantageous hosts for plant-derived metabolites production owing to biotechnological advances in systems biology and synthetic biology.Spirulina's extracted blue color is used as a natural food coloring.Researchers from several space agencies argue that cyanobacteria could be used for producing goods for human consumption in future crewed outposts on Mars, by transforming materials available on this planet. Human nutrition
Some cyanobacteria are sold as food, notably Arthrospira platensis (Spirulina) and others (Aphanizomenon flos-aquae).Some microalgae contain substances of high biological value, such as polyunsaturated fatty acids, amino acids, proteins, pigments, antioxidants, vitamins, and minerals. One feasible blue dye currently in use is derived from spirulina. For instance Spirulina contains numerous polyunsaturated fats (Omega 3 and 6), amino acids, and vitamins, as well as pigments that may be beneficial, such as beta-carotene and chlorophyll. 
Does gargling with hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) help against coronavirus or others in throat infections? [SEP] Hydrogen peroxide
Hydrogen peroxide can be used as an oxidizing mouthwash (e.g. Povidone/iodine (PVP-I)
A 2005 study found that gargling three times a day with simple water or with a povidone-iodine solution was effective in preventing upper respiratory infection and decreasing the severity of symptoms if contracted. Generally, hydrogen peroxide is considered as potent virucide in appropriate concentrations, specifically in other forms such as gaseous.Another example is Povidone-iodine (PVP-I), which is found to be effective against herpes simplex virus or SARS-CoV-2, and other viruses, but coxsackievirus and polio was rather resistant or less sensitive to inactivation. A mixture of 62–71% ethanol, 0.5% hydrogen peroxide or 0.1% sodium hypochlorite is found to be able to deactivate the novel Coronavirus on surfaces within 1 minute.A 2020 systematic review on hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) mouth-washes concludes, that they don't have an effect on virucidal activity, recommending that "dental care protocols during the COVID-19 pandemic should be revised." Hydrogen peroxide is also used for tooth whitening. Oral cleaning agent
The use of dilute hydrogen peroxide as a oral cleansing agent has been reviewed academically to determine its usefulness in treating gingivitis and plaque. Hydrogen peroxide is also used for tooth whitening. Oral cleaning agent
The use of dilute hydrogen peroxide as a oral cleansing agent has been reviewed academically to determine its usefulness in treating gingivitis and plaque. 
Does gargling with hydrogen peroxide have health risks? [SEP] Dangerous misuse
If one drinks mouthwash, serious harm and even death can quickly result from the high alcohol content and other harmful substances in mouthwash. Hydrogen peroxide
Hydrogen peroxide can be used as an oxidizing mouthwash (e.g. Gargling, nasal rinses, and inhalation
Inhaling bleach or other disinfectants is dangerous and will not protect against COVID-19. They cite research using hydrogen peroxide to sterilize surfaces, incorrectly asserting that it can therefore be used to clean human airways. Inhalation of hydrogen peroxide can cause upper airway irritation, hoarseness, inflammation of the nose, and burning sensations in the chest. At high concentrations, inhaling hydrogen peroxide can cause permanent neurological damage or death. It was reported a case of possible side effect related to chronic (during 5 years) and subacute hydrogen peroxide inhalation use which lead to interstitial lung disease in the form of acute pneumonitis. A mixture of 62–71% ethanol, 0.5% hydrogen peroxide or 0.1% sodium hypochlorite is found to be able to deactivate the novel Coronavirus on surfaces within 1 minute.A 2020 systematic review on hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) mouth-washes concludes, that they don't have an effect on virucidal activity, recommending that "dental care protocols during the COVID-19 pandemic should be revised." 
Can vitamin C prevent infection with coronavirus or prevent deaths from covid-19? [SEP] Vitamin D
In February 2020, claims that Vitamin D pills could help prevent COVID-19 circulated on social media in Thailand. Vitamin C
During the COVID-19 pandemic, vitamin C was the subject of more FDA warning letters than any other quack treatment for COVID-19. COVID-19 vaccination reduces the risk of long COVID, but by how much is unclear, as the available studies differ widely and are of limited quality. COVID-19
As of April 2021 the US National Institutes of Health state there is insufficient evidence to recommend for or against using vitamin D supplementation to prevent or treat COVID-19. Another meta-analysis stated that the use of high doses of vitamin D in people with COVID-19 is not based on solid evidence although calcifediol supplementation may have a protective effect on ICU admissions. Another fake news recommends intake of Vitamin C and drinking frequent sips of water as a preventive measure for coronavirus infection.Indian National Congress leader and Member of Parliament from Vatakara constituency, K. Muraleedharan claimed that the SARS Cov-2 virus cannot survive temperatures exceeding 30°C.Indian Union Muslim League MLA and medical graduate, M. K. Muneer, claimed in the Kerala Assembly that Indians have a special and tough immune system due to living amidst filth and pollution, and were relatively safe from the virus infection.A post on Facebook claimed falsely that if someone takes a deep breath and holds their breath for more than 10 seconds without coughing, without discomfort, stiffness or tightness, it proves there is no fibrosis in the lungs caused by COVID-19, therefore indicating no infection.The claim that the vibration generated by clapping together during Janata curfew will kill the virus was debunked by the media. UV-C light cannot be used on humans to kill the COVID-19 virus. There is no evidence that vitamin C was effective against coronaviruses, nor are lemons the fruit with the most vitamin C content, said Henry Chenal, director of the Integrated Bioclinical Research Centre (CIRBA) in Abidjan, Ivory Coast. 
Does vitamin D prevent covid-19 disease? Does vitamin D mitigate the course of Covid 19 disease? [SEP] Vitamin D
In February 2020, claims that Vitamin D pills could help prevent COVID-19 circulated on social media in Thailand. Some conspiracy theorists have claimed that vitamin D was being intentionally suppressed as a preventative option by governments.One meta-analysis found weak evidence that increased vitamin D levels may reduce the likelihood of intensive care admission for people with COVID 19; but found no effect of mortality.A preprint of a journal article from Indonesia purporting to show a beneficial effect of vitamin D for COVID-19 went viral across social media, and was cited several times in mainstream academic literature, including in a recommendation from NICE. Vitamin D
During the COVID-19 pandemic, there has been interest in vitamin D status and supplements, given the significant overlap in the risk factors for severe COVID-19 and vitamin D deficiency. These include obesity, older age, and Black or Asian ethnic origin, and it is notable that vitamin D deficiency is particularly common within these groups.The National Institutes of Health (NIH) COVID-19 Treatment Guidelines states "there is insufficient evidence to recommend either for or against the use of vitamin D for the prevention or treatment of COVID-19. As of February 2021, the English National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) continued to recommend small doses of supplementary vitamin D for people with little exposure to sunshine, but recommended that practitioners should not offer a vitamin D supplement solely to prevent or treat COVID-19, except as part of a clinical trial.Multiple studies have reported links between pre-existing vitamin D deficiency and the severity of the disease. Several systematic reviews and meta-analyses of these show that vitamin D deficiency may be associated with a higher probability of becoming infected with COVID-19, and have clearly demonstrated there are significant associations between deficiency and a greater severity of the disease, including relative increases in hospitalization and mortality rates of about 80%. The quality of some of the studies included and whether this demonstrates a causal relationship has been questioned.Many clinical trials are underway or have been completed assessing the use of oral vitamin D and its metabolites such as calcifediol for prevention or treatment of COVID-19 infection, especially in people with vitamin D deficiency.The effects of oral vitamin D supplementation on the need for intensive care unit (ICU) admission and mortality in hospitalized COVID-19 patients has been the subject of a meta-analysis. The certainty of these analyses is limited by the heterogenicity in the studies which include both vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) and calcifediol, but these findings indicate a potential role in improving COVID-19 severity, with more robust data being required to substantiate any effects on mortality.Calcifediol, which is 25-hydroxyvitamin D, is more quickly activated, and has been used in several trials. 
Is plasma therapy for covid-19 effective in preventing deaths? [SEP] An updated Cochrane review in May 2021 found high certainty evidence that, for the treatment of people with moderate to severe COVID‑19, convalescent plasma did not reduce mortality or bring about symptom improvement. There continues to be uncertainty about the safety of convalescent plasma administration to people with COVID‑19 and differing outcomes measured in different studies limits their use in determining efficacy. "Guidelines on the Treatment and Management of Patients with COVID-19". Therapeutics and COVID-19: living guideline, 14 January 2022 (Report). In reaction, convalescent blood plasma was considered as a possibility and is used as a treatment option at least for severe cases. The World Health Organization recommended against use of plasma in COVID-19 in December 2021.Monoclonal antibodies (Casirivimab/imdevimab) were developed for the treatment of COVID-19.On June 7, 2021, the FDA approved Aducanumab, the first Alzheimer's drug in 20 years. According to a June 2022 study, COVID‑19 vaccines prevented an additional 14.4 to 19.8 million deaths in 185 countries and territories from 8 December 2020 to 8 December 2021. Convalescent plasma therapy was dropped form the COVID-19 treatment protocol by ICMR in mid May 2021.In June 2020, India approved the repurposing of generic versions of the antiviral medication favipiravir for the treatment of mild-to-moderate COVID-19 symptoms by Glenmark, Cipla and the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology and Lupin Limited. 
Does treatment with cortisone-like drugs such as dexamethasone ensure that more critically ill patients survive Covid 19 disease? [SEP] COVID-19
Dexamethasone is recommended by the National Health Service in the UK and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in the US for people with COVID-19 who need either mechanical ventilation or supplemental oxygen (without ventilation).The Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) guideline panel suggests the use of glucocorticoids for people with severe COVID-19, defined as people with SpO2 ≤94% on room air, and those who require supplemental oxygen, mechanical ventilation, or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). A meta-analysis of seven clinical trials of critically ill COVID-19 participants, each treated with one of three different corticosteroids found a statistically significant reduction in death. Although dexamethasone, and other glucocorticoids, reduce mortality in COVID-19 they have also been associated with an increased risk of secondary infections, secondary infections being a significant issue in critically ill COVID-19 patients.The mechanism of action of dexamethasone involves suppression of late-stage interferon type I programs in severe COVID-19 patients. In September 2020, the WHO released updated guidance on using corticosteroids for COVID-19.In July 2020, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) started reviewing results from the RECOVERY study arm that involved the use of dexamethasone in the treatment of patients with COVID-19 admitted to the hospital to provide an opinion on the results and in particular the potential use of dexamethasone for the treatment of adults with COVID-19. Research
COVID-19
Hydrocortisone was found to be effective in reducing mortality rate of critically ill COVID-19 patients when compared to other usual care or a placebo. COVID-19
Dexamethasone is recommended by the National Health Service in the UK and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in the US for people with COVID-19 who need either mechanical ventilation or supplemental oxygen (without ventilation).The Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) guideline panel suggests the use of glucocorticoids for people with severe COVID-19, defined as people with SpO2 ≤94% on room air, and those who require supplemental oxygen, mechanical ventilation, or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). Although dexamethasone, and other glucocorticoids, reduce mortality in COVID-19 they have also been associated with an increased risk of secondary infections, secondary infections being a significant issue in critically ill COVID-19 patients.The mechanism of action of dexamethasone involves suppression of late-stage interferon type I programs in severe COVID-19 patients. In September 2020, the WHO released updated guidance on using corticosteroids for COVID-19.In July 2020, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) started reviewing results from the RECOVERY study arm that involved the use of dexamethasone in the treatment of patients with COVID-19 admitted to the hospital to provide an opinion on the results and in particular the potential use of dexamethasone for the treatment of adults with COVID-19. 
Can contact with holy water make you sick? [SEP] Biblical texts
The chief biblical text concerning the rite is the Epistle of James (James 5:14–15): "Is any among you sick? The Apostle Paul was also filled with the Holy Spirit when Ananias of Damascus laid hands on him, and afterwards Paul was baptized with water.Later in Acts, Peter preached the gospel to the household of Cornelius the Centurion, a gentile. Further reading
Hayford, Jack W. Baptism with the Holy Spirit. The Baptism With The Holy Spirit. Anointing of the sick is prescribed in this passage in the New Testament:

Is any sick among you? The water may derive from one of the holy rivers or be scented with saffron, turmeric, or flower infusions; the waste water produced when cleaning certain idols or when writing certain verses of scripture may also be used. If you do not have running water, then baptize in still water. The ship is usually sprinkled with holy water. 
Can Echinacea protect against colds? [SEP] There is no firm evidence that Echinacea products or garlic provide any meaningful benefit in treating or preventing colds. A 2007 review states that, "alternative therapies (i.e., Echinacea, vitamin C, and zinc) are not recommended for treating common cold symptoms; however,...Vitamin C prophylaxis may modestly reduce the duration and severity of the common cold in the general population and may reduce the incidence of the illness in persons exposed to physical and environmental stresses." A 2014 review also found insufficient evidence for Echinacea, where no clinical relevance was proven to provide benefit for treating the common cold, despite a weak benefit for positive trends. According to Wallace Sampson, MD, its modern-day use as a treatment for the common cold began when a Swiss herbal supplement maker was "erroneously told" that echinacea was used for cold prevention by Native American tribes who lived in the area of South Dakota. Although Native American tribes didn't use echinacea to prevent the common cold, some Plains tribes did use echinacea to treat some of the symptoms that could be caused by the common cold: The Kiowa used it for coughs and sore throats, the Cheyenne for sore throats, the Pawnee for headaches, and many tribes including the Lakotah used it as an analgesic. Due to this property, echinacea has been commercialized and has had clinical trials support that it reduces the duration of a cold by 1–4 days and reduces the chance of developing a cold by 58%. Many people take echinacea for cold and flu-like symptoms, but studies show that the plant has had mixed success fighting these viruses. NCCAM is currently studying echinacea for the treatment of upper respiratory infections as well as its effect on the immune system. 
Can echinacea relieve the discomfort of colds??? [SEP] Although commonly sold as a dietary supplement, there is insufficient scientific evidence that Echinacea products are effective or safe for improving health or treating any disease. Some Plains tribes used Echinacea for cold symptoms. According to Wallace Sampson, its modern use for the common cold began when a Swiss herbal supplement maker was told that Echinacea was used for cold prevention by Native American tribes who lived in the area of South Dakota. Infectious diseases
Echinacea preparations have been advocated as antimicrobials and immunomodulators. Echinacea extracts inhibited growth of three species of trypanosomatids: Leishmania donovani, Leishmania major, and Trypanosoma brucei.While one 2014 systematic review found that Echinacea products are not effective to treat or prevent the common cold, a 2016 meta-analysis found tentative evidence that use of Echinacea extracts reduced the risk of repeated respiratory infections. A 2015 monograph by the European Medicines Agency stated that oral consumption of "expressed juice" or dried expressed juice of Echinacea could prevent or reduce symptoms of a common cold at its onset. Muscle and joint pain has been associated with Echinacea, but it may have been caused by cold or flu symptoms for which the Echinacea products were administered. Some therapists have claimed that echinacea can help relieve side effects from cancer treatments such as chemotherapy and radiotherapy, but this has not been proven either. 
Does taking LaVita promote health or physical and mental performance? (Reader inquiry) [SEP] In a longitudinal study about sexual identity development among lesbian, gay, and bisexual (LGB) youths, Rosario et al. Likewise, Barron and Hare suggest that same-sex attraction is selected because it fosters social affiliation, communication, integration, as well as reduced reactive aggression among members of the same sex. In the story arc she is involved in a love triangle between Dyson, a wolf-shapeshifter (played by Kris Holden-Ried), and Lauren Lewis, a human doctor (played by Zoie Palmer) in servitude to the leader of the Light Fae clan. while Teatro e Musica News wrote Il delitto è servito was a "beautiful program". It is better known as Sasuntsi Davit ("David of Sasun"). 57). According to Peter Sherwood, "Gyóni's first, still elated, poems from the Polish Front recall the 16th century Hungarian poet Bálint Balassi's soldiers' songs of the marches, written during the campaign against the Turks. Northern Irish poet and winner of the Nobel Prize for Literature Seamus Heaney has credited MacLean with saving Scottish Gaelic poetry. 
Do dental care products with nanoparticles of hydroxyapatite help pain-sensitive teeth? And can they prevent caries or repair already affected, decayed tooth enamel? [SEP] People use toothpaste with nano-hydroxyapatite instead of fluoride as it performs the same function, and some people believe fluoride in toothpaste is a neurotoxin.Population studies shown that regular tooth brushing is associated with reduced risk of cardiovascular diseases and better blood pressure profile. Hydroxyapatite is the main mineral component of enamel in teeth. Dentine sensitivity
Nano-hydroxylapatite possesses bioactive components which can prompt the mineralisation process of teeth, remedying hypersensitivity. Caries prevention
Nano-hydroxylapatite possesses a remineralising effect on teeth and can be used to prevent damage from carious attacks. In the event of an acid attack by cariogenic bacteria, nano-hydroxylapatite particles can infiltrate pores on the tooth surface to form a protective layer. In recent years, hydroxylapatite nanocrystals (nHA) have been used in toothpaste to combat dental hypersensitivity. Nano-hydroxyapatite (nano-HAp) is considered one of the most biocompatible and bioactive materials and has gained wide acceptance in dentistry in recent years. An increasing number of reports have shown that nano-hydroxyapatite shares characteristics with the natural building blocks of enamel having the potential, due to its particle size, to occlude exposed dentinal tubules helping to reduce hypersensitivity and enhancing teeth remineralization. 
Can light therapy with light lamps relieve the symptoms of autumn-winter depression? [SEP] Mood and sleep related
Seasonal affective disorder
The effectiveness of light therapy for treating seasonal affective disorder (SAD) may be linked to the fact that light therapy makes up for lost sunlight exposure and resets the body's internal clock. Studies show that light therapy helps reduce the debilitating and depressive behaviors of SAD, such as excessive sleepiness and fatigue, with results lasting for at least 1 month. Two methods of light therapy, bright light and dawn simulation, have similar success rates in the treatment of SAD.It is possible that response to light therapy for SAD could be season dependent. They usually have a change in appetite and experience trouble sleeping.A 2007 systematic review by the Swedish agency SBU found insufficient evidence that light therapy was able to alleviate symptoms of depression or seasonal affective disorder. This led to the closure of a number of clinics offering light therapy in Sweden.A Cochrane review conducted in 2019 states the evidence that light therapy's effectiveness as a treatment for the prevention of seasonal affective disorder is limited, although the risk of adverse effects are minimal. Non-seasonal depression
Light therapy has also been suggested in the treatment of non-seasonal depression and other psychiatric mood disturbances, including major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder and postpartum depression. A meta-analysis by the Cochrane Collaboration concluded that "for patients suffering from non-seasonal depression, light therapy offers modest though promising antidepressive efficacy." A 2008 systematic review concluded that "overall, bright light therapy is an excellent candidate for inclusion into the therapeutic inventory available for the treatment of nonseasonal depression today, as adjuvant therapy to antidepressant medication, or eventually as stand-alone treatment for specific subgroups of depressed patients." 
Does vitamin B3 protect against severe covid-19 events? [SEP] Vitamin D
In February 2020, claims that Vitamin D pills could help prevent COVID-19 circulated on social media in Thailand. Some conspiracy theorists have claimed that vitamin D was being intentionally suppressed as a preventative option by governments.One meta-analysis found weak evidence that increased vitamin D levels may reduce the likelihood of intensive care admission for people with COVID 19; but found no effect of mortality.A preprint of a journal article from Indonesia purporting to show a beneficial effect of vitamin D for COVID-19 went viral across social media, and was cited several times in mainstream academic literature, including in a recommendation from NICE. Vitamin C
During the COVID-19 pandemic, vitamin C was the subject of more FDA warning letters than any other quack treatment for COVID-19. The European Food Safety Authority found a cause and effect relationship exists between the dietary intake of vitamin C and functioning of a normal immune system in adults and in children under three years of age.Several studies found Vitamin C to have specific antiviral effects in which it inactivates the RNA or DNA of viruses or in the assembly of the virus. From the Conclusion: "The present meta-analysis showed that administration of vitamin C did not have any effect on major health outcomes in COVID infected patients, in comparison to either placebo/standard therapy. "During March through July 2020, vitamin C was the subject of more US FDA warning letters than any other ingredient for prevention and/or treatment of COVID-19.As of April 2021, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) COVID-19 Treatment Guidelines stated that "there are insufficient data to recommend either for or against the use of vitamin C for the prevention or treatment of COVID-19." The COVID-19 pandemic in India is a part of the worldwide pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). 2023
On 22 March 2023, Prime Minister Modi held a high-level meeting to discuss the nation's preparedness for a new wave of infections, potentially driven by the newly detected SARS-CoV-2 strain, XBB.1.16. 
Does taking coenzyme Q10 improve movement disorders in Parkinson's disease? [SEP] Several medications currently in development seek to better address motor fluctuations and nonmotor symptoms of PD. Other drugs
Some evidence indicates other drugs such as amantadine and anticholinergics may be useful as treatment of motor symptoms in early and late PD, but since the quality of evidence on efficacy is reduced, they are not first-choice treatments. Compared to no intervention, single sessions of WBV have resulted in improved motor ability, as reflected by Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) tremor and rigidity scores. Quality of life
Quality of life research investigates the function that physical therapy, occupational therapy, exercise or other interventions may play in the quality of life of persons with Parkinson's disease. For example, an ongoing clinical study exploring Vitamin D as a possible therapy to improve balance and decrease the risk of falling in people with Parkinson's expects a subsequent increase in safety and well-being. The study concluded that motor learning in the presence of levodopa may improve the body's ability to adapt to Parkinson's disease.Quality of life measures are increasingly being incorporated into clinical trials, therefore much research has gone into validating quality of life measures for persons with Parkinson’s disease. This treatment has shown success in reversing Parkinson's in mice, and researchers are investigating the viability of clinical studies in people.Exercise may be neuroprotective. More research is needed to investigate the benefits of exercise in the early stage of Parkinson’s, the most suitable type of exercise, when exercise should be implemented, and the optimal duration of exercises.A 2009 review of 11 systematic reviews and 230 random controlled trials, showed the effectiveness of Chinese Herbal Medicine (CHM) as a paratherapy for Parkinson's disease patients. 
Does treatment with focused high-intensity ultrasound (HIFU) reduce abdominal girth? [SEP] High-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) is a non-invasive therapeutic technique that uses non-ionizing ultrasonic waves to heat or ablate tissue. Given the prevalence and relatively low cost of ultrasound generation mechanisms, The premise of HIFU is that it is expect a non-invasive and low-cost therapy that can at minimum outperform of care. The implication of this is that if the target region is not visualized by ultrasound imaging before and during HIFU therapy, then it is unlikely that HIFU therapy will be effective in that specific region. References
External links
Therapeutic Ultrasound at Curlie
HIFU Treatment
Despite Doubts, Cancer Therapy Draws Patients from The New York Times on 18 High-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) is a non-invasive therapeutic technique that uses non-ionizing ultrasonic waves to heat or ablate tissue. Given the prevalence and relatively low cost of ultrasound generation mechanisms, The premise of HIFU is that it is expect a non-invasive and low-cost therapy that can at minimum outperform of care. The implication of this is that if the target region is not visualized by ultrasound imaging before and during HIFU therapy, then it is unlikely that HIFU therapy will be effective in that specific region. References
External links
Therapeutic Ultrasound at Curlie
HIFU Treatment
Despite Doubts, Cancer Therapy Draws Patients from The New York Times on 18 
Does sugar substitution increase the risk of developing or dying from cancer? [SEP] Starting smoking earlier in life and smoking cigarettes higher in tar increases the risk of these diseases. Other studies and opinion pieces in renowned journals, such as the British Medical Journal and The Lancet, do not confirm any correlation between snus usage and oral cancer, but one study suggests a probable increased risk of pancreatic cancer as a result of snus use. Notably, the probability of developing pancreatic cancer from cigarettes is higher than the suggested chance of developing pancreatic cancer from snus.The effect of Swedish snus on blood pressure has been studied at Umeå University in a randomly selected population sample of 4,305 Swedish men between the ages of 25 and 74. There is evidence that higher consumption of sugar is associated with higher blood pressure and unfavorable blood lipids, and sugar intake also increases the risk of diabetes mellitus. Safety and health effects
In the 1970s, studies performed on laboratory rats found an association between consumption of high doses of saccharin and the development of bladder cancer. Cancer Research UK note that superfoods are often promoted as having an ability to prevent or cure diseases, including cancer; they caution, "a healthy, balanced and varied diet can help to reduce the risk of cancer but it is unlikely that any single food will make a major difference on its own." However, according to the American Cancer Society, "available scientific evidence does not support the idea that hypnosis can influence the development or progression of cancer.". Other risks include being overweight, metabolic syndrome (defined as at least three of the five following medical conditions: abdominal obesity, high blood pressure, high blood sugar, high serum triglycerides, and low serum HDL cholesterol), a diet high in fructose, and older age. 
Does ozonated vegetable oil help against athlete's foot or nail fungus? [SEP] Athlete's foot, known medically as tinea pedis, is a common skin infection of the feet caused by a fungus. The same fungus may also affect the nails or the hands. If allowed to grow for too long, athlete's foot fungus may spread to infect the toenails, feeding on the keratin in them, a condition called onychomycosis.Because athlete's foot may itch, it may also elicit the scratch reflex, causing the host to scratch the infected area before they realize it. Other
Chemical (keratolytic) or surgical debridement of the affected nail appears to improve outcomes.As of 2014 evidence for laser treatment is unclear as the evidence is of low quality and varies by type of laser.Tea tree oil is not recommended as a treatment on present data. Other fungi can attack eyes, nails, hair, and especially skin, the so-called dermatophytic and keratinophilic fungi, and cause local infections such as ringworm and athlete's foot. Globally, athlete's foot affects about 15% of the population.Tinea pedis is caused by fungi such as Epidermophyton floccosum or fungi of the genus Trichophyton including T. rubrum and T. mentagrophytes. Fungal infection of the nails is called tinea unguium, and is not included in the medical definition of "athlete's foot", even though toe nails are part of the foot. Trichophyton is a genus of fungi, which includes the parasitic varieties that cause tinea, including athlete's foot, ringworm, jock itch, and similar  infections of the nail, beard, skin and scalp. 
Does ozonated vegetable oil help against vaginal fungus?? [SEP] Vaginal yeast infection, also known as candidal vulvovaginitis and vaginal thrush, is excessive growth of yeast in the vagina that results in irritation. It is the second most common cause of vaginal inflammation after bacterial vaginosis. There is tentative evidence that treatment of asymptomatic candidal vulvovaginitis in pregnancy reduces the risk of preterm birth. Diagnosis
Vulvovaginal candidosis is the presence of Candida in addition to vaginal inflammation. Alternative medicine
Up to 40% of women seek alternatives to treat vaginal yeast infection. Yeast infections are caused by an overgrowth of fungus in the vagina known as Candida. Treatment varies from creams that can be applied in or around the vaginal area to oral tablets that stop the growth of fungus. Tioconazole ointments serve to treat women's vaginal yeast infections. 
Are health checks of symptom-free individuals (screening) effective in containing the pandemic? [SEP] Screening is done by checking for symptoms to identify infected individuals, who can then be isolated or offered treatment. It also advocated testing, given the outbreak's "pandemic potential". Breath tests
The breath test by a Coronavirus breathalyzer is a pre-screening test for people who have no or mild symptoms of COVID-19. Snapshot mass-testing
A study found that, despite possibly suboptimal implementation, the snapshot mass-testing approach conducted by Slovakia by which ~80% of its population was tested for COVID-19 within a weekend at the end of October 2020 was highly efficacious, decreasing observed prevalence by 58% within one week and by 70% compared to a hypothetical scenario of no snapshot mass-testing. Imaging
Chest CT scans may be helpful to diagnose COVID‑19 in individuals with a high clinical suspicion of infection but are not recommended for routine screening. Pandemic prevention is the organization and management of preventive measures against pandemics. Resources for disease surveillance have improved during the pandemic so that medical systems around the world are starting to be equipped to detect such mutations with genomic surveillance in a manner relevant to pandemic mitigation and the prevention of sub-pandemics of specific variants or types of variants. In terms of pandemic prevention, it may be especially useful for vaccine-preventable diseases. 
Does melatonin help against jet lag? [SEP] Circadian rhythm sleep disorders
Melatonin may be useful in the treatment of delayed sleep phase syndrome.Melatonin is known to reduce jet lag, especially in eastward travel. Dementia
A 2020 Cochrane review found no evidence that melatonin helped sleep problems in people with moderate to severe dementia due to Alzheimer's disease. References
External links
"Melatonin". Use as a medication and supplement
Melatonin is used as a prescription medication and over-the-counter dietary supplement in the treatment of sleep disorders such as insomnia and circadian rhythm sleep disorders like delayed sleep phase disorder, jet lag disorder, and shift work disorder. References
External links

"Melatonin". "Melatonin". Circadian rhythm sleep disorders and jet lag
Situational CRSD
Light therapy has been tested for individuals with shift work sleep disorder and for jet lag. Ever since the discovery that melatonin levels are highest at bedtime, melatonin has been purported by some to be an effective sleep-aid – it is especially popular for jet-lag. 
Does sunscreen reduce the likelihood of skin cancer? [SEP] Sunscreen
Sunscreen appears to be effective in preventing melanoma. Sunscreen also protects against squamous cell carcinoma, another skin cancer.Concerns have been raised that sunscreen might create a false sense of security against sun damage. Furthermore, the use of sunscreen (SPF 17 or higher) has been found to significantly reduce the development of AK lesions, and also promotes the regression of existing lesions. With over 90% of melanomas derived through contact with the sun, skin cancer preventive initiatives in Australia strived to change this perception. Prevention
Awareness and early detection are the most efficient tools for avoiding skin cancer and are the basis of many effective prevention campaigns in Australia. Childhood prevention is particularly important because a significant portion of ultraviolet radiation exposure from the sun occurs during childhood and adolescence and can subsequently lead to skin cancer in adulthood. Since skin cancer is very preventable, the CDC recommends school-level prevention programs including preventive curricula, family involvement, participation and support from the school's health services, and partnership with community, state, and national agencies and organizations to keep children away from excessive UV radiation exposure.Most skin cancer and sun protection data comes from Australia and the United States. For example, individuals who believe that wearing sunscreen prevents skin cancer are more likely to wear sunscreen than individuals who believe that wearing sunscreen will not prevent the occurrence of skin cancer

Perceived barriers
Health-related behaviors are also a function of perceived barriers to taking action. 
Are international travel restrictions and border health checks effective in curbing the spread of covid-19? [SEP] Although similar disease control measures have been used for hundreds of years, the scale of those implemented in the 2020s is thought to be unprecedented.Research and case studies have shown that lockdowns were generally effective at reducing the spread of COVID-19, therefore flattening the curve. Lockdowns are thought to be most effective at containing or preventing COVID-19 community transmission, healthcare costs and deaths when implemented earlier, with greater stringency, and when not lifted too early.There is disagreement about the size of the effect of lockdowns on COVID-19 mortality. Related to epidemiology
Epidemiological evidence supports generalized non-pharmaceutical interventions to curb the spread of COVID-19.During the early stages of the pandemic in Europe and the United States, statistical modeling which advised that restrictions were helpful to prevent a large number of deaths were used as the basis for lockdowns. The imposition of border controls has curtailed the spread of the virus, but because they were first implemented after community spread was established in multiple countries in different regions of the world, they produced only a modest reduction in the total number of people infected These strict border controls economic harm to the tourism industry through lost income and social harm to people who were unable to travel for family matters or other reasons. Concerns have been raised over the effectiveness of travel restrictions to contain the spread of COVID-19. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, biosecurity measures have become a highly visible aspect of border control across the globe. Most notably, quarantine and mandatory COVID-19 vaccination for international travellers. A study in Science found that travel restrictions could delay the initial arrival of COVID-19 in a country, but that they produced only modest overall effects unless combined with domestic infection prevention and control measures to considerably reduce transmissions. 
Does hypnosis help with smoking cessation? [SEP] Clinical trials studying hypnosis and hypnotherapy as a method for smoking cessation have been inconclusive. : 100  A Cochrane review was unable to find evidence of benefit of hypnosis in smoking cessation, and suggested if there is a beneficial effect, it is small at best. However, a randomized trial published in 2008 found that hypnosis and nicotine patches "compares favorably" with standard behavioral counseling and nicotine patches in 12-month quit rates. Use of hypnosis for treatment of other problems has produced mixed results, such as with smoking cessation. A meta-study researching hypnosis as a quit-smoking tool found it had a 20 to 30 percent success rate, while a 2007 study of patients hospitalised for cardiac and pulmonary ailments found that smokers who used hypnosis to quit smoking doubled their chances of success. In 2019, a Cochrane review was unable to find evidence of benefit of hypnosis in smoking cessation, and suggested if there is, it is small at best.Hypnosis may be useful as an adjunct therapy for weight loss. In 2019, a Cochrane review was unable to find evidence of benefit of hypnosis in smoking cessation, and suggested if there is, it is small at best. Individuals with a history of depressive disorders had a lower rate of success when using CBT alone to combat smoking addiction.A Cochrane review was unable to find evidence of any difference between CBT and hypnosis for smoking cessation. 
Does denosumab (Prolia) reduce the risk of vertebral fractures in osteoporosis? [SEP] Denosumab (trade names Prolia and Xgeva) is a human monoclonal antibody for the treatment of osteoporosis, treatment-induced bone loss, metastases to bone, and giant cell tumor of bone.Denosumab is contraindicated in people with low blood calcium levels. Osteoporosis
In those with postmenopausal osteoporosis denosumab decreases the risk of fractures but increases the risk of infection. In clinical trials, Prolia reduced the rate of vertebral fractures by 61% and the risk of hip fractures by 40%. Denosumab (trade names Prolia and Xgeva) is a human monoclonal antibody for the treatment of osteoporosis, treatment-induced bone loss, metastases to bone, and giant cell tumor of bone.Denosumab is contraindicated in people with low blood calcium levels. Osteoporosis
In those with postmenopausal osteoporosis denosumab decreases the risk of fractures but increases the risk of infection. As a result of this trial, during a month period, patients who received denosumab had a decrease in pathological fractures and spinal cord compression; however, as time progressed it appear that denosumab had significantly delayed bone complications. Denosumab (trade names Prolia and Xgeva) is a human monoclonal antibody for the treatment of osteoporosis, treatment-induced bone loss, metastases to bone, and giant cell tumor of bone.Denosumab is contraindicated in people with low blood calcium levels. Osteoporosis
In those with postmenopausal osteoporosis denosumab decreases the risk of fractures but increases the risk of infection. 
Does discontinuation of denosumab increase the risk of vertebral fractures??? [SEP] Osteoporosis
In those with postmenopausal osteoporosis denosumab decreases the risk of fractures but increases the risk of infection. Similarly to bisphosphonates, denosumab appears to be implicated in increasing the risk of osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) following extraction of teeth or oral surgical procedures but, unlike bisphosphonate, the risk declines to zero approximately 6 months after injection. Osteoporosis
In those with postmenopausal osteoporosis denosumab decreases the risk of fractures but increases the risk of infection. Similarly to bisphosphonates, denosumab appears to be implicated in increasing the risk of osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) following extraction of teeth or oral surgical procedures but, unlike bisphosphonate, the risk declines to zero approximately 6 months after injection. In both prostate and breast cancer, denosumab has been shown to reduce cancer treatment–induced bone loss. The patients who received 60 mg of denosumab showed a +5.6% increased in bone mineral density and a 1.5% decrease in bone fracture rates.Another clinical trial (NCT00321620) was established to determine the safety and effectiveness of using denosumab compared to zoledronic acid. Patients given denosumab had an increase in lumbar spine bone mineral density, a decrease in bone turnover markers, with no significant change in survival rates.NCT00321464 was another phase III RCT. As a result of this trial, during a month period, patients who received denosumab had a decrease in pathological fractures and spinal cord compression; however, as time progressed it appear that denosumab had significantly delayed bone complications. 
Does taking magnesium improve the symptoms of depression? [SEP] There is evidence that it is an effective treatment for depression. A 2012 meta-analysis found that zinc supplementation as an adjunct to antidepressant drug treatment significantly lowered depressive symptom scores of depressed patients. A 2013 review found that zinc supplementation may be an effective treatment in major depression. A systematic review and meta-analysis of 12 randomized controlled trials found "supplementation significantly decreases depressive symptoms compared with placebo/no intervention, while offering a comparable effect with that of established antidepressant agents with fewer adverse effects." Magnesium
A meta-analysis has found an association between magnesium intake and depression. Magnesium was lower in serum of depressed patients than controls.A 2018 review found that Mg2+ supplementation (range 225–4000 mg) and number of weeks of treatment (range 1–12) were not related to changes in mood disorder. Reviews indicated magnesium supplementation seemed to be effective. Magnesium is a major mineral needed in the human body and increasing magnesium through supplements or diet can help improve sleep. 
Does focused ultrasound (HIFU) treatment reduce wrinkles and sagging of the skin? [SEP] Practices that enhance appearance include the use of cosmetics, botulinum, exfoliation, fillers, laser resurfacing, microdermabrasion, peels, retinol therapy, and ultrasonic skin treatment. It can even reduce skin's elasticity and encourage sagging and wrinkle formation. By manipulating skin cooling during treatment, RF can also be used for heating and reduction of fat. Currently, the most common uses of RF-based devices are to noninvasively manage and treat skin tightening of lax skin (including sagging jowls, abdomen, thighs, and arms), as well as wrinkle reduction, cellulite improvement, and body contouring.Several companies manufacture RF devices, including D-Finitive Thermage by Solta Medical, Evo by Beco Medical V-Form by Viora, Venus Freeze Plus, Venus Legacy by Venus Concept, VelaShape by Syneron, Exilis by BTL, and 3DEEP by Endymed. Binding to these receptors induces a cascade of cellular processes that ultimately lead to increased collagen production and epidermal thickening, reducing the appearance of skin sagging and wrinkling. This prevents muscle contraction and subsequent wrinkle formation. Exercise routines tone underlying facial muscles without surgery. Advantages of this procedure
It is worth noting that mimic wrinkles are inextricably linked to the skin and affect the formation of fine wrinkles. 
Does a ketogenic diet help against cancer? [SEP] The ketogenic diet is a high-fat, adequate-protein, low-carbohydrate dietary therapy that in conventional medicine is used mainly to treat hard-to-control (refractory) epilepsy in children. History
The ketogenic diet is a mainstream medical dietary therapy that was developed to reproduce the success and remove the limitations of the non-mainstream use of fasting to treat epilepsy. The ketogenic diet has been found to have antiepileptogenic properties in rats. As of 2022 there is no clinical evidence that a ketogenic diet is effective to treat cancer. The Ketogenic Diet: A Treatment for Children and Others with Epilepsy. Epilepsy
The ketogenic diet is a treatment to reduce epileptic seizures for adults and children when managed by a health care team. "Can an alkaline diet help prevent cancer?". Another sirtuin, sirtuin 3 inhibits cancers that depend upon glycolysis, but promotes cancers that depend upon oxidative phosphorylation.A low-carbohydrate diet (ketogenic diet) has sometimes been recommended as a supportive therapy for cancer treatment. 
Do curd compresses have an analgesic effect (e.g. for muscle and joint pain)? Do they have an antipyretic effect? Do curd compresses help breastfeeding women with lactation congestion? [SEP] Curd is obtained by coagulating milk in a sequential process called curdling. Producing cheese curds is one of the first steps in cheesemaking; the curds are pressed and drained to varying amounts for different styles of cheese and different secondary agents (molds for blue cheeses, etc.) Curds can be used in baking or may be consumed as a snack. Curds are used to make pudding as well, with semolina, raisins, chopped nuts and other ingredients. The curd produced after is used to make chhurpi and variations of it. Curd, also mosaru or dahi or Thayir or Perugu, is a traditional yogurt or fermented milk product, originating from the Indian subcontinent, usually prepared from cow's milk, and sometimes buffalo milk, or goat milk. The word curd is  used in Indian English to refer to (naturally probiotic) homemade yogurt, while the term yogurt refers to the pasteurized commercial variety known as heat treated fermented milk. Preparation
Curd is made by bacterial fermentation of milk. 
Does deuterium-reduced water prevent cancer? [SEP] Deuterium is another isotope of hydrogen. This would in principle enable economic recovery of the produced tritium but even if the tritium is only disposed and not used, it has the potential to reduce tritium contamination in the water used, reducing radioactivity released when the water is discharged since tritiated water cannot be removed from "ordinary" water except by isotope separation. This report also identified the reducing concentration of tritium in the water extracted from the buildings etc. The water released is diluted to reduce the tritium concentration to less than 1500 Bq/L, far below the limit recommended in drinking water by the WHO. The same is true, albeit to a lesser extent, of deuterium. If tritium exposure is suspected or known, drinking uncontaminated water will help replace the tritium from the body. However, care should be taken that neither dehydration nor a depletion of the body's electrolytes results as the health consequences of those things (particularly in the short term) can be more severe than those of tritium exposure. Deuterium is, therefore, used in CANDU-type reactors, in order to slow (moderate) neutron velocity, to increase the probability of nuclear fission compared to neutron capture. 
Does deuterium-reduced water improve disease progression in cancer??? [SEP] The US' National Cancer Institute identified issues with the few, small studies that had been carried out, stating, "the way the studies were done and the amount of information reported made it unclear if benefits were caused by the CoQ10 or by something else". The American Cancer Society concluded, "CoQ10 may reduce the effectiveness of chemo and radiation therapy, so most oncologists would recommend avoiding it during cancer treatment." used deuterium-labeled crystalline CoQ10 to investigate pharmacokinetics in humans and determined an elimination half-time of 33 hours. Although an almost negligible improvement of bioavailability was observed by Kommuru et al. National Cancer Institute. Water is a protic solvent. See also
Free energy of solvation
Solvents are often refluxed with an appropriate desiccant prior to distillation to remove water. At a growth rate of 5 % per year all the deuterium would be used up in 488 years, and at a growth rate of 11.4 % per year in only 214 years.Some positions and several developed countries have opted for the non-anthropogenic global warming or solar origin version, seeing the environmentalist warnings as an exaggeration. 
Can a special mattress relieve nighttime rheumatism symptoms and thus improve sleep? [SEP] This type of mattress is good at relieving pressure on painful joints. Mattress manufacturers have responded to this issue by using "faster response" memory foams. Foam mattresses are also known to generally "sleep warmer" than innerspring mattresses. Mattress makers have addressed the issue with "open-cell" memory foams, pinhole cored memory foam, gel-infused memory foams, channel-cut foam cores, reticulated foam support layers and other technologies to improve air circulation through all-foam beds. Studies suggest that adjustable-firmness beds are better for back pain. Adjustable-firmness mattresses for medical use have special control mechanisms. Ergonomics
In 2003, a randomized-controlled trial found that medium-firm mattresses assessed using the Hs scale from the European Committee for Standardization were associated with less pain; this study has been cited by clinical practice guidelines on lower back pain. In 2015, a systematic review of studies concluded that medium-firm, custom-inflated mattresses were best for pain and neutral spinal alignment. 
Do people with blood group AB have a higher risk of developing dementia? [SEP] Alzheimer's disease
Alzheimer's disease accounts for 60–70% of cases of dementia worldwide. People with vascular dementia tend to have risk factors for disease of the blood vessels, such as tobacco use, high blood pressure, atrial fibrillation, high cholesterol, diabetes, or other signs of vascular disease such as a previous heart attack or angina. For example, Individuals with lower education are more likely to be diagnosed with dementia than their educated counterparts. The genetic and environmental risk factors for dementia disorders vary by ethnicity. For instance, Alzheimer's disease among Hispanic/Latino and African American subjects exhibit lower risks associated with gene changes in the apolipoprotein E gene than do non-Hispanic white subjects.The annual incidence of dementia diagnosis is nearly 10 million worldwide. Atrial fibrillation is associated with an increased risk of heart failure, dementia, and stroke. Evidence increasingly suggests that atrial fibrillation is independently associated with a higher risk of developing dementia. Dementia
Atrial fibrillation has been independently associated with a higher risk of developing cognitive impairment, vascular dementia, and Alzheimer disease and with elevated levels of neurofilament light chain in blood, a biomarker indicating neuroaxonal injury. 
Does therapeutic dancing help people with Parkinson's improve their movement problems? [SEP] Dystonia is a neurological hyperkinetic movement disorder that results in twisting or repetitive movements, that may resemble a tremor. Although relatively few studies of exercises and therapies have shown to be helpful to rehabilitate cognitive symptoms of HD,  some evidence shows the usefulness of physical therapy, occupational therapy, and speech therapy. Participation in rehabilitation programs during the early to middle stage of the disease may be beneficial as it translates into long-term maintenance of motor and functional performance. For long-term independent management, the therapist may develop home exercise programs for appropriate people.Additionally, an increasing number of people with HD are turning to palliative care, which aims to improve quality of life through the treatment of the symptoms and stress of serious illness, in addition to their other treatments. As of 2021, the UK National Health Service cites evidence which suggests that the Alexander Technique may be helpful for long-term back pain and for long-term neck pain, and that it could help people cope with Parkinson's disease. It does not attempt to cure the underlying cause, but to teach people how to avoid bad habits which might exacerbate their condition.The Technique is used as an alternative treatment to improve both voice and posture for people in the performing arts. Similarly, recreational therapy focuses on movement, such as walking, yoga, or riding a bike.Each of these therapies have proven to improve mental health and have resulted in healthier, happier individuals. There is insufficient evidence for Reiki and dance movement therapy in depression. 
Is it possible to reliably detect coronavirus infection based only on symptoms but without laboratory testing? [SEP] Rapid self-tests and point-of-care testing are also available and can offer a faster and less expensive method to test for the virus although with a lower accuracy. Further, whether mild or asymptomatic infections produce sufficient antibodies for a test to detect has not been established. Radiologic findings in COVID-19 lack specificity.Chest X-rays, computed tomography scans and ultrasounds are all ways the coronavirus disease can be detected. Computerized tomography has been a known routine scanning for pneumonia diagnosis, therefore can also be used to diagnose coronavirus disease. They emphasized how important chest computerized tomography scans are for determining how serious the coronavirus disease infection is.Ultrasound can be another tool to detect coronavirus disease. Although a computerized tomography scan is a strong tool in the diagnosis of COVID-19, it is insufficient to identify COVID-19 alone due to the poor specificity and the difficulties that radiologists may experience in distinguishing COVID-19 from other viral pneumonia on chest computerized tomography scans. A two-month study by the Necker-Cochin hospital Paris in conjunction with the French national veterinary school reported in May 2021 that dogs were more reliable than current lateral flow tests.Researchers in Paris in March 2022 reported in a preprint not yet peer-reviewed that trained dogs were very effective for rapidly detecting the presence of SARS-Cov2 in people, whether displaying symptoms or not. Diagnosis
Diagnosis based on symptoms is fairly accurate in otherwise healthy people during seasonal epidemics and should be suspected in cases of pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), sepsis, or if encephalitis, myocarditis, or breaking down of muscle tissue occur. 
Are home coronavirus self-tests as reliable as tests performed by trained healthcare professionals? [SEP] Rapid self-tests and point-of-care testing are also available and can offer a faster and less expensive method to test for the virus although with a lower accuracy. Some studies have  found that saliva yielded greater sensitivity and consistency when compared with swab samples.On 15 August 2020, the US FDA granted an emergency use authorization for a saliva test developed at Yale University that gives results in hours.On 4 January 2021, the US FDA issued an alert about the risk of false results, particularly false negative results, with the Curative SARS-Cov-2 Assay real-time RT-PCR test.Viral burden measured in upper respiratory specimens declines after symptom onset. Self-tests are rapid tests that can be taken at home or anywhere, are easy to use, and produce rapid results. Tests were most accurate (78%) when used in the first week after symptoms first developed, likely because people have the most virus in their system in the first days after they are infected. A two-month study by the Necker-Cochin hospital Paris in conjunction with the French national veterinary school reported in May 2021 that dogs were more reliable than current lateral flow tests.Researchers in Paris in March 2022 reported in a preprint not yet peer-reviewed that trained dogs were very effective for rapidly detecting the presence of SARS-Cov2 in people, whether displaying symptoms or not. Test kits made by BGI, R-Biopharm AG, BGI, KH Medical and Seegene showed high sensitivity.High sensitivity kits are recommended to assess people without symptoms, while lower sensitivity tests are adequate when diagnosing symptomatic patients.The University of Oxford's Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine (CEBM) has pointed to mounting evidence that "a good proportion of 'new' mild cases and people re-testing positives via RT-PCR after quarantine or discharge from hospital are not infectious, but are simply clearing harmless virus particles which their immune system has efficiently dealt with", and have called for "an international effort to standardize and periodically calibrate testing". In February and March 2020, health authorities in Poland carried out laboratory testing of suspected cases of infection by SARS-CoV-2, as well as home quarantining and monitoring. In February and March 2020, health authorities in Poland carried out laboratory testing of suspected cases of infection by SARS-CoV-2, as well as home quarantining and monitoring. 
Does biotin help with hair loss? Does biotin make hair grow faster? [SEP] This results in dandruff, redness, hair loss, greasy skin, and reduced hair growth. In addition to its many other functions, vitamin A plays an important role in the keratinization of the skin, hair and nails along with assisting in the development of various epithelial tissues throughout the body. B vitamins
Niacin (B3)
Niacin is an essential vitamin for the cat; dietary deficiency can lead to anorexia, weight loss and an increase in body temperature. Biotin (B7)
Biotin can be provided in feline diets by adding cooked eggs, liver, milk, legumes or nuts. Microorganisms living in the gastrointestinal tracts of cats are also able to synthesize and supply an alternative source of biotin if proper nutritional requirements are met. Biotin is recommended by AAFCO to be included in feline diets at a minimum level of 0.07 mg/kg on a dry matter basis throughout all stages of development. Iodine-deficient diets can interfere with adequate thyroid hormone production, which is responsible for normal growth in the brain and nervous system. Hairstylist Danny Jelaca states that milk's keratin proteins may "add weight to the hair". 
Can induction of labor prevent infant deaths in pregnancies that go beyond the estimated due date? Does it reduce the number of neonatal intensive care unit stays? [SEP] In medical contexts, a newborn or neonate (from Latin, neonatus, newborn) is an infant in the first 28 days after birth; the term applies to premature, full term, and postmature infants. Potential diseases of concern during the neonatal period include:

Neonatal jaundice
Infant respiratory distress syndrome
Neonatal lupus erythematosus
Neonatal conjunctivitis
Neonatal tetanus
Neonatal sepsis
Neonatal bowel obstruction
Benign neonatal seizures
Neonatal diabetes mellitus
Neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia
Neonatal herpes simplex
Neonatal hemochromatosis
Neonatal meningitis
Neonatal hepatitis
Neonatal hypoglycemia

Mortality
Infant mortality is the death of an infant in the first year of life, often expressed as the number of deaths per 1000 live births (infant mortality rate). Major causes of infant mortality include dehydration, infection, congenital malformation and SIDS.This epidemiological indicator is recognized as a very important measure of the level of health care in a country because it is directly linked with the health status of infants, children, and pregnant women as well as access to medical care, socioeconomic conditions, and public health practices.There is a positive relationship between national wealth and good health. Thus, infant mortality is low. Pregnancy, Childbirth and the Newborn: The Complete Guide (Revised ed.). Arguments against infant baptism
Infants cannot repent or believe: Baptism in Scripture always has the prerequisite of repentance and faith, which are impossible for an infant. Death before birth
Death before birth can happen in several ways: stillbirth, when the fetus dies before or during the delivery process; miscarriage, when the embryo dies before independent survival; and abortion, the artificial termination of the pregnancy. Reductions of these factors, caesarean sections when risks are present, and early detection of birth defects have lowered the rate of stillbirth. 
Does induction of labor make cesarean sections less necessary than observational waiting? [SEP] Labor induction is the process or treatment that stimulates childbirth and delivery. One recent study indicates that labor induction at term (41 weeks) or post-term reduces the rate of caesarean section by 12%, and also reduces fetal death. Some observational/retrospective studies have shown that non-indicated, elective inductions before the 41st week of gestation are associated with an increased risk of requiring a caesarean section. Due to the increasing risks of advanced gestation, induction appears to reduce the risk for caesarean delivery after 41 weeks' gestation and possibly earlier. Inducing labour after 41 weeks of completed gestion is likely to reduce the risk of perinatal death and stillbirth compared with waiting for labour to start spontaneously.Inducing labor before 39 weeks in the absence of a medical indication (such as hypertension, IUGR, or pre-eclampsia) increases the risk of complications of prematurity including difficulties with respiration, infection, feeding, jaundice, neonatal intensive care unit admissions, and perinatal death.Inducing labour after 34 weeks and before 37 weeks in women with hypertensive disorders (pre-eclampsia, eclampsia, pregnancy-induced hypertension) may lead to better outcomes for the woman but does not improve or worsen outcomes for the baby. These interventions may also lead to an increased likelihood of caesarean section delivery for the baby. Labour induction is the process or treatment that stimulates childbirth and delivery. Prevention
The prevalence of caesarean section is generally agreed to be higher than needed in many countries, and physicians are encouraged to actively lower the rate, as a caesarean rate higher than 10–15% is not associated with reductions in maternal or infant mortality rates, although some evidence support that a higher rate of 19% may result in better outcomes.Some of these efforts are: emphasizing a long latent phase of labor is not abnormal and not a justification for C-section; a new definition of the start of active labor from a cervical dilatation of 4 cm to a dilatation of 6 cm; and allowing women who have previously given birth to push for at least 2 hours, with 3 hours of pushing for women who have not previously given birth, before labor arrest is considered. 
Does the number of deliveries with a vacuum cup and forceps remain similar with induction and observational waiting??? [SEP] There is a higher risk of failure to deliver the baby than with forceps, and an increased likelihood of perineal trauma. Obstetrical forceps are a medical instrument used in childbirth. In general, a forceps birth is likely to be safer for both the mother and baby than the alternatives – either a ventouse birth or a caesarean section – although caveats such as operator skill apply.Advantages of forceps use include avoidance of caesarean section (and the short and long-term complications that accompany this), reduction of delivery time, and general applicability with cephalic presentation (head presentation). Maternal factors for use of forceps:Maternal exhaustion. So, short forceps are preferred in the UK and USA. After this fundamental improvement, the forceps would become a common obstetrical instrument for more than two centuries. Forceps had a profound influence on obstetrics as it allowed for the speedy delivery of the baby in cases of difficult or obstructed labour. "In addition, women who had forceps deliveries had shorter after-childbirth complications than those who had caesarean sections performed." 
Does taking supplements with omega-3 fatty acids reduce the risk of heart attack, stroke or other sudden cardiovascular problems?  Does it lower the risk of dying prematurely? [SEP] Eating polyunsaturated fat instead of saturated fats has been shown in studies to be associated with a decreased risk of myocardial infarction, while other studies find little evidence that reducing dietary saturated fat or increasing polyunsaturated fat intake affects heart attack risk. Acute and prolonged intake of high quantities of alcoholic drinks (3–4 or more daily) increases the risk of a heart attack. Keeping a healthy weight, drinking alcohol within the recommended limits, and quitting smoking reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease.Substituting unsaturated fats such as olive oil and rapeseed oil instead of saturated fats may reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, although there is not universal agreement. Vitamins and mineral supplements are of no proven benefit, and neither are plant stanols or sterols.Public health measures may also act at a population level to reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, for example by reducing unhealthy diets (excessive salt, saturated fat, and trans fat) including food labeling and marketing requirements as well as requirements for catering and restaurants, and stimulating physical activity. They are often recommended in those at an elevated risk of cardiovascular diseases.Aspirin has been studied extensively in people considered at increased risk of myocardial infarction. Previous studies suggested a benefit from omega-3 fatty acid supplementation but this has not been confirmed. They do decrease the risk of having a further myocardial infarction. However, there is good evidence that omega-3 incorporation into the diet is of benefit in treating depression, a common symptom, and potentially modifiable risk factor for dementia. 
Can taking dietary supplements with omega-3 fatty acids prevent further heart attacks or strokes if one has already had a heart attack?  In this case, does it lower the risk of dying prematurely?? [SEP] There is conflicting evidence concerning whether dietary supplements of omega-3 fatty acids (a type of polysaturated fat in oily fish) added to diet improve cardiovascular risk.The benefits of recommending a low-salt diet in people with high or normal blood pressure are not clear. The most promising evidence supports supplementation for prevention of cardiac death.Fish oil and omega-3 fatty acids have also been studied in a wide variety of other conditions such as clinical depression, anxiety, cancer, and macular degeneration, yet their benefit in these conditions has also not been verified.The fish used as sources do not actually produce omega-3 fatty acids. Multiple evaluations suggest fish oil has little or no reduction in cardiovascular mortality, in distinction to earlier observational data, though there appears to be a small reduction in the incidence of actual cardiac events and strokes with its use. It also lists possible safety concerns: "Intake of 3 grams per day or greater of omega-3 fatty acids may increase the risk of bleeding, although there is little evidence of significant bleeding risk at lower doses. Very large intakes of fish oil/omega-3 fatty acids may increase the risk of hemorrhagic (bleeding) stroke. A 2012 meta-analysis published in the Journal of the American Medical Association, covering 20 studies and 68,680 patients, found that omega-3 fatty acid supplementation did not reduce the chance of death, cardiac death, heart attack, or stroke. It is important to note that because omega-3 fatty acids can increase the risk of bleeding, a qualified healthcare provider should be consulted before supplementing with fish oil. Research
Two 2021 systematic reviews and meta-analyses concluded that more than 1 g/d marine omega-3 fatty acids is associated with an increased risk of atrial fibrillation. 
Can cosmetic products with caffeine for hair and scalp help against hereditary hair loss? [SEP] Hair care
Hair care is a category of cosmetics devoted to products which are used to improve the appearance of hair. Caffeine can have negative effects on anxiety disorders. Medications
Caffeine sometimes increases the effectiveness of some medications, such as those for headaches. There are a number of food ingredients that naturally contain caffeine. Research
Caffeine has been used to double chromosomes in haploid wheat. "Genetic variation at the MC1R locus and the time since loss of human body hair". Androgenic alopecia, or male pattern hair loss, is a common cause of concern to men. finasteride, minoxidil) or hair transplantation. 
Is music therapy with rhythmic training helpful for people with Parkinson's who have trouble walking? [SEP] Exercise interventions have been shown to benefit patients with Parkinson's disease in regards to physical functioning, health-related quality of life, and balance and fall risk. An 8-week resistance training study geared towards the lower legs found that patients with Parkinson's Disease gained abdominal strength, and improved in their stride length, walking velocity and postural angles. Gait training
Patients with Parkinson's disease have an altered gait. Since it is proven that tremor-dominant and akinetic rigid types of Parkinson's disease have various different visuomotor deficiencies, like problems in visual perception and motor coordination, that can influence their gait training, it is recommended for them to receive neuropsychological assessment before physical therapy.Task-specific gait training may also lead to long-term gait improvement for patients with Parkinson's disease. This form of gait training has been shown to improve long-term walking speed and a shuffling gait following a one-month intervention period.Studies are also looking at the effect of tai chi on gait performance, and balance in people with Parkinson's Disease. Other treatments strategies
Attention strategies:
By consciously paying more attention to walking and rehearsing each step before actually making it, PD patients have shown to improve their gait. Avoidance of dual tasks that require motor attention or cognitive attention has also been shown to normalize gait in the PD patients.Exercise:
Physical therapy and exercise have been shown to have positive effects on gait parameters in PD patients.Physiotherapists may help improve gait by creating training programs to lengthen a patient's stride length, broaden the base of support, improve the heel-toe gait pattern, straighten out a patient's posture, and increase arm swing patterns.Research has shown gait training combining an overhead harness with walking on a treadmill has shown to improve both walking speed and stride length. It has been suggested that rhythmic auditory stimulation may be more effective in improving gait than NDT techniques. 
Do preparations with unsaponifiable components of avocado and soybean oils (ASU) help against limitations and pain in osteoarthritis of the knee joint? [SEP] Avocado is a primary ingredient in avocado soup. Fat composition
Avocados have diverse fats. The Avocado: Botany, Production and Uses. Medical uses
Soybean oil is indicated for parenteral nutrition as a source of calories and essential fatty acids. Such oils include both the major cooking oils – soybean, rapeseed, canola, sunflower, safflower, peanut, cottonseed, etc. – and tropical oils, such as coconut, palm, and rice bran. Grape seed oil, used in cooking and cosmetics
Hazelnut oil and other nut oils
Linseed oil, from flax seeds
Rice bran oil, from rice grains
Safflower oil, a flavorless and colorless cooking oil
Sesame oil, used as a cooking oil, and as a massage oil, particularly in India
Açaí palm oil, used in culinary and cosmetics
Jambú oil, is extracted from the flowers, leaves and stem from jambu (Acmella oleracea), contains spilanthol
Graviola oil, derived from Annona muricata
Tucumã oil, from Astrocaryum aculeatum is used to manufacture soap. Examples are sunflower, corn, and sesame oils. 
Do preparations with unsaponifiable components of avocado and soybean oils (ASU) help against limitations and pain in osteoarthritis of the hip joint? [SEP] Fat composition
Avocados have diverse fats. A line of US-produced dog and cat food, AvoDerm, uses oils and meal made from avocado meat as main ingredients. The Avocado: Botany, Production and Uses. Medical uses
Soybean oil is indicated for parenteral nutrition as a source of calories and essential fatty acids. Such oils include both the major cooking oils – soybean, rapeseed, canola, sunflower, safflower, peanut, cottonseed, etc. – and tropical oils, such as coconut, palm, and rice bran. Grape seed oil, used in cooking and cosmetics
Hazelnut oil and other nut oils
Linseed oil, from flax seeds
Rice bran oil, from rice grains
Safflower oil, a flavorless and colorless cooking oil
Sesame oil, used as a cooking oil, and as a massage oil, particularly in India
Açaí palm oil, used in culinary and cosmetics
Jambú oil, is extracted from the flowers, leaves and stem from jambu (Acmella oleracea), contains spilanthol
Graviola oil, derived from Annona muricata
Tucumã oil, from Astrocaryum aculeatum is used to manufacture soap. Examples are sunflower, corn, and sesame oils. 
Is it safe to take preparations containing unsaponifiable components of avocado and soybean oils (ASU)? [SEP] Soybean oils, both liquid and partially hydrogenated are sold as "vegetable oil", or are ingredients in a wide variety of processed foods. The major unsaturated fatty acids in soybean oil triglycerides are the polyunsaturates alpha-linolenic acid (C-18:3), 7-10%, and linoleic acid (C-18:2), 51%; and the monounsaturate oleic acid (C-18:1), 23%. Medical uses
Soybean oil is indicated for parenteral nutrition as a source of calories and essential fatty acids. Vegetable oils are usually edible. Such oils include both the major cooking oils – soybean, rapeseed, canola, sunflower, safflower, peanut, cottonseed, etc. – and tropical oils, such as coconut, palm, and rice bran. Examples are sunflower, corn, and sesame oils. Oils and Fats Authentication. 
Can taking chondroitin relieve osteoarthritis pain or improve mobility in the long term? [SEP] Any small benefit related to the potential for doxycycline therapy to address the narrowing of the joint space is not clear, and any benefit is outweighed by the potential harm from side effects.A 2018 meta-analysis found that oral collagen supplementation for the treatment of osteoarthritis reduces stiffness but does not improve pain and functional limitation. The European Society for Clinical and Economic Aspects of Osteoporosis and Osteoarthritis (ESCEO) recommends glucosamine sulfate and chondroitin sulfate for knee osteoarthritis. Its use as a therapy for osteoarthritis is usually safe.A 2015 Cochrane review of clinical trials of chondroitin found that most were of low quality, but that there was some evidence of short-term improvement in pain and few side effects; it does not appear to improve or maintain the health of affected joints. A 2014 Cochrane review found that while ASU might help relieve pain in the short term for some people with osteoarthritis, it does not appear to improve or maintain the health of affected joints. The review noted a high-quality, two-year clinical trial comparing ASU to chondroitin – which has uncertain efficacy in osteoarthritis – with no difference between the two agents. Glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate are nutraceuticals that can also be added into the diet to help treat osteoarthritis caused by hip dysplasia. Anti-inflammatory effects of glucosamine are believed to contribute to the reduction of pain, promote joint recovery and mobility, and prevent further cartilage degradation. Similarly, chondroitin supplementation is proposed to have comparable results in inhibiting degradative enzymes within the cartilage matrix to reduce the effects of osteoarthritis, but further research is required to assess long term benefits.Vitamins such as A and D also have crucial roles in bone development and maintenance by regulating bone and calcium metabolism. 
Does taking arginine benefit existing cardiovascular disease or does arginine prevent it from developing? [SEP] Supplementation of aspirin with L-Arginine has shown favourable results.The study ASPRE, besides its efficacy in identifying women suspected to develop pre-eclampsia, has also been able to demonstrate a strong drop in the rate of early pre-eclampsia (-82%) and preterm pre-eclampsia (-62%). In those with stable coronary artery disease, but no heart failure, benefits are similar to other usual treatments.In 2012, there was a meta-analysis published in the BMJ that described the protective role of ACE inhibitors in reducing the risk of pneumonia when compared to ARBs (Angiotensin II Receptor Blockers). This action may reduce the prevalence of malignant cardiac arrhythmias, and the reduction in sudden death reported in large clinical trials. In a large clinical study, one of the agents in the ACE inhibitor class, ramipril (Altace), demonstrated an ability to reduce the mortality rates of patients with a myocardial infarction and to slow the subsequent development of heart failure. This finding was made after it was discovered that regular use of ramipril reduced mortality rates even in test subjects who didn't have hypertension.Some believe ramipril's additional benefits may be shared by some or all drugs in the ACE-inhibitor class. In contrast, no significant mortality reduction was observed with ARB treatment (HR 0.99; 95% CI, 0.94–1.04; P=0.683). Other
arginine has some clinical evidence as an adjuvant. "However, when given to men with hypogonadism in the short- and medium-term, testosterone replacement therapy does not increase the risk of cardiovascular events (including strokes and heart attacks and other heart diseases). 
Does "Detoxic" work against tapeworms and other parasites? Does "Detoxic" help with health complaints? [SEP] Diphyllobothriasis is the infection caused by tapeworms of the genus Diphyllobothrium (commonly D. latum and D. nihonkaiense). Transmission
Humans are one of the definitive hosts of Diphyllobothrium tapeworms, along with other carnivores; fish-eating mammals (including canids, felids, and bears), marine mammals (dolphins, porpoises, and whales), and (a few) birds (e.g. Pathophysiology
Tapeworms develop in the small intestine. latum tapeworms are the longest and typically reach a length of 4-15m, but may grow up to 25m in length within the human intestine. D. latum tapeworms feature an anterior end (scolex) equipped with attachment grooves on the dorsal and ventral surfaces. Adequate cooking or freezing of freshwater fish will destroy the encysted fish tapeworm larvae. Because human feces are an important mechanism for spreading eggs, proper disposal of sewage can reduce fish (and therefore human) infections. Treatment
Upon diagnosis, treatment is simple and effective.Praziquantel
The standard treatment for diphyllobothriasis (as well as many other tapeworm infections) is a single dose of praziquantel, 5–10 mg/kg orally once for both adults and children. 
Is mannose as good as or better than antibiotics for preventing recurrent cystitis? [SEP] Uses
Mannose (D-mannose) is used as a dietary supplement to prevent recurrent urinary tract infections (UTIs). As of 2022, one review found that taking mannose was as effective as antibiotics to prevent UTIs, while another review found that clinical trial quality was too low to allow any conclusion about using D‐mannose to prevent or treat UTIs. Interstitial cystitis (chronic pain in the bladder) may be considered for people who experience multiple episodes of UTI symptoms but urine cultures remain negative and not improved with antibiotics. A prolonged course of daily antibiotics is also effective. A UK study showed that methenamine is as effective daily low-dose antibiotics at preventing UTIs among women who experience recurrent UTIs. Alternative medicine
Some research suggests that cranberry (juice or capsules) may decrease the number of UTIs in those with frequent infections. As of 2022, one review found that taking mannose was as effective as antibiotics to prevent UTIs, while another review found that clinical trial quality was too low to allow any conclusion about using D‐mannose to prevent or treat UTIs. D-mannose (which is also anti-inflammatory) is also used by some pet owners as a natural alternative to antibiotic treatment although this may be less targeted and specific than prescribed antibiotics following a urine culture. 
Does taking vitamin K lower the risk of spinal fractures in older women? [SEP] A 2018 review by the USPSTF found low-quality evidence that the routine use of calcium and vitamin D supplements (or both supplements together) did not reduce the risk of having an osteoporotic fracture in male and female adults living in the community who had no known history of vitamin D deficiency, osteoporosis, or a fracture. The USPSTF does not recommend low dose supplementation (less than 1 g of calcium and 400 IU of vitamin D) in postmenopausal women as there does not appear to be a difference in fracture risk. Vitamin K deficiency is also a risk factor for osteoporotic fractures. Vitamin K2 is also used as a means of treatment for osteoporosis and the polymorphisms of GGCX could explain the individual variation in the response to treatment of vitamin K.Dietary sources of calcium include dairy products, leafy greens, legumes, and beans. There is some evidence that physical exercise may be beneficial for bone density in postmenopausal women and lead to a slightly reduced risk of a bone fracture (absolute difference 4%). The highest incidence is found among men and women ages 80 or older.Between 35 and 50% of all women over 50 had at least one vertebral fracture. Vitamin D supplements combined with additional calcium marginally reduces the risk of hip fractures and other types of fracture in older adults; however, vitamin D supplementation alone did not reduce the risk of fractures. Individuals with osteoporosis are at increased risk of bone fractures. 
Does taking vitamin K lower the risk of other bone fractures in older women? [SEP] Research suggests that deficiency of vitamin K may also weaken bones, potentially contributing to osteoporosis, and may promote calcification of arteries and other soft tissues.Chemically, the vitamin K family comprises 2-methyl-1,4-naphthoquinone (3-) derivatives. Higher dietary intake of vitamin K1 may modestly decrease the risk of fractures. However, there is mixed evidence to support a claim that vitamin K supplementation reduces risk of bone fractures. For women who were post-menopausal and for all people diagnosed with osteoporosis, supplementation trials reported increases in bone mineral density, a reduction to the odds of any clinical fractures but no significant difference for vertebral fractures. For older people with osteoporosis, taking vitamin D with calcium may help prevent hip fractures, but it also slightly increases the risk of stomach and kidney problems. Vitamin D supplements combined with additional calcium marginally reduces the risk of hip fractures and other types of fracture in older adults; however, vitamin D supplementation alone did not reduce the risk of fractures. A 2018 review by the USPSTF found low-quality evidence that the routine use of calcium and vitamin D supplements (or both supplements together) did not reduce the risk of having an osteoporotic fracture in male and female adults living in the community who had no known history of vitamin D deficiency, osteoporosis, or a fracture. Vitamin K deficiency is also a risk factor for osteoporotic fractures. 
Does Smartsleep provide better or more restful sleep? [SEP] Conversely, a well-rested organism tends to have improved memory and mood. The optimal nap duration is around 10–20 minutes, as researchers have proven that it takes at least 30 minutes to enter slow-wave sleep, the deepest period of sleep. Short naps at mid-day and mild evening exercise were found to be effective for improved sleep, cognitive tasks, and mental health in elderly people. Subjective sleep quality in turn refers to a sense of being rested and regenerated after awaking from sleep. (2002) found that insomniacs were more demanding in their evaluations of sleep quality than individuals who had no sleep problems.Homeostatic sleep propensity (the need for sleep as a function of the amount of time elapsed since the last adequate sleep episode) must be balanced against the circadian element for satisfactory sleep. However, its benefit seems to depend on the phase of sleep and the type of memory. Diet
Dietary and nutritional choices may affect sleep duration and quality. External links

Rethinking Sleep, David K. Randall, New York Times, September 2012
How to Sleep, James Hamblin, The Atlantic, January 2017 
Can supplemental tryptophan, taken as a dietary supplement or with food, help with depression? [SEP] In small, controlled trials 5-HTP has also been reported to augment the antidepressant efficacy of the antidepressant clomipramine. Tryptophan hydroxylase is a necessary precursor to 5-HTP.Other usage
At high doses, or in combination with carbidopa, 5-HTP has been used to treat obesity (by promoting weight loss).In clinical trials of various design, 5-HTP has also been reported to treat fibromyalgia, myoclonus, migraine, and cerebellar ataxia. It can be manufactured by plants and animals from the amino acid tryptophan. However, low tryptophan could also be caused by a diet low in this essential amino acid, so it is not specific to confirming vitamin status. First, acute depletion of tryptophan—a necessary precursor of serotonin and a monoamine—can cause depression in those in remission or relatives of people who are depressed, suggesting that decreased serotonergic neurotransmission is important in depression. However, disinhibition of the dorsal raphe has been proposed to occur as a result of decreased serotonergic activity in tryptophan depletion, resulting in a depressed state mediated by increased serotonin. In older people it does appear to decrease depression. Also, it is suggested that folate supplements may have a role in depression management. 
Can Neuro-Socks relieve pain or improve balance and stability? [SEP] Stretches like these have been clinically shown to help alleviate pain and restore at least some mobility in patients with CIPN.Walking can be effective in alleviating CIPN symptoms by boosting muscle power, increasing blood circulation, and improving balance. Walking provides low to moderately intense aerobic exercise (60-85% of heart rate reserve), and a regular walking schedule can decrease intensity and frequency of neuropathic symptoms while promoting healthy nerve growth and function. They are important in enhancing a patient's proprioception, coordination, and preventing falls. Footwear
Diabetic shoes, insoles and socks are personalised products that relieve pressure on the foot in order to prevent ulcers. TCC also keeps the ankle from rotating during walking, which helps prevent shearing and twisting forces that can further damage the wound.Effective off loading is a key treatment modality for DFUs, particularly those where there is damage to the nerves in the feet (peripheral neuropathy). Stretches like these have been clinically shown to help alleviate pain and restore at least some mobility in patients with CIPN.Walking can be effective in alleviating CIPN symptoms by boosting muscle power, increasing blood circulation, and improving balance. Walking provides low to moderately intense aerobic exercise (60-85% of heart rate reserve), and a regular walking schedule can decrease intensity and frequency of neuropathic symptoms while promoting healthy nerve growth and function. They are important in enhancing a patient's proprioception, coordination, and preventing falls. 
Does taking blood pressure medication in the evening prevent more heart attacks, strokes, and other acute cardiovascular diseases? [SEP] Heart attacks appear to occur more commonly in the morning hours, especially between 6AM and noon. Evidence suggests that heart attacks are at least three times more likely to occur in the morning than in the late evening. One analysis has found an increase in heart attacks immediately following the start of daylight saving time.Women who use combined oral contraceptive pills have a modestly increased risk of myocardial infarction, especially in the presence of other risk factors. They are often recommended in those at an elevated risk of cardiovascular diseases.Aspirin has been studied extensively in people considered at increased risk of myocardial infarction. Administration
Statins (predominantly simvastatin) have been trialled in combination with fibrates to manage dyslipidemia in patients who also have type 2 diabetes, and a high cardiovascular disease risk, however, there is limited clinical benefit noted for most cardiovascular outcomes While many short half-lives statin medications should be administered in the evening for optimal effect, atorvastatin can be dosed at any time of day due to its long half-life profile, as long as it is continually dosed once daily at the same time to enhance better adherence. Some studies found evening dose of both short and long half-life statins was significantly superior to morning dose for lowering LDL-C. Cardiovascular morbidity
Decreased sleep duration is associated with many adverse cardiovascular consequences. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has noted that adults who sleep less than 7 hours per day are more likely to have chronic health conditions including heart attack, coronary heart disease, and stroke compared to those with adequate amount of sleep.In a study that followed over 160,000 healthy, non-obese adults, the subjects who self-reported sleep duration less than 6 hours a day were at an increased risk for developing multiple cardiometabolic risk factors. 
In Covid-19, do nicotine or smoking have a protective effect, i.e., do they prevent severe progression or death? [SEP] There is strong evidence that some substances found in e-cigarette vapors such as formaldehyde and acrolein can induce DNA damage and mutagenesis.Nicotine promotes endothelial cell migration, proliferation, survival, tube formation, and nitric oxide (NO) production in vitro, mimicking the effect of other angiogenic growth factors. In the case of radiotherapy (RT), nicotine administration increased survival of H460 and A549 lung cancer cells. Nicotine may inhibit antitumor immune response. Based on in vitro and in vivo effects of nicotine, patients should be advised not to use nicotine products during cancer treatment unless it is temporarily needed to stop tobacco smoking. "Nicotine without smoke: Tobacco harm reduction". Claimed benefits
Against the background of the overwhelmingly negative effects of smoking on health, some observational studies have suggested that smoking might have specific beneficial effects, including in the field of cardiovascular disease. Systematic review of reports that suggested smokers respond better to treatment for ischemic stroke provided no support for such claims.Claims of surprising benefits of smoking, based on observational data, have also been made for Parkinson's disease, as well as a variety of other conditions, including basal-cell carcinoma, malignant melanoma, acute mountain sickness, pemphigus, celiac disease, and ulcerative colitis, among others.Tobacco smoke has many bioactive substances, including nicotine, that are capable of exerting a variety of systemic effects. The damage leads to a susceptibility for infection, including COVID-19, more so when combined with smoking; smoking induces the upregulation of the expression of ACE2, a receptor for the SARS-CoV-2 virus. 
Can red mold rice products lower blood cholesterol levels? [SEP] Production
Red yeast rice is produced by cultivating the mold species Monascus purpureus on rice for 3–6 days at room temperature. Medicinal use of red yeast rice is described in the Chinese pharmacopoeia Ben Cao Gang Mu compiled by Li Shizhen ca. In a press release the FDA "...is warning consumers to not buy or eat red yeast rice products... may contain an unauthorized drug that could be harmful to health." Clinical evidence
The amount typically used in clinical trials is 1200–2400 mg/day of red yeast rice containing approximately 10 mg total monacolins, of which half are monacolin K. A meta-analysis reported LDL-cholesterol lowered by 1.02 mmol/L (39.4 mg/dL) compared to placebo. Red rice yeast is a product of the mold Monascus purpureus grown on rice, and is common in Asian diets. A study has shown that red rice yeast used as a dietary supplement, combined with fish oil and healthy lifestyle changes, may help reduce "bad" cholesterol as effectively as certain commercial statin drugs. Red yeast rice
The genum of mold Aspergillus and/or Monascus are used in the fabrication of red yeast rice to stimulate the production of lovastatin, where lovastatin and other statins inhibit the total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol synthesis by blocking action of the enzyme HMG-CoA reductase. The safety of red yeast rice has not yet been established as studies found that some commercial supplements contain high levels of toxin citrinin.There are reports in the literature of muscle myopathy and liver damage resulting from red yeast rice usage. 
Do products made from red mold rice have fewer side effects than cholesterol-lowering drugs called statins??? [SEP] Statins are the most common cholesterol-lowering drugs. Comparative effectiveness
While no direct comparison exists, all statins appear effective regardless of potency or degree of cholesterol reduction. Simvastatin and pravastatin appear to have a reduced incidence of side-effects.A comparison of simvastatin, pravastatin, and atorvastatin, based on their effectiveness against placebos, found no differences in reduction of cardiovascular disease or lipid levels in the blood. Some types of statins are naturally occurring, and can be found in such foods as oyster mushrooms and red yeast rice. "Weighing the Pros and Cons of Statins". The red yeast rice fungus, Monascus purpureus, can synthesize lovastatin, mevastatin, and the simvastatin precursor monacolin J.  Nicotinamide riboside, a cholesterol biosynthesis inhibitor, is made by Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Red yeast rice
The genum of mold Aspergillus and/or Monascus are used in the fabrication of red yeast rice to stimulate the production of lovastatin, where lovastatin and other statins inhibit the total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol synthesis by blocking action of the enzyme HMG-CoA reductase. The safety of red yeast rice has not yet been established as studies found that some commercial supplements contain high levels of toxin citrinin.There are reports in the literature of muscle myopathy and liver damage resulting from red yeast rice usage. 
Can disinfectants containing highly diluted sodium hypochlorite (below 0.1%) render corona and other viruses harmless and thus protect against infection? [SEP] "Virus resistance in a hospital environment: overview of the virucide activity of disinfectants used in liquid form". A 10–25% solution of sodium hypochlorite is, according to Univar's safety sheet, supplied with synonyms or trade names bleach, Hypo, Everchlor, Chloros, Hispec, Bridos, Bleacol, or Vo-redox 9110.A 12% solution is widely used in waterworks for the chlorination of water, and a 15% solution is more commonly used for disinfection of waste water in treatment plants. Sodium hypochlorite can also be used for point-of-use disinfection of drinking water, taking 0.2-2 mg of sodium hypochlorite per liter of water.Dilute solutions (50 ppm to 1.5%) are found in disinfecting sprays and wipes used on hard surfaces. Cleaning
Sodium hypochlorite has destaining properties. It is also used in sodium hypochlorite washes. Disinfection
Sodium hypochlorite in solution exhibits broad spectrum anti-microbial activity and is widely used in healthcare facilities in a variety of settings. The same study found that low (micromolar) hypochlorite levels induce E. coli and Vibrio cholerae to activate a protective mechanism, although its implications were not clear.In some cases, the base acidity of hypochlorite compromises a bacterium's lipid membrane, a reaction similar to popping a balloon. Hypochlorites are also widely used as broad spectrum disinfectants and deodorizers. 
Does cat's claw improve joint disease symptoms? [SEP] In "Woman in Black," Juliette suffers a scratch while treating Adalind Schade's cat. Feline cutaneous asthenia is a rare inheritable skin disease of cats characterised by abnormal elasticity, stretching, and improper healing of the skin. Pendulous wing-like folds of skin form on the cat's back, shoulders and haunches. Feline cutaneous asthenia is similar to the Ehlers–Danlos syndrome of humans. Cats may also have slipping joints, as in human Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. Cats should have their claws regularly trimmed so that they cannot injure themselves while scratching, and it is often advised that males be neutered, both because of the heritability of the disease and because there is a chance of injury during mating. Vitamin C is also given to cats in controlled doses, to assist with the translation of collagen. Given proper care, cats with feline cutaneous asthenia can live long lives, although the prognosis is not as positive if joint hypermobility is present. 
Do essential oils protect against corona infections and other viral infections like colds or flu? [SEP] Essential oils
Many essential oils included in herbal pharmacopoeias are claimed to possess antimicrobial activity, with the oils of bay, cinnamon, clove and thyme reported to be the most potent in studies with foodborne bacterial pathogens. Coconut oil is also known for its antimicrobial properties. Homeopathic remedies such as this one have no active ingredients and cannot protect against flu, colds, or COVID-19, said University of Auckland associate professor and microbiologist Dr Siouxsie Wiles. A recipe consisting of ingredients often purported to prevent and cure colds, including lemon grass, elder, ginger, black pepper, lemon and honey, was promoted by María Alejandra Díaz, a member of the Venezuelan Constituent Assembly as a cure for COVID-19. Herbs and spices
Garlic was said to prevent COVID-19 on Facebook. There is no evidence that this prevents or cures any coronavirus infection, Mark Kristoffer Pasayan, a fellow at the Philippine Society for Microbiology and Infectious Diseases, said. Various retailers have marketed herbal products and essential oils fraudulently claimed to cure or prevent COVID-19. Fennel tea (supposedly similar to the medicine Tamiflu—itself ineffective against coronaviruses—according to a false e-mail attributed to a hospital director) was claimed to be a cure in Brazil. 
Do air purifiers help relieve symptoms of allergic asthma? [SEP] Inflammation may increase sensitivity to other existing issues such as allergies, and treatment of other causes of coughs (such as use of an air purifier or allergy medicines) may help speed recovery. Asthma is a common cause of chronic cough in adults and children. Coughing may be the only symptom the person has from their asthma, or asthma symptoms may also include wheezing, shortness of breath, and a tight feeling in their chest. Depending on how severe the asthma is, it can be treated with bronchodilators (medicine which causes the airways to open up) or inhaled steroids. Treatment of the asthma should make the cough go away. Fungal allergens
In 1952 basidiospores were described as being possible airborne allergens and were linked to asthma in 1969. Various unproven theories also claim that vegan diets, apple cider vinegar, calendula, and witch hazel can cure AD and that air purifiers reduce the risk of developing AD. The WHO recommends ventilation and air filtration in public spaces to help clear out infectious aerosols.Exhaled respiratory particles can build-up within enclosed spaces with inadequate ventilation. 
Is special baby water better for infants than tap water? [SEP] Croatia
Croatia fluoridates their tap water. Point-of-use water supply and point-of-use water quality interventions also show similar effectiveness to handwashing, with those that include provision of safe storage containers demonstrating increased disease reduction in infants.Specific types of water quality improvement projects can have a protective effect on morbidity and mortality. A quasi-randomized study on historical data from the United States also found that the introduction of clean water technologies in major cities was responsible for close to half the reduction in total mortality and over three-quarters of the reduction in infant mortality. Children are able to more fully participate in school when there is improved access to water. Tap water is reported to be safe for infants in Tokyo and Chiba by Japanese authorities, but still exceeds limits in Hitachi and Tokaimura. On 23 March, Tokyo drinking water exceeded the safe level for infants, prompting the government to distribute bottled water to families with infants. On 25 March, tap water was reported to have reduced to 79 Bq/kg and to be safe for infants in Tokyo and Chiba but still exceeded limits in Hitachi and Tokaimura. However, the levels were below the safety limits for tap water consumption by infants. 
Does platelet-rich plasma therapy (autologous blood therapy) reduce pain in osteoarthritis of the knee joint? [SEP] Though promoted to treat an array of medical problems, evidence for benefit is mixed as of 2020, with some evidence for use in certain conditions and against use in other conditions.As a concentrated source of blood plasma and autologous conditioned plasma, PRP contains several different growth factors and other cytokines that can stimulate healing of soft tissue and joints. A 2021 systematic review by the Cochrane Library examined PRP and autologous whole blood injections and concluded that it was "uncertain" if PRP or autologous whole blood injections improved elbow tendon healing.A 2018 systematic review and meta-analysis of high quality studies found that PRP was beneficial for treatment of lateral epicondylitis.Numerous systematic reviews and meta-analyses have found that for elbow tendinopathy, PRP is superior to cortisone injections. A 2009 review found few randomized controlled trials that adequately evaluated the safety and efficacy of PRP treatments and concluded that PRP was "a promising, but not proven, treatment option for joint, tendon, ligament, and muscle injuries".Osteoarthritis:
Tentative evidence supports its use in osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee. Clinical trials
Regenerative treatment models
Stem cells are thought to mediate repair via five primary mechanisms: 1) providing an anti-inflammatory effect, 2) homing to damaged tissues and recruiting other cells, such as endothelial progenitor cells, that are necessary for tissue growth, 3) supporting tissue remodeling over scar formation, 4) inhibiting apoptosis, and 5) differentiating into bone, cartilage, tendon, and ligament tissue.To further enrich blood supply to the damaged areas, and consequently promote tissue regeneration, platelet-rich plasma could be used in conjunction with stem cell transplantation. Joint repair
Osteoarthritis is the main cause of joint pain both in animals and humans. Suspensory ligament injuries have also responded favorably to stem cell therapy.Results using MSC for osteoarthritis, when using joint models, has shown to produce little effect on the treated joint. In sheep, joints treated with bone marrow derived MSC following damage to a meniscus were shown to have marked regeneration of the meniscus and reduced osteoarthritis. PRP has been used in wounds, tendon and ligament lesions, fractures, bone cysts, and joints to treat osteoarthritis.To produce PRP, the patient's blood is centrifuged to separate the plasma from the red blood cells. 
Does platelet-rich plasma therapy (autologous blood therapy) reduce pain in osteoarthritis of the hip joint??? [SEP] Joint repair
Osteoarthritis is the main cause of joint pain both in animals and humans. PRP has the ability to stop the inflammatory response around the necrotic parts of the bone to increase patient comfort and decrease pain. In osteochondral fragmentation models, intravenous HA has been shown to decrease lameness, improve the synovial membrane, and lower protein and prostaglandin E2 levels within joints. Pentosan polysulfate
Pentosan polysulfate, like Adequan, has been shown to improve signs of osteoarthritis. Suspensory ligament injuries have also responded favorably to stem cell therapy.Results using MSC for osteoarthritis, when using joint models, has shown to produce little effect on the treated joint. In sheep, joints treated with bone marrow derived MSC following damage to a meniscus were shown to have marked regeneration of the meniscus and reduced osteoarthritis. PRP has been used in wounds, tendon and ligament lesions, fractures, bone cysts, and joints to treat osteoarthritis.To produce PRP, the patient's blood is centrifuged to separate the plasma from the red blood cells. Pastern osteoarthritis is also treated with surgical arthrodesis, and can lead to improved comfort and return to athletic function. 
Can vitamin D supplements prevent colds, flu, colds, and other viral respiratory illnesses when there is no or only a mild deficiency of vitamin D? [SEP] In those with COPD who are malnourished, supplementation with vitamin C, vitamin E, zinc and selenium can improve weight, strength of respiratory muscles and health-related quality of life. Significant vitamin D deficiency is common in those with COPD and can cause increased exacerbations. Nutrient supplementation
It is uncertain whether vitamin A or beta-carotene supplementation have any effect on eye and skin problems caused by vitamin A deficiency.There is no strong evidence that people with cystic fibrosis can prevent osteoporosis by increasing their intake of vitamin D.For people with vitamin E deficiency and cystic fibrosis, there is evidence that vitamin E supplementation may improve vitamin E levels, although it is still uncertain what effect supplementation has on vitamin E‐specific deficiency disorders or on lung function.Robust evidence regarding the effects of vitamin K supplementation in people with cystic fibrosis is lacking as of 2020.Various studies have examined the effects of omega-3 fatty acid supplementation for people with cystic fibrosis but the evidence is uncertain whether it has any benefits or adverse effects. Antibiotics will not cure a cold; they treat bacterial diseases and are ineffectual against viruses. Vitamin C does not prevent or treat the common cold, although it may have a protective effect during intense cold-weather exercise. If taken daily, it may slightly reduce the duration and severity of colds, but it has no effect if taken after the cold starts. For instance, in a study in Ecuador, micronutrient deficiencies were found to be common in the elderly, especially for vitamin C, vitamin D, vitamin B-6, vitamin B-12, folic acid, and zinc, and these are thought to weaken the immune system or cause anemia and thus place people at greater risk of respiratory infections such as influenza. A meta-analysis of 13 studies indicated some support for adjunctive vitamin D therapy for influenza, but called for more rigorous clinical trials to settle the issue conclusively.A recent review discussing herbal and alternative medicines in influenza treatment details evidence suggesting that N-acetylcysteine, elderberry, or a combination of Eleutherococcus senticosus and Andrographis paniculata may help to shorten the course of influenza infection. 
Does ACE inhibitors like ramipril increase the risk of lung cancer? [SEP] Lung cancer risk increases with quantity of cigarettes consumed. An estimated 17% of lung cancer cases in those who do not smoke are caused by high levels of environmental tobacco smoke.Vaping may be a risk factor for lung cancer, but less than that of cigarettes, and further research as of 2021 is necessary due to the length of time it can take for lung cancer to develop following an exposure to carcinogens.The smoking of non-tobacco products is not known to be associated with lung cancer development. Other inflammatory lung and immune system diseases such as alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, interstitial fibrosis, scleroderma, Chlamydia pneumoniae infection, tuberculosis, and HIV infection are associated with increased risk of developing lung cancer. Genetics
Particular gene combinations may make some people more susceptible to lung cancer. Cancer
A study published in 2010 determined that "...meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials suggests that ARBs are associated with a modestly increased risk of new cancer diagnosis. A later meta-analysis by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of 31 randomized controlled trials comparing ARBs to other treatment found no evidence of an increased risk of incident (new) cancer, cancer-related death, breast cancer, lung cancer, or prostate cancer in patients receiving ARBs. "In May 2013, a senior regulator at the Food & Drug Administration, Medical Team Leader Thomas A. Marciniak, revealed publicly that contrary to the FDA's official conclusion that there was no increased cancer risk, after a patient-by-patient examination of the available FDA data he had concluded that there was a lung-cancer risk increase of about 24% in ARB patients, compared with patients taking a placebo or other drugs. Increased levels of bradykinins resulting from ACE inhibitor use have been associated with increased lung cancer risks. 
Does propolis have a preventive or soothing effect against infection with coronavirus, colds or flu? [SEP] Propolis functions may include:
Reinforcing the structural stability and reduce vibration
Providing improved thermal insulation to the hive and reduce water loss
Providing protection from pathogens, via antifungal and antibacterial properties
Make the hive more defensible against parasites and predators by narrowing the existing entrance (in wild colonies) to a single "choke point"
Mitigate putrefaction within the hive - bees usually carry waste out of and away from the hive, but if a small lizard or mouse, for example, finds its way into the hive and dies there, bees may be unable to carry it out through the hive entrance. "Typical" northern temperate propolis has roughly 50 constituents, primarily resins and vegetable balsams (50%), waxes (30%), essential oils (10%), and pollen (5%). Uses
Traditional medicine
Propolis has been used in traditional medicine, with insufficient evidence to rate its effectiveness in the treatment of any illnesses. Musical instruments
Propolis is used by some string-instrument makers (violin, viola, cello, and bass) as a varnish ingredient. A tincture of propolis may be used to seal the surface of newly made violin family bridges, and may be used in the maintenance of the bores of pan flute tubes. References
External links

"Propolis" . Propolis
While T. iridipennis gathers propolis to reinforce its nest, people have harvested it and discovered it to have a wide spectrum of pharmacological activities. Propolis exhibits notable antibacterial and antiviral properties. 
Does DAILY administration of HIGH-dose atropine (0.5 - 1%) sustainably inhibit the progression of myopia in children? [SEP] Atropine degrades slowly, typically wearing off in 7 to 14 days, so it is generally used as a therapeutic mydriatic, whereas tropicamide (a shorter-acting cholinergic antagonist) or phenylephrine (an α-adrenergic agonist) is preferred as an aid to ophthalmic examination.In refractive and accommodative amblyopia, when occlusion is not appropriate sometimes atropine is given to induce blur in the good eye. Evidence suggests that atropine penalization is just as effective as occlusion in improving visual acuity.Antimuscarinic topical medication is effective in slowing myopia progression in children; accommodation difficulties and papillae and follicles are possible side-effects. In the eye, atropine induces mydriasis by blocking contraction of the circular pupillary sphincter muscle, which is normally stimulated by acetylcholine release, thereby allowing the radial iris dilator muscle to contract and dilate the pupil. Atropine induces cycloplegia by paralyzing the ciliary muscles, whose action inhibits accommodation to allow accurate refraction in children, helps to relieve pain associated with iridocyclitis, and treats ciliary block (malignant) glaucoma. Atropine degrades slowly, typically wearing off in 7 to 14 days, so it is generally used as a therapeutic mydriatic, whereas tropicamide (a shorter-acting cholinergic antagonist) or phenylephrine (an α-adrenergic agonist) is preferred as an aid to ophthalmic examination.In refractive and accommodative amblyopia, when occlusion is not appropriate sometimes atropine is given to induce blur in the good eye. Evidence suggests that atropine penalization is just as effective as occlusion in improving visual acuity.Antimuscarinic topical medication is effective in slowing myopia progression in children; accommodation difficulties and papillae and follicles are possible side-effects. In the eye, atropine induces mydriasis by blocking contraction of the circular pupillary sphincter muscle, which is normally stimulated by acetylcholine release, thereby allowing the radial iris dilator muscle to contract and dilate the pupil. Atropine induces cycloplegia by paralyzing the ciliary muscles, whose action inhibits accommodation to allow accurate refraction in children, helps to relieve pain associated with iridocyclitis, and treats ciliary block (malignant) glaucoma. 
Does MONTHLY administered HIGH-dose atropine (1%) sustainably inhibit the progression of myopia in children? [SEP] NEI has supported research into effective treatment for amblyopia, including:

Amblyopia treatment in older children: This study aimed to evaluate whether children older than 7 years with amblyopia could benefit from the treatments used in younger children (prescription eyeglasses, patching, and atropine eye drops). The results showed that older children whose amblyopia was not corrected with eyeglasses alone can benefit from patching or atropine eye drops—especially if they did not get treatment for amblyopia earlier in childhood. Using atropine eye drops daily is as effective as patching for at least six hours per day. Medical uses
Eyes
Topical atropine is used as a cycloplegic, to temporarily paralyze the accommodation reflex, and as a mydriatic, to dilate the pupils. Atropine degrades slowly, typically wearing off in 7 to 14 days, so it is generally used as a therapeutic mydriatic, whereas tropicamide (a shorter-acting cholinergic antagonist) or phenylephrine (an α-adrenergic agonist) is preferred as an aid to ophthalmic examination.In refractive and accommodative amblyopia, when occlusion is not appropriate sometimes atropine is given to induce blur in the good eye. Evidence suggests that atropine penalization is just as effective as occlusion in improving visual acuity.Antimuscarinic topical medication is effective in slowing myopia progression in children; accommodation difficulties and papillae and follicles are possible side-effects. In the eye, atropine induces mydriasis by blocking contraction of the circular pupillary sphincter muscle, which is normally stimulated by acetylcholine release, thereby allowing the radial iris dilator muscle to contract and dilate the pupil. Atropine induces cycloplegia by paralyzing the ciliary muscles, whose action inhibits accommodation to allow accurate refraction in children, helps to relieve pain associated with iridocyclitis, and treats ciliary block (malignant) glaucoma. 
Does LOW dose atropine (0.05% or less) sustainably inhibit the progression of myopia in children??? [SEP] Medical uses
Eyes
Topical atropine is used as a cycloplegic, to temporarily paralyze the accommodation reflex, and as a mydriatic, to dilate the pupils. Atropine degrades slowly, typically wearing off in 7 to 14 days, so it is generally used as a therapeutic mydriatic, whereas tropicamide (a shorter-acting cholinergic antagonist) or phenylephrine (an α-adrenergic agonist) is preferred as an aid to ophthalmic examination.In refractive and accommodative amblyopia, when occlusion is not appropriate sometimes atropine is given to induce blur in the good eye. Evidence suggests that atropine penalization is just as effective as occlusion in improving visual acuity.Antimuscarinic topical medication is effective in slowing myopia progression in children; accommodation difficulties and papillae and follicles are possible side-effects. In the eye, atropine induces mydriasis by blocking contraction of the circular pupillary sphincter muscle, which is normally stimulated by acetylcholine release, thereby allowing the radial iris dilator muscle to contract and dilate the pupil. Atropine induces cycloplegia by paralyzing the ciliary muscles, whose action inhibits accommodation to allow accurate refraction in children, helps to relieve pain associated with iridocyclitis, and treats ciliary block (malignant) glaucoma. NEI has supported research into effective treatment for amblyopia, including:

Amblyopia treatment in older children: This study aimed to evaluate whether children older than 7 years with amblyopia could benefit from the treatments used in younger children (prescription eyeglasses, patching, and atropine eye drops). The results showed that older children whose amblyopia was not corrected with eyeglasses alone can benefit from patching or atropine eye drops—especially if they did not get treatment for amblyopia earlier in childhood. Using atropine eye drops daily is as effective as patching for at least six hours per day. 
Is quarantining persons who have had contact with infected persons or who enter from high-risk areas an effective measure to reduce the number of COVID-19 infections and deaths? [SEP] International travel-related control measures
A 2021 Cochrane rapid review found that based upon low-certainty evidence, international travel-related control measures such as restricting cross-border travel may help to contain the spread of COVID‑19. The review concluded that a minimum 10-day quarantine may be beneficial in preventing the spread of COVID‑19 and may be more effective if combined with an additional control measure like border screening. It involves using public health measures such as contact tracing, mass testing, border quarantine, lockdowns, and mitigation software in order to stop community transmission of COVID-19 as soon as it is detected. Advocates of zero-COVID argue that the costs of these measures are lower than the economic and social costs of long-term social distancing measures and increased mortality incurred by mitigation strategies.The long-term "exit path" for both elimination and mitigation strategies depends on the development of effective vaccines and treatments for COVID-19. This will result in a situation that is less costly to society, that it reduces dependence on pharmaceutical interventions such as vaccines, and that it increases quality of life and life expectancy due to fewer citizens contracting COVID-19. Although similar disease control measures have been used for hundreds of years, the scale of those implemented in the 2020s is thought to be unprecedented.Research and case studies have shown that lockdowns were generally effective at reducing the spread of COVID-19, therefore flattening the curve. Lockdowns are thought to be most effective at containing or preventing COVID-19 community transmission, healthcare costs and deaths when implemented earlier, with greater stringency, and when not lifted too early.There is disagreement about the size of the effect of lockdowns on COVID-19 mortality. Related to epidemiology
Epidemiological evidence supports generalized non-pharmaceutical interventions to curb the spread of COVID-19.During the early stages of the pandemic in Europe and the United States, statistical modeling which advised that restrictions were helpful to prevent a large number of deaths were used as the basis for lockdowns. 
Can homeopathic globules protect against infection with the novel coronavirus? [SEP] Normally Grams would have treated her condition with homeopathy. In interviews with German daily newspapers Süddeutsche Zeitung and Die Welt, Grams stated that "[h]omeopathy works because we homeopaths and our patients have the idea that it works", and characterized homeopathy itself as a patient which "lacks data and facts, it hallucinates, it does not want to admit its illness. In an interview with Der Spiegel, Grams said that given the lack of evidence for homeopathic medicines' efficacy exceeding the placebo effect, "[i]f a group of doctors staunchly asserts that homeopathy works, one must – for the sake of patients – object. "Homeopathy – Where is the science? Coronaviruses are a group of related RNA viruses that cause diseases in mammals and birds. Genome
Coronaviruses contain a positive-sense, single-stranded RNA genome. The human coronaviruses HCoV-OC43, HCoV-HKU1, HCoV-229E, and HCoV-NL63 continually circulate in the human population in adults and children worldwide and produce the generally mild symptoms of the common cold. The CoronaVac vaccine was reported to be 50.4 percent effective in a Brazil clinical trial. 
Does the osteoporosis drug teriparatide increase the risk of bone cancer as a side effect? [SEP] No association is seen between PPI use and cancer, but use of PPIs may mask gastric cancers or other serious gastric problems and physicians should be aware of this effect.There is a possible association between long term use and dementia which requires further study to confirm.A review article in U.S. Pharmacist in 2013 states that long-term use of PPIs is associated with decreased calcium absorption (causing increased risk of osteoporosis and fractures), decreased magnesium absorption (causing electrolyte disturbances), and increased risk of certain infections such as C. difficile and community-acquired pneumonia. They  are the most commonly prescribed drugs used to treat osteoporosis. Bisphosphonates are beneficial in reducing the risk of vertebral fracture in steroid induced osteoporosis. A 2017 Cochrane review found that for people with early breast cancer, bisphosphonate treatment may reduce the risk of the cancer spreading to the person's bone, however, for people who had advanced breast cancer bisphosphonate treatment did not appear to reduce the risk of the cancer spreading to the bone. Bisphosphonates, when administered intravenously for the treatment of cancer, have been associated with osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ), with the mandible twice as frequently affected as the maxilla and most cases occurring following high-dose intravenous administration used for some cancer patients. Long-term risks
In large studies, women taking bisphosphonates for osteoporosis have had unusual fractures ("bisphosphonate fractures") in the femur (thigh bone) in the shaft (diaphysis or sub-trochanteric region) of the bone, rather than at the femoral neck, which is the most common site of fracture. In cases where there is concern of such fractures occurring, teriparatide is potentially a good alternative because it does not cause as much damage as a bisphosphonate does by suppressing bone turnover.Three meta analyses have evaluated whether bisphosphonate use is associated with an increased risk of esophageal cancer. A cross-sectional retrospective analysis of the entire Austrian population found that the risk of getting osteoporosis is dependent on the dose used. 
Can therapy with EMDR (Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing) alleviate the symptoms of people with post-traumatic stress disorder? [SEP] Eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR) is a form of psychotherapy devised by Francine Shapiro in the 1980s that was originally designed to alleviate the distress associated with traumatic memories such as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). The 2018 International Society for Traumatic Stress Studies practice guidelines "strongly recommend" EMDR as an effective treatment for post-traumatic stress symptoms. Eye movement desensitization and reprocessing
Eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR) is a form of psychotherapy developed and studied by Francine Shapiro. There is moderate strength of evidence to support the efficacy of EMDR "for reduction in PTSD symptoms, loss of diagnosis, and reduction in depressive symptoms" according to a 2018 systematic review update. There is a small amount of evidence that EMDR may improve re-experiencing symptoms in children and adolescents, but EMDR has not been shown to improve other PTSD symptoms, anxiety, or depression.The eye movement component of the therapy may not be critical for benefit. Therapy is usually efficient to treat chronic nightmares in PTSD disorder or in other population.Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR) is a specialized intervention in which the focus is to stimulate neural mechanisms to induce disturbing memories and experiences. Eye movement desensitization and reprocessing
Eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR) was developed by Francine Shapiro in 1988 as a method to diminish the impacts of traumatic memories. Eye movement desensitizing and reprocessing
Eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR) combines traumatic memory processing with eye movement. 
Does EMDR work similarly to exposure therapy, another well-studied form of psychotherapy for the symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder??? [SEP] These therapies include, but are not limited to, rational emotive behavior therapy (REBT), cognitive therapy, acceptance and commitment therapy, dialectical behavior therapy, metacognitive therapy, metacognitive training, reality therapy/choice theory, cognitive processing therapy, EMDR, and multimodal therapy. Interventions such as imaginal exposure therapy combine both approaches. This included depression, panic disorder, post-traumatic stress, and other anxiety disorders.CBT has been shown to be effective in the treatment of adults with anxiety disorders.Results from a 2018 systematic review found a high strength of evidence that CBT-exposure therapy can reduce PTSD symptoms and lead to the loss of a PTSD diagnosis. A Cochrane review found low quality evidence that CBT may be more effective than other psychotherapies in reducing symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder in children and adolescents.A systematic review of CBT in depression and anxiety disorders concluded that "CBT delivered in primary care, especially including computer- or Internet-based self-help programs, is potentially more effective than usual care and could be delivered effectively by primary care therapists. This technique was first implemented and developed with soldiers on active duty by Dr. M. David Rudd to prevent suicide.Breakdown of treatment
Orientation
Commitment to treatment
Crisis response and safety planning
Means restriction
Survival kit
Reasons for living card
Model of suicidality
Treatment journal
Lessons learned
Skill focus
Skill development worksheets
Coping cards
Demonstration
Practice
Skill refinement
Relapse prevention
Skill generalization
Skill refinement

Cognitive emotional behavioral therapy
Cognitive emotional behavioral therapy (CEBT) is a form of CBT developed initially for individuals with eating disorders but now used with a range of problems including anxiety, depression, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and anger problems. Highly experienced therapists have few patients that achieve a unified identity.Common treatment methods include an eclectic mix of psychotherapy techniques, including cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), insight-oriented therapy, dialectical behavioral therapy (DBT), hypnotherapy, and eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR).Hypnosis should be carefully considered when choosing both treatment and provider practitioners because of its dangers. There is debate over issues such as whether exposure therapy (reliving traumatic memories, also known as abreaction), engagement with alters and physical contact during therapy are appropriate and there are clinical opinions both for and against each option with little high-quality evidence for any position.Brandt et al., commenting on the lack of empirical studies of treatment effectiveness, conducted a survey of 36 clinicians expert in treating dissociative disorder (DD) who recommended a three-stage treatment. Eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR) is a form of psychotherapy in which the person being treated is asked to recall distressing images; the therapist then directs the person in one type of bilateral sensory input, such as side-to-side eye movements or hand tapping. 
Does filling with hydrogel help with chronic back pain caused by a worn disc? [SEP] Hydrogel
Gel in which the swelling agent is water. In most cases of herniated disks and stenosis, rest, injections or surgery have similar general pain-resolution outcomes on average after one year. Massage therapy may provide short-term pain relief, but not functional improvement, for those with acute lower back pain. Acupuncture may provide some relief for back pain. Spinal manipulation appears to provide similar effects to other recommended treatments for chronic low back pain. For severe back pain not relieved by NSAIDs or acetaminophen, opioids may be used. "Noninvasive Treatments for Acute, Subacute, and Chronic Low Back Pain: A Clinical Practice Guideline From the American College of Physicians". Acupuncture has also been found to be an effective and safe treatment in reducing pain and improving quality of life in chronic pain including chronic pelvic pain syndrome.Transcranial magnetic stimulation for reduction of chronic pain is not supported by high quality evidence, and the demonstrated effects are small and short-term.Spa therapy could potentially improve pain in patients with chronic lower back pain, but more studies are needed to provide stronger evidence of this.While some studies have investigated the efficacy of St John's Wort or nutmeg for treating neuropathic (nerve) pain, their findings have raised serious concerns about the accuracy of their results.Kinesio Tape has not been shown to be effective in managing chronic non-specific low-back pain.Myofascial release has been used in some cases of fibromyalgia, chronic low back pain, and tennis elbow but there is not enough evidence to support this as method of treatment. 
Does taking hyaluronic acid in capsule form improve the symptoms of knee osteoarthritis? [SEP] As an adjunct to these lifestyle changes, use of analgesia, intra-articular cortisone injection and consideration of hyaluronic acids and platelet-rich plasma are recommended for pain relief in patients with knee osteoarthritis. A 2015 review indicated that aquatic therapy is safe, effective, and can be an adjunct therapy for knee osteoarthritis.Functional, gait, and balance training have been recommended to address impairments of position sense, balance, and strength in individuals with lower extremity arthritis, as these can contribute to a higher rate of falls in older individuals. Hyaluronic acid
Injections of hyaluronic acid have not produced improvement compared to placebo for knee arthritis, but did increase risk of further pain. A 2014 Cochrane review found that while ASU might help relieve pain in the short term for some people with osteoarthritis, it does not appear to improve or maintain the health of affected joints. A 2021 review found that hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) had no benefit in reducing pain and improving physical function in hand or knee osteoarthritis, and the off-label use of HCQ for people with osteoarthritis should be discouraged. There is no evidence for the use of colchicine for treating the pain of hand or knee arthritis.There is limited evidence to support the use of hyaluronan, methylsulfonylmethane, rose hip, capsaicin, or vitamin D.

Acupuncture and other interventions
While acupuncture leads to improvements in pain relief, this improvement is small and may be of questionable importance. A local anesthetic reduces pain from 15 to 20 minutes after the injection, and lasts about 4 to 6 hours.Injections of hyaluronic acid have not produced improvement compared to placebo for knee arthritis, but did increase risk of further pain. Injections of hyaluronic acid have not produced improvement compared to placebo for knee arthritis, but did increase risk of further pain. 
Does taking chlorella provide better performance, more resilience and does it promote health? [SEP] Chlorella has been considered as a source of food and energy because its photosynthetic efficiency can reach 8%, which exceeds that of other highly efficient crops such as sugar cane. As a food source
Chlorella is a  food source because it is high in protein and other essential nutrients; when dried, it is about 45% protein, 20% fat, 20% carbohydrate, 5% fiber, and 10% minerals and vitamins. When first harvested, Chlorella was suggested as an inexpensive protein supplement to the human diet. History
Following global fears of an uncontrollable human population boom during the late 1940s and the early 1950s, Chlorella was seen as a new and promising primary food source and as a possible solution to the then-current world hunger crisis. In addition, Chlorella contains fat and vitamins. Dietary supplement
Chlorella is consumed as a dietary supplement. Manufacturers of Chlorella products falsely assert that it has purported health effects, including an ability to treat cancer, for which the American Cancer Society stated "available scientific studies do not support its effectiveness for preventing or treating cancer or any other disease in humans". The United States Food and Drug Administration has issued warning letters to supplement companies for falsely advertising health benefits of consuming chlorella products, such as one company in October 2020.There is some support from animal studies of chlorella's ability to detoxify insecticides. 
Does going to the sauna several times a week prolong men's lives? [SEP] Sauna
Sauna is a type of dry steam bath practiced widely in Finland. The sauna's purpose is to bathe, and the heat (either dry or steam) opens pores in the skin and thoroughly cleanses the body. The sauna soothes sore and aching muscles. Sauna is not to be rushed as it is essential to spiritual living. Traditional sauna includes the process of perspiring and cooling several times. Bodily modesty is not part of the Finnish identity due to the universal use of the sauna, a historical tradition that has been maintained.A 2009 report issued by the CDC comparing the sexual health of teens in France, Germany, the Netherlands and the United States concluded that if the US implemented comprehensive sex education similar to the three European countries there would be a significant reduction in teen pregnancies, abortions and the rate of sexually transmitted diseases, and the US would save hundreds of millions of dollars. For Finns, going to a sauna is a ritual with cultural meanings regrading cleanliness, connections to nature, and connection to other people without public roles or sexuality. The sauna is an important part of the national identity and those who have the opportunity usually take a sauna at least once a week. 
Does going to the sauna several times a week prolong women's lives??? [SEP] The sauna's purpose is to bathe, and the heat (either dry or steam) opens pores in the skin and thoroughly cleanses the body. The sauna soothes sore and aching muscles. Sauna is not to be rushed as it is essential to spiritual living. Traditional sauna includes the process of perspiring and cooling several times. Bodily modesty is not part of the Finnish identity due to the universal use of the sauna, a historical tradition that has been maintained.A 2009 report issued by the CDC comparing the sexual health of teens in France, Germany, the Netherlands and the United States concluded that if the US implemented comprehensive sex education similar to the three European countries there would be a significant reduction in teen pregnancies, abortions and the rate of sexually transmitted diseases, and the US would save hundreds of millions of dollars. For Finns, going to a sauna is a ritual with cultural meanings regrading cleanliness, connections to nature, and connection to other people without public roles or sexuality. When community saunas were built in the 20th century, they eventually include separate steam rooms for men and women. The sauna is an important part of the national identity and those who have the opportunity usually take a sauna at least once a week. 
Does the additional offer of HIV self-testing cause more people to take an HIV test? [SEP] The chance that a positive test accurately indicates an HIV infection increases as the prevalence or rate of HIV infection increases in the population. Criticisms
Oral tests
As a result of an increase in false positive rates with rapid oral HIV testing in 2005, New York City's Department of Health and Mental Hygiene added the option of testing finger-stick whole blood after any reactive result, before using a western blot test to confirm the positive result. The people who had been counseled were also twice as likely to have been tested for HIV in the previous year, and to have discussed that possibility with a sex partner. After the incident, more children were tested for AIDS. Delayed testing is highly detrimental and leads to an increased risk of HIV transmission. In 2008, only 860,000 people were being annually tested for HIV, compared to 9.9 million people that are being tested annually now. Some social strategies include:

Each of these strategies has widely differing levels of efficacy, social acceptance, and acceptance in the medical and scientific communities.Populations who access HIV testing are less likely to engage in behaviors with high risk of contracting HIV, so HIV testing is almost always a part of any strategy to encourage people to change their behaviors to become less likely to contract HIV. More importantly, information sent out through advertising and social marketing also proves to be effective in promoting more favorable attitudes and intentions toward future condom use, though they did not bring significant change in actual behaviors except those were targeting at specific behavioral skills.A 2020 systematic review of 16 studies found that financial education improved self-efficacy and lowered vulnerability to HIV in young people in low and middle income countries. 
Can the combination of propolis, xyloglucan, gelatin and hibiscus (product "Utipro Plus") relieve the symptoms of cystitis or prevent cystitis? [SEP] In some areas of Chile and Argentina Andean valleys, propolis contains viscidone, a terpene from Baccharis shrubs, and prenylated acids, such as 4-hydroxy-3,5-diprenyl cinnamic acid.Overall, flavonoids, phenolic acids, and phenolic aldehydes are common constituents, while coumarins, stilbenes, and lignans are less common. Uses
Traditional medicine
Propolis has been used in traditional medicine, with insufficient evidence to rate its effectiveness in the treatment of any illnesses. A tincture of propolis may be used to seal the surface of newly made violin family bridges, and may be used in the maintenance of the bores of pan flute tubes. References
External links

"Propolis" . Propolis
While T. iridipennis gathers propolis to reinforce its nest, people have harvested it and discovered it to have a wide spectrum of pharmacological activities. Propolis exhibits notable antibacterial and antiviral properties. "Anticancer Activity of Indian Stingless Bee Propolis: An In Vitro Study". Joint effects
Some clinical studies report that the oral ingestion of hydrolyzed collagen decreases joint pain, those with the most severe symptoms showing the most benefit.However, other clinical trials have yielded mixed results. 
Does PEMF noticeably improve pain in osteoarthritis? Does the method improve mobility and quality of life in sufferers? [SEP] Research
Knee osteoarthritis
A 2013 review found that evidence was of very low quality, there might be a benefit for improved function, and there was no evidence for benefit for pain.In 2017 the wearable ActiPatch PEMF Device was FDA 510k Cleared, Application #K152432, for "Adjunctive treatment of musculoskeletal pain related to: (1) plantar fasciitis of the heel; and (2) osteoarthritis of the knee". For example, orthofix produces different PEMF devices that decrease markers of inflammation, which has been utilized in clinical studies to treat osteoarthritis, epicondylitis, and rotator cuff tears, but only PHYSIO-STIM I & II MODEL 6000 & 7000 are FDA approved that are used for the treatment of long-bone non-unions fracture. A 2014 Cochrane review found that while ASU might help relieve pain in the short term for some people with osteoarthritis, it does not appear to improve or maintain the health of affected joints. Waiting list–controlled trials for peripheral joint osteoarthritis do show clinically relevant benefits, but these may be due to placebo effects. It is safe treatment to relieve pain and improve physical function in patients with knee osteoarthritis.Continuous and pulsed ultrasound modes (especially 1 MHz, 2.5 W/cm2, 15min/ session, 3 session/ week, during 8 weeks protocol) can be effective in improving patients physical function and pain.There is weak evidence suggesting that electromagnetic field treatment may result in moderate pain relief; however, further research is necessary and it is not known if electromagnetic field treatment can improve quality of life or function.Viscosupplementation for osteoarthritis of the knee may have positive effects on pain and function at 5 to 13 weeks post-injection. Alternative medicine
Further research is required to determine if transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) for knee osteoarthritis is effective for controlling pain.Low level laser therapy may be considered for relief of pain and stiffness associated with arthritis. Evidence of benefit is tentative.Pulsed electromagnetic field therapy (PEMFT) has tentative evidence supporting improved functioning but no evidence of improved pain in osteoarthritis. In Canada, PEMF devices are legally licensed by Health Canada for the treatment of pain associated with arthritic conditions. 
Does oil pulling promote dental health? [SEP] Oil pulling is an alternative medical practice in which an edible oil is swished around the mouth for a period of time and then spat out, similar to mouthwash. Practitioners of oil pulling claim it is capable of improving oral and whole-body health. History
Oil pulling stems from traditional Ayurvedic medicine, whose practitioners may use sunflower oil, olive oil, or other herbal oils instead of coconut oil. The American Dental Association agrees that there are no reliable scientific studies supporting the practice of oil pulling for any benefit to oral hygiene or overall wellbeing.The Canadian Dental Association assessed the practice of oil pulling in 2014 stating: "We sense oil pulling won't do any harm, we're not convinced there are any particular benefits to it." Edible oils
In traditional Ayurvedic medicine, the use of oil mouthwashes is called "Kavala" ("oil swishing") or "Gandusha", and this practice has more recently been re-marketed by the complementary and alternative medicine industry as "oil pulling". Ayurvedic literature claims that oil pulling is capable of improving oral and systemic health, including a benefit in conditions such as headaches, migraines, diabetes mellitus, asthma, and acne, as well as whitening teeth.Oil pulling has received little study and there is little evidence to support claims made by the technique's advocates. There is a report of lipid pneumonia caused by accidental inhalation of the oil during oil pulling.The mouth is rinsed with approximately one tablespoon of oil for 10–20 minutes then spat out. In the Auyrveda medicine system, oil pulling was used as an oral therapy. 
Can injecting stem cells into the knee joint relieve pain and limitations associated with osteoarthritis? [SEP] Surgery may be beneficial for those with disc-related chronic pain and disability or spinal stenosis. Facet joint injections and steroid injections into the discs have not been found to be effective in those with persistent, non-radiating pain; however, they may be considered for those with persistent sciatic pain. In the absence of these issues, there is no clear evidence of a benefit from surgery.Discectomy (the partial removal of a disc that is causing leg pain) can provide pain relief sooner than nonsurgical treatments. Mechanical massage tools are not recommended for the treatment of any form of low back pain.Prolotherapy – the practice of injecting solutions into joints (or other areas) to cause inflammation and thereby stimulate the body's healing response – has not been found to be effective by itself, although it may be helpful when added to another therapy.Herbal medicines, as a whole, are poorly supported by evidence. Capsicum, in the form of either a gel or a plaster cast, has been found to reduce pain and increase function.Behavioral therapy may be useful for chronic pain. It is also used to guide injections of treatments (steroids, stems cells, platelet rich plasma) directly into a lesion. Arthroscopy is most commonly used for chip fractures of the knee and fetlock joints, osteochondritis dessecans lesions, and proliferative synovitis. May be articular (osteoarthritis) or non-articular. 
Can an extract of Desmodium promote liver health or relieve other ailments? [SEP] Most also make good fodder for animals including bobwhite, turkey, grouse, deer, cattle and goats.Wild-living, non-farmed deer appear to rely on Desmodium species in certain areas, particularly during the more stressful summer months. Desmodium acanthocladum F.Muell. Desmodium canadense (L.) DC. Desmodium heterocarpon (Michx.) Desmodium paniculatum (L.) DC. Desmodium rotundifolium DC. References
International Legume Database & Information Service (ILDIS) (2005): Genus Desmodium. Trout’s Notes on the Genus Desmodium. 
Does the balsam apple help against infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)? [SEP] Balsam apple  may refer to:

Clusia rosea, a tree species found in America
Momordica balsamina, a vine species found in Africa
Momordica charantia (bitter melon), a vine grown for its bitter and edible fruit
Echinocystis lobata (wild cucumber)
Balsam apple, the common name for species of gourds in the genus Echinopepon (family Cucurbitaceae) Influenza vaccination and pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine are often recommended in people with HIV/AIDS with some evidence of benefit. Dietary supplementation for people who are infected with HIV and who have inadequate nutrition or dietary deficiencies may strengthen their immune systems or help them recover from infections; however, evidence indicating an overall benefit in morbidity or reduction in mortality is not consistent.People with HIV/AIDS are up to four times more likely to develop type 2 diabetes than those who are not tested positive with the virus.Evidence for supplementation with selenium is mixed with some tentative evidence of benefit. For pregnant and lactating women with HIV, multivitamin supplement improves outcomes for both mothers and children. There is some evidence that vitamin A supplementation in children with an HIV infection reduces mortality and improves growth. Influenza vaccination and pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine are often recommended in people with HIV/AIDS with some evidence of benefit. Dietary supplementation for people who are infected with HIV and who have inadequate nutrition or dietary deficiencies may strengthen their immune systems or help them recover from infections; however, evidence indicating an overall benefit in morbidity or reduction in mortality is not consistent.People with HIV/AIDS are up to four times more likely to develop type 2 diabetes than those who are not tested positive with the virus.Evidence for supplementation with selenium is mixed with some tentative evidence of benefit. For pregnant and lactating women with HIV, multivitamin supplement improves outcomes for both mothers and children. 
Does healing clay with the clay mineral smectite help when children have diarrhea? [SEP] Medicine
Traditional uses of clay as medicine goes back to prehistoric times. Kaolin clay and attapulgite have been used as anti-diarrheal medicines. "Efficacy of the Natural Clay, Calcium Aluminosilicate Anti-Diarrheal, in Reducing Medullary Thyroid Cancer–Related Diarrhea and Its Effects on Quality of Life: A Pilot Study". Clay Minerals. "Clay mineral". A smectite (from ancient Greek σμηκτός smektos 'lubricated'; σμηκτρίς smektris 'walker's earth', 'fuller's earth'; rubbing earth; earth that has the property of cleaning) is a mineral mixtures of various swelling sheet silicates (phyllosilicates), which have a three-layer 2:1 (TOT) structure and belong to the clay minerals. In 2013, analytical tests by the Curiosity rover found results consistent with the presence of smectite clay minerals on the planet Mars. Clays and Clay Minerals. 
Does a herbal combination preparation of rosemary, lovage, and centaury effectively relieve symptoms of uncomplicated cystitis? [SEP] In the Netherlands, lovage leaves are traditionally cooked with white asparagus and salt; and served with boiled eggs.In Ukraine, lovage (in Ukrainian любисток/liubystok), is considered an aphrodisiac. Traditionally, an infusion prepared from lovage leaves has been used by women for rinsing their hair, in order to attract men with the pleasant spicy smell of the plant. Nowadays, hair conditioners can be bought which contain lovage extract to strengthen the hair. Lovage leaves and roots are also used in salads and as a spice in Ukraine. Interstitial cystitis (chronic pain in the bladder) may be considered for people who experience multiple episodes of UTI symptoms but urine cultures remain negative and not improved with antibiotics. Alternative medicine
Some research suggests that cranberry (juice or capsules) may decrease the number of UTIs in those with frequent infections. Phenazopyridine is occasionally prescribed during the first few days in addition to antibiotics to help with the burning and urgency sometimes felt during a bladder infection. There is no good evidence for the use of cranberry products for treating current infections.Fosfomycin can be used as an effective treatment for both UTIs and complicated UTIs including acute pyelonephritis. 
Can a herbal combination preparation of rosemary, lovage and centaury prevent recurrent cystitis in women? [SEP] In the Netherlands, lovage leaves are traditionally cooked with white asparagus and salt; and served with boiled eggs.In Ukraine, lovage (in Ukrainian любисток/liubystok), is considered an aphrodisiac. Traditionally, an infusion prepared from lovage leaves has been used by women for rinsing their hair, in order to attract men with the pleasant spicy smell of the plant. Nowadays, hair conditioners can be bought which contain lovage extract to strengthen the hair. Lovage leaves and roots are also used in salads and as a spice in Ukraine. However, women with negative cultures may still improve with antibiotic treatment. Interstitial cystitis (chronic pain in the bladder) may be considered for people who experience multiple episodes of UTI symptoms but urine cultures remain negative and not improved with antibiotics. Alternative medicine
Some research suggests that cranberry (juice or capsules) may decrease the number of UTIs in those with frequent infections. Lifestyle changes
Other treatments include lifestyle advice; for example, avoiding dehydration in recurrent cystitis.Men with prostatic hypertrophy are advised to sit down whilst urinating. 
Can healing clay help with gastritis? [SEP] Clay tablets that served as medical handbooks for the ancient Sumerians described the first observations of jaundice. These mediators possess potent anti-inflammatory activity. History
Medicines made from willow and other salicylate-rich plants appear in clay tablets from ancient Sumer as well as the Ebers Papyrus from ancient Egypt. : 8–13  Hippocrates referred to the use of salicylic tea to reduce fevers around 400 BC, and willow bark preparations were part of the pharmacopoeia of Western medicine in classical antiquity and the Middle Ages. Aspirin is generally ineffective for those pains caused by muscle cramps, bloating, gastric distension, or acute skin irritation. Owing to its effect on the stomach lining, manufacturers recommend people with peptic ulcers, mild diabetes, or gastritis seek medical advice before using aspirin. Gas-forming agents in effervescent tablet and powder formulations can also double as a buffering agent, one example being sodium bicarbonate, used in Alka-Seltzer.Taking  vitamin C with aspirin has been investigated as a method of protecting the stomach lining. Earlier findings from two small, low-quality trials suggested a benefit with aspirin (alongside compression therapy) on venous leg ulcer healing time and leg ulcer size, however larger, more recent studies of higher quality have been unable to corroborate these outcomes. 
Does the Indian spice paste Chyawanprash have a positive effect on adult health? [SEP] Made from cayenne, ginger, ground peanuts, dried onion, and chili
Za'atar, a Middle Eastern mix which is both an individual herb and a blend of that herb with sesame seeds and sometimes dried sumac

South Asian
Bafat, used in Mangalorean cuisine
Chaat masala, ground spices used for flavouring chaat
Curry powder, A blend of spices like coriander, turmeric, cumin, fenugreek, and chili peppers popular in India with many variations
Garam masala, spice blend used in the Northern regions of the Indian subcontinent
Kaala masala, black spice blend used in the Indian subcontinent
Panch phoron, a five-spice blend of whole fenugreek, nigella, fennel, cumin, and mustard or radhuni seeds originating from the Indian subcontinent
Tandoori masala, spice blend originating from the Indian subcontinent for tandoor-cooked meats
Thunapaha, a spice blend of coriander, cumin and fennel seed used in Sri Lankan traditional cuisine

See also
List of culinary herbs and spices
Seasoning

References
External links
 Media related to Spice mixtures at Wikimedia Commons Chyavanprash (Sanskrit: च्यवनप्राश, romanized: Cyavanaprāśa), originally Chayavanaprasham, is a cooked mixture of sugar, honey, ghee, Indian gooseberry (amla) jam, sesame oil, berries and various herbs and spices. Chyavanprash is widely sold and consumed in India as a dietary supplement. Origin
Chyavanprash is an ancient formulation and product. Taste and appearance
Chyavanaprash tastes sweet and sour at the same time. Consumption
Chyavanaprash is usually consumed directly. Composition
The recipe of chyavanprash is mentioned in manuscripts written for ayurvedic method of treatment viz. Other chief ingredients are:

All of the major brands of chyavanprash were determined to be safe with respect to heavy metal content as of 2011 by Consumer Voice. 
Does ginger work against breast cancer? [SEP] The American Cancer Society states "available scientific evidence does not support claims that aromatherapy is effective in preventing or treating cancer". According to Cancer Research UK, "there is currently no strong evidence from studies in people that herbal remedies can treat, prevent or cure cancer". According to Cancer Research UK, "available scientific evidence does not support claims that black cohosh is effective in treating or preventing cancer". According to Cancer Research UK, flower remedies are sometimes promoted as being capable of boosting the immune system, but "there is no scientific evidence to prove that flower remedies can control, cure or prevent any type of disease, including cancer". The claim has been made that applying it to the skin can help cure cancer. Ginger has been promoted as a cancer treatment for its supposed ability to halt tumor growth; however, according to the American Cancer Society, "available scientific evidence does not support this". According to Cancer Research UK, it has "not been shown to have any activity in fighting cancer in people". According to the American Cancer Society, "available clinical evidence does not show that red clover is effective in treating or preventing cancer, menopausal symptoms, or any other medical conditions." 
Can Theta Healing help with physical ailments and mental problems? [SEP] The increased interest in alternative medicine at the end of the 20th century has given rise to a parallel interest among sociologists in the relationship of religion to health.Faith healing can be classified as a spiritual, supernatural, or paranormal topic, and, in some cases, belief in faith healing can be classified as magical thinking. The American Cancer Society states "available scientific evidence does not support claims that faith healing can actually cure physical ailments". A systematic review in 2008 concluded that the evidence for a specific effect of spiritual healing on relieving neuropathic or neuralgic pain was not convincing. Shamans are said to treat ailments and illnesses by mending the soul. Alleviating traumas affecting the soul or spirit are believed to restore the physical body of the individual to balance and wholeness. Although the causes of disease lie in the spiritual realm, inspired by malicious spirits, both spiritual and physical methods are used to heal. Commonly, a shaman "enters the body" of the patient to confront the spiritual infirmity and heals by banishing the infectious spirit. The non-pharmacologic interventions of complementary medicine can employ mind-body interventions designed to "reduce pain and concomitant mood disturbance and increase quality of life." 
Does taking Bacopa extract improve memory performance? [SEP] Herbs
Bacopa monnieri is used in Ayurvedic traditional medicine to improve cognition. Systematic reviews of preliminary research found that Bacopa monnieri may improve cognition, specifically memory and learning, although the effect was measurable only after several weeks of use. Bacopa is a genus of 70–100 aquatic plants belonging to the family Plantaginaceae. Uses
Bacopa monnieri is used in Ayurvedic medicine. Bacopa monnieri is used in Ayurveda. Description
Bacopa monnieri is a non-aromatic herb. Research and regulation
Bacopa monnieri is used in Ayurvedic traditional medicine to improve memory and to treat various ailments. Systematic reviews of preliminary research found that Bacopa monnieri may improve cognition, specifically memory and learning, although the effect was measurable only after several weeks of use.In 2019, the FDA issued warning letters to manufacturers of dietary supplements containing Bacopa monnieri that advertised health claims for treating or preventing stomach disease, Alzheimer's disease, hypoglycemia, blood pressure, and anxiety were unproven and illegal. 
Do remedies containing the trifoliate fruit alleviate the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis ("rheumatism")? [SEP] The trifoliate orange, Citrus trifoliata or Poncirus trifoliata, is a member of the family Rutaceae. Description
The trifoliate orange is recognizable by the large 3–5 cm (1.2–2.0 in) thorns on the shoots, and its deciduous leaves with three (or rarely, five) leaflets, typically with the middle leaflet 3–5 cm (1.2–2.0 in) long, and the two side leaflets 2–3 cm (0.79–1.18 in) long. Trifoliate orange and various hybrids of this plant are widely used as citrus rootstock, and valued for their resistance to cold, the tristeza virus, and the fungus Phytophthora parasitica (root rot). Recent studies have revealed that the trifoliate orange contains auraptene at a high concentration, which is one of the functional components having immunity against citrus tristeza virus (CTV). Medicine
Traditional medicine
The fruits of the trifoliate orange are widely used in medical traditions of East Asia as a treatment for allergic inflammation. It is used in sorbets and other desserts due to its rich burgundy color. It begins to ripen in late January. Peel
Although not as juicy or tasty as the flesh, orange peel is edible and has significant contents of vitamin C, dietary fiber, total polyphenols, carotenoids, limonene and dietary minerals, such as potassium and magnesium. 
Does thyme strengthen memory or prevent mental decline? [SEP] The role of thiamine in brain physiology is unique and essential for the normal cognitive function of older people. However, there is good evidence that omega-3 incorporation into the diet is of benefit in treating depression, a common symptom, and potentially modifiable risk factor for dementia. Many studies of its use in mild to moderate dementia have shown it to significantly improve cognitive function, activities of daily living, neuropsychiatric symptoms, and quality of life. Could Brain Training Prevent Dementia? Some say that exercise is the best way to prevent memory problems, because that would increase blood flow to the brain and perhaps help new brain cells grow. Research has shown that auditory training, through instrumental musical activity or practice, can help preserve memory abilities as one ages. Memory changes in adulthood. This enhances the brain's abilities to stabilize and retain memories. 
Does regular consumption of chia seeds reduce body weight, blood sugar levels or cholesterol? [SEP] Regular intake of soluble fibers, such as beta-glucans from oats or barley, has been established to lower blood levels of LDL cholesterol, a risk factor for cardiovascular diseases.Insoluble fiber – which does not dissolve in water – is inert to digestive enzymes in the upper gastrointestinal tract. As of 2008, the FDA approved health claims for qualified fiber products to display labeling that regular consumption may reduce blood cholesterol levels – which can lower the risk of coronary heart disease – and also reduce the risk of some types of cancer.Viscous fiber sources gaining FDA approval are:
Psyllium seed husk (7 grams per day)
Beta-glucan from oat bran, whole oats, or rolled oats; or whole grain or dry-milled barley (3 grams per day)Other examples of bulking fiber sources used in functional foods and supplements include cellulose, guar gum and xanthan gum. FDA-approved health claims
The United States FDA allows manufacturers of foods containing 1.7 g per serving of psyllium husk soluble fiber or 0.75 g of oat or barley soluble fiber as beta-glucans to claim that regular consumption may reduce the risk of heart disease.The FDA statement template for making this claim is:

Soluble fiber from foods such as [name of soluble fiber source, and, if desired, name of food product], as part of a diet low in saturated fat and cholesterol, may reduce the risk of heart disease. As discussed in FDA regulation 21 CFR 101.81, the daily dietary intake levels of soluble fiber from sources listed above associated with reduced risk of coronary heart disease are:

3 g or more per day of beta-glucan soluble fiber from either whole oats or barley, or a combination of whole oats and barley
7 g or more per day of soluble fiber from psyllium seed husk.Soluble fiber from consuming grains is included in other allowed health claims for lowering risk of some types of cancer and heart disease by consuming fruit and vegetables (21 CFR 101.76, 101.77, and 101.78).In December 2016, FDA approved a qualified health claim that consuming resistant starch from high-amylose corn may reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes due to its effect of increasing insulin sensitivity. This is contrary to the suggestion that polyunsaturated fats are shown to be protective against insulin resistance.The large scale KANWU study found that increasing MUFA and decreasing SFA intake could improve insulin sensitivity, but only when the overall fat intake of the diet was low. Health research
A meta-analysis showed that consumption of more than 30 g of flax-seed daily for more than 12 weeks reduced body weight, body mass index (BMI), and waist circumference for persons with a BMI greater than 27. Another meta-analysis showed that consumption of flax seeds for more than 12 weeks produced small reductions in systolic blood pressure and diastolic blood pressure. A third showed that consuming flax seed or its derivatives may reduce total and LDL-cholesterol in the blood, with greater benefits in women and people with high cholesterol. 
Do heat patches that heat themselves or heat pads help with pain in the neck? [SEP] When this is insufficient, active warming or cooling may be provided by chemical or electrically powered heating accessories. Some suits are made with an external "warm neck collar" around the base of the neck seal, which allows the flare of the hood to tuck in over the outside of the seal and under the collar. This can keep the neck significantly warmer, since the seal itself provides little insulation. Other active heating systems use electrical heating elements in an undersuit layer, or internal pockets containing hot-packs, sealed plastic bags containing materials which emit latent heat during a phase change. Ankle straps perform a similar function. Pollock (2015) suggests that active diver heating should be minimised to safely complete dive tasks during ingassing and increased during decompression with due attention to avoiding heat stress and dehydration,

Diving without a buoyancy compensator
Dry suits are not designed to be used as buoyancy compensator devices (BCD) and cannot offer the same degree of safety and control as a BCD. The cushion pads expand and contract, and reduce both the pain and noise that would come from a very heavy animal moving. Thermal Disinfection: Starjun wraps an infected or poisoned part of his body in intense heat, killing the biological components and neutralizing the disease or poison. 
Do heat patches containing capsaicin help with neck pain??? [SEP] Treatment options usually involve rest, pain medications such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), ice, heat, and manual therapy. It may also be accompanied by a radiating pain to the shoulder, arm, front neck, or scapula (shoulder blade). Pain relief medications (analgesics) such as acetaminophen, or the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen, naproxen, or meloxicam may be suggested to relieve discomfort. If the pain is localized, occasionally creams and patches containing compounds such as capsaicin, NSAIDs, or lidocaine may be used. Heat or ice compresses may also be used for treatment.Outpatient follow-up may also be a form of treatment for costochondritis. Non-chemical remedies include cooling, warming, soft stimulation. Capsaicin a substance found in some plant products, especially hot peppers, which causes human nerves to report a hot sensation. Transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation (TENS) A treatment for painful neuropathy. 
Do heat patches help with lower back pain? [SEP] Treatment options usually involve rest, pain medications such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), ice, heat, and manual therapy. Spa therapy has showed positive effects in reducing pain among patients with chronic low back pain. Studies have shown that kinesiotape could be used on individuals with chronic low back pain to reduce pain. In addition to improving pain, exercise also can improve one's well-being and general health.Manipulative and mobilization therapy are safe interventions that likely reduce pain for patients with chronic low back pain. More specifically, walking has been effective in improving pain management in chronic low back pain. Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation has been found to be ineffective for lower back pain. A systematic review in 2019 reported that acupuncture injection therapy was an effective treatment for patients with nonspecific chronic low back pain, and is widely used in Southeast Asian countries. Studies have demonstrated the usefulness of cognitive behavioral therapy in the management of chronic low back pain, producing significant decreases in physical and psychosocial disability. 
Does ginger help with period pain? [SEP] Research
Evidence that ginger helps alleviate nausea and vomiting resulting from chemotherapy or pregnancy is inconsistent.There is no clear evidence that taking ginger to treat nausea during pregnancy is safe. Ginger is not effective for treating dysmenorrhea. Dysmenorrhea, also known as period pain, painful periods or menstrual cramps, is pain during menstruation. Thus resulting in shorter, less painful menstruation. NSAIDs
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen and naproxen are effective in relieving the pain of primary dysmenorrhea. Heat is effective compared to NSAIDs and is a preferred option by many patients, as it is easy to access and has no known side effects.Tamoxifen has been used effectively to reduce uterine contractility and pain in dysmenorrhea patients.There is some evidence that exercises performed 3 times a week for about 45 to 60 minutes, without particular intensity, reduces menstrual pain. Reviews found tentative evidence that ginger powder may be effective for primary dysmenorrhea. In England, gingerbread was also thought to have medicinal properties. 
Can the state of health be assessed as reliably with a "cell check" analysis as with other diagnostic tests (for example, blood or urine analyses)? [SEP] To ensure the proper replication of cellular components and division, there are control mechanisms known as cell cycle checkpoints after each of the key steps of the cycle that determine if the cell can progress to the next phase. Before proceeding to mitotic phase, cells must be checked at the G2 checkpoint for any DNA damage within the chromosomes. Checkpoints
Cell cycle checkpoints are used by the cell to monitor and regulate the progress of the cell cycle. Checkpoints prevent cell cycle progression at specific points, allowing verification of necessary phase processes and repair of DNA damage. Another checkpoint is the Go checkpoint, in which the cells are checked for maturity. This is where the cell checks whether it has enough raw materials to fully replicate its DNA (nucleotide bases, DNA synthase, chromatin, etc.). An unhealthy or malnourished cell will get stuck at this checkpoint. Thus removing the need for cellular checkpoints. 
Can pain from osteoarthritis (joint wear) be relieved by arnica ointment or arnica gel? [SEP] As an adjunct to these lifestyle changes, use of analgesia, intra-articular cortisone injection and consideration of hyaluronic acids and platelet-rich plasma are recommended for pain relief in patients with knee osteoarthritis. Oral steroids are not recommended in the treatment of osteoarthritis.Use of the antibiotic doxycycline orally for treating osteoarthritis is not associated with clinical improvements in function or joint pain. A 2014 Cochrane review found that while ASU might help relieve pain in the short term for some people with osteoarthritis, it does not appear to improve or maintain the health of affected joints. A Cochrane review of low-level laser therapy found unclear evidence of benefit, whereas another review found short-term pain relief for osteoarthritic knees.Further research is needed to determine if balnotherapy for osteoarthritis (mineral baths or spa treatments) improves a person's quality of life or ability to function. It is safe treatment to relieve pain and improve physical function in patients with knee osteoarthritis.Continuous and pulsed ultrasound modes (especially 1 MHz, 2.5 W/cm2, 15min/ session, 3 session/ week, during 8 weeks protocol) can be effective in improving patients physical function and pain.There is weak evidence suggesting that electromagnetic field treatment may result in moderate pain relief; however, further research is necessary and it is not known if electromagnetic field treatment can improve quality of life or function.Viscosupplementation for osteoarthritis of the knee may have positive effects on pain and function at 5 to 13 weeks post-injection. Alternative medicine
Further research is required to determine if transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) for knee osteoarthritis is effective for controlling pain.Low level laser therapy may be considered for relief of pain and stiffness associated with arthritis. Arnica montana is used as an herbal medicine for analgesic and anti-inflammatory purposes, but there is insufficient high-quality clinical evidence for such effects, and it is toxic when taken internally or applied to injured skin. Use in herbal medicine
Arnica montana has been used as an herbal medicine for centuries, with it generally being employed for analgesic and anti-inflammatory purposes.Clinical trials of Arnica montana have yielded mixed results:

When used topically in a gel at 50% concentration, A. montana was found to have the same effectiveness (albeit with possibly worse side effects) as a 5% ibuprofen gel for treating the symptoms of hand osteoarthritis. 
Can pain from a sprained ankle be relieved by arnica ointment or arnica gel? [SEP] These elements have been recommended by physicians for decades for the treatment of soft tissue damage, and sprained ankles, one of the most common soft tissue injuries. Although found to be less effective than casts, compression bandages are used to provide support and compression for sprained ankles. Ankle mobilization/manipulation
For acute ankle sprains, manual joint mobilization/manipulation of the ankle has been found to diminish pain and increase range of motion. "Treatment and prevention of acute and recurrent ankle sprain: an overview of systematic reviews with meta-analysis" (PDF). "Managing ankle ligament sprains and tears: current opinion". "Diagnosis, treatment and prevention of ankle sprains: an evidence-based clinical guideline". Ice: Ice should be applied immediately to the sprain to reduce swelling and pain. Use in herbal medicine
Arnica montana has been used as an herbal medicine for centuries, with it generally being employed for analgesic and anti-inflammatory purposes.Clinical trials of Arnica montana have yielded mixed results:

When used topically in a gel at 50% concentration, A. montana was found to have the same effectiveness (albeit with possibly worse side effects) as a 5% ibuprofen gel for treating the symptoms of hand osteoarthritis. 
Can sore muscles be relieved by arnica ointment or arnica gel? [SEP] Arnica  is a genus of perennial, herbaceous plants in the sunflower family (Asteraceae). Arnica montana is used as an herbal medicine for analgesic and anti-inflammatory purposes, but there is insufficient high-quality clinical evidence for such effects, and it is toxic when taken internally or applied to injured skin. Use in herbal medicine
Arnica montana has been used as an herbal medicine for centuries, with it generally being employed for analgesic and anti-inflammatory purposes.Clinical trials of Arnica montana have yielded mixed results:

When used topically in a gel at 50% concentration, A. montana was found to have the same effectiveness (albeit with possibly worse side effects) as a 5% ibuprofen gel for treating the symptoms of hand osteoarthritis. References
External links

Royal Society of Medicine Article concerning testing involving Arnica (RSM)
Botanical.com, a modern herbal Arnica An ointment may or may not be medicated. Arnica montana is used as an herbal medicine for analgesic and anti-inflammatory purposes, but there is insufficient high-quality clinical evidence for such effects, and it is toxic when taken internally or applied to injured skin. Use in herbal medicine
Arnica montana has been used as an herbal medicine for centuries, with it generally being employed for analgesic and anti-inflammatory purposes.Clinical trials of Arnica montana have yielded mixed results:

When used topically in a gel at 50% concentration, A. montana was found to have the same effectiveness (albeit with possibly worse side effects) as a 5% ibuprofen gel for treating the symptoms of hand osteoarthritis. References
External links

Royal Society of Medicine Article concerning testing involving Arnica (RSM)
Botanical.com, a modern herbal Arnica 
Can carbon dioxide in mineral water and other sparkling drinks damage teeth or cause tooth decay? [SEP] Tooth decay
Tooth decay (dental caries) has become a pronounced health hazard associated with the consumption of sugars, especially sucrose. Reviews of the scholarly literature in 2000 and 2007 associated water fluoridation with a significant reduction of tooth decay in children. Phosphoric acid in soft drinks has the potential to cause dental erosion. Intrauterine and neonatal lead exposure promote tooth decay. Excessive consumption of sugar is associated with obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, cancer and tooth decay. Tooth decay
The 2003 WHO report stated that "Sugars are undoubtedly the most important dietary factor in the development of dental caries". When teeth begin to decay from the acid produced by sugar-consuming bacteria, calcium is lost (demineralization). Also, there is some evidence that fluoride interferes with the bacteria that consume sugars in the mouth and make tooth-destroying acids. 
Does bark extract from maritime pine (also: "pine bark extract") improve the symptoms of osteoarthritis? [SEP] P. pinaster resin is a useful source of turpentine and rosin.In addition to industrial uses, maritime pine is also a popular ornamental tree, often planted in parks and gardens in areas with warm temperate climates. A dietary supplement derived from extracts from P. pinaster bark called Pycnogenol is marketed with claims it can treat many conditions; however, according to a 2012 Cochrane review, the evidence is insufficient to support its use for the treatment of any chronic disorder. Pine tar is widely used as a veterinary care product, particularly as an antiseptic and hoof care treatment for horses and cattle. Medical
Pine tar has historically been used for treating skin conditions, usually as an additive in cold process solid soap or lotions. Pine tar is also used in veterinary medicine as an expectorant and an antiseptic in chronic skin conditions. Beside that many species of birds and mammals shelter in pine habitat or feed on pine nuts. In traditional Chinese medicine, pine resin is used for burns, wounds and dermal complaints. It was originally made from the extracts of both oak and pine barks (which are sometimes combined). 
Is brown millet effective in favorably influencing the course of the disease in rheumatism ("rheumatoid arthritis")? [SEP] Millets are indigenous to many parts of the world. Millets may have been consumed by humans for about 7,000 years and potentially had "a pivotal role in the rise of multi-crop agriculture and settled farming societies." Spreading
The cultivation of common millet as the earliest dry crop in East Asia has been attributed to its resistance to drought, and this has been suggested to have aided its spread. Research
Research on millets is carried out by the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) and ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research in Telangana, India, and by the United States Department of Agriculture's Agricultural Research Service at Tifton, Georgia, United States. Improved breeds of millet with enhanced disease resistance can significantly increase farm yield. People affected by gluten-related disorders, such as coeliac disease, non-celiac gluten sensitivity and wheat allergy sufferers, who need a gluten-free diet, can replace gluten-containing cereals in their diets with millet. Millets are also used as bird and animal feed. Lambs do better on millet compared to sorghum. 
Are cannabis or substances derived from cannabis effective and safe anti-cancer agents? [SEP] There is evidence supporting the use of cannabis or its derivatives in the treatment of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting, neuropathic pain, and multiple sclerosis. Light and moderate use of cannabis is not believed to increase risk of lung or upper airway cancer. According to Cancer Research UK, "there is currently no strong evidence from studies in people that herbal remedies can treat, prevent or cure cancer". Chemicals derived from cannabis have been extensively researched for potential anti-cancer effect and while there has been much laboratory work, claims that cannabis has been proven to cure cancer are—according to Cancer Research UK—"highly misleading". The U.S. National Cancer Institute notes "Cannabis is not approved by the FDA for the treatment of any cancer-related symptom or side effect of cancer therapy." Supplements made from it are promoted as cancer treatment; however, according to the American Cancer Society, "available scientific evidence does not support claims of its effectiveness for treating cancer or any other disease in humans". According to the American Cancer Society, "available evidence from well-designed, controlled studies does not support this substance as an effective treatment for cancer in humans". United States
As of 2021, cannabidiol extracted from marijuana remains a Schedule I Controlled Substance, and is not approved as a prescription drug or dietary supplement or allowed for interstate commerce in the United States. 
It is not always possible to reduce elevated cholesterol levels to a healthy level with tablets and thus minimize the risk of heart attack or stroke. Does this succeed through additional injections with PCSK9 antibodies? [SEP] Lifestyle
Lifestyle changes recommended for those with high cholesterol include: smoking cessation, limiting alcohol consumption, increasing physical activity, and maintaining a healthy weight.Overweight or obese individuals can lower blood cholesterol by losing weight – on average a kilogram of weight loss can reduce LDL cholesterol by 0.8 mg/dl. Statins can reduce total cholesterol by about 50% in the majority of people, and are effective in reducing the risk of cardiovascular disease in both people with and without pre-existing cardiovascular disease. Statins decrease cholesterol in children with hypercholesterolemia, but no studies as of 2010 show improved outcomes and diet is the mainstay of therapy in childhood.Other agents that may be used include fibrates, nicotinic acid, and cholestyramine. Injectable antibodies against the protein PCSK9 (evolocumab, bococizumab, alirocumab) can reduce LDL cholesterol and have been shown to reduce mortality. A review of trials of phytosterols and/or phytostanols, average dose 2.15 g/day, reported an average of 9% lowering of LDL-cholesterol. HDL cholesterol
HDL, also known as "good cholesterol", is associated with decreased risk of cardiovascular disease. This medication class is especially effective at decreasing elevated LDL cholesterol. This results in decreased LDL cholesterol. 
Do vaginal suppositories containing the active ingredient imiquimod cause precancerous stages of cervical cancer to recede or disappear? [SEP] Imiquimod, sold under the brand name Aldara among others, is a medication that acts as an immune response modifier that is used to treat genital warts, superficial basal cell carcinoma, and actinic keratosis. Medical uses
Imiquimod is a patient-applied cream prescribed to treat genital warts, Bowens disease (squamous cell carcinoma in situ), and, secondary to surgery, for basal cell carcinoma, as well as actinic keratosis.Imiquimod 5% cream is indicated for the topical treatment of:

external genital and perianal warts (condylomata acuminata) in adults;
small superficial basal-cell carcinomas (sBCCs) in adults;
clinically typical, non-hyperkeratotic, non-hypertrophic actinic keratoses (AKs) on the face or scalp in immunocompetent adults when size or number of lesions limit the efficacy and / or acceptability of cryotherapy and other topical treatment options are contraindicated or less appropriate.Imiquimod 3.75% cream is indicated for the topical treatment of clinically typical, non-hyperkeratotic, non-hypertrophic, visible or palpable actinic keratosis of the full face or balding scalp in immunocompetent adults when other topical treatment options are contraindicated or less appropriate. Mechanism of action
Imiquimod yields profound antitumoral activity by acting on several immunological levels synergistically. Research
One randomized double-blind Phase III clinical study found clearance of genital warts (an FDA-approved indication) improved from 9% with placebo to 24.9% with 3.75% imiquimod cream applied for up to eight weeks.Imiquimod has been tested for treatment of molluscum contagiosum. These disprove earlier anecdotal claims and smaller, less reliable studies.Imiquimod has also been tested for treatment of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia, vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia, common warts (a 2012 Cochrane review found no randomized controlled trials), plantar warts, warts in people with suppressed immune systems, flat warts on face and neck, and warts under and around fingernails and toenails. Sometimes, the term "precancer" is also used for carcinoma in situ, which is a noninvasive cancer that has not grown and spread to nearby tissue, unlike the invasive stage. Increasing evidence suggests that the evasion of the immune system occurs in premalignant lesions, and that the nature of the first immune response to these lesions may determine if they progress to cancer or regress to normal tissue. Prevention
Regarding the primary prevention of HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancer, HPV vaccines show more than 90% efficacy in preventing vaccine-type HPV infections and their correlated anogenital precancerous lesions. 
Is blue light treatment as effective as UV light or other established therapies for psoriasis? [SEP] Treating skin conditions such as neurodermatitis, psoriasis, acne vulgaris, and eczema with ultraviolet light is called ultraviolet light therapy. There is moderate evidence for the efficacy of blue and blue-red light therapies in treating mild acne, but most studies are of low quality. Psoriasis
For psoriasis, UVB phototherapy has been shown to be effective. Phototherapy is an effective treatment because it forces skin cells to manufacture melanin to protect the body from UV damage. Modern phototherapy has been used to successfully treat psoriasis, eczema, jaundice, vitiligo, atopic dermatitis, and localized scleroderma. As such, sunlight therapy can be a candidate for treatment of conditions such as psoriasis and exfoliative cheilitis, conditions in which skin cells divide more rapidly than usual or necessary. Therapy
Ultraviolet radiation is helpful in the treatment of skin conditions such as psoriasis and vitiligo. Exposure to UVA, while the skin is hyper-photosensitive, by taking psoralens is an effective treatment for psoriasis. 
Does frequent consumption of potatoes increase the risk of dying from cancer? [SEP] Cancer
There are concerns about a relationship between the consumption of meat, in particular processed and red meat, and increased cancer risk. "Cancer Research UK, National Health Service (NHS) and the National Cancer Institute have stated that red and processed meat intake increases risk of bowel cancer. The American Cancer Society in their "Diet and Physical Activity Guideline", stated "evidence that red and processed meats increase cancer risk has existed for decades, and many health organizations recommend limiting or avoiding these foods." The Canadian Cancer Society have stated that "eating red and processed meat increases cancer risk".A 2021 review found an increase of 11–51% risk of multiple cancer per 100g/d increment of red meat, and an increase of 8-72% risk of multiple cancer per 50g/d increment of processed meat. Normal potato tubers that have been grown and stored properly produce glycoalkaloids in amounts small enough to be negligible for human health, but, if green sections of the plant (namely sprouts and skins) are exposed to light, the tuber can accumulate a high enough concentration of glycoalkaloids to affect human health. Toxicity
Potatoes contain toxic compounds known as glycoalkaloids, of which the most prevalent are solanine and chaconine. The concentration of glycoalkaloids in wild potatoes is sufficient to produce toxic effects in humans. Climate change
Climate change is predicted to have significant effects on global potato production. 
Can cancer be detected by dark field analysis (dark field microscopy) of the blood? [SEP] Live blood analysis (LBA), live cell analysis, Hemaview or nutritional blood analysis is the use of high-resolution dark field microscopy to observe live blood cells. Some even claim it can "spot cancer and other degenerative immune system diseases up to two years before they would otherwise be detectable" or say they can diagnose "lack of oxygen in the blood, low trace minerals, lack of exercise, too much alcohol or yeast, weak kidneys, bladder or spleen." Practitioners include alternative medicine providers such as nutritionists, herbologists, naturopaths, and chiropractors.Dark field microscopy is useful to enhance contrast in unstained samples, but live blood analysis is not proven to be useful for any of its claimed indications. Two journal articles published in the alternative medical literature found that darkfield microscopy seemed unable to detect cancer, and that live blood analysis lacked reliability, reproducibility, and sensitivity and specificity. Dark field
Dark field microscopy is a technique for improving the contrast of unstained, transparent specimens. Dark field can dramatically improve image contrast – especially of transparent objects – while requiring little equipment setup or sample preparation. Sometimes small blood vessels (called telangiectasia) can be seen within the tumor. Individual silver grains in the film are visualized with dark field microscopy. 
Can dark field analysis indicate other health problems? [SEP] Practitioners include alternative medicine providers such as nutritionists, herbologists, naturopaths, and chiropractors.Dark field microscopy is useful to enhance contrast in unstained samples, but live blood analysis is not proven to be useful for any of its claimed indications. Two journal articles published in the alternative medical literature found that darkfield microscopy seemed unable to detect cancer, and that live blood analysis lacked reliability, reproducibility, and sensitivity and specificity. It can potentially cause fatigue if experienced over extended periods.According to Mario Motta, president of the Massachusetts Medical Society, "... glare from bad lighting is a public-health hazard—especially the older you become. Health effects of over-illumination or improper spectral composition of light may include: increased headache incidence, worker fatigue, medically defined stress, decrease in sexual function and increase in anxiety. Introduced light sources during normally dark periods can disrupt levels of melatonin production. However, light pollution has many root causes and effects across the spectrum of life. The Dark Side: Making war on light pollution.Handbooks

British Astronomical Association. Dark skies awareness: an IYA2009 cornerstone project. 
Does kombucha have a positive effect on health? [SEP] Other acidic bacteria, said to be probiotic, also can be found in kombucha. Popular drinks such as kombucha are made using lactic acid bacteria, with kombucha having been known to have traces of Lactobacillus and Pediococcus once the drink is made.The beer and wine-making process utilizes certain lactic acid bacteria, mostly Lactobacillus. This has been claimed to bring many benefits such as slowing aging or curing cancer; however, according to the American Cancer Society, "there is no convincing scientific evidence that extracted juices are healthier than whole foods". Kombucha – A kind of fermented tea claimed to cure a variety of human illnesses including AIDS and cancer; however, these purported uses are not backed by evidence. The consumption of Kombucha has been associated with adverse effects including muscle inflammation, poisoning and infection. At least one person has died after consuming Kombucha, but the death could not be specifically linked to the drink. According to Cancer Research UK, it has "not been shown to have any activity in fighting cancer in people". According to the American Cancer Society: "Available scientific evidence does not support claims that Krebiozen is effective in treating cancer or any other disease. 
Is graviola an effective and safe treatment for cancer? [SEP] Although this has been promoted as a treatment for cancer and other diseases, the American Cancer Society says, "available scientific evidence does not support these claims". Supplements made from it are promoted as cancer treatment; however, according to the American Cancer Society, "available scientific evidence does not support claims of its effectiveness for treating cancer or any other disease in humans". According to Cancer Research UK, it has "not been shown to have any activity in fighting cancer in people". According to the American Cancer Society, "available evidence from well-designed, controlled studies does not support this substance as an effective treatment for cancer in humans". Soursop (or Graviola) – According to the U.S. Federal Trade Commission soursop extract is among those products for which there is "no credible scientific evidence" of an ability to "prevent, cure, or treat cancer of any kind". According to Cancer Research UK, "there is no solid scientific evidence to show that the treatment is safe or effective". According to the American Cancer Society: "Available scientific evidence does not support claims that Revici's guided chemotherapy is effective in treating cancer or any other disease. It is under preliminary research for therapeutic potential but according to Cancer Research UK no reputable organization supports claims that it can "cure" cancer. 
Does taking preparations with fenugreek extract improve sex life or satisfaction with it? [SEP] Its use as a food ingredient in small quantities is safe.Although sold as a dietary supplement, there is no clinical evidence that fenugreek has therapeutic properties. Commonly used in traditional medicine, fenugreek can increase the risk of serious adverse effects, including allergic reactions. History
Fenugreek is believed to have been brought into cultivation in the Near East. Fenugreek seeds (per 100 grams) are a rich source of protein (46% DV), dietary fiber, B vitamins, and dietary minerals, particularly manganese (59% DV) and iron (262% DV) (table). Dietary supplement
Fenugreek dietary supplements are manufactured from powdered seeds into capsules, loose powders, teas, and liquid extracts in many countries. Research into whether fenugreek reduces biomarkers in people with diabetes and with pre-diabetic conditions is of limited quality.As of 2020, there was no high-quality evidence for whether fenugreek is safe and effective to relieve dysmenorrhea or improve lactation during breastfeeding. Studies of fenugreek are characterized as having variable, poor experimental design and quality, including small numbers of subjects, failure to describe methods, inconsistency and duration of dosing, and non-recording of adverse effects.Because research on potential biological effects of consuming fenugreek has provided no high-quality evidence for health or anti-disease effect, fenugreek is not approved or recommended for clinical use by the United States Food and Drug Administration. Traditional medicine
Although once a folk remedy for an insufficient milk supply when nursing, there is no good evidence that fenugreek is effective or safe for this use. 
Does disulfiram improve the effectiveness of chemotherapy for cancer? [SEP] Therefore, potential risks of side effects and effectiveness depend on the type of antibiotic administered.Antibiotics such as metronidazole, tinidazole, cephamandole, latamoxef, cefoperazone, cefmenoxime, and furazolidone, cause a disulfiram-like chemical reaction with alcohol by inhibiting its breakdown by acetaldehyde dehydrogenase, which may result in vomiting, nausea, and shortness of breath. Fleming believed that its antibacterial properties could be exploited for chemotherapy. For example, some secondary metabolites inhibit drug efflux pumps, thereby increasing the concentration of antibiotic able to reach its cellular target and decreasing bacterial resistance to the antibiotic. Disulfiram-like drugs
Disulfiram
Disulfiram inhibits the enzyme acetaldehyde dehydrogenase, which in turn results in buildup of acetaldehyde, a toxic metabolite of ethanol with unpleasant effects. The medication or drug is commonly used to treat alcohol use disorder, and results in immediate hangover-like symptoms upon consumption of alcohol, this effect is widely known as disulfiram effect. Although older data suggested a possible disulfiram-like effect of metronidazole, newer data has challenged this and suggests it does not actually have this effect. In a 2004 open-label study, it was as effective as ampicillin/sulbactam and amoxicillin/clavulanic acid, and far superior in patients with foot ulcers and no osteomyelitis, but with significantly higher rates of adverse effects. When combined with disulfiram (an aversive procedure) community reinforcement showed remarkable effects. 
Can binaural beats relieve stress or anxiety before surgery and medical treatments? [SEP] The hostile environment may trigger or worsen internalized transphobia, depression, anxiety and post-traumatic stress.Many patients perceive the outcome of the surgery as not only medically but also psychologically important. Stress reduction strategies
Stress-reduction strategies can be helpful to many stressed/anxious people. It can influence conditions like anxiety, insomnia, stress, depression, and pain and may have beneficial long term effects. It is also effective at reducing anxiety and improving quality of life in patients with various types of cancer. Stress
Relaxation techniques such as progressive muscle relaxation can alter the body's physical and emotional response to stress by impacting the sympathetic nervous system. The technique also improved healthcare workers' physical and mental health since occupational stress can lead to burnout, heart disease, and depression. Pain relief
Pain is one of the most frequent symptoms in patients undergoing surgery or cancer chemotherapy and various treatments are proposed for its relief, including complementary relaxation techniques. Overall, PMR is effective at reducing pain in cancer patients, although the biological process behind this relationship is not known.Progressive muscle relaxation may reduce the perception of pain and provide pain relief that patients experience after undergoing surgery. 
Is a vegan diet healthier than a vegetarian diet? [SEP] Vegetarian vs. vegan diet
Vegetarianism may be defined as the practice of consuming foods that are primarily derived from plants, with or without dairy products, eggs, and/or honey. Rather, plant-based diets including whole grains as the main form of carbohydrate, unsaturated fats as the main form of dietary fat, an abundance of fruit and vegetables, and adequate n-3 fatty acids can be considered healthy.With processed plant-based foods, such as vegan burger patties or chicken nuggets, becoming more available, there is also concern that plant-based diets incorporating these foods may become less healthy.In practice lacto-ovo vegetarians or vegans seem to have a higher overall diet quality compared with nonvegetarians. The higher diet quality in vegetarians and vegans may explain some of the positive health outcomes compared with nonvegetarians. Vegan diets tend to be higher in dietary fiber, magnesium, folic acid, vitamin C, vitamin E, iron, and phytochemicals, and lower in dietary energy, saturated fat, cholesterol, omega-3 fatty acid, vitamin D, calcium, zinc, and vitamin B12. The main difference between a vegan and vegetarian diet is that vegans exclude dairy products and eggs. Research and guidance
A 2022 review indicated that a vegan diet may be effective for reducing body weight, lowering the risk of cancer, and providing a lower risk of all-cause mortality. A 2018 meta-analysis of observational studies concluded that "In most countries, a vegan diet is associated with a more favourable cardio-metabolic profile compared to an omnivorous diet". Vegetarian diets offer lower levels of saturated fat, cholesterol and animal protein, and higher levels of carbohydrates, fibre, magnesium, potassium, folate, vitamins C and E, and phytochemicals. 
Can taking chlorophyll change mouth or body odor? [SEP] Allicin, along with its decomposition products diallyl disulfide and diallyl trisulfide, are major contributors to the characteristic odor of garlic, with other allicin-derived compounds, such as vinyldithiins and ajoene.Because of its strong odor, garlic is sometimes called the "stinking rose". Since digestion takes several hours, and release of AMS several hours more, the effect of eating garlic may be present for a long time.The well-known phenomenon of "garlic breath" is allegedly alleviated by eating fresh parsley. Adverse effects and toxicology
Garlic is known to cause bad breath (halitosis) and body odor, described as a pungent garlicky smell to sweat. Washing the skin with soap is only a partial and imperfect solution to the smell. Mixing garlic with milk in the mouth before swallowing reduced the odor better than drinking milk afterward. Symptoms can include irritable bowel, diarrhea, mouth and throat ulcerations, nausea, breathing difficulties, and, in rare cases, anaphylaxis. Possible side effects include gastrointestinal discomfort, sweating, dizziness, allergic reactions, bleeding, and menstrual irregularities.Some breastfeeding mothers have found, after consuming garlic, that their babies can be slow to feed, and have noted a garlic odor coming from them.If higher-than-recommended doses of garlic are taken with anticoagulant medications, this can lead to a higher risk of bleeding. When damaged, such as by lepidopteran caterpillars, leaves of plants including maize and cotton release increased amounts of volatile chemicals such as terpenes that signal they are being attacked; one effect of this is to attract parasitoid wasps, which in turn attack the caterpillars. 
Can taking chlorophyll affect the odor of urine in catheter wearers or stool in people with an artificial bowel outlet? [SEP] Chemical structure
Several chlorophylls are known. This depends on the strength of the odorants in the mixture, which can change the perception and processing of an odor. A diluted odorous mixture and an odor-free gas—n-Butanol—as a reference are presented from sniffing ports to a group of panelists who are sensitive in odor perception. Health effects and symptoms vary—including eye, nose, or throat irritation, cough, chest tightness, drowsiness, and mood change—all of which decrease as an odor ceases. Alterations
Body odor may be reduced or prevented or even aggravated by using deodorants, antiperspirants, disinfectants, underarm liners, triclosan, special soaps or foams with antiseptic plant extracts such as ribwort and liquorice, chlorophyllin ointments and sprays topically, and chlorophyllin supplements internally. Certain medications such as rifampin and phenazopyridine can cause orange urine. Additionally, the presence of amino acids in urine (diagnosed as maple syrup urine disease) can cause it to smell of maple syrup.Eating asparagus can cause a strong odor reminiscent of the vegetable caused by the body's breakdown of asparagusic acid. Up to 40% of condom catheter users will develop a urinary tract infection with long-term use. 
Is the risk of bacterial or fungal infection comparable when using menstrual cups or pads? [SEP] Menstrual cups are a safe alternative to other menstrual products; risk of toxic shock syndrome infection is similar or less with menstrual cups compared to pads or tampons. Girls provided with menstrual cups had a lower prevalence of sexually transmitted infections than control groups. Also, the prevalence of bacterial vaginosis was lower among cup users compared with menstrual pad users or those continuing other usual practice. However, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration declined to remove menstrual cups from the market, saying that there was insufficient evidence of risk.No differences in the growth of Staphylococcus aureus or health harms were identified among school girls provided with menstrual cups compared to those using menstrual pads, or continuing their usual practice in rural western Kenya.Menstrual cups can be used with an IUD; however, there is an unclear association with respect to IUD expulsion. The probable reason for this is that menstrual cups are not absorbent, do not irritate the vaginal mucosal tissue, and so do not change the vaginal flora in any measurable amount.Research has shown that the cup has no impact on the vaginal flora, which means there is no effect on the presence of S. aureus, the bacterium that can cause TSS. Infection risk is similar or less with menstrual cups compared to pads or tampons. Buying pads or using rags monthly may seem more affordable than purchasing a menstrual cup, though the lifetime cost is higher. Here, menstrual cups have an advantage over disposable pads or tampons as they do not contribute to the solid waste issues in the communities or generate embarrassing refuse that others may see. 
Laboratory experiments indicate that leoligin and other substances from edelweiss have a medicinal effect. However, this has not been researched in humans. [SEP] Leontopodium nivale, commonly called edelweiss (German: Alpen-Edelweiß, English pronunciation  (listen)), is a mountain flower belonging to the daisy or sunflower family Asteraceae. Leoligin was reported as the major lignan constituent.The edelweiss has been used in traditional folk medicine in the Alps for centuries. "Bring me Edelweiss" is the best-known song of the music group Edelweiss. Leontopodium nivale, commonly called edelweiss (German: Alpen-Edelweiß, English pronunciation  (listen)), is a mountain flower belonging to the daisy or sunflower family Asteraceae. Leoligin was reported as the major lignan constituent.The edelweiss has been used in traditional folk medicine in the Alps for centuries. "Bring me Edelweiss" is the best-known song of the music group Edelweiss. It is named after the edelweiss, (Leontopodium nivale), a white flower found high in the Alps. Austrian attitudes
The edelweiss is a popular flower in Austria and was featured on the old Austrian 1 schilling coin. 
Can a straight bar improve harmless tension and pain in the neck and back? [SEP] Low-frequency afferent signals cause relaxation of the bladder by inhibiting sacral parasympathetic preganglionic neurons and exciting lumbar sympathetic preganglionic neurons. Release of urine is experienced as a lessening of the discomfort. A female urination device can assist women in girls in urinating while standing or into a bottle. He later accompanies Dean to a bar to interrogate Hayden's boyfriend with his behavior drawing Dean's suspicions. Rowena aids the Winchesters in killing the witches and breaks the curse on Dean, saving his life. These concerns were mostly calmed after JFK delivered a speech in September in Houston where he said that he was in favor of the separation of church and state. Robert saw his brother as a guide on managing within the Senate, and the arrangement worked to deepen their relationship. After arriving at Litchfield, she and Barb are in different cellblocks and have an agreement in place on distributing contraband. 
Are ultrasound examinations during pregnancy safe for the health of the child? [SEP] The International Society of Ultrasound in Obstetrics and Gynecology (ISUOG) recommends that pregnant women have routine obstetric ultrasounds between 18 weeks' and 22 weeks' gestational age (the anatomy scan) in order to confirm pregnancy dating, to measure the fetus so that growth abnormalities can be recognized quickly later in pregnancy, and to assess for congenital malformations and multiple pregnancies (twins, etc). Performing an ultrasound at this early stage of pregnancy can more accurately confirm the timing of the pregnancy, and can also assess for multiple fetuses and major congenital abnormalities at an earlier stage. Abnormality screening
In most countries, routine pregnancy sonographic scans are performed to detect developmental defects before birth. Ultrasound may also detect fetal organ anomaly. Some resources indicate that there are clear reasons for this and that such scans are also clearly beneficial because ultrasound enables clear clinical advantages for assessing the developing fetus in terms of morphology, bone shape, skeletal features, fetal heart function, volume evaluation, fetal lung maturity, and general fetus well being.Second-trimester ultrasound screening for aneuploidies is based on looking for soft markers and some predefined structural abnormalities. Safety issues
Current evidence indicates that diagnostic ultrasound is safe for the unborn child, unlike radiographs, which employ ionizing radiation. Ultrasounds are considered relatively safe and have been used for over 35 years for monitoring pregnancy. Among other things, ultrasounds are used to:

Diagnose pregnancy (uncommon)
Check for multiple fetuses
Assess possible risks to the mother (e.g., miscarriage, blighted ovum, ectopic pregnancy, or a molar pregnancy condition)
Check for fetal malformation (e.g., club foot, spina bifida, cleft palate, clenched fists)
Determine if an intrauterine growth retardation condition exists
Note the development of fetal body parts (e.g., heart, brain, liver, stomach, skull, other bones)
Check the amniotic fluid and umbilical cord for possible problems
Determine due date (based on measurements and relative developmental progress)Generally an ultrasound is ordered whenever an abnormality is suspected or along a schedule similar to the following:

7 weeks — confirm pregnancy, ensure that it's neither molar or ectopic, determine due date
13–14 weeks (some areas) — evaluate the possibility of Down syndrome
18–20 weeks — see the expanded list above
34 weeks (some areas) — evaluate size, verify placental positionA review looking at routine ultrasounds past 24 weeks found that there is no evidence to show any benefits to the mother or the baby.Early scans mean that multiple pregnancies can be detected at an early stage of pregnancy and also gives more accurate due dates so that less women are induced who do not need to be.Levels of feedback from the ultrasound can differ. 
Can oregano oil relieve discomfort or disease? [SEP] Topical use and health research
Capsaicin, the pungent chemical in chili peppers, is used as an analgesic in topical ointments, nasal sprays, and dermal patches to relieve pain. At low amounts, it has a mild analgesic effect. At low amounts, it has a mild analgesic effect. Research and pharmaceutical use
Capsaicin is used as an analgesic in topical ointments and dermal patches to relieve pain, typically in concentrations between 0.025% and 0.1%. It may be applied in cream form for the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with arthritis, backache, strains and sprains, often in compounds with other rubefacients.It is also used to reduce the symptoms of peripheral neuropathy, such as post-herpetic neuralgia caused by shingles. One 2017 review of clinical studies having limited quality found that high-dose topical capsaicin (8%) compared with control (0.4% capsaicin) provided moderate to substantial pain relief from post-herpetic neuralgia, HIV-neuropathy, and diabetic neuropathy.Although capsaicin creams have been used to treat psoriasis for reduction of itching, a review of six clinical trials involving topical capsaicin for treatment of pruritus concluded there was insufficient evidence of effect. Capsaicin decreases LDL cholesterol levels moderately.There is insufficient clinical evidence to determine the role of ingested capsaicin on several human disorders, including obesity, diabetes, cancer and cardiovascular diseases. Peptic ulcer
One 2006 review concluded that capsaicin may relieve symptoms of a peptic ulcer rather than being a cause of it. 
Are Bach flower remedies effective in helping with test anxiety? [SEP] Like many alternative medicines, it may benefit from a placebo effect. No scientific basis for homeopathic principles has been substantiated.Bach flower remedies (BFRs) are solutions of brandy and water—the water containing extreme dilutions of flower material developed by Edward Bach, an English homeopath, in the 1930s. Bach claimed that dew found on flower petals retain imagined healing properties of that plant. Systematic reviews of clinical trials of Bach flower solutions have found no efficacy beyond a placebo effect.Iridology – means of medical diagnosis which proponents believe can identify and diagnose health problems through close examination of the markings and patterns of the iris. The method is claimed to reorganize connections between the brain and body and so improve body movement and psychological state. Three small trials have demonstrated decreased cancer-related psychiatric distress, including anxiety and depression with its use. Targeted microbiome alterations such as via various psychobiotics, meditation, and physical relaxation techniques like cyclic breathing exercises, could have longer-term effects, albeit the research on these interventions is at an early stage with few human trials – which may be needed to, for example, identify beneficial bacterial species and strains to include in a probiotic – despite a study reportedly first showing that the gut microbiota can be a therapeutic target for cognitive enhancement in the year 2011.Research also investigates differences between adults' learning and children's learning which may enable interventions to selectively enhance learning in adults and children. In a survey of 1324 German students, 32% of participants that do not consume neuroenhancement drugs felt they had positive cognitive effects while 12% felt they had a relaxation effect. 
Can capsules with diamine oxidase alleviate or prevent symptoms of histamine intolerance? [SEP] Since their inception, capsules have been viewed by consumers as the most efficient method of taking medication. This allows different drugs to be delivered using the same capsule. Dehiscence
In most cases the capsule is dehiscent, i.e. It has been used to help combat SSRI-associated fatigue. It is speculated that its effect is due to the inhibition of Diamine Oxidase, coupled with a weak inhibition of Monoamine Oxidase A.Selikoff and Robitzek also experimented with another anti-tuberculosis drug, Iproniazid; it showed a greater psychostimulant effect, but more pronounced toxicity. Antihistamine derivatives were used to treat surgical shock and later as neuroleptics. Dystonia
Anticholinergic medications are used to reverse acute dystonia. Amantadine is sometimes used as well. 
Does magnesium help with period pain? [SEP] Dysmenorrhea, also known as period pain, painful periods or menstrual cramps, is pain during menstruation. Reviews indicated magnesium supplementation seemed to be effective. Due to its low effectiveness and negative side effects, its use as a medication for treating muscle cramps is not recommended by the FDA.Magnesium is commonly used to treat muscle cramps. Moderate quality evidence indicates that magnesium is not effective for treating or preventing cramps in older adults. It is not known if magnesium helps cramps due to pregnancy, liver cirrhosis, other medical conditions, or exercising. The term for painful periods is dysmenorrhea. Magnesium
Magnesium is recognized as an inexpensive, over-the-counter supplement which can be part of a multimodal approach to migraine reduction. The intravenous form reduces attacks as measured in approximately 15-45 minutes, 120 minutes, and 24 hour time periods, magnesium taken orally alleviates the frequency and intensity of migraines. 
Does cannabis improve symptoms of Parkinson's disease, for example movement disorders? [SEP] In the specific case of cannabis (marijuana), however, evidence supports a link between earlier onset of psychotic illness and cannabis use. Cannabinoids
Cannabis is not recommended as a treatment for PTSD because scientific evidence does not currently exist demonstrating treatment efficacy for cannabinoids. However, use of cannabis or derived products is widespread among U.S. veterans with PTSD.The cannabinoid nabilone is sometimes used for nightmares in PTSD. An increasing number of states permit and have legalized the use of medical cannabis for the treatment of PTSD. It has promising results in treatment of GAD as well as other mental issues. Cannabis
As of 2019, there is little evidence for cannabis in treating anxiety disorders. Cannabis has also been associated with depression. In older people it does appear to decrease depression. 
Is the dietary supplement nattokinase effective and safe as a blood thinner? [SEP] Newer non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants appear to have fewer life-threatening bleeding events compared to warfarin. Interactions
Foods and food supplements with blood-thinning effects include nattokinase, lumbrokinase, beer, bilberry, celery, cranberries, fish oil, garlic, ginger, ginkgo, ginseng, green tea, horse chestnut, licorice, niacin, onion, papaya, pomegranate, red clover, soybean, St. John's wort, turmeric, wheatgrass, and willow bark. Many herbal supplements have blood-thinning properties, such as danshen and feverfew. Nattokinase (pronounced nuh-TOH-kin-ayss) is an enzyme extracted and purified from a Japanese food called nattō. In spite of its name, nattokinase is not a kinase enzyme (and should not be pronounced as such), but a serine protease of the subtilisin family (99.5% identical with aprE). Although it should be expected to be digested and inactivated in the human gut like other proteins, a few researchers report that nattokinase is active when taken orally.Nattokinase is sold as a dietary supplement. Interactions
Foods and food supplements with blood-thinning effects include nattokinase, lumbrokinase, beer, bilberry, celery, cranberries, fish oil, garlic, ginger, ginkgo, ginseng, green tea, horse chestnut, licorice, niacin, onion, papaya, pomegranate, red clover, soybean, St. John's wort, turmeric, wheatgrass, and willow bark. Many herbal supplements have blood-thinning properties, such as danshen and feverfew. 
Is the Feldenkrais Method effective against pain and tension in the neck, shoulders and back? [SEP] Back and neck pain are considered the specialties of chiropractic, but many chiropractors treat ailments other than musculoskeletal issues. There is no consensus on the effectiveness of manual therapies for neck pain. A 2013 systematic review found that although there is insufficient evidence that thoracic SM is more effective than other treatments, it is a suitable intervention to treat some patients with non-specific neck pain. A 2011 systematic review found that thoracic SM may offer short-term improvement for the treatment of acute or subacute mechanical neck pain; although the body of literature is still weak. A 2010 Cochrane review found low quality evidence that suggests cervical manipulation may offer better short-term pain relief than a control for neck pain, and moderate evidence that cervical manipulation and mobilization produced similar effects on pain, function and patient satisfaction. "Do Manual Therapies Help Low Back Pain? The practitioners claim to treat skeletal muscle immobility and pain by relaxing contracted muscles. The United Kingdom's National Health Service says there is "limited evidence" that osteopathy "may be effective for some types of neck, shoulder or lower limb pain and recovery after hip or knee operations", but that there is no evidence that osteopathy is effective as a treatment for health conditions unrelated to the bones and muscles. 
Does an alkaline bath help with neurodermatitis? [SEP] Alkaline solutions are slippery or soapy to the touch, due to the saponification of the fatty substances on the surface of the skin. The itching and inflammation may be treated with a lotion or steroid cream (such as triamcinolone or Betamethasone) applied to the affected area of the skin. Antibiotics may be required if there are signs of skin infection. If left untreated, these infections may be life-threatening, so skin barrier improvement (such as daily moisturizing to minimize transepidermal water loss) and anti-inflammatory therapy are recommended as preventative measures. The American Academy of Dermatology suggests using a controlled amount of bleach diluted in a bath to help with atopic dermatitis.People can wear clothing designed to manage the itching, scratching and peeling.House dust mite reduction and avoidance measures have been studied in low quality trials and have not shown evidence of improving eczema. Alternative medicine
Topical
Limited evidence suggests that acupuncture may reduce itching in those affected by atopic dermatitis.Chiropractic spinal manipulation lacks evidence to support its use for dermatitis. While dilute bleach baths have been used for infected dermatitis there is little evidence for this practice. There is redness, scaling, darkening of the skin, and itching. 
Does birch water, also called birch sap, help with health problems? [SEP] In 1954, Welch wrote the first book about John Birch (an Air Force intelligence officer and Baptist missionary), titled The Life of John Birch. Birch requested to speak with their leader. The 1973 song "Uneasy Rider" by Charlie Daniels contains a reference to "Brother John Birch" in the lyrics. John Birch: A Life. "The Political Perspectives of Birch Society Members". Similarly in northern Europe the spring rise in the sap of the silver birch (Betula pendula) is tapped and collected, either to be drunk fresh or fermented into an alcoholic drink. In Alaska, the sap of the sweet birch (Betula lenta) is made into a syrup with a sugar content of 67%. Sweet birch sap is more dilute than maple sap; a hundred litres are required to make one litre of birch syrup.Various parts of trees are used as spices. 
Is oolong tea an effective way to lose weight? [SEP] Meal replacements, orlistat, a very-low-calorie diet, and primary care intensive medical interventions can also support meaningful weight loss. There is some evidence that these diets results in considerable weight loss. Plant-based diets are effective for short-term treatment of overweight and obesity, likely due to the high consumption of low energy density foods. Some limited evidence suggests various health benefits and effective weight loss with this diet. Most diet studies do not assess long-term weight loss.Some studies have found that, on average, short-term dieting results in a "meaningful" long-term weight-loss, although limited because of gradual 1 to 2 kg/year weight regain. Water
A 2009 review found limited evidence suggesting that encouraging water consumption and substituting energy-free beverages for energy-containing beverages (i.e., reducing caloric intake) may facilitate weight management. Along with this weight reduction, the procedure has significant health benefits ranging from reduced cardiovascular risk factors, remission of Type 2 Diabetes, reduced fatty liver disease, lower incidence and severity of depression syndromes, among others. It has been found to produce a weight loss comparable to that of Roux-en-Y gastric bypass. 
Do Waveex and similar products reduce exposure to electromagnetic fields, for example when using a cell phone or smartphone? [SEP] The electromagnetic force is one of the four fundamental forces of nature. These two effects combine to create electromagnetic fields in the vicinity of charge particles, which can accelerate other charged particles via the Lorentz force. The electromagnetic force is responsible for many of the chemical and physical phenomena observed in daily life. Indeed,  gamma-rays, x-rays, ultraviolet, visible, infrared radiation, microwaves and radio waves were all determined to be electromagnetic radiation differing only in their range of frequencies. Meanwhile, the field of quantum electrodynamics (QED) has modified Maxwell's equations to be consistent with the quantized nature of matter. In QED, the electromagnetic field is expressed in terms of discrete particles known as photons, which are also the physical quanta of light. The electromagnetic force is also involved in all forms of chemical phenomena. Classical electrodynamics
In 1600, William Gilbert proposed, in his De Magnete, that electricity and magnetism, while both capable of causing attraction and repulsion of objects, were distinct effects. 
Can ingredients in deodorants like aluminum salts cause breast cancer? [SEP] This formulation was first found in "Stopette" deodorant spray, which Time magazine called "the best-selling deodorant of the early 1950s".Use of deodorant with aluminium compounds has been suspected of being linked to breast cancer, but research has not proven any such link. Aluminum
Many deodorants and antiperspirants contain aluminium in the form of aluminium salts such as aluminium chlorohydrate.The US Food and Drug Administration, in a 2003 paper discussing deodorant safety, concluded that "despite many investigators looking at this issue, the agency does not find data from topical and inhalation chronic exposure animal and human studies submitted to date sufficient to change the monograph status of aluminum containing antiperspirants", therefore allowing their use and stating they will keep monitoring the scientific literature. Myths and claims related to aluminium compounds in deodorants
Common myths and marketing claims for aluminium in deodorants (including aluminum in alum products) include claims:

That aluminium in deodorants applied to the skin is a risk factor for some cancers (notably breast cancer) and some forms of dementia
That aluminium in antiperspirants can enter the body (possibly through shaving cuts)
That aluminium in alum "natural deodorant" products is "safer" because it is "too large" to enter the bodyOf note, the parts of the body which are commonly shaved and also commonly treated with deodorants, such as the armpits, contain substantial deposits of subcutaneous fat. Breast cancer
The claim that breast cancer is believed to be linked with deodorant use has been widely circulated and appears to originate from a spam email sent in 1999; however, there is no evidence to support the existence of such a link. Aluminum in antiperspirants can enter the body (possibly through cuts) and cause breast cancer: There is no current evidence to support this claim, nor any convincing evidence that it is true. See above for current scientific knowledge regarding aluminum in deodorants.The National Cancer Institute states that "no scientific evidence links the use of these products to the development of breast cancer" and that "no clear evidence show[s] that the use of aluminum-containing underarm antiperspirants or cosmetics increases the risk of breast cancer", but also concludes that "[b]ecause studies of antiperspirants and deodorants and breast cancer have provided conflicting results, additional research would be needed to determine whether a relationship exists".Another constituent of deodorant products that has given cause for concern are parabens, a chemical additive. See also
Air freshener
Aluminum chlorohydrate
Perfume

References
External links

Antiperspirants/Deodorants and breast cancer Ted S. Gansler, the director of medical content for the American Cancer Society, stated "There is no convincing evidence that antiperspirant or deodorant use increases cancer risk".However, there is continued concern over the use of aluminium chlorohydrate in cosmetics as the risk of toxic build up over time has not been ruled out. 
Does the intake of black cumin improve the symptoms of asthma, e.g. shortness of breath? [SEP] Black cumin can refer to the seeds of either of two quite different plants, both of which are used as spices:

Elwendia persica, black cumin is considered similar to caraway, but they are two distinctly different plants. Although cumin is used in traditional medicine, there is no high-quality evidence that it is safe or effective as a therapeutic agent. The distantly related Bunium persicum and Bunium bulbocastanum and the unrelated Nigella sativa are both sometimes called black cumin (q.v.). Black and green cumin are used in Persian cuisine. The slow growth and a short stature of cumin favors weed competition additionally. Uses
Cumin seed is used as a spice for its distinctive flavor and aroma. Cumin can be used ground or as whole seeds. In traditional medicine practices of several countries, dried cumin seeds are believed to have medicinal purposes, although there is no scientific evidence for any use as a drug or medicine. 
Do specially trained dogs reliably warn of dangerous hypoglycemia? [SEP] Some dogs owned by people with epilepsy have been shown to alert their handler when the handler shows signs of an impending seizure, sometimes well in advance of onset, allowing the guardian to seek safety, medication, or medical care. It is important to quickly obtain a blood glucose measurement in someone presenting with symptoms of hypoglycemia to properly identify the hypoglycemic episode. Treatment
After hypoglycemia in a person is identified, rapid treatment is necessary and can be life-saving. Education
Family, friends, and co-workers of a person with diabetes may provide life-saving treatment in the case of a hypoglycemic episode It is important for these people to receive training on how to recognize hypoglycemia, what foods to help the hypoglycemic eat, how to administer injectable or intra-nasal glucagon, and how use a glucose meter. Treatment by family, friends, or co-workers
Family, friends, and co-workers of those with hypoglycemia are often first to identify hypoglycemic episodes, and may offer help. In those with diabetes treated by insulin, glinides, or sulfonylurea, the prevention of hypoglycemia has a large focus on patient education and medication adjustments. The foundation of diabetes education is learning how to recognize the signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia, as well as learning how to act quickly to prevent worsening of an episode. See also
Idiopathic hypoglycemia


== References == 
Does taking proton pump inhibitors (PPI) increase the risk of bone fractures? [SEP] Adverse effects
In general, proton pump inhibitors are well tolerated, and the incidence of short-term adverse effects is relatively low. Bone fractures
High dose or long-term use of PPIs carries an increased risk of bone fractures which was not found with short-term, low dose use; the FDA included a warning regarding this on PPI drug labels in 2010.In infants, acid suppression therapy is frequently prescribed to treat symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux in otherwise healthy infants (that is: without gastroesophageal reflux disease). A study from 2019 showed that  PPI use alone and together with histamine H2-receptor antagonists was associated with an increased bone fracture hazard, which was amplified by days of use and earlier initiation of therapy. Cancer
A 2022 umbrella review and meta-analysis of observational studies show that proton-pump inhibitor significantly increases the risk of four cancers. Research
COVID-19
According to one study proton-pump inhibitors may increase the severity of symptoms of COVID-19. Adverse effects
Adverse effects occurring in at least 1% of people include:
Central nervous system: headache (7%), dizziness (2%)
Respiratory: upper respiratory tract infection (2%), cough (1%)
Gastrointestinal: abdominal pain (5%), diarrhea (4%), nausea (4%), vomiting (3%), flatulence (3%), acid regurgitation (2%), constipation (2%)
Neuromuscular and skeletal: back pain (1%), weakness (1%)
Dermatologic: rash (2%)Other concerns related to adverse effects are:

Recurrence of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea
Osteoporosis-related fractures
HypomagnesemiaConcern has been expressed regarding vitamin B12 and iron malabsorption, but effects seem to be insignificant, especially when supplement therapy is provided.Since their introduction, proton-pump inhibitors (PPIs, especially omeprazole) have also been associated with several cases of acute interstitial nephritis, an inflammation of the kidneys that often occurs as an adverse drug reaction. No association is seen between PPI use and cancer, but use of PPIs may mask gastric cancers or other serious gastric problems and physicians should be aware of this effect.There is a possible association between long term use and dementia which requires further study to confirm.A review article in U.S. Pharmacist in 2013 states that long-term use of PPIs is associated with decreased calcium absorption (causing increased risk of osteoporosis and fractures), decreased magnesium absorption (causing electrolyte disturbances), and increased risk of certain infections such as C. difficile and community-acquired pneumonia. Other possible side effects, common to other PPIs medications in the same class, include bone fractures due to osteoporosis and serious infections with Clostridium difficile. 
Can matrix therapy (also: matrix rhythm therapy) alleviate complaints of muscles and joints? [SEP] Practitioners claim that the benefits of regular Ayurvedic massage include pain relief, reduction of fatigue, improved immune system and improved longevity. However, it is less effective than management of SVT with medications.A 2004 systematic review found single applications of massage therapy "reduced state anxiety, blood pressure, and heart rate but not negative mood, immediate assessment of pain, and cortisol level," while "multiple applications reduced delayed assessment of pain," and found improvements in anxiety and depression similar to effects of psychotherapy. Clinical studies have found that Swedish massage can reduce chronic pain, fatigue, joint stiffness and improve function in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee. In one study scientists found that Thai Massage showed comparable efficacy as the painkiller ibuprofen in the reduction of joint pain caused by osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee. Theories behind what massage might do include enhanced skeletal muscle regrowth and remodeling, blocking nociception (gate control theory), activating the parasympathetic nervous system, which may stimulate the release of endorphins and serotonin, preventing fibrosis or scar tissue, increasing the flow of lymph, and improving sleep.Massage is hindered from reaching the gold standard of scientific research, which includes placebo-controlled and double blind clinical trials. A 2015 Cochrane Review concluded that there is very little evidence that massage is an effective treatment for lower back pain. Multiple-dose effects
Pain relief: Massage may reduce pain experienced in the days or weeks after treatment. Depression: Massage has been shown to reduce subclinical depression. 
Can hyposensitization by injections with allergy-causing pollen components help with hay fever? [SEP] Immunotherapy involves exposing people to larger and larger amounts of allergens in an attempt to change the immune system's response.Meta-analyses have found that injections of allergens under the skin are effective in the treatment in allergic rhinitis in children and in asthma. He hypothesized that by injecting people with hay fever with small amounts of a pollen "toxin", a state of immunity could be achieved.Allergen immunotherapy was part of mainstream medical practice for hay fever treatment in the 1930s. In 2014, the FDA approved a once-daily sublingual tablet containing allergen extracts for the treatment of "hay fever" (allergic rhinitis with or without conjunctivitis). The pollen is a cause of allergy. Allergic rhinitis, of which the seasonal type is called hay fever, is a type of inflammation in the nose that occurs when the immune system overreacts to allergens in the air. Cause
Pollen is often considered as a cause of allergic rhinitis, hence called hay fever (See sub-section below). Pollen-related causes
Allergic rhinitis triggered by the pollens of specific seasonal plants is commonly known as "hay fever", because it is most prevalent during haying season. Allergic
Allergic rhinitis or hay fever may follow when an allergen such as pollen, dust, or Balsam of Peru is inhaled by an individual with a sensitized immune system, triggering antibody production. 
Can hyposensitization by means of drops or tablets administered under the tongue help with hay fever? [SEP] In this form the allergen is given under the tongue and people often prefer it to injections. Sublingual
Sublingual immunotherapy involves putting drops or a tablet of allergen extracts under the tongue, which are then absorbed through the lining of the mouth. He hypothesized that by injecting people with hay fever with small amounts of a pollen "toxin", a state of immunity could be achieved.Allergen immunotherapy was part of mainstream medical practice for hay fever treatment in the 1930s. In 2014, the FDA approved a once-daily sublingual tablet containing allergen extracts for the treatment of "hay fever" (allergic rhinitis with or without conjunctivitis). In this form the allergen is given under the tongue and people often prefer it to injections. Sublingual
Sublingual immunotherapy involves putting drops or a tablet of allergen extracts under the tongue, which are then absorbed through the lining of the mouth. He hypothesized that by injecting people with hay fever with small amounts of a pollen "toxin", a state of immunity could be achieved.Allergen immunotherapy was part of mainstream medical practice for hay fever treatment in the 1930s. In 2014, the FDA approved a once-daily sublingual tablet containing allergen extracts for the treatment of "hay fever" (allergic rhinitis with or without conjunctivitis). 
Do Blushwood berries help against skin cancer? [SEP] Blushwood is a common name for several Australian flowering plants in the spurge family Euphorbiaceae and may refer to:

Fontainea picrosperma, the source of a compound investigated as a cancer treatment
Hylandia dockrillii Skin cancers are cancers that arise from the skin. Basal-cell and squamous-cell skin cancers rarely result in death. Evidence for reducing melanoma risk from dietary measures is tentative, with some supportive epidemiological evidence, but no clinical trials.Zinc oxide and titanium oxide are often used in sunscreen to provide broad protection from UVA and UVB ranges.Eating certain foods may decrease the risk of sunburns but this is much less than the protection provided by sunscreen.A meta-analysis of skin cancer prevention in high risk individuals found evidence that topical application of T4N5 liposome lotion reduced the rate of appearance of basal cell carcinomas in people with xeroderma pigmentosum, and that acitretin taken by mouth may have a skin protective benefit in people following kidney transplant.A research published in January 2022 by the Oregon State University College of Pharmacy showed that a vaccine that stimulates the production of a protein critical to the skin's antioxidant network could reinforce people's defenses against skin cancer. The incidence of skin cancer has been increasing. One in five Americans will develop skin cancer at some point of their lives. Improvement of the immune system works its way out up to the cancerous cells and treat the skin cancer. This therapy is also used in other skin cancer types. 
Can relaxation exercises and a reduction in stress slow the progression of glaucoma? [SEP] Relaxation helps improve coping with stress. Relaxation can help with many impairments that can occur in one's mental health. There is a higher mood and lower anxiety in those who practice relaxation techniques. It is well known that relaxation can help reduce stress. Even though relaxation cannot get rid of chronic diseases, it may help dull of the symptoms one may have. Relaxation techniques are often employed as one element of a wider stress management program and can decrease muscle tension, lower blood pressure, and slow heart and breath rates, among other health benefits.Relaxation therapy, the application of relaxation techniques, can be applied in various settings to complement treatment for stress, anxiety, depression, and pain. Multiple relaxation techniques share a fundamental principle to decrease muscle tension and lower physical or mental pain.Relaxation techniques are generally safe for healthy individuals. The connection between psychosocial stressors and chronic illness is intricate and influenced by various factors, such as the type, quantity, and duration of stressors, along with an individual's biological susceptibility (like genetics and inherent characteristics) and their learned ways of coping.Previous studies have indicated that relaxation techniques, including but not limited to deep breathing, guided imagery, meditation, and progressive muscle relaxation, are effective ways to reduce stress, indicating that relaxation techniques are effective in promoting relaxation both physically and psychologically.Research released in the 1980s indicated stronger ties between stress and health and showed benefits from a wider range of relaxation techniques than had been previously known. 
Can dementia be prevented by years of orange juice consumption? [SEP] Brain function
A 2017 systematic review found lower vitamin C concentrations in people with cognitive impairment, including Alzheimer's disease and dementia, compared to people with normal cognition. The results showed that citrus fruits prevented the disease. Cognition and dementia
A systematic review of clinical studies found an association between low vitamin D levels with cognitive impairment and a higher risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. Fish oil has not been shown to cure dementia, though there is evidence to support the effectiveness of lemon oil as a way to reduce agitation in patients with dementia. Alcohol does not necessarily kill brain cells. This evidence suggests that nicotinamide may treat dementia as related to pellagra, but administration does not effectively treat other types of dementia. Different methods of processing corn may result in a higher degree of bioavailability of the vitamin.Though treatment with niacin does little to alter the effects of Alzheimer's dementia, niacin intake from foods is inversely associated with the disease. Furthermore, a ketogenic diet can be beneficial for dementia patients. 
Can remedies from papaya improve digestion or relieve gastrointestinal discomfort? [SEP] Medications that settle gas in the stomach and intestines are also commonly used to treat the discomfort and lessen the abdominal distension. However, a recent systemic review and meta-analysis of 29 studies published in 2022 suggests that successful treatment of H. pylori modestly improves indigestion symptoms. However, there is little evidence to support prokinetic agents are an appropriate treatment for dyspepsia.Currently, PPIs are FDA indicated for erosive esophagitis, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, eradication of H. pylori, duodenal and gastric ulcers, and NSAID-induced ulcer healing and prevention, but not functional dyspepsia. Gastric juice in the stomach starts protein digestion. This activates the release of acetylcholine, which stimulates the release of more gastric juices. This triggers intestinal gastrin to be released. Gastric inhibitory peptide (GIP) – is in the duodenum and decreases the stomach churning in turn slowing the emptying in the stomach. pH plays a crucial role in a normally functioning digestive tract. 
Are kinesiotapes effective for chronic non-specific lower back pain ("low back pain")? [SEP] Spa therapy has showed positive effects in reducing pain among patients with chronic low back pain. Studies have shown that kinesiotape could be used on individuals with chronic low back pain to reduce pain. In addition to improving pain, exercise also can improve one's well-being and general health.Manipulative and mobilization therapy are safe interventions that likely reduce pain for patients with chronic low back pain. A systematic review in 2019 reported that acupuncture injection therapy was an effective treatment for patients with nonspecific chronic low back pain, and is widely used in Southeast Asian countries. Studies have demonstrated the usefulness of cognitive behavioral therapy in the management of chronic low back pain, producing significant decreases in physical and psychosocial disability. In individuals with chronic musculoskeletal pain, research suggests that elastic taping may help relieve pain, but not more than other treatment approaches, and no evidence indicates that it can reduce disability in chronic pain cases.No convincing scientific evidence indicates that such products provide any demonstrable benefit in excess of a placebo, with some declaring it a pseudoscientific treatment. Based on two different studies, kinesio tape showed quicker drainage than manually and better patient compliance.A 2012 meta analysis found that the efficacy of elastic therapeutic tape in pain relief was trivial, because no reviewed study found clinically important results. Pain reduction and injury prevention are also frequently-cited benefits that similarly lack evidence, at least none showing an effect specific to kinesio tape... 
Does early detection of lung cancer by trained sniffer dogs provide significant benefits to those affected? [SEP] Cancer can be detected by certain signs and symptoms or screening tests. Early detection through screening is useful for cervical and colorectal cancer. People with suspected cancer are investigated with medical tests. Screening
Unlike diagnostic efforts prompted by symptoms and medical signs, cancer screening involves efforts to detect cancer after it has formed, but before any noticeable symptoms appear. Possible harms from follow-up procedures
Whether suitable treatment is available
Whether early detection improves treatment outcomes
Whether cancer will ever need treatment
Whether the test is acceptable to the people: If a screening test is too burdensome (for example, extremely painful), then people will refuse to participate. Animals, typically rodents, are often used in cancer research and studies of natural cancers in larger animals may benefit research into human cancer.Across wild animals, there is still limited data on cancer. Most cases of COPD are diagnosed at a late stage and the use of imaging methods would allow earlier detection and treatment.The identification and recognition of different phenotypes can guide appropriate treatment approaches. Even at a late stage of the disease, it can reduce the rate of worsening lung function and delay the onset of disability and death. 
Do snoring sprays or gargle solutions help against snoring? [SEP] discovered a statistically significant improvement in marital relations after snoring was surgically corrected. Almost all treatments for snoring revolve around lessening the breathing discomfort by clearing the blockage in the air passage. Medications are usually not helpful in treating snoring symptoms, though they can help control some of the underlying causes such as nasal congestion and allergic reactions. A number of other treatment options are also used to stop snoring. Tongue exercises
Myofunctional therapy, which incorporates oropharyngeal and tongue exercises, reduces snoring in adults based on both subjective questionnaires and objective sleep studies. This helps keep the airways unrestricted as possible and in turn leads to a small reduction in snoring. Dental appliances
Specially made dental appliances called mandibular advancement splints, which advance the lower jaw slightly and thereby pull the tongue forward, are a common mode of treatment for snoring. Such appliances have been proven to be effective in reducing snoring and sleep apnea in cases where the apnea is mild to moderate. 
Does Maca help with sexual problems such as erectile dysfunction or sexual aversion in men and women? [SEP] Ordinary anxiety can cause erectile dysfunction in men without psychiatric problems, but clinically diagnosable disorders such as panic disorder commonly cause avoidance of intercourse and premature ejaculation. If the sexual dysfunction is deemed to have a psychological component or cause, psychotherapy can help. Several oral medications like Viagra, Cialis, and Levitra have become available to alleviate ED and have become first line therapy. Technological advances have made the insertion of a penile implant a safe option for the treatment of ED, which provides the highest patient and partner satisfaction rates of all available ED treatment options.Pelvic floor physical therapy has been shown to be a valid treatment for men with sexual problems and pelvic pain.The 2020 guidelines from the American College of Physicians support the discussion of testosterone treatment in adult men with age-related low levels of testosterone who have sexual dysfunction. Off-label
A few studies suggest that the antidepressant, bupropion, can improve sexual function in women who are not depressed, if they have HSDD. It also had reported that, if possible, men would be willing to improve their sexual performance if a medication was deemed to be safe. Counseling sessions addressing changes the couple can make can improve a woman's sexual desire. Treatment may include switching medications to one with less sexual dysfunction side effects, decreasing the dose of the medication to decrease these side effects, or psychiatric counseling therapy. 
Can glacier milk powder prevent hangover or relieve hangover symptoms? [SEP] Turmeric is used in a hot drink called "turmeric latte" or "golden milk" that is made with milk, frequently coconut milk. In the Middle Ages, milk was called the "virtuous white liquor" because alcoholic beverages were safer to consume than the water generally available. Those affected are usually able to drink at least one cup of milk without developing significant symptoms, with greater amounts tolerated if drunk with a meal or throughout the day. People are typically able to drink at least one cup of milk without developing symptoms, with greater amounts tolerated if drunk with a meal or throughout the day. to fight fever, fatigue, eye strain, weakened teeth, face wrinkles, poisonings, ulcerations, asthma and certain gynecological troubles,  but it wasn't until the Renaissance that the first real scientific consideration was given to donkey milk. mentions it as a nutritious drink. Bubble tea (also known as pearl milk tea, bubble milk tea, tapioca milk tea, boba tea, or boba; Chinese: 珍珠奶茶; pinyin: zhēnzhū nǎichá, 波霸奶茶; bōbà nǎichá) is a tea-based drink that originated in Taiwan in the early 1980s. One shop described the effect of the cheese foam as "neutraliz[ing] the bitterness of the tea...and as you drink it you taste the returning sweetness of the tea". 
Can ingredients from pomegranate lower elevated blood pressure or reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] Pomegranate seeds are a rich source of dietary fiber (20% DV) which is entirely contained in the edible seeds. In Islam
Chapter 55 of the Quran mentions the pomegranate as a "favour" among many to be offered to those fearful to the "Lord" in "two Gardens". A pomegranate is a fruit-bearing shrub or tree. There is considerable evidence that reducing dietary salt intake lowers blood pressure, but whether this translates into a reduction in mortality and cardiovascular disease remains uncertain. There is some evidence green tea consumption may help lower blood pressure, but this is insufficient for it to be recommended as a treatment. There is evidence from randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trials that Hibiscus tea consumption significantly reduces systolic blood pressure (-4.71 mmHg, 95% CI [-7.87, -1.55]) and diastolic blood pressure (−4.08 mmHg, 95% CI [-6.48, −1.67]). Beetroot juice consumption also significantly lowers the blood pressure of people with high blood pressure.Increasing dietary potassium has a potential benefit for lowering the risk of hypertension. Nonetheless, the achievement of blood pressure goals is possible, and most importantly, lowering blood pressure significantly reduces the risk of death due to heart disease and stroke, the development of other debilitating conditions, and the cost associated with advanced medical care. 
Does regular consumption of red meat or processed meat products increase the risk of colorectal cancer? [SEP] Colorectal cancer
Drinking may be a cause of earlier onset of colorectal cancer. A WCRF panel report finds the evidence "convincing" that alcoholic drinks increase the risk of colorectal cancer in men at consumption levels above 30 grams of absolute alcohol daily. The National Cancer Institute states, "Heavy alcohol use may also increase the risk of colorectal cancer"A 2011 meta-analysis found that alcohol consumption was associated with an increased risk of colorectal cancer. Screening the general population has not been found to be effective.The risk of developing pancreatic cancer is lower among non-smokers, and people who maintain a healthy weight and limit their consumption of red or processed meat; however, the risk is greater for men, especially at very high levels of red meat consumption. Dietary factors for which some evidence shows slightly increased risk include processed meat, red meat, and meat cooked at very high temperatures (e.g. Health concerns
Studies have consistently found the consumption of processed meat to be linked to increased mortality, and to an increased risk of developing a number of serious health conditions including cancer, cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes. Bacon fried at higher temperatures potentially has more nitrosamines than bacon fried at lower temperatures.According to the World Health Organization in 2015, regular consumption of processed meats such as bacon increases the likelihood of developing colorectal cancers by 18%. BaP was shown to cause genetic damage in lung cells that was identical to the damage observed in the DNA of most malignant lung tumours.Regular consumption of cooked meats has been epidemiologically associated with increased levels of colon cancer (although this in itself does not prove carcinogenicity),
A 2005 NCI study found an increased risk of colorectal adenomas was associated with BaP intake, and more strongly with BaP intake from all foods. 
Does stool transplantation help with ulcerative colitis? [SEP] Surgery
Unlike in Crohn's disease, the gastrointestinal aspects of ulcerative colitis can generally be cured by surgical removal of the large intestine, though extraintestinal symptoms may persist. Bacterial recolonization
In a number of randomized clinical trials, probiotics have demonstrated the potential to be helpful in the treatment of ulcerative colitis. A probiotic named after its gastroenterologist medical doctor inventor, the De Simone Formulation, may be effective in inducing remission in active ulcerative colitis, and may be as effective as 5-ASAs in preventing relapse of quiescent UC. Both helminthic therapy and fecal microbiota transplant induce a characteristic Th2 white cell response in the diseased areas, which was unexpected given that ulcerative colitis was thought to involve Th2 overproduction.Alicaforsen is a first generation antisense oligodeoxynucleotide designed to bind specifically to the human ICAM-1 messenger RNA through Watson-Crick base pair interactions in order to subdue expression of ICAM-1. Dietary fiber interventions, such as psyillium supplementation (a mixture of soluble and insoluble fibers), may relieve symptoms as well as induce/maintain remission by altering the microbiome composition of the GI tract, thereby improving regulation of immune function, reducing inflammation, and helping to restore the intestinal mucosal lining.Anaemia is commonly present in both ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. A Cochrane review in 2020 did not find clear evidence of improved remission likelihood, nor lower adverse events, in people with Crohn's disease, following probiotic treatment.For ulcerative colitis, there is low-certainty evidence that probiotic supplements may increase the probability of clinical remission. Whereas in people who are already in remission, it is unclear whether probiotics help to prevent future relapse, either as a monotherapy or combination therapy.Fecal microbiota transplant is a relatively new treatment option for IBD which has attracted attention since 2010. Fecal transplants
In humans, fecal transplants (or stool transplant) is the process of transplantation of fecal bacteria from a healthy individual into a recipient who has a certain disease, such as irritable bowel syndrome. 
Does stool transplantation help in Crohn's disease??? [SEP] In some cases of SBS, intestinal transplant surgery may be considered; though the number of transplant centres offering this procedure is quite small and it comes with a high risk due to the chance of infection and rejection of the transplanted intestine.Bile acid diarrhea is another complication following surgery for Crohn's disease in which the terminal ileum has been removed. External links
"Crohn's disease". In Crohn's disease, surgery involves removing the worst inflamed segments of the intestine and connecting the healthy regions, but unfortunately, it does not cure Crohn's or eliminate the disease. Whereas in people who are already in remission, it is unclear whether probiotics help to prevent future relapse, either as a monotherapy or combination therapy.Fecal microbiota transplant is a relatively new treatment option for IBD which has attracted attention since 2010. Fecal transplants
In humans, fecal transplants (or stool transplant) is the process of transplantation of fecal bacteria from a healthy individual into a recipient who has a certain disease, such as irritable bowel syndrome. It has been shown to be useful in the treatment of mild to moderate Crohn's disease, and in maintaining remission. None of these surgeries cure or eliminate Crohn's disease, as the disease eventually comes back in healthy segments of the intestine, although when Crohn's disease recurs after surgery, it usually comes back at the site of the surgery.Small intestine transplants are becoming less experimental, but are still mainly performed in response to short bowel syndrome due to a high rate of transplant rejection. The procedure lengthens the bowel of children with SBS and may allow children to avoid the need for intestinal transplantation. 
Can remedies from the iambul tree improve blood glucose control in diabetes or precursors of diabetes ("pre-diabetes")? [SEP] Furthermore, a recent study showed that patients described as being "Uncontrolled Diabetics" (defined in this study by HbA1C levels >8%) showed a statistically significant decrease in the HbA1C levels after a 90-day period of seven-point self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) with a relative risk reduction (RRR) of 0.18% (95% CI, 0.86–2.64%, p<.001). Dietary changes known to be effective in helping to prevent diabetes include maintaining a diet rich in whole grains and fiber, and choosing good fats, such as the polyunsaturated fats found in nuts, vegetable oils, and fish. This systematic review only found one suitable trial comparing Metformin with Sulphonylurea in reducing risk of type 2 diabetes but it did not report any patient-relevant outcomes.A Cochrane systematic review assessed the effect of alpha-glucosidase inhibitors in people with impaired glucose tolerance, impaired fasting blood glucose, elevated glycated hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c).It was found that Acarbose appeared to reduce incidence of diabetes mellitus type 2 when compared to placebo, however there was no conclusive evidence that acarbose compare to diet and exercise, metformin, placebo, no intervention improved all-cause mortality, reduced or increased risk of cardiovascular mortality, serious or non-serious adverse events, non-fatal stroke, congestive heart failure, or non-fatal myocardial infarction.The same review found that there was no conclusive evidence that voglibose compared to diet and exercise or placebo reduced incidence of diabetes mellitus type 2, or any of the other measured outcomes.A 2017 review found that, long term, lifestyle changes decreased the risk by 28%, while medication does not reduce risk after withdrawal. There is moderate evidence suggesting that treating gum disease by scaling and root planing results in an improvement in blood sugar levels for people with diabetes. Regular exercise may improve blood sugar control, decrease body fat content, and decrease blood lipid levels. There is not enough evidence to suggest that cinnamon improves blood sugar levels in people with type 2 diabetes. A 2021 review showed that consumption of tree nuts (walnuts, almonds, and hazelnuts) reduced fasting blood glucose in diabetic people.Culturally appropriate education may help people with type 2 diabetes control their blood sugar levels for up to 24 months. "Pathophysiology of Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus". 
Does HPV vaccination reduce the risk of cervical cancer in girls? [SEP] It is estimated that HPV vaccines may prevent 70% of cervical cancer, 80% of anal cancer, 60% of vaginal cancer, 40% of vulvar cancer, and show more than 90% efficacy in preventing HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancers. Evidence suggests that HPV vaccines are effective in preventing cervical cancer for women up to 45 years of age. Public health
The National Cancer Institute states "Widespread vaccination has the potential to reduce cervical cancer deaths around the world by as much as two-thirds if all women were to take the vaccine and if protection turns out to be long-term. Contraindications
While the use of HPV vaccines can help reduce cervical cancer deaths by two-thirds around the world, not everyone is eligible for vaccination. HPV vaccines, such as Gardasil and Cervarix, reduce the incidence of cervical cancer, by inoculating against the viral strains involved in cancer development.Potentially precancerous changes in the cervix can be detected by cervical screening, using methods including a Pap smear (also called a cervical smear), in which epithelial cells are scraped from the surface of the cervix and examined under a microscope. In principle, HPV vaccines may help reduce incidence of such cancers caused by HPV, but this has not been demonstrated. Efficacy
A 2020 longitudinal study tracking over 1.6 million Swedish girls and women over an eleven-year period found half as many cervical cancer cases in all women who had been vaccinated, and amongst women who had been vaccinated before the age of 17 a 78% reduction in cervical cancer, "a substantially reduced risk of invasive cervical cancer at the population level. Public health
The National Cancer Institute writes:

Widespread HPV vaccination has the potential to reduce cervical cancer incidence around the world by as much as 90%. 
Is stool transplantation effective against recurrent Clostridium difficile infections ? [SEP] Some tentative evidence indicates fecal microbiota transplantation and probiotics may decrease the risk of recurrence.C. Fecal microbiota transplantation
Fecal microbiota transplant, also known as a stool transplant, is roughly 85% to 90% effective in those for whom antibiotics have not worked. Medical uses
Clostridioides difficile infection
Fecal microbiota transplant is approximately 85–90% effective in people with CDI for whom antibiotics have not worked or in whom the disease recurs following antibiotics. Most people with CDI recover with one FMT treatment.A 2009 study found that fecal microbiota transplant was an effective and simple procedure that was more cost-effective than continued antibiotic administration and reduced the incidence of antibiotic resistance.Once considered to be a "last resort therapy" by some medical professionals, due to its unusual nature and invasiveness compared with antibiotics, perceived potential risk of infection transmission, and lack of Medicare coverage for donor stool, position statements by specialists in infectious diseases and other societies have been moving toward acceptance of FMT as a standard therapy for relapsing CDI and also Medicare coverage in the United States.It has been recommended that endoscopic FMT be elevated to first-line treatment for people with deterioration and severe relapsing C. difficile infection.Fecal microbiota, live (Rebyota) was approved for medical use in the United States in November 2022.Fecal microbiota spores, live (Vowst) was approved for medical use in the United States in April 2023. Stool transplants are considered about 90 percent effective in those with severe cases of C. difficile colonization, in whom antibiotics have not worked.The first randomized controlled trial in C. difficile infection was published in January 2013. Recognizing the importance of healthy gut bacteria, researchers turned to a procedure known as fecal microbiota transplant, where patients experiencing gastrointestinal diseases, such as C. difficile infection, receive fecal content from a healthy individual in hopes of restoring a normal functioning intestinal microbiota. Fecal microbiota transplant is approximately 85–90% effective in people with CDI for whom antibiotics have not worked or in whom the disease recurs following antibiotics. Fecal microbiota transplants
Fecal microbiota transplants involve transferring the full intestinal microbiota from a healthy human donor (in the form of stool) to patients with C. difficile infection. 
Does the juice of the aronia berry help against cystitis? [SEP] A juice or nectar including concentrate must state that it does. Health effects
Juices are often consumed for their perceived health benefits. If 100% from fruit, juice can help meet daily intake recommendations for some nutrients. Cranberry juice
Preliminary research indicates that cranberry (juice or capsules) may decrease the number of urinary tract infections in women with frequent infections, and a more substantial Cochrane review concludes that there is some evidence that cranberry products reduces the risk of symptomatic urinary tract infections for women, children and people following intervention, but not for the elderly, or people with bladder emptying problems, or for pregnant women. Aronia is also used as a flavoring or colorant for beverages or yogurts. Alternative medicine
Some research suggests that cranberry (juice or capsules) may decrease the number of UTIs in those with frequent infections. There is no good evidence for the use of cranberry products for treating current infections.Fosfomycin can be used as an effective treatment for both UTIs and complicated UTIs including acute pyelonephritis. "The Historical Origins of Interstitial Cystitis". 
Is Intermittent Fasting suitable for reducing excess weight as well as a conventional low calorie diet? [SEP] The diet forces the body to burn fats rather than carbohydrates. Fasting
Physicians of ancient Greece treated diseases, including epilepsy, by altering their patients' diet. Galen believed an "attenuating diet" might afford a cure in mild cases and be helpful in others.The first modern study of fasting as a treatment for epilepsy was in France in 1911. Twenty epilepsy patients of all ages were "detoxified" by consuming a low-calorie vegetarian diet, combined with periods of fasting and purging. In older protocols, the diet was initiated with a prolonged fast, designed to lose 5–10% body weight, and heavily restricted the calorie intake. Often, no initial fast is used (fasting increases the risk of acidosis, hypoglycaemia, and weight loss). If the diet does not begin with a fast, the time for half of the patients to achieve an improvement is longer (two weeks), but the long-term seizure reduction rates are unaffected. 13 September – A scientific review concludes that accumulating data suggests dietary restriction (DR) – mainly intermittent fasting and caloric restriction – results in many of the same beneficial changes in adult humans as in studied organisms, potentially increasing health- and lifespan. 
Is the risk for the brain inflammation SSPE as a consequence of measles disease greater than long assumed? That is, out of every 100,000 people infected with measles, does more than one person develop SSPE (subacute sclerosing panencephalitis) later in life? [SEP] Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE), also known as Dawson disease, is a rare form of progressive brain inflammation caused by a persistent infection with the measles virus. It has been estimated that about 2 in 10,000 people who get measles will eventually develop SSPE. SSPE should not be confused with acute disseminated encephalomyelitis, which can also be caused by the measles virus, but has a very different timing and course.SSPE is caused by the wild-type virus, not by vaccine strains. Signs and symptoms
SSPE is characterized by a history of primary measles infection, followed by an asymptomatic period that lasts 7 years on average but can range from 1 month to 27 years. Eventually the infection will lead to SSPE. However, the number of reported cases is declining since the introduction of the measles vaccine—eradication of the measles virus prevents the SSPE mutation and therefore the progression of the disease or even the initial infection itself. "Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis, a measles complication, in an internationally adopted child". SSPE may refer to:

Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis - A rare disease of the brain caused by measles infection. 
Can acupuncture for labor induction trigger the onset of labor? [SEP] If not, the care provider will generally begin labour induction within 24 to 48 hours. Labour induction is the process or treatment that stimulates childbirth and delivery. Inducing labour can be accomplished with pharmaceutical or non-pharmaceutical methods. The American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) guidelines recommend a full evaluation of the maternal-fetal status, the status of the cervix, and at least a 39 completed weeks (full term) of gestation for optimal health of the newborn when considering elective induction of labour. Acupuncture and relaxation were found to decrease the number of caesarean sections required. Epidural analgesia is a generally safe and effective method of relieving pain in labour, but has been associated with longer labour, more operative intervention (particularly instrument delivery), and increases in cost. Following caesarean delivery, complementary and alternative therapies (e.g., acupuncture) may help to relieve pain, though evidence supporting the efficacy of such treatments is extremely limited. Success with previous pregnancy and/or live birth increases chances
Low alcohol/caffeine intake increases success rate
The number of embryos transferred in the treatment cycle
Embryo quality
Some studies also suggest that autoimmune disease may also play a role in decreasing IVF success rates by interfering with the proper implantation of the embryo after transfer.Aspirin is sometimes prescribed to women for the purpose of increasing the chances of conception by IVF, but as of 2016 there was no evidence to show that it is safe and effective.A 2013 review and meta analysis of randomised controlled trials of acupuncture as an adjuvant therapy in IVF found no overall benefit, and concluded that an apparent benefit detected in a subset of published trials where the control group (those not using acupuncture) experienced a lower than average rate of pregnancy requires further study, due to the possibility of publication bias and other factors.A Cochrane review came to the result that endometrial injury performed in the month prior to ovarian induction appeared to increase both the live birth rate and clinical pregnancy rate in IVF compared with no endometrial injury. 
Can switching to a higher fiber diet prevent colorectal cancer? [SEP] For example, the odds of developing colorectal cancer between the ages of 20 and 40 in the absence of specific risk factors are about 1 in 1,250 (0.08%).The rate of complications varies with the practitioner and institution performing the procedure, and other variables. Butyrate-yielding diets may also have potential colorectal cancer suppression effects. Other health issues
Cooking dairy products may reduce a protective effect against colon cancer. Researchers at the University of Toronto suggest that ingesting uncooked or unpasteurized dairy products (see also Raw milk) may reduce the risk of colorectal cancer. Patients should be encouraged to adopt diets that are best supported by evidence and involve monitoring for the objective resolution of inflammation.A 2022 study found that diets with increased intake of fruits and vegetables, reduction of processed meats and refined carbohydrates, and preference of water for hydration were associated with lower risk of active symptoms with IBD, although increased intake of fruits and vegetables alone did not reduce risk of symptoms with Crohn's disease.Dietary patterns are associated with a risk for ulcerative colitis. Many studies identified that microRNAs dysregulation involved in IBD and to promote colorectal cancer. Dietary fiber interventions, such as psyillium supplementation (a mixture of soluble and insoluble fibers), may relieve symptoms as well as induce/maintain remission by altering the microbiome composition of the GI tract, thereby improving regulation of immune function, reducing inflammation, and helping to restore the intestinal mucosal lining.Anaemia is commonly present in both ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. The cause of these IBS-like symptoms is unclear, but it has been suggested that changes in the gut-brain axis, epithelial barrier dysfunction, and the gut flora may be partially responsible.While patients of IBD do have an increased risk of colorectal cancer, this is usually caught much earlier than the general population in routine surveillance of the colon by colonoscopy, and therefore patients are much more likely to survive.New evidence suggests that patients with IBD may have an elevated risk of endothelial dysfunction and coronary artery disease.The goal of treatment is toward achieving remission, after which the patient is usually switched to a lighter drug with fewer potential side effects. 
Can perineal massage during pregnancy help prevent birth injury in first-time mothers? [SEP] Immersion in water has been found to relieve pain during the first stage of labour and to reduce the need for anaesthesia and shorten the duration of labour, however the safety and efficacy of immersion during birth, water birth, has not been established or associated with maternal or fetal benefit.Most women like to have someone to support them during labour and birth; such as a midwife, nurse, or doula; or a lay person such as the father of the baby, a family member, or a close friend. Women experienced less severe perineal trauma, less posterior perineal trauma, less suturing and fewer healing complications at seven days with no difference in occurrence of pain, urinary incontinence, painful sex or severe vaginal/perineal trauma after birth. Medio-lateral episiotomies are recommended to expedite delivery or prevent perineal injury. Childbirth
The vulvar region is at risk for trauma during childbirth. Because the pudendal nerve carries motor and sensory fibers that innervate the pelvic muscles, a pudendal nerve block relieves birth pain. Lacerations from labor do not always occur. Firm pressure can injure the baby. Massaging the lower abdomen (fundal massage) increases contraction of the uterus and can be used preventatively to manage postpartum bleeding. 
Can cancer be effectively treated with vitamin C infusions? [SEP] APC supports endothelial barrier function and reduces chemotaxis. For those in whom melanoma has spread, immunotherapy, biologic therapy, radiation therapy, or chemotherapy may improve survival. Chemotherapy
Chemotherapy drugs such as Dacarbazine have been the backbone of metastatic melanoma treatment since FDA approval in 1975; however, its efficacy in terms of survival has never been proven in an RCT.In people with locally advanced cutaneous malignancies and sarcoma, isolated limb infusion (ILI) has been found to be a minimally invasive and well-tolerated procedure for delivering regional chemotherapy. Immunotherapy
Immunotherapy is aimed at stimulating the person's immune system against the tumor, by enhancing the body's own ability to recognize and kill cancer cells. Radiotherapy has a role in the palliation of metastatic melanoma. Oncolytic virotherapy
In some countries oncolytic virotherapy methods are studied and used to treat melanoma. Talimogene laherparepvec (T-VEC) (which is a herpes simplex virus type 1–derived oncolytic immunotherapy), was shown to be useful against metastatic melanoma in 2015 with an increased survival of 4.4 months. Secondly, vitamin C has also been suggested to play a role in lipid regulation as a controlling catabolism of cholesterol to bile acid. 
Are detox cures good for health? [SEP] Elsewhere, the New York Rescue Workers Detoxification Project has used Hubbard's sauna detoxification regimen in an effort to improve the health of rescue workers exposed to toxic substances from 9/11, although the results are disputed. The main premise of the detoxification regimen is that "the activation of drug residuals stored in the body can elicit drug cravings in the former drug user thus tempting relapse. The Narconon detoxification regimen is designed to eliminate drug residues from drug users' bodies and thus reduce the cravings that may be caused by these residues. Detox diets
Detox diets involve either not consuming or attempting to flush out substances that are considered unhelpful or harmful. Master Cleanse: A modified juice fast that substitutes tea and lemonade for food. Marketing
In non-indigenous use, the frog secretion is described and marketed as a "detox" treatment, cleanse, purge, and as a "vaccine", which is "good for everything". Purging (deliberate vomiting) has been a popular treatment since the 1800s. "Detox" has been described by Edzard Ernst, emeritus professor of complementary medicine, as a term for conventional medical treatments for addiction, which has been "hijacked by entrepreneurs, quacks, and charlatans to sell a bogus treatment. 
Do sweeteners increase the risk of type 2 diabetes or sugar metabolism disorders? [SEP] Consumption of sugar-sweetened drinks in excess is associated with an increased risk. There is not enough evidence to determine if lifestyle interventions affect mortality in those who already have type 2 diabetes.As of 2015, there is insufficient data to recommend nonnutritive sweeteners, which may help reduce caloric intake.An elevated intake of microbiota-accessible carbohydrates can help reducing the effects of T2D.A 2022 umbrella review concluded that, red and white meat consumption is associated with an increased risk contrary to dairy products which have a diminished risk. A concern, however, is that overconsumption of foods and beverages made more appealing with sugar substitutes may increase risk of developing diabetes. A 2014 systematic review showed that a 330ml/day (an amount little less than the standard U.S can size) consumption of artificially sweetened beverages lead to increased risks of type 2 diabetes. A 2015 meta-analysis of numerous clinical studies showed that habitual consumption of sugar sweetened beverages, artificially sweetened beverages, and fruit juice increased the risk of developing diabetes, although with inconsistent results and generally low quality of evidence. Some preliminary studies indicate that consumption of products manufactured with artificial sweeteners is associated with obesity and metabolic syndrome, decreased satiety, disturbed glucose metabolism, and weight gain, mainly due to increased overall calorie intake, although the numerous factors influencing obesity remain poorly studied, as of 2021. Cardiometabolic diseases
When fructose is consumed in excess as a sweetening agent in foods or beverages, it may be associated with increased risk of obesity, diabetes, and cardiovascular disorders that are part of metabolic syndrome. Compared with sucrose
Fructose was found to increase triglycerides in type-2 but not type-1 diabetes and moderate use of it has previously been considered acceptable as a sweetener for diabetics, possibly because it does not trigger the production of insulin by pancreatic β cells. 
Does flu vaccination reduce the likelihood of getting the flu (influenza)? [SEP] Flu vaccinations
Flu vaccinations are used to diminish the effects of the flu season and can lower an individual's risk of getting the flu by about half. The flu shot is safer for those with a weakened immune system. Vaccination with the flu shot has been shown to boost the immune system and protect against the seasonal flu in some patients with HIV. They may also prevent serious flu complications. Should we base a vaccine on the current virus, since flu viruses change rapidly? Some studies have indicated that influenza-like illness is itself associated with an increased risk of GBS, suggesting that vaccination might indirectly protect against the disorder by protecting against flu. In one trial, an educational intervention designed to dispel common misconceptions about the influenza vaccine decreased parents' false beliefs about the vaccines but did not improve uptake of the influenza vaccine. In fact, parents with significant concerns about adverse effects from the vaccine were less likely to vaccinate their children with the influenza vaccine after receiving this education. 
Can therapy with the radioactive gas radon noticeably alleviate pain in rheumatism-related joint inflammation (rheumatoid arthritis)? [SEP] It is possible to test for radon in buildings, and to use techniques such as sub-slab depressurization for mitigation.Epidemiological studies have shown a clear link between breathing high concentrations of radon and incidence of lung cancer. Radon is a contaminant that affects indoor air quality worldwide. Exposure to radon has been suggested to mitigate autoimmune diseases such as arthritis in a process known as radiation hormesis. In the US and Europe, there are several "radon spas", where people sit for minutes or hours in a high-radon atmosphere, such as at Bad Schmiedeberg, Germany.Radon has been produced commercially for use in radiation therapy, but for the most part has been replaced by radionuclides made in particle accelerators and nuclear reactors. Health benefits claimed included pain, sinus, asthma and arthritis relief, but these were proven to be false and the government banned such advertisements in 1975.Since that time, ventilation and other measures have been used to reduce radon levels in most affected mines that continue to operate. Domestic-level exposure
Prolonged exposure to higher concentrations of radon has been linked to an increase in lung cancer. Inhalation and smoking
Results from epidemiological studies indicate that the risk of lung cancer increases with exposure to residential radon. Radon in the Home- An Invisible Killer How serious can high levels of radon be in the home? 
Does frankincense help with painful joint wear (osteoarthritis)? [SEP] It decreases pain, improves function, reduces stiffness and fatigue, and reduces medical usage. The use of topical capsaicin to treat osteoarthritis is controversial, as some reviews found benefit while others did not. A 2014 Cochrane review found that while ASU might help relieve pain in the short term for some people with osteoarthritis, it does not appear to improve or maintain the health of affected joints. A 2021 review found that hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) had no benefit in reducing pain and improving physical function in hand or knee osteoarthritis, and the off-label use of HCQ for people with osteoarthritis should be discouraged. There is no evidence for the use of colchicine for treating the pain of hand or knee arthritis.There is limited evidence to support the use of hyaluronan, methylsulfonylmethane, rose hip, capsaicin, or vitamin D.

Acupuncture and other interventions
While acupuncture leads to improvements in pain relief, this improvement is small and may be of questionable importance. References
External links

"Osteoarthritis". Alternative medicine
Further research is required to determine if transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) for knee osteoarthritis is effective for controlling pain.Low level laser therapy may be considered for relief of pain and stiffness associated with arthritis. This is one of the joints where most humans develop osteoarthritis with age. 
Does the extract of the plant Salacia reticulata in combination with vitamin D ("Exadipin") help to lose weight? [SEP] The aromatic principles of many spices, nuts, herbs, fruits, etc., and some flowers, are marketed as extracts, among the best known of true extracts being almond, cinnamon, cloves, ginger, lemon, nutmeg, orange, peppermint, pistachio, rose, spearmint, vanilla, violet, rum, and wintergreen. Vegetable oils such as olive oil and palm oil provide lipids, while fruit and vegetables contribute vitamins and minerals to the diet. Plants used in herbalism include ginkgo, echinacea, feverfew, and Saint John's wort. reticulata (syn. Syringa reticulata subsp. S. reticulata var. Syringa reticulata subsp. It is also used as a flavouring in liqueurs. 
Does yoga reduce the impairment in everyday life caused by persistent (chronic) back pain? [SEP] Yoga is referred to in a number of the Upanishads. Umasvati calls yoga the generator of karma, and essential to the path to liberation. Yoga is a significant practice in Tantric Buddhism.Tantra yoga practices include postures and breathing exercises. Yoga as exercise
The postural yoga of the Western world is a physical activity consisting of asanas (often connected by smooth transitions, sometimes accompanied by breathing exercises and usually ending with a period of relaxation or meditation. It is often known simply as "yoga", despite older Hindu traditions (some dating to the Yoga Sutras) in which asanas played little or no part; asanas were not central to any tradition.Yoga as exercise is part of a modern yoga renaissance, a 20th-century blend of Western gymnastics and haṭha yoga pioneered by Shri Yogendra and Swami Kuvalayananda. On 1 December 2016, yoga was listed by UNESCO as an intangible cultural heritage.The effect of postural yoga on physical and mental health has been a subject of study, with evidence that regular yoga practice is beneficial for low back pain and stress. In 2017, a Cochrane review found that yoga interventions designed for chronic low back pain increased function at the six month mark, and modestly decreased pain after 3–4 months. Soteriology
According to Bryant, the purpose of yoga is liberation from suffering, by means of discriminative discernment. 
Does yoga alleviate the severity of persistent back pain??? [SEP] Yoga and Tai chi are not recommended in case of acute or subacute low back pain, but are recommended in case of chronic back pain. The Alexander technique appears useful for chronic back pain, and there is some evidence to support small benefits from the use of yoga. If a person with chronic low back pain is motivated, it is recommended to use yoga and tai chi as a form of treatment, but this is not recommended to treat acute or subacute low back pain. Acupuncture may be an option for those with chronic pain that does not respond to other treatments like conservative care and medications, however this depends on patient preference, the cost, and on how accessible acupuncture is for the person.Massage therapy does not appear to provide much benefit for acute low back pain. Massage therapy has been found to be more effective for acute low back pain than no treatment; the benefits were found to be limited to the short term and there was no effect for improving function. Yoga therapy treatment
Yoga has shown promise of reducing symptoms of PTSD when is it used alongside other treatments. Yoga also increases affect awareness and can help people learn to regulate their emotions, which can be instrumental in helping people overcome symptoms of PTSD.A randomised controlled trial including 209 participants, mainly veterans, showed a decrease in the severity of PTSD symptoms among the group that participated in a yoga program, as opposed to another group that participated in a wellness lifestyle program. After 16 weeks, the yoga group displayed a statistically significant decrease in PTSD symptoms compared to the other group. 
Do laughter yoga or laughter therapy have positive health effects? [SEP] This theory is one of the justifications of the beliefs that laughter is beneficial for one's health. Therapy
Laughter has been used as a therapeutic tool for many years because it is a natural form of medicine. Some of the benefits of using laughter therapy are that it can relieve stress and relax the whole body. Laughter is also known to reduce allergic reactions in a preliminary study related to dust mite allergy sufferers.Laughter therapy also has some social benefits, such as strengthening relationships, improving teamwork and reducing conflicts, and making oneself more attractive to others. Therefore, whether a person is trying to cope with a terminal illness or just trying to manage their stress or anxiety levels, laughter therapy can be a significant enhancement to their life.Ramon Mora-Ripoll in his study on The Therapeutic Value Of Laughter In Medicine, stated that laughter therapy is an inexpensive and simple tool that can be used in patient care. The result showed that laughter therapy was helpful in improving quality of life and cancer symptoms in some areas for cancer survivors. Recent findings show that there is truth in the popular saying, "Laughter is the best medicine,". Proactive laughter as in laughter yoga increases mood and improves pain tolerance. 
Can a height-adjustable desk reduce sitting time in the office? [SEP] A 2018 Cochrane review concluded that "At present there is low‐quality evidence that sit‐stand desks may reduce sitting at work in the first year of their use. Despite this knowledge and due in part to an increase in sedentary behaviors, children have 8 fewer hours of free play each week than they did 20 years ago.Several studies have examined the effects of adding height-adjustable standing desks to classrooms, which have reduced the time spent sitting. Mechanical technology incorporated into the chair enabled adjustable chairs, especially for office use. Because the saddle chair is higher than a normal office chair, the desk has to be higher as well. For this purpose there are desks that can be electronically or mechanically adjusted to fit the user. Additionally, there was a significant reduction in sitting time over a day period when comparing treadmill desks users vs. conventional desk (− 1.73 min per hour, 95% CI: − 3.3 to − 0.17). To reduce awkward posture for the neck, back and shoulders, the sewing machine table, chair and paddle positions should be adjusted considering the worker's body height in a sitting position. It was not until the 1930s, when the technical literature on ergonomics in the office workplace became concerned with improving work performance and preventing work-related posture problems through the use of special furniture, that height-adjustable stools and chairs with backrests became more and more common in the workplace. 
Does a diet that includes as many organic foods as possible lower the risk of cancer? [SEP] In addition, studies that suggest that organic foods may be healthier than conventional foods face significant methodological challenges, such as the correlation between organic food consumption and factors known to promote a healthy lifestyle. Likewise, the American Cancer Society (ACS) has stated their official position that "whether organic foods carry a lower risk of cancer because they are less likely to be contaminated by compounds that might cause cancer is largely unknown." Organic food may also be more appealing to people who follow other restricted diets. Nutrients
Many people believe that organic foods have higher content of nutrients and thus are healthier than conventionally produced foods. A 2014 meta-analysis found that conventionally grown produce was four times more likely to have pesticide residue than organically grown crops.The American Cancer Society has stated that no evidence exists that the small amount of pesticide residue found on conventional foods will increase the risk of cancer, although it recommends thoroughly washing fruits and vegetables. They have also stated that there is no research to show that organic food reduces cancer risk compared to foods grown with conventional farming methods.The Environmental Protection Agency maintains strict guidelines on the regulation of pesticides by setting a tolerance on the amount of pesticide residue allowed to be in or on any particular food. Health Benefits of Organic Food: Effects of the Environment. A 2014 meta-analysis of observational studies found that a diet high in fruits, mushrooms, garlic, soybeans, and green onions was associated with a lower risk of stomach cancer in the Korean population. 
Does cinnamon lower blood sugar levels in diabetes? [SEP] There is moderate evidence suggesting that treating gum disease by scaling and root planing results in an improvement in blood sugar levels for people with diabetes. There is not enough evidence to suggest that cinnamon improves blood sugar levels in people with type 2 diabetes. A 2021 review showed that consumption of tree nuts (walnuts, almonds, and hazelnuts) reduced fasting blood glucose in diabetic people.Culturally appropriate education may help people with type 2 diabetes control their blood sugar levels for up to 24 months. Health-related research
Cinnamon has a long history of use in traditional medicine as a digestive aid, however, contemporary studies are unable to find evidence of any significant medicinal or therapeutic effect.Reviews of clinical trials reported lowering of fasting plasma glucose and inconsistent effects on hemoglobin A1C (HbA1c, an indicator of chronically elevated plasma glucose). The Cochrane authors' conclusion was: "There is insufficient evidence to support the use of cinnamon for type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus." Another method used to lower excessively high insulin levels is cinnamon, specifically Ceylon cinnamon, as was demonstrated when supplemented in clinical human trials.A healthy diet that is low in simple sugars and processed carbohydrates, and high in fiber, and vegetable protein is often recommended. Diabetes
Nicotine from cigarettes is known to increase blood sugar levels and promote insulin resistance in type 2 diabetics. This can be achieved through the consumption of substances such as cinnamon (which also may be used as a natural sugar substitute), ginger, and turmeric, that stimulates the absorption of glucose in the body. 
Does sitting for long periods shorten the lifespan? [SEP] The typical lifespan after becoming adult is 17 years, and the maximum known age is 37 years 4 months 16 days. Obesity paradox: In some medical conditions, obesity is associated with increased survival, although there is a strong association with shortened lifespan in the general population. The sessions were said to be exhausting. bathroom use, eating, etc.) In the United Kingdom people with intellectual disability live on average 16 years less than the general population. The strongest evidence comes from the Adverse Childhood Experiences Study which shows correlations between exposure to abuse or neglect and higher rates in adulthood of chronic conditions, high-risk health behaviors and shortened life span. Although individuals frequently cluster in groups (to overwinter), neither most nonreproductive males nor nonreproductive females survive the winter because their lifespans are shorter than a year (around 11 months) and they best survive during warm temperatures. Females engaging in the "sit-and-wait" reproductive strategy adopted the most mature nest rather than the nest with an increased probability of containing kin (from the same population). 
Does mammography screening reduce the risk of dying from breast cancer in certain age groups? [SEP] Effectiveness
On balance, screening mammography in older women increases medical treatment and saves a small number of lives. A 2013 Cochrane review estimated that mammography in women between 50 and 75 years old results in a relative decreased risk of death from breast cancer of 15% and an absolute risk reduction of 0.05%. Among women in their 60s, who have a somewhat higher rate of breast cancer, the proportion of positive outcomes to harms are better:
For women in their 40s:  About 2,000 women would need to be screened every year for 10 years to prevent one death from breast cancer. Half of these women would experience false positives, and one-quarter would undergo unnecessary biopsies.Mammography is not generally considered as an effective screening technique for women at average or low risk of developing cancer who are less than 50 years old. For normal-risk women 40 to 49 years of age, the risks of mammography outweigh the benefits, and the US Preventive Services Task Force says that the evidence in favor of routine screening of women under the age of 50 is "weak". As of 2009 the United States Preventive Services Task Force recommends that women over the age of 50 receive mammography once every two years.In March 2022, the European Commission's Scientific Advice Mechanism recommended extending screening to women in their mid-40s.The Cochrane Collaboration (2013) states that the best quality evidence neither demonstrates a reduction in either cancer specific, nor a reduction in all-cause mortality from screening mammography. Mammography is the method most commonly used for breast cancer screening for women who are 50 years and older. The authors of systematic review write: "If we assume that screening reduces breast cancer mortality by 15% and that overdiagnosis and overtreatment is at 30%, it means that for every 2000 women invited for screening throughout 10 years, one will avoid dying of breast cancer whereas 10 healthy women will be treated unnecessarily." 
Should wisdom teeth that have not or not completely grown out of the jaw and gums be removed as a precaution? Even if the "impacted" teeth are not causing any symptoms at the moment and no pathological changes are to be expected immediately? [SEP] Impacted wisdom teeth are still sometimes removed for orthodontic treatment, believing that they move the other teeth and cause crowding, though this is not held anymore as true.Impacted wisdom teeth may suffer from tooth decay if oral hygiene becomes more difficult. Removal of impacted wisdom teeth
Removal of asymptomatic impacted wisdom teeth with the absence of disease and no evidence of local infection as a prophylactic method has been disputed within the dental community for a long time. Removal of impacted wisdom teeth is advised in the case of certain pathologies, such as nonrestorable caries or cysts.Impacted wisdom teeth are classified by their direction of impaction, their depth compared to the biting surface of adjacent teeth and the amount of the tooth's crown that extends through gum tissue or bone. : 141 

For partially impacted teeth in those over 20 year of age, the most common pathology seen, and the most common reason for wisdom teeth removal, is pericoronitis or infection of the gum tissue over the impacted tooth. Treatment
Wisdom teeth that are fully erupted and in normal function need no special attention and should be treated just like any other tooth. Treatment controversy
Many impacted wisdom teeth are extracted prior to the age of 25, when full eruption can be reasonably expected and before symptoms or disease have begun. The Cochrane review of surgical removal versus retention of asymptomatic disease-free impacted wisdom teeth suggests that the presence of asymptomatic impacted wisdom teeth may be associated with increased risk of periodontal disease affecting adjacent 2nd molar (measured by distal probing depth > 4 mm on that tooth) in the long term. Further, several studies have found that between 30% – 60% of people with previously asymptomatic impacted wisdom teeth will have them extracted due to symptoms or disease, 4–12 years after initial examination.Extraction of the wisdom teeth removes the disease on the wisdom tooth itself and also appears to improve the periodontal status of the second molar, although this benefit diminishes beyond the age of 25. 
Do turmeric preparations alleviate the symptoms of knee osteoarthritis ("joint wear") better than a placebo? [SEP] Traditional uses
In 2019, the European Medicines Agency concluded that turmeric herbal teas, or other forms taken by mouth, on the basis of their long-standing traditional use, could be used to relieve mild digestive problems, such as feelings of fullness and flatulence.Turmeric grows wild in the forests of South and Southeast Asia, where it is collected for use in classical Indian medicine (Siddha or Ayurveda). Medical research
Turmeric and curcumin have been studied in numerous clinical trials for various human diseases and conditions, with no high-quality evidence of any anti-disease effect or health benefit. There is weak evidence that turmeric extracts may be beneficial for relieving symptoms of knee osteoarthritis, as well as for reducing pain and muscle damage following physical exercise. There is good evidence that turmeric is an allergen. Hyaluronic acid
Injections of hyaluronic acid have not produced improvement compared to placebo for knee arthritis, but did increase risk of further pain. A 2014 Cochrane review found that while ASU might help relieve pain in the short term for some people with osteoarthritis, it does not appear to improve or maintain the health of affected joints. Waiting list–controlled trials for peripheral joint osteoarthritis do show clinically relevant benefits, but these may be due to placebo effects. There is no evidence of benefit from placing hot packs on joints.There is low quality evidence that therapeutic ultrasound may be beneficial for people with osteoarthritis of the knee; however, further research is needed to confirm and determine the degree and significance of this potential benefit.Therapeutic ultrasound may relieve pain compared to conventional non-drug ultrasound however phonopheresis does not produce additional benefits to functional improvement. 
Do turmeric preparations relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis ("rheumatism") better than a placebo or painkiller??? [SEP] Turmeric () is a flowering plant, Curcuma longa (), of the ginger family, Zingiberaceae, the rhizomes of which are used in cooking. The rhizomes are used fresh or boiled in water and dried, after which they are ground into a deep orange-yellow powder commonly used as a coloring and flavoring agent in many Asian cuisines, especially for curries, as well as for the dyeing characteristics imparted by the principal turmeric constituent, curcumin.Turmeric powder has a warm, bitter, black pepper-like flavor and earthy, mustard-like aroma.Curcumin, a bright yellow chemical produced by the turmeric plant, is approved as a food additive by the World Health Organization, European Parliament, and United States Food and Drug Administration.Although long used in Ayurvedic medicine, where it is also known as haridra, there is no high-quality clinical evidence that consuming turmeric or curcumin is effective for treating any disease. Turmeric is used widely as a spice in South Asian and Middle Eastern cooking. Traditional uses
In 2019, the European Medicines Agency concluded that turmeric herbal teas, or other forms taken by mouth, on the basis of their long-standing traditional use, could be used to relieve mild digestive problems, such as feelings of fullness and flatulence.Turmeric grows wild in the forests of South and Southeast Asia, where it is collected for use in classical Indian medicine (Siddha or Ayurveda). Medical research
Turmeric and curcumin have been studied in numerous clinical trials for various human diseases and conditions, with no high-quality evidence of any anti-disease effect or health benefit. There is weak evidence that turmeric extracts may be beneficial for relieving symptoms of knee osteoarthritis, as well as for reducing pain and muscle damage following physical exercise. There is good evidence that turmeric is an allergen. Preparation
The cultivation and harvest practices are similar to that of common turmeric. 
Does the intake of omega-3 fatty acids improve the clinical picture in multiple sclerosis (MS) or does this inhibit progression of the disease? [SEP] However, there is good evidence that omega-3 incorporation into the diet is of benefit in treating depression, a common symptom, and potentially modifiable risk factor for dementia. However, omega−3 fatty acid supplementation greater than one gram daily for at least a year may be protective against cardiac death, sudden death, and myocardial infarction in people who have a history of cardiovascular disease. Omega−3 fatty acids reduce blood triglyceride levels, but do not significantly change the level of LDL cholesterol or HDL cholesterol. In this population omega−3 fatty acid supplementation decreases the risk of heart disease by about 25%.A 2019 review found that omega-3 fatty acid supplements make little or no difference to cardiovascular mortality and that patients with myocardial infarction yield no benefit in taking the supplements. Consumption of omega−3 fatty acids from marine sources lowers blood markers of inflammation such as C-reactive protein, interleukin 6, and TNF alpha.For rheumatoid arthritis, one systematic review found consistent but modest evidence for the effect of marine n−3 PUFAs on symptoms such as "joint swelling and pain, duration of morning stiffness, global assessments of pain and disease activity" as well as the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. The National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health has concluded that "supplements containing omega−3 fatty acids ... may help relieve rheumatoid arthritis symptoms" but warns that such supplements "may interact with drugs that affect blood clotting". Mental health
Omega-3 supplementation has not been shown to significantly affect symptoms of anxiety, major depressive disorder or schizophrenia. A 2020 review suggested that omega 3 supplementation has no effect on global cognitive function but has a mild benefit in improving memory in non-demented adults.A 2022 review found promising evidence for prevention of cognitive decline in people who regularly eat long-chain omega 3 rich foods. 
Does taking vitamin A or following certain diets improve or halt the progression of multiple sclerosis (MS)? [SEP] Vitamin A appears to modulate the innate immune response and maintains homeostasis of epithelial tissues and mucosa through its metabolite, retinoic acid (RA). Supplementation with β-carotene does not cause hypervitaminosis A. Sources
Vitamin A is found in many foods. In 2008, the World Health Organization estimated that vitamin A supplementation over a decade in 40 countries averted 1.25 million deaths due to vitamin A deficiency. A Cochrane review reported that vitamin A supplementation is associated with a clinically meaningful reduction in morbidity and mortality in children ages six month to five years of age. Vitamin A supplementation to children in regions where vitamin A deficiency is common has repeatedly been shown to reduce overall mortality rates, especially from measles and diarrhea. The question was raised as to whether malaria causes vitamin A deficiency, or vitamin A deficiency contributes to the severity of malaria, or both. Vitamin A acts as a regulator of cell and tissue growth and differentiation. 
Can Botox injections prevent migraine attacks? [SEP] Botulinum toxin injection
Botulinum neurotoxin (Botox) injections have been approved in the US and UK for prevention of chronic migraine, but do not appear to work for episodic migraine. Botulinum Toxin (Botox)
OnabotulinumtoxinA (trade name Botox) received FDA approval for treatment of chronic migraines (occurring more than 15 days per month) in 2010. Approval followed evidence presented to the agency from two studies funded by Allergan, Inc. showing an improvement in incidence of chronic migraines for migraine sufferers undergoing the Botox treatment. Since then, several randomized control trials have shown Botulinum Toxin Type A to improve headache symptoms and quality of life when used prophylactically for patients with chronic migraine

Medication
Preventive drugs are used to reduce the frequency, duration, and severity of migraine attacks. Migraine
In 2010, the FDA approved intramuscular botulinum toxin injections for prophylactic treatment of chronic migraine headache. Botulinum toxin for migraine is an effective treatment method for individuals who do not find any oral medication helpful anymore. Chronic migraine
Onabotulinumtoxin A (trade name Botox) received FDA approval for treatment of chronic migraines on 15 October 2010. Approval followed evidence presented to the agency from two studies funded by Allergan showing a very slight improvement in incidence of chronic migraines for those with migraines undergoing the Botox treatment.Since then, several randomized control trials have shown botulinum toxin type A to improve headache symptoms and quality of life when used prophylactically for patients with chronic migraine who exhibit headache characteristics consistent with: pressure perceived from outside source, shorter total duration of chronic migraines (<30 years), "detoxification" of patients with coexisting chronic daily headache due to medication overuse, and no current history of other preventive headache medications. 
Does taking probiotics facilitate weight loss to any significant degree? [SEP] Probiotics
Claimed benefits of using probiotic supplements are not supported by sufficient clinical evidence. Meta-analysis studies have reported a modest reduction of antibiotic-associated diarrhea and acute diarrhea in children taking probiotics. Probiotic supplements are generally regarded as safe. Microbiome modification
The use of oral probiotic supplements to modify the composition and behaviour of the gastrointestinal microbiome has been researched recently to understand whether it may help to improve remission rate in people with Crohn's disease. In addition to reducing weight and risk factors, lifestyle changes may prompt positive changes in the gut microbiota. It is also suggested that the noted dysfunction in gut microbiota might benefit from the use of probiotics. He developed the concept of probiotic diet that promotes long healthy life. The findings may be of relevance to microbiome interventions (such as probiotics) and for adjusting therapies to populations. 
Does the full moon have a negative effect on sleep duration? [SEP] The lunar effect is a purported correlation between specific stages of the roughly 29.5-day lunar cycle and behavior and physiological changes in living beings on Earth, including humans. Human behavior
Epilepsy
A study into epilepsy found a significant negative correlation between the mean number of epileptic seizures per day and the fraction of the Moon that is illuminated, but the effect resulted from the overall brightness of the night, rather than from the moon phase per se. Sleep quality
A 2013 study by Christian Cajochen and collaborators at the University of Basel suggested a correlation between the full Moon and human sleep quality. A 2015 study of 795 children found a three-minute increase in sleep duration near the full moon, but a 2016 study of 5,812 children found a five-minute decrease in sleep duration near the full moon. A study published in 2021 by researchers from the University of Washington, Yale University, and the National University of Quilmes showed a correlation between lunar cycles and sleep cycles. During the days preceding a full moon, people went to bed later and slept for shorter periods (in some cases with differences of up to 90 minutes), even in locations with full access to electric light. Finally, a Swedish study including one-night at-home sleep recordings from 492 women and 360 men found that men whose sleep was recorded during nights in the waxing period of the lunar cycle exhibited lower sleep efficiency and increased time awake after sleep onset compared to men whose sleep was measured during nights in the waning period. In folklore and tradition
Full moons are traditionally associated with insomnia (inability to sleep), insanity (hence the terms lunacy and lunatic) and various "magical phenomena" such as lycanthropy. 
Can lemon juice prevent or effectively treat gastrointestinal illness caused by norovirus? [SEP] In the US, more than 50% of cases are viral and noroviruses are the most common foodborne illness, causing 57% of outbreaks in 2004. Studies have shown the efficacy of antibiotics in reducing the duration of the symptoms of infectious enteritis of bacterial origin, however antibiotic treatments are usually not required due to the self-limiting duration of infectious enteritis. Cause
Viruses (particularly rotavirus (in children) and norovirus (in adults)) and the bacteria Escherichia coli and Campylobacter species are the primary causes of gastroenteritis. Viral
Rotaviruses, noroviruses, adenoviruses, and astroviruses are known to cause viral gastroenteritis. Norovirus is the cause in about 18% of all cases. Generally speaking, viral gastroenteritis accounts for 21–40% of the cases of infectious diarrhea in developed countries.Norovirus is the leading cause of gastroenteritis among adults in America accounting for about 90% of viral gastroenteritis outbreaks. Rehydration
The primary treatment of gastroenteritis in both children and adults is rehydration. Green potatoes contain glycoalkaloids and should be avoided.Fruit and vegetables, particularly leafy vegetables, have been implicated in nearly half the gastrointestinal infections caused by norovirus in the United States. 
For knee osteoarthritis, does rubbing DMSO into the knee bring less pain and more mobility than rubbing a placebo? [SEP] Hyaluronic acid
Injections of hyaluronic acid have not produced improvement compared to placebo for knee arthritis, but did increase risk of further pain. The European Society for Clinical and Economic Aspects of Osteoporosis and Osteoarthritis (ESCEO) recommends glucosamine sulfate and chondroitin sulfate for knee osteoarthritis. Waiting list–controlled trials for peripheral joint osteoarthritis do show clinically relevant benefits, but these may be due to placebo effects. It is safe treatment to relieve pain and improve physical function in patients with knee osteoarthritis.Continuous and pulsed ultrasound modes (especially 1 MHz, 2.5 W/cm2, 15min/ session, 3 session/ week, during 8 weeks protocol) can be effective in improving patients physical function and pain.There is weak evidence suggesting that electromagnetic field treatment may result in moderate pain relief; however, further research is necessary and it is not known if electromagnetic field treatment can improve quality of life or function.Viscosupplementation for osteoarthritis of the knee may have positive effects on pain and function at 5 to 13 weeks post-injection. Many studies have shown the outcomes from knee arthroscopic surgery for osteoarthritis and degenerative meniscal tears are no better than the outcomes from placebo (fake) surgery or other treatments (such as exercise therapy).During an average knee arthroscopy, a small fiberoptic camera (the arthroscope) is inserted into the joint through a small incision, about 4 mm (1/8 inch) width. In medicine, DMSO is predominantly used as a topical analgesic, a vehicle for topical application of pharmaceuticals, as an anti-inflammatory, and an antioxidant. Because DMSO increases the rate of absorption of some compounds through biological tissues, including skin, it is used in some transdermal drug delivery systems. Alternative medicine
DMSO is marketed as an alternative medicine. 
In case of osteoarthritis of the knee, does rubbing DMSO bring less pain and more mobility than the recognized painkiller diclofenac??? [SEP] Oral steroids are not recommended in the treatment of osteoarthritis.Use of the antibiotic doxycycline orally for treating osteoarthritis is not associated with clinical improvements in function or joint pain. A Cochrane review from 2016 concluded that reasonably reliable evidence is available only for use of topical diclofenac and ketoprofen in people aged over 40 years with painful knee arthritis. It is safe treatment to relieve pain and improve physical function in patients with knee osteoarthritis.Continuous and pulsed ultrasound modes (especially 1 MHz, 2.5 W/cm2, 15min/ session, 3 session/ week, during 8 weeks protocol) can be effective in improving patients physical function and pain.There is weak evidence suggesting that electromagnetic field treatment may result in moderate pain relief; however, further research is necessary and it is not known if electromagnetic field treatment can improve quality of life or function.Viscosupplementation for osteoarthritis of the knee may have positive effects on pain and function at 5 to 13 weeks post-injection. In medicine, DMSO is predominantly used as a topical analgesic, a vehicle for topical application of pharmaceuticals, as an anti-inflammatory, and an antioxidant. Because DMSO increases the rate of absorption of some compounds through biological tissues, including skin, it is used in some transdermal drug delivery systems. It is frequently compounded with antifungal medications, enabling them to penetrate not just skin but also toenails and fingernails.DMSO has been examined for the treatment of numerous conditions and ailments, but the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved its use only for the symptomatic relief of patients with interstitial cystitis. Alternative medicine
DMSO is marketed as an alternative medicine. DMSO is thought to increase the effects of blood thinners, steroids, heart medicines, sedatives, and other drugs. 
Does taking vitamin D improve symptoms in the most common form of psoriasis? [SEP] Combination therapy with vitamin D and a corticosteroid are superior to either treatment alone and vitamin D is superior to coal tar for chronic plaque psoriasis.For psoriasis of the scalp, a 2016 review found dual therapy (vitamin D analogues and topical corticosteroids) or corticosteroid monotherapy to be more effective and safer than topical vitamin D analogues alone. Vitamin D analogues may allow less steroids to be used.Another topical therapy used to treat psoriasis is a form of balneotherapy, which involves daily baths in the Dead Sea. UV phototherapy
Phototherapy in the form of sunlight has long been used for psoriasis. Diet
Uncontrolled studies have suggested that individuals with psoriasis or psoriatic arthritis may benefit from a diet supplemented with fish oil rich in eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). The effect of consumption of caffeine (including coffee, black tea, mate, and dark chocolate) remains to be determined.Many patients report improvements after consuming less tobacco, caffeine, sugar, nightshades (tomatoes, eggplant, peppers, paprika and white potatoes) and taking probiotics and oral Vitamin D.There is a higher rate of celiac disease among people with psoriasis. Preliminary research has suggested that antioxidants such as polyphenols may have beneficial effects on the inflammation characteristic of psoriasis.Many novel medications being researched during the 2010s target the Th17/IL-23 axis, particularly IL-23p19 inhibitors, as IL-23p19 is present in increased concentrations in psoriasis skin lesions while contributing less to protection against opportunistic infections. References
Further reading
External links

"Psoriatic arthritis". "Psoriasis". 
Does taking fish oil with omega-3 fatty acids improve the symptoms of various forms of psoriasis more than a placebo??? [SEP] Fish oils contain the omega-3 fatty acids eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), precursors of certain eicosanoids that are known to reduce inflammation in the body and improve hypertriglyceridemia. A 2018 meta-analysis of randomized trials with a total of 77,000 participants published in JAMA found a 3% reduction in the relative risk for those who supplemented fish oil; however, this effect was not statistically significant, but suggested a very minor benefit.In 2018, Cochrane conducted their own meta-analysis with a total of 79 studies and 112,000 participants and found a 5% reduction in the relative risk for cardiovascular mortality and a 7% reduction in the relative risk for coronary heart disease for those who supplemented with Omega-3s. Psoriasis
Diets supplemented with cod liver oil have shown beneficial
effects on psoriasis. This suggests that docosahexaenoic acid intake during early infancy confers long-term benefits on specific aspects of neurodevelopment.In addition, provision of fish oil during pregnancy may reduce an infant's sensitization to common food allergens and reduce the prevalence and severity of certain skin diseases in the first year of life. Heart experts advise that prescription fish oil helps in decreasing additional levels of blood fats. Prescription fish oil pills, capsules and tablets have more omega-3 fatty acids than those which are non-prescription. Metabolism of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids produces docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), which inhibits pro-inflammatory eicosanoids and cytokines (TNF-a, IL-1b and IL-6), decreasing both lymphocyte proliferation and reactive oxygen species. A review examined the effect of marine oil omega-3 fatty acids on pro-inflammatory eicosanoid concentrations; leukotriene4 (LTB4) was lowered in people with rheumatoid arthritis but not in those with non-autoimmune chronic diseases. 
Does following a Mediterranean diet decrease the likelihood of cardiovascular disease in people at high risk? [SEP] It eliminates citrus fruits, chocolate, dairy produce, flour products, alcohol, additives, spices, fizzy drinks, and red meat which are implicated in the aggravation of symptoms.The Mediterranean diet is a well‐balanced, nutritionally adequate diet that encompasses all the food groups. Eating polyunsaturated fat instead of saturated fats has been shown in studies to be associated with a decreased risk of myocardial infarction, while other studies find little evidence that reducing dietary saturated fat or increasing polyunsaturated fat intake affects heart attack risk. Primary prevention
Lifestyle
Physical activity can reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, and people at risk are advised to engage in 150 minutes of moderate or 75 minutes of vigorous-intensity aerobic exercise a week. Keeping a healthy weight, drinking alcohol within the recommended limits, and quitting smoking reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease.Substituting unsaturated fats such as olive oil and rapeseed oil instead of saturated fats may reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, although there is not universal agreement. The dietary pattern with the greatest support is the Mediterranean diet. Mediterranean dietThe Mediterranean diet involves eating fruits, vegetables, whole grains and beans while replacing butter with extra-virgin olive oil and limiting red meats, dairy, sweets, and processed foods. For example, the Mediterranean diet can lead to decreased triglyceride and lipid levels as well as improved blood pressure readings. Diet
Nutrition, specifically the Mediterranean-style diet, has the potential for decreasing the risk of having a stroke by more than half. 
Does the probability of dying from cardiovascular disease decrease in people who have already had a heart attack? [SEP] However, even smoking one cigarette a day raises the risk of coronary heart disease by about 50% or more, and for stroke by about 30%. A year after quitting, the risk of contracting heart disease is half that of a continuing smoker. According to a study by an international team of researchers, people under 40 are five times more likely to have a heart attack if they are smokers.Exposure to tobacco smoke is known to increase oxidative stress in the body by various mechanisms, including depletion of plasma antioxidants such as vitamin C.Research by American biologists has shown that cigarette smoke also influences the process of cell division in the cardiac muscle and changes the heart's shape.Smoking tobacco has also been linked to Buerger's disease (thromboangiitis obliterans), the acute inflammation and thrombosis (clotting) of arteries and veins of the hands and feet.Although cigarette smoking causes a greater increase in the risk of cancer than cigar smoking, cigar smokers still have an increased risk for many health problems, including cancer, when compared to non-smokers. As the arteriosclerosis progresses, blood flows less easily through rigid and narrowed blood vessels, making the blood more likely to form a thrombosis (clot). Smoking also increases blood pressure and weakens blood vessels. This is also a cause of heart diseases. It has been associated with increased risk of atrial fibrillation, heart failure, weakening of the heart muscle and potentially shorter life expectancy. This can be exacerbated following a sudden reduction in the blood supply to the heart (myocardial infarction), low levels of thyroid hormone (hypothyroidism), and a slow heart rate (bradycardia).Anorexia nervosa has been associated with sudden death, possibly due to QT prolongation. 
Does Grander water have health benefits compared to untreated drinking water? [SEP] These benefits include:
For cities and households: Increased water availability (drinking water substitution – keep drinking water for drinking and reclaimed water for non-drinking use (i.e. For the environment: Reduced nutrient loads to receiving waters (i.e. rivers, canals and other surface water resources); reduced over-abstraction of surface and groundwater; enhanced environmental protection by restoration of streams, wetlands and ponds; reduced energy consumption associated with production, treatment, and distribution of water (1.2 to 2.1 kWh/m3) compared to using deep groundwater resources, water importation or desalination
Reduced manufacturing costs of using high quality reclaimed water
In agriculture: Irrigation with treated wastewater may contribute to improve production yields, reduce the ecological footprint and promote socioeconomic benefits. that precedes drinking water treatment. A 2005 study found that there had been no incidences of illness or disease from either microbial pathogens or chemicals, and the risks of using reclaimed water for irrigation are not measurably different from irrigation using potable water.A 2012 study conducted by the National Research Council in the United States found that the risk of exposure to certain microbial and chemical contaminants from drinking reclaimed water does not appear to be any higher than the risk experienced in at least some current drinking water treatment systems, and may be orders of magnitude lower. Environmental aspects
Using reclaimed water for non-potable uses saves potable water for drinking, since less potable water will be used for non-potable uses.It sometimes contains higher levels of nutrients such as nitrogen, phosphorus and oxygen which may somewhat help fertilize garden and agricultural plants when used for irrigation.Fresh water makes up less than 3% of the world's water resources, and just 1% of that is readily available. Water risk avoidance
Different types of water sources may have different levels of contamination:
More contamination may be in water thatlikely could have passed through an area subject to heavy human or animal use
is cloudy, has surface foam, or has some other suspicious appearance.Less contamination may be in water fromsprings (provided the true source is not surface water a short distance above)
large streams (those entering from the side may have less contamination than those paralleling the trail)
fast-flowing streams
higher elevations
lakes with undisturbed sediments (10 days undisturbed water storage can result in 75–99% removal of coliform bacteria by settling to the bottom)
freshly melted snow
deep wells (provided they aren't subject to contamination from surface runoff)
regions where there was a heavy snow year when streams run full and long compared to dry years.Rain storms can either improve or worsen water quality. In contrast, improved sanitation can. 
Does astaxanthin protect against cardiovascular disease, cancer or prolong life? [SEP] The use of aspirin in people who are otherwise healthy is of unclear benefit.Cardiovascular diseases are the leading cause of death worldwide except Africa. These effects may, at least in part, explain its cardiovascular benefits. In those at risk, but without a history of cardiovascular disease (primary prevention), statins decrease the risk of death and combined fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular disease. A meta-analysis in 2009 including 27,049 participants and 2,370 major vascular events showed a 15% relative risk reduction in cardiovascular disease with more-intensive glucose lowering over an average follow-up period of 4.4 years, but an increased risk of major hypoglycemia.Aspirin has been found to be of only modest benefit in those at low risk of heart disease, as the risk of serious bleeding is almost equal to the protection against cardiovascular problems. Aspirin
In those with no previous history of heart disease, aspirin decreases the risk of a myocardial infarction but does not change the overall risk of death. It also is a key player of cell function in the cardiovascular system. Aspirin: Aspirin, or ASA, promotes platelet function inhibition which reduces the risk of plaque buildup in vessels. The Women's Health Study in 2005 also found that Aspirin reduced the risk of developing stroke, as well as myocardial infarction in some age groups, in the long term. 
Do products from the noni fruit promote health? [SEP] Relatively rare fruits originating from Oceania (noni), China (goji, seabuckthorn), Southeast Asia (mangosteen), or tropical South America (açaí) and unknown to American consumers were among the first wave of superfruits successfully used in product manufacturing from 2005 to 2010.The company Tahitian Noni began selling noni juice in 1996 and achieved billions of dollars in sales during their first 10 years. Nonfood uses
Because fruits have been such a major part of the human diet, various cultures have developed many different uses for fruits they do not depend on for food. Bioactive Foods in Promoting Health: Fruits and Vegetables. Noni juice – juice derived from the fruit of the Morinda citrifolia tree indigenous to Southeast Asia, Australasia, and the Caribbean. Noni juice has been promoted as a cure for cancer. However, The American Cancer Society say "there is no reliable clinical evidence that noni juice is effective in preventing or treating cancer or any other disease in humans". Noni (Morinda citrifolia), for example, is a dietary supplement typically consumed as a juice and also inhibits CYP3A4. The fruit is also edible, but is usually only eaten as famine food.There are several terms for noni that can be reconstructed. 
Can spending time at waterfalls on a regular basis provide lasting improvement in asthma symptoms? [SEP] Pollution control
Both indoor and outdoor air quality can be improved, which may prevent COPD or slow the worsening of existing disease. Many developed countries have successfully improved outdoor air quality through regulations which has resulted in improvements in the lung function of their populations. They reduce shortness of breath, tend to reduce dynamic hyperinflation and improve exercise tolerance. A combination of IMT and walking exercises at home may help limit breathlessness in cases of severe COPD. When combined with regular exercise or a pulmonary rehabilitation program, this can lead to improvements in COPD symptoms. The long-term effects of regular aerobic exercise in ADHD individuals include better behaviour and motor abilities, improved executive functions (including attention, inhibitory control, and planning, among other cognitive domains), faster information processing speed, and better memory. Parent-teacher ratings of behavioural and socio-emotional outcomes in response to regular aerobic exercise include: better overall function, reduced ADHD symptoms, better self-esteem, reduced levels of anxiety and depression, fewer somatic complaints, better academic and classroom behaviour, and improved social behaviour. Not only can morning bright light therapy help establish a better sleep-wake schedule, but it also has been shown to be effective for treating depression directly, especially when related to seasonal affective disorder.Individuals with breathing difficulties due to asthma or allergies may experience additional barriers to quality sleep that can be addressed by specific variations of sleep hygiene recommendations. 
Does goji help with serious diseases like cancer or prevent heart attacks? [SEP] Vitamins and mineral supplements are of no proven benefit, and neither are plant stanols or sterols.Public health measures may also act at a population level to reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, for example by reducing unhealthy diets (excessive salt, saturated fat, and trans fat) including food labeling and marketing requirements as well as requirements for catering and restaurants, and stimulating physical activity. It is known to decrease mortality associated with acute myocardial infarction by at least 50%. They do decrease the risk of having a further myocardial infarction. Heart Attack Prevention 2007. These effects may, at least in part, explain its cardiovascular benefits. Lower blood pressure, if elevated. Claimed benefits
Against the background of the overwhelmingly negative effects of smoking on health, some observational studies have suggested that smoking might have specific beneficial effects, including in the field of cardiovascular disease. Systematic review of reports that suggested smokers respond better to treatment for ischemic stroke provided no support for such claims.Claims of surprising benefits of smoking, based on observational data, have also been made for Parkinson's disease, as well as a variety of other conditions, including basal-cell carcinoma, malignant melanoma, acute mountain sickness, pemphigus, celiac disease, and ulcerative colitis, among others.Tobacco smoke has many bioactive substances, including nicotine, that are capable of exerting a variety of systemic effects. 
Are amla supplements effective and safe in lowering high cholesterol? [SEP] About 34 million adults in the United States have high blood cholesterol. Trans fats have been shown to reduce levels of high-density lipoprotein while increasing levels of LDL.A 2016 review found tentative evidence that dietary cholesterol is associated with higher blood cholesterol. Increasing consumption of whole grains also reduces LDL cholesterol, with whole grain oats being particularly effective. HDL particles are commonly referred to as "good cholesterol", because they transport fat molecules out of artery walls, reduce macrophage accumulation, and thus help prevent or even regress atherosclerosis. the cholesterol associated with ApoA-1/HDL particles. Increasing HDL levels
While higher HDL levels are correlated with lower risk of cardiovascular diseases, no medication used to increase HDL has been proven to improve health. Pharmaceutical drugs and niacin
Pharmacological therapy to increase the level of HDL cholesterol includes use of fibrates and niacin. Pharmacologic (1- to 3-gram/day) niacin doses increase HDL levels by 10–30%, making it the most powerful agent to increase HDL-cholesterol. 
Does inhaling hive air have health benefits for asthma, allergies or other conditions? [SEP] It is used to explain the increase in allergic diseases that have been seen since industrialization, and the higher incidence of allergic diseases in more developed countries. The use of antibacterial cleaning products has also been associated with higher incidence of asthma, as has birth by Caesarean section rather than vaginal birth. Allergen immunotherapy may be useful for some types of allergies. Immunotherapy involves exposing people to larger and larger amounts of allergen in an effort to change the immune system's response.Meta-analyses have found that injections of allergens under the skin is effective in the treatment in allergic rhinitis in children and in asthma. For seasonal allergies the benefit is small. Evidence has shown that exposure to food and fecal-oral pathogens, such as hepatitis A, Toxoplasma gondii, and Helicobacter pylori (which also tend to be more prevalent in developing countries), can reduce the overall risk of atopy by more than 60%, and an increased rate of parasitic infections has been associated with a decreased prevalence of asthma. They enable a great deal of hive management; inspection and harvest become both easier and less destructive of bees and beekeepers. This reduces the air flow and helps the bees to keep the hive warm. 
Can chlorinated water from baby swimming cause asthma or allergies later in childhood? [SEP] In 1897 the town of Maidstone, England was the first to have its entire water supply treated with chlorine.Permanent water chlorination began in 1905, when a faulty slow sand filter and a contaminated water supply caused a serious typhoid fever epidemic in Lincoln, England. Pools chlorinated by this method generally have lower levels of chlorine and, in the surrounding air, less gaseous chloramine than directly chlorinated pools and so may benefit the asthmatic. Chlorine can react with naturally occurring organic compounds found in the water supply to produce compounds known as disinfection by-products (DBPs). Chloramines are responsible for the "chlorine smell" of pools, as well as skin and eye irritation. Phthalates in certain types of PVC are associated with asthma in both children and adults. Maternal psychological stress during pregnancy is a risk factor for the child to develop asthma.Asthma is associated with exposure to indoor allergens. Exposure to bacterial endotoxin in early childhood may prevent the development of asthma, but exposure at an older age may provoke bronchoconstriction. Asthma in children also has negative effects on quality of life of their parents. 
Is a lot of sunlight in childhood and adolescence a cause of age-related macular degeneration? [SEP] Environmental factors
Environmental factors which increase the risk of nearsightedness include insufficient light exposure, low physical activity, near work, and increased year of education.One hypothesis is that a lack of normal visual stimuli causes improper development of the eyeball. Modern humans who spend most of their time indoors, in dimly or fluorescently lit buildings may be at risk of development of myopia.People, and children especially, who spend more time doing physical exercise and outdoor play have lower rates of myopia, suggesting the increased magnitude and complexity of the visual stimuli encountered during these types of activities decrease myopic progression. There is preliminary evidence that the protective effect of outdoor activities on the development of myopia is due, at least in part, to the effect of long hours of exposure to daylight on the production and the release of retinal dopamine.Myopia can be induced with minus spherical lenses, and overminus in prescription lenses can induce myopia progression. In addition to this, high myopia is linked to macular degeneration, cataracts, and significant visual impairment. A 2015 review suggested that increased outdoor time protects young children from myopia. Macular degeneration causes vision loss and increases with age, affecting nearly 12% of those above the age of 80. Macular degeneration is a common cause of vision loss in elderly people. Though ageing almost always causes this, other possible effects and risk factors include smoking, obesity, family history and excessive sunlight exposure. 
Does wearing sunglasses in childhood and adolescence protect against macular degeneration in old age??? [SEP] Modern humans who spend most of their time indoors, in dimly or fluorescently lit buildings may be at risk of development of myopia.People, and children especially, who spend more time doing physical exercise and outdoor play have lower rates of myopia, suggesting the increased magnitude and complexity of the visual stimuli encountered during these types of activities decrease myopic progression. There is preliminary evidence that the protective effect of outdoor activities on the development of myopia is due, at least in part, to the effect of long hours of exposure to daylight on the production and the release of retinal dopamine.Myopia can be induced with minus spherical lenses, and overminus in prescription lenses can induce myopia progression. A 2015 review suggested that increased outdoor time protects young children from myopia. In some studies, bifocal and progressive lenses have not shown differences in altering the progression of myopia compared to placebo.In 2019, contact lenses to prevent the worsening of nearsightedness in children were approved for use in the United States. By stopping the progression of the disease, vision may be maintained or improved. Treatment
The National Institutes of Health says there is no known way of preventing myopia, and the use of glasses or contact lenses does not affect its progression, unless the glasses or contact lenses are too strong of a prescription. Macular degeneration causes vision loss and increases with age, affecting nearly 12% of those above the age of 80. Macular degeneration is a common cause of vision loss in elderly people. 
Does water from jugs with semi-precious stones have a positive health effect? [SEP] Some people report that minerals in water affect taste, e.g. A gemstone (also called a fine gem, jewel, precious stone, semiprecious stone, or simply gem) is a piece of mineral crystal which, in cut and polished form, is used to make jewelry or other adornments. In modern use, the precious stones are emerald, ruby, sapphire and diamond, with all other gemstones being semi-precious. Use of the terms 'precious' and 'semi-precious' in a commercial context is, arguably, misleading in that it suggests certain stones are more valuable than others, when this is not reflected in the actual market value. Gemstones may also be classified in terms of their "water". Treatment
Gemstones are often treated to enhance the color or clarity of the stone. In some cases, the treatment applied to the gemstone can also increase its durability. However, particularly when done in a nuclear reactor, the processes can make gemstones radioactive. 
Is calcium from Japanese coral safe and effective in preventing disease? [SEP] come from colored proteins made by the coral animals. However many other organisms living in the reef community contribute skeletal calcium carbonate in the same manner as corals. External links

"Coral Reef Factsheet". Acidification affects the corals' ability to create calcareous skeletons, essential to their survival. They are trying to make "super corals" that can withstand some of the environmental factors that the corals are currently dying from. Certain formulations of sunscreen are a serious danger to coral health. Corals experience reduced calcification or enhanced dissolution when exposed to elevated CO2. Disease
Disease is a serious threat to many coral species. 
Does the observance of feng shui design rules help against bad sleep? [SEP] In particular, they use feng shui in the bedroom, where a number of techniques involving colors and arrangement are thought to promote comfort and peaceful sleep. An Introduction to Feng Shui. The Complete Idiot's Guide to Feng Shui. Feng Shui for the Curious and Serious. "Feng Shui". Feng Shui Facts and Myths. "Feng Shui: New Dimensions in Design". "Feng Shui". 
Does taking vitamin C prevent motion sickness? [SEP] Vitamin C does not prevent or treat the common cold, although it may have a protective effect during intense cold-weather exercise. These foods may actually have a protective effect. The beta carotene in carrots does not enhance night vision beyond normal levels for people receiving an adequate amount, only in those with a deficiency of vitamin A. vitamin A rich sweet potatoes). In particular, the addition of vitamin A leads to a better child survival rate. Vitamin C is necessary, for example, to prevent scurvy, which manifests as serious gum disease. Drinking drinks such as orange juice or cola throughout the day raises the risk of dental cavities.[Source?] Prevention
Vitamin C supplementation may be useful in prevention of the syndrome following fracture of the forearm, foot, or ankle. 
Do Lifewave patches improve health or athletic and mental performance? [SEP] Health is a resource for everyday life, not the objective of living; it is a positive concept, emphasizing social and personal resources, as well as physical capacities." "Focusing more on lifestyle issues and their relationships with functional health, data from the Alameda County Study suggested that people can improve their health via exercise, enough sleep, spending time in nature, maintaining a healthy body weight, limiting alcohol use, and avoiding smoking. It has been demonstrated that increased time spent in natural environments is associated with improved self-reported health, suggesting that the positive health benefits of natural space in urban neighborhoods should be taken into account in public policy and land use. It strengthens one's bones and muscles and improves the cardiovascular system. The CDC states that physical exercise can reduce the risks of heart disease, cancer, type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure, obesity, depression, and anxiety. The maintenance of strong social relationships, volunteering, and other social activities have been linked to positive mental health and also increased longevity. The film's title is an acronym for "Happiness, Energy, and Longevity through Health". (Their name stands for "Happiness, Energy and Longevity through Health"; it also serves as their slogan. 
Are there differences in hair removal effectiveness between IPL and diode laser? [SEP] Comparisons with other removal techniques
Intense pulsed light
A 2006 review article in the journal Lasers in Medical Science compared intense pulsed light (IPL), epilators and both alexandrite and diode lasers. Hair reduction after six months was reported as 68.75% for alexandrite lasers, 71.71% for diode lasers, and 66.96% for IPL. Some current IPL systems have proven to be more successful in the removal of hair and blood vessels than many lasers. The review found no statistical difference in effectiveness, but a higher incidence of side effects with diode laser-based treatment. Hair reduction after 6 months was reported as 68.75% for alexandrite lasers, 71.71% for diode lasers, and 66.96% for IPL. IPL is distinct from laser hair removal which uses coherent monochromatic laser light. IPL has been found to be much less effective than laser hair removal; however, many patients experience satisfaction with significant hair reduction.A 2006 article in the journal Lasers in Medical Science compared IPL and both alexandrite and diode lasers. Hair reduction after six months was reported as 68.75% for alexandrite lasers, 71.71% for diode lasers, and 66.96% for IPL. 
Does carbonic acid cause cancer? [SEP] Bile acids and colon cancer
Bile acids may have some importance in the development of colorectal cancer. In populations with a high incidence of colorectal cancer, fecal concentrations of bile acids are higher, and this association suggests that increased colonic exposure to bile acids could play a role in the development of cancer. Exposure of colonic cells to high DCA concentrations increase formation of reactive oxygen species, causing oxidative stress, and also increase DNA damage. The second supplementation review reported no significant increase or decrease in total cancer incidence, colorectal cancer, other gastrointestinal cancer, genitourinary cancer, lung cancer or hematological malignancies in people who were consuming folic acid supplements. The main occupational risks posed by this acid are skin contact leading to burns (see above) and the inhalation of aerosols. Repeated occupational exposure to sulfuric acid mists may increase the chance of lung cancer by up to 64 percent. Some studies have shown associations between higher intakes and/or blood levels of polyunsaturated fat omega-3s and a decreased risk of certain cancers, including breast and colorectal cancer, while other studies found no associations with cancer risk. Arachidonic acid is not carcinogenic, and studies show dietary level is not associated (positively or negatively) with risk of cancers. 
Does carbonic acid have any health effects on the digestive tract??? [SEP] As the first two chemicals may damage the stomach wall, mucus and bicarbonates are secreted by the stomach. The esophagus adds calcium carbonate to neutralize the acids formed by food matter decay. Gastric juice contains hydrochloric acid and pepsin which would damage the walls of the stomach and mucus and bicarbonates are secreted for protection. pH plays a crucial role in a normally functioning digestive tract. The stomach's high acidity inhibits the breakdown of carbohydrates within it. Butyric acid appears to be used as a fuel by the colonic mucosa as the preferred energy source for colonic cells. Lactic acid can corrode teeth, and the Lactobacillus count in saliva has been used as a "caries test" for many years. In turn, the inflammation damages parietal cells which release excessive hydrochloric acid into the stomach and produce less of the protective mucus. 
Does wearing compression stockings on a long-haul flight prevent thrombosis (blood clots) and the associated symptoms? [SEP] The risk of blood clots is increased by advanced age, cancer, prolonged bed rest and immobilization, smoking, stroke, long-haul travel over 4 hours, certain genetic conditions, estrogen-based medication, pregnancy, obesity, trauma or bone fracture, and after some types of surgery. Together, deep vein thrombosis and PE are known as venous thromboembolism (VTE).Efforts to prevent PE include beginning to move as soon as possible after surgery, lower leg exercises during periods of sitting, and the use of blood thinners after some types of surgery. People admitted to hospital may receive preventative medication, including unfractionated heparin, low molecular weight heparin (LMWH), or fondaparinux, and anti-thrombosis stockings to reduce the risk of a DVT in the leg that could dislodge and migrate to the lungs.Following the completion of anticoagulation in those with prior PE, long-term aspirin is useful to prevent recurrence. The risk of blood clots is increased by advanced age, cancer, prolonged bed rest and immobilization, smoking, stroke, long-haul travel over 4 hours, certain genetic conditions, estrogen-based medication, pregnancy, obesity, trauma or bone fracture, and after some types of surgery. People admitted to hospital may receive preventative medication, including unfractionated heparin, low molecular weight heparin (LMWH), or fondaparinux, and anti-thrombosis stockings to reduce the risk of a DVT in the leg that could dislodge and migrate to the lungs.Following the completion of anticoagulation in those with prior PE, long-term aspirin is useful to prevent recurrence. A thrombus is a healthy response to injury intended to stop and prevent further bleeding, but can be harmful in thrombosis, when a clot obstructs blood flow through healthy blood vessels in the circulatory system. Hemodynamic changes (stasis, turbulence): Blood stasis promotes greater contact between platelets/coagulative factors with vascular endothelium. Coagulation can physically trap invading microbes in blood clots. 
Can extracorporeal shock wave therapy relieve heel pain if the cause is tendonitis or a heel spur? [SEP] Extracorporeal shockwave therapy (ESWT)  is a non-invasive, out-patient alternative to surgery for those with many joint and tendon disorders. Two 2017 reviews had similar findings, with moderate level evidence at best.Extracorporeal shockwave therapy is used as a second line measure to treat tennis elbow,   shoulder rotator cuff pain, achilles tendinitis, plantar fasciitis, and greater trochanteric pain syndrome.ESWT is also used to promote bone healing and treat bone necrosis. If these measures are not effective, additional measures may include extracorporeal shockwave therapy or surgery.Between 4% and 7% of the general population has heel pain at any given time: about 80% of these are due to plantar fasciitis. Gastrocnemius recession is another non-surgical method that involves stretching of the gastrocnemius muscle along with the tendons in the back of the leg, which allows people to return to work, sports and weight-bearing activities faster, along with improving the ankles range of motion, power and reduction of pain.Reduction in pain and stress on the plantar fascia can be done by strengthening the muscles in the foot that support the arches through barefoot exercising, without footwear, compared to exercising in common footwear.If plantar fasciitis fails to respond to conservative treatment for at least three months, then extracorporeal shockwave therapy (ESWT) may be considered. The third line of treatment, if shockwave therapy is not effective after around 8 weeks, is using customised foot orthoses which can offer short-term relief from pain.Affected people use further different treatments for plantar fasciitis but many have little evidence to support their use and are not adequately studied.Other conservative approaches include rest, massage, heat, ice, and calf-strengthening exercises, weight reduction in the overweight or obese, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as aspirin or ibuprofen. If these measures are not effective, additional measures may include extracorporeal shockwave therapy or surgery.Between 4% and 7% of the general population has heel pain at any given time: about 80% of these are due to plantar fasciitis. Gastrocnemius recession is another non-surgical method that involves stretching of the gastrocnemius muscle along with the tendons in the back of the leg, which allows people to return to work, sports and weight-bearing activities faster, along with improving the ankles range of motion, power and reduction of pain.Reduction in pain and stress on the plantar fascia can be done by strengthening the muscles in the foot that support the arches through barefoot exercising, without footwear, compared to exercising in common footwear.If plantar fasciitis fails to respond to conservative treatment for at least three months, then extracorporeal shockwave therapy (ESWT) may be considered. The third line of treatment, if shockwave therapy is not effective after around 8 weeks, is using customised foot orthoses which can offer short-term relief from pain.Affected people use further different treatments for plantar fasciitis but many have little evidence to support their use and are not adequately studied.Other conservative approaches include rest, massage, heat, ice, and calf-strengthening exercises, weight reduction in the overweight or obese, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as aspirin or ibuprofen. 
Does an extract from the African black bean (active ingredient 5-hydroxytryptophan) help against lovesickness? [SEP] Hepatoprotective activity of Methanolic extract of blackgram. In small, controlled trials 5-HTP has also been reported to augment the antidepressant efficacy of the antidepressant clomipramine. A 2020 meta-analysis found oral 5-HTP supplementation had a large effect size on depression symptom severity. Tryptophan hydroxylase is a necessary precursor to 5-HTP.Other usage
At high doses, or in combination with carbidopa, 5-HTP has been used to treat obesity (by promoting weight loss).In clinical trials of various design, 5-HTP has also been reported to treat fibromyalgia, myoclonus, migraine, and cerebellar ataxia. According to the US National Library of Medicine, 5-HTP has not been associated with serotonin syndrome or any serious adverse events in humans. In humans 5-HTP has never been clinically associated with serotonin syndrome, although a case report suggests 5-HTP can precipitate mania when added to an MAOI.When combined with carbidopa (as a treatment for symptoms of Parkinson's disease), 5-HTP causes nausea and vomiting; however this can be alleviated via administration of granisetron. However, 5-HTP has not been associated with cardiac toxicity in humans.It has been suggested that 5-HTP may cause eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (EMS), a serious condition which results in extreme muscle tenderness, myalgia, and blood abnormalities. Dietary sources
Though 5-HTP is found in food only in insignificant quantities, it is a chemical involved intermediately in the metabolism of tryptophan, an amino acid found in all unfractionated foods, with lower total amino acid content correlating with increased tryptophan absorption.The seeds of the Griffonia simplicifolia, a climbing shrub native to West Africa and Central Africa, are used as an herbal supplement for their 5-HTP content. 
Does a mixture of hops and other natural remedies help with sleep problems? [SEP] Reintroduction to Western medicine
Manuscripts of Pseudo-Apuleius's 5th-century work from the 10th and 11th centuries refer to the use of wild poppy Papaver agreste or Papaver rhoeas (identified as P. silvaticum) instead of P. somniferum for inducing sleep and relieving pain.The use of Paracelsus' laudanum was introduced to Western medicine in 1527, when Philippus Aureolus Theophrastus Bombastus von Hohenheim, better known by the name Paracelsus, returned from his wanderings in Arabia [dubious] with a famous sword, within the pommel of which he kept "Stones of Immortality" compounded from opium thebaicum, citrus juice, and "quintessence of gold". In the 1660s, laudanum was recommended for pain, sleeplessness, and diarrhea by Thomas Sydenham, the renowned "father of English medicine" or "English Hippocrates", to whom is attributed the quote, "Among the remedies which it has pleased Almighty God to give to man to relieve his sufferings, none is so universal and so efficacious as opium." Compared to other chemicals available to 18th century regular physicians, opium was a benign alternative to arsenic, mercury, or emetics, and it was remarkably successful in alleviating a wide range of ailments. Opium was additionally prescribed for rheumatism and insomnia. Medical textbooks even recommended its use by people in good health, to "optimize the internal equilibrium of the human body".During the 18th century, opium was found to be a good remedy for nervous disorders. Due to its sedative and tranquilizing properties, it was used to quiet the minds of those with psychosis, help with people who were considered insane, and also to help treat patients with insomnia. This is a weaker solution than laudanum, an alcoholic tincture which was prevalently used as a pain medication and sleeping aid. Tincture of opium has been prescribed for, among other things, severe diarrhea. 
Do hops as a single active ingredient help with sleep problems??? [SEP] Other examples include social drinking, nootropic, or sleep aids. This category comprises substances that increase wakefulness and productivity, stimulate the mind, decrease the perception of hunger, and may cause euphoria, but usually do not cause hallucinatory effects. This category includes all of the calmative, sleep-inducing, anesthetizing substances, which sometimes induce perceptual changes, such as dream images, and often evoke feelings of euphoria.Examples: Ethanol (alcohol), opioids such as morphine, fentanyl, and codeine, cannabis, barbiturates, benzodiazepines.Hallucinogens, including psychedelics, dissociatives, and deliriants. Its primary actions of therapeutic value are analgesia and sedation. In the 1660s, laudanum was recommended for pain, sleeplessness, and diarrhea by Thomas Sydenham, the renowned "father of English medicine" or "English Hippocrates", to whom is attributed the quote, "Among the remedies which it has pleased Almighty God to give to man to relieve his sufferings, none is so universal and so efficacious as opium." Opium was additionally prescribed for rheumatism and insomnia. Due to its sedative and tranquilizing properties, it was used to quiet the minds of those with psychosis, help with people who were considered insane, and also to help treat patients with insomnia. This is a weaker solution than laudanum, an alcoholic tincture which was prevalently used as a pain medication and sleeping aid. 
Does taking a mushroom called reishi benefit cancer? [SEP] There is insufficient evidence to indicate that consuming lingzhi mushrooms or their extracts has any effect on human health or diseases.In nature, it grows at the base and stumps of deciduous trees, especially that of the maple. Taxonomy and ecology
Lingzhi, also known as reishi from its Japanese pronunciation, is the ancient "mushroom of immortality", revered for over 2,000 years (with some evidence suggesting use in Neolithic China 6,800 years ago). Other Japanese terms for reishi include kadodetake (門出茸; "departure mushroom"), hijiridake (聖茸; "sage mushroom"), and magoshakushi (孫杓子; "grandchild ladle"). Sterols isolated from the mushroom include ganoderol, ganoderenic acid, ganoderiol, ganodermanontriol, lucidadiol, and ganodermadiol.A 2015 Cochrane database review found insufficient evidence to justify the use of G. lucidum as a first-line cancer treatment. It is also a muscimol mushroom. A local variety of the mushroom was used as an intoxicant and entheogen by the indigenous peoples of Siberia. Mushrooms: Poisons and Panaceas—A Handbook for Naturalists, Mycologists and Physicians. The mushroom is low in fat and digestible carbohydrates, and high in protein, vitamins, minerals and dietary fibre. 
Can labor pain during childbirth be relieved by aromatherapy with lavender oil? [SEP] Warm showers or baths
MassageMany types of massage can be used during various stages of labor. Various types of massage may also help soothe and distract from the pain of labor. Other methods include hypnosis, biofeedback, sterile water injection, aromatherapy, and TENS, however there are limited studies that demonstrate the effectiveness of  in reducing pain during labor and delivery by using these methods. Water and childbirth
According to the American Office of Women's Health, laboring in a tub of warm water, also called hydrotherapy, helps women feel physically supported, and keeps them warm and relaxed. A number of systematic reviews have studied the clinical effectiveness of aromatherapy in respect to pain management in labor, the treatment of post-operative nausea and vomiting, managing challenging behaviors in people suffering from dementia and symptom relief in cancer. Aromatherapy may be useful to induce relaxation, but there is not sufficient evidence that essential oils can effectively treat any condition. Aromatherapy may be useful to induce relaxation, but there is not sufficient evidence that essential oils can effectively treat any condition. Lavender oil is used in massage therapy as a way of inducing relaxation through direct skin contact, although allergic reactions may occur. 
Can the duration of childbirth be reduced by aromatherapy with lavender oil? [SEP] Acupuncture and relaxation were found to decrease the number of caesarean sections required. A number of systematic reviews have studied the clinical effectiveness of aromatherapy in respect to pain management in labor, the treatment of post-operative nausea and vomiting, managing challenging behaviors in people suffering from dementia and symptom relief in cancer. A recent research, made by NIEHS scientists and published on Endocrine Society's Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism, concluded that persistent exposure to lavender products is associated with premature breast development in girls and "that chemicals in lavender oil and tea tree oil are potential endocrine disruptors with varying effects on receptors for two hormones — estrogen and androgen".Essential oils can be extremely toxic when ingested or absorbed internally. Aromatherapy may be useful to induce relaxation, but there is not sufficient evidence that essential oils can effectively treat any condition. Aromatherapy may be useful to induce relaxation, but there is not sufficient evidence that essential oils can effectively treat any condition. Two published sets of case reports suggest that lavender oil may be implicated in some cases of gynecomastia, an abnormal breast tissue growth in prepubescent boys. Certain essential oils are safe to use during pregnancy, but care must be taken when selecting quality and brand. Advanced Aromatherapy: The Science of Essential Oil Therapy. 
Does a patch with high-dose capsaicin relieve pain after shingles? [SEP] Research and pharmaceutical use
Capsaicin is used as an analgesic in topical ointments and dermal patches to relieve pain, typically in concentrations between 0.025% and 0.1%. One 2017 review of clinical studies having limited quality found that high-dose topical capsaicin (8%) compared with control (0.4% capsaicin) provided moderate to substantial pain relief from post-herpetic neuralgia, HIV-neuropathy, and diabetic neuropathy.Although capsaicin creams have been used to treat psoriasis for reduction of itching, a review of six clinical trials involving topical capsaicin for treatment of pruritus concluded there was insufficient evidence of effect. Medications applied to the skin such as capsaicin or topical anesthetics (e.g., lidocaine) are used for mild pain and can be used in combination with oral medications for moderate to severe pain. A meta-analysis of multiple small placebo-controlled randomized controlled trials found that for every two people treated with topical lidocaine, one person experienced at least a 50% reduction in their PHN-associated pain (number needed to treat (NNT)=2).Low-dose capsaicin may be useful for reducing PHN-associated pain but is limited by side effects (redness and a burning or stinging sensation with application) and the need to apply it four times daily. Approximately three people must be treated with low-dose capsaicin cream for one person to experience significant pain relief (number needed to treat =3.3). A single topical application of a high-dose capsaicin patch over the affected area after numbing the area with a topical anesthetic has also been found to relieve PHN-associated pain. For every eleven people treated with a high-dose capsaicin patch for up to 12 weeks, one person experienced a significant improvement in their pain. This is the same treatment used for shingles. 
Does a patch with high-dose capsaicin relieve pain in diabetes mellitus or infection with HIV? [SEP] Notably the capsaicin used for the relief of neuropathic pain is a substantially higher concentration than capsaicin creams available over the counter, there is no evidence that over the counter capsaicin cream can improve neuropathic pain and topical capsaicin can itself induce pain. Medications applied to the skin such as capsaicin or topical anesthetics (e.g., lidocaine) are used for mild pain and can be used in combination with oral medications for moderate to severe pain. A meta-analysis of multiple small placebo-controlled randomized controlled trials found that for every two people treated with topical lidocaine, one person experienced at least a 50% reduction in their PHN-associated pain (number needed to treat (NNT)=2).Low-dose capsaicin may be useful for reducing PHN-associated pain but is limited by side effects (redness and a burning or stinging sensation with application) and the need to apply it four times daily. A single topical application of a high-dose capsaicin patch over the affected area after numbing the area with a topical anesthetic has also been found to relieve PHN-associated pain. For every eleven people treated with a high-dose capsaicin patch for up to 12 weeks, one person experienced a significant improvement in their pain. Research and pharmaceutical use
Capsaicin is used as an analgesic in topical ointments and dermal patches to relieve pain, typically in concentrations between 0.025% and 0.1%. One 2017 review of clinical studies having limited quality found that high-dose topical capsaicin (8%) compared with control (0.4% capsaicin) provided moderate to substantial pain relief from post-herpetic neuralgia, HIV-neuropathy, and diabetic neuropathy.Although capsaicin creams have been used to treat psoriasis for reduction of itching, a review of six clinical trials involving topical capsaicin for treatment of pruritus concluded there was insufficient evidence of effect. Peptic ulcer
One 2006 review concluded that capsaicin may relieve symptoms of a peptic ulcer rather than being a cause of it. 
Does industrially highly processed food increase the risk of cancer? [SEP] However, heavily processed foods also have drawbacks. An unhealthy diet high in fat, added sugar and salt, such as one containing much highly processed food, can increase the risk for cancer, type 2 diabetes and heart disease, according to the World Health Organization. Meat
High total processed meat and red meat consumption are associated with increased breast cancer risk. A 2016 study found that sources of PAHs such as grilled and smoked meats (along with other sources such as cigarette smoking and indoor air pollution) were associated with 30–50% increase in breast cancer incidence. At very low levels the FDA has long considered BPA in food to be safe, but this has been challenged over the years as more information is discovered regarding the effects of the chemical.Rats exposed prenatally to environmentally relevant doses of BPA show an increased number of intraductal hyperplasias (precancerous lesions) in mammary glands that appear during adulthood, while high doses induce the development of carcinomas in breast tissue. Carcinogens, as mentioned, are agents in the environment capable of contributing to cancer growth. Carcinogens may increase the risk of cancer by altering cellular metabolism or damaging DNA directly in cells, which interferes with biological processes, and induces the uncontrolled, malignant division, ultimately leading to the formation of tumors. In prepared food
Chemicals used in processed and cured meat such as some brands of bacon, sausages and ham may produce carcinogens. 
Does propolis have a healing or soothing effect on inflammation in the mouth (in otherwise healthy people)? [SEP] Propolis or bee glue is a resinous mixture that honey bees produce by mixing saliva and beeswax with exudate gathered from tree buds, sap flows, or other botanical sources. Propolis functions may include:
Reinforcing the structural stability and reduce vibration
Providing improved thermal insulation to the hive and reduce water loss
Providing protection from pathogens, via antifungal and antibacterial properties
Make the hive more defensible against parasites and predators by narrowing the existing entrance (in wild colonies) to a single "choke point"
Mitigate putrefaction within the hive - bees usually carry waste out of and away from the hive, but if a small lizard or mouse, for example, finds its way into the hive and dies there, bees may be unable to carry it out through the hive entrance. Uses
Traditional medicine
Propolis has been used in traditional medicine, with insufficient evidence to rate its effectiveness in the treatment of any illnesses. A tincture of propolis may be used to seal the surface of newly made violin family bridges, and may be used in the maintenance of the bores of pan flute tubes. References
External links

"Propolis" . Propolis
While T. iridipennis gathers propolis to reinforce its nest, people have harvested it and discovered it to have a wide spectrum of pharmacological activities. Propolis exhibits notable antibacterial and antiviral properties. "Anticancer Activity of Indian Stingless Bee Propolis: An In Vitro Study". 
Do amalgam fillings affect the mental development of school children compared to plastic dental fillings? [SEP] In dentistry, amalgam is a liquid mercury and metal alloy mixture used to fill cavities caused by tooth decay. In the 1800s, amalgam became the dental restorative material of choice due to its low cost, ease of application, strength, and durability.In July 2018 the EU prohibited amalgam for dental treatment of children under 15 years and of pregnant or breastfeeding women. Though, there is insufficient evidence to support or refute any adverse effects amalgam may have on patients, new research is unlikely to change opinion on its safety and due to the decision for a global phase-down of amalgam (Minamata Convention on Mercury) general opinion on its safety is unlikely to change.These are some of the reasons why amalgam has remained a superior restorative material over resin-base composites. The New England Children's Amalgam Trial (NECAT), a randomized controlled trial, yielded results "consistent with previous reports suggesting that the longevity of amalgam is higher than that of resin-based compomer in primary teeth and composites in permanent teeth. Dental amalgam toxicity
Concerns have been raised about the potential for mercury poisoning with dental amalgam when used  in a dental filling. Amalgams also contribute to mercury toxicity in the environment. Oral lesions
Some individuals have a sensitivity to amalgam and may develop oral lesions in which case a change of filling type is recommended. References
External links

Position Paper on Amalgam Fillings, National Council Against Health Fraud
Composite Fillings - Tooth-Colored Fillings, American Dental Association
Amalgam Archives at Listserv.dfn.de (Forum) 
Does curcumin protect healthy people from mental impairment or even from developing dementia? [SEP] use of and/or more advanced and/or more accessible technologies for "nutrition assessment (eg, metabolomics and innovative methods of dietary intake assessment) and recently identified biomarkers of nutrition and neurobiological outcomes" for prevention of cognitive impairment as in screening
general underlying neurobiology such as mechanics and variations underlying types of creativity or attention and focus (attentional processing) – e.g. sustainably algae-derived), as well as correction of prevalent micronutrient deficiencies are investigated for potential minor but significant or additive impacts on cognition (e.g. From this perspective, "failing to encourage the pursuit of healthy behaviours" has "adverse effects on population cognitive health".Conventional methods include those that delay or mitigate brain aging (which is one major preoccupation of neuro-enhancement), including adequate sleep, optimized diet (see also above), and physical activity (which has many neuroeffects).However, they may also be considered as "co-strategies" in parallel to "neuroenhancement", rather than as techniques of cognitive enhancement. Environmental factors
Environmental protection measures can also protect or enhance cognitive abilities – for example studies have well-validated extensive harmful effects of ubiquitous air pollution (outdoor and e.g. Well-being and productivity
The ethical benefits of neuroenhancement include potentials to:

improve well-being
reduce unhealthy substance use
further educational aims
increase societal productivity in constructive sectors (which is also relevant to aforementioned well-being)
support socioeconomic shifts by "enabling more complex, productive, and inherently fulfilling forms of cooperation" (which may also be relevant to aforementioned well-being)
enable self-amelioration of widespread mild cognitive deficiencies in cognitively normal individuals
increase incentives for and the effort behind the development of medical therapies that can benefit people affected by various brain diseases, and in some cases other diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, and by brain aging. Enhancing cognitive functions has recently gained substantial increases in attention "because of the increasing percentage of older individuals worldwide and the predicted rise of age-associated cognitive decline in brain function". "Cognitive Enhancement: Methods, Ethics, Regulatory Challenges". Dementia
Although cohort and longitudinal studies have shown low-dose aspirin has a greater likelihood of reducing the incidence of dementia, numerous randomized controlled trials have not validated this. 
Does curcumin protect people with already diagnosed dementia from further decline in mental abilities??? [SEP] Curcumin is a bright yellow chemical produced by plants of the Curcuma longa species. Although curcumin has been used historically in Ayurvedic medicine, its potential for medicinal properties remains unproven as a therapy when used orally. Pharmacology
Curcumin, which shows positive results in most drug discovery assays, is regarded as a false lead that medicinal chemists include among "pan-assay interference compounds". Safety
As a component of turmeric, curcumin may interact with prescription drugs and dietary supplements. Medical research
Although curcumin has been assessed in numerous laboratory and clinical studies, it has no medical uses established by well-designed clinical research. According to a 2017 review of more than 120 studies, curcumin has not been successful in any clinical trial, leading the authors to conclude that "curcumin is an unstable, reactive, non-bioavailable compound and, therefore, a highly improbable lead". Medical research
Turmeric and curcumin have been studied in numerous clinical trials for various human diseases and conditions, with no high-quality evidence of any anti-disease effect or health benefit. There is no scientific evidence that curcumin reduces inflammation, as of 2020. 
Do preparations with humic acids help with diseases or complaints of the stomach and intestines? [SEP] In practice, this means some sources may apply a traditional acid-base analysis to compost, then state the results in term of "humic substances". The humic and fulvic acids are extracted as a colloidal sol from soil and other solid phase sources into a strongly basic aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide.Humic acids are precipitated from this solution by adjusting the pH to 1 with hydrochloric acid. Humic acids can form complexes with ions that are commonly found in the environment creating humic colloids.As a nutrition supplement, fulvic acid can be found in a liquid form as a component of mineral colloids. The formation of (chelate) complexes is an important aspect of the biological role of humic acids in regulating bioavailability of metal ions. Determination of humic acids in water samples
The presence of humic acid in water intended for potable or industrial use can have a significant impact on the treatability of that water and the success of chemical disinfection processes. The biochemical structure of humus enables it to moderate, i.e. Artificial humic acid and artificial fulvic acid synthesized from agricultural litter, can increase the content of dissolved organic matter and total organic carbon in soil. "What are Humic Substances?". 
Does an extract from grapefruit seeds work against fungal diseases such as athlete's foot or nail fungus? [SEP] The CHMP states that tea tree oil products should not be used on people under 12 years of age.Tea tree oil is not recommended for treating nail fungus because it is not effective. Athlete's foot, known medically as tinea pedis, is a common skin infection of the feet caused by a fungus. The same fungus may also affect the nails or the hands. If allowed to grow for too long, athlete's foot fungus may spread to infect the toenails, feeding on the keratin in them, a condition called onychomycosis.Because athlete's foot may itch, it may also elicit the scratch reflex, causing the host to scratch the infected area before they realize it. Dermatophytes known to cause athlete's foot will demonstrate multiple septate branching hyphae on microscopy.A Wood's lamp (black light), although useful in diagnosing fungal infections of the scalp (tinea capitis), is not usually helpful in diagnosing athlete's foot, since the common dermatophytes that cause this disease do not fluoresce under ultraviolet light. Topical antifungal medication consistently produces much higher rates of cure.Conventional treatment typically involves thoroughly washing the feet daily or twice daily, followed by the application of a topical medication. Topical treatments
There are many topical antifungal drugs useful in the treatment of athlete's foot including: miconazole nitrate, clotrimazole, tolnaftate (a synthetic thiocarbamate), terbinafine hydrochloride, butenafine hydrochloride and undecylenic acid. The use of orally ingested Griseofulvin was shown in the 1960's to be effective in acute cases of Athlete's foot. 
Does taking rosehip powder for rheumatoid arthritis improve symptoms? [SEP] A meta-analysis of human studies examining the potential for rose hip extracts to reduce arthritis pain concluded there was a small effect requiring further analysis of safety and efficacy in clinical trials. Use of rose hips is not considered an effective treatment for knee osteoarthritis. They have been found to improve symptoms, decrease joint damage, and improve overall functional abilities. Studies showing beneficial effects in RA on a wide variety of CAM modalities are often affected by publication bias and are generally not high quality evidence such as randomized controlled trials (RCTs).A 2005 Cochrane review states that low level laser therapy can be tried to improve pain and morning stiffness due to rheumatoid arthritis as there are few side-effects.There is limited evidence that Tai Chi might improve the range of motion of a joint in persons with rheumatoid arthritis. Dietary supplements
Fatty acids
There has been a growing interest in the role of long-chain omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids to reduce inflammation and alleviate the symptoms of RA. These studies showed evidence for significant clinical improvements on RA in inflammatory status and articular index. There is beneficial effect in using a Mediterranean diet and Dong diet for a reduction in the number of tender joints, stiffness, and pain.Vitamins
Adequate Vitamin concentrations may provide an important defence against the increased oxidant stress in patients with RA. Food containing high source of vitamin E to help treat Rheumatoid Arthritis include almonds, avocados, spinach, sunflower seeds and peanut butter. 
Does taking rosehip powder for osteoarthritis alleviate the symptoms??? [SEP] A meta-analysis of human studies examining the potential for rose hip extracts to reduce arthritis pain concluded there was a small effect requiring further analysis of safety and efficacy in clinical trials. Use of rose hips is not considered an effective treatment for knee osteoarthritis. Oral steroids are not recommended in the treatment of osteoarthritis.Use of the antibiotic doxycycline orally for treating osteoarthritis is not associated with clinical improvements in function or joint pain. Any small benefit related to the potential for doxycycline therapy to address the narrowing of the joint space is not clear, and any benefit is outweighed by the potential harm from side effects.A 2018 meta-analysis found that oral collagen supplementation for the treatment of osteoarthritis reduces stiffness but does not improve pain and functional limitation. Its use as a therapy for osteoarthritis is usually safe.A 2015 Cochrane review of clinical trials of chondroitin found that most were of low quality, but that there was some evidence of short-term improvement in pain and few side effects; it does not appear to improve or maintain the health of affected joints. A 2014 Cochrane review found that while ASU might help relieve pain in the short term for some people with osteoarthritis, it does not appear to improve or maintain the health of affected joints. There is no evidence for the use of colchicine for treating the pain of hand or knee arthritis.There is limited evidence to support the use of hyaluronan, methylsulfonylmethane, rose hip, capsaicin, or vitamin D.

Acupuncture and other interventions
While acupuncture leads to improvements in pain relief, this improvement is small and may be of questionable importance. It is safe treatment to relieve pain and improve physical function in patients with knee osteoarthritis.Continuous and pulsed ultrasound modes (especially 1 MHz, 2.5 W/cm2, 15min/ session, 3 session/ week, during 8 weeks protocol) can be effective in improving patients physical function and pain.There is weak evidence suggesting that electromagnetic field treatment may result in moderate pain relief; however, further research is necessary and it is not known if electromagnetic field treatment can improve quality of life or function.Viscosupplementation for osteoarthritis of the knee may have positive effects on pain and function at 5 to 13 weeks post-injection. 
Can the genetic blood test for Down syndrome (trisomy 21) predict whether the unborn child is affected - in pregnant women at increased risk? [SEP] More probes can be added to check for aneuploidies, particularly those that could give rise to a viable pregnancy (such as a trisomy 21). The use of probes for chromosomes X, Y, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, 21 and 22 has the potential of detecting 70% of the aneuploidies found in spontaneous abortions. As the symptoms of trisomy X are often not serious enough to prompt a karyotype test, many cases of trisomy X are diagnosed before birth via prenatal screening tests such as amniocentesis. Advanced maternal age is mildly associated with trisomy X. Around 10% of cases of trisomy X are diagnosed in the person's lifetime; many are ascertained coincidentally during prenatal testing via amniocentesis or chorionic villi sampling, which is routinely performed for advanced maternal age. This will affect the ability to continue the pregnancy, and if a woman has repeated miscarriages, she can be tested for it. If a viable intrauterine pregnancy is not found with ultrasound, blood tests (serial βHCG tests) can be performed to rule out ectopic pregnancy, which is a life-threatening situation.If hypotension, tachycardia, and anemia are discovered, exclusion of an ectopic pregnancy is important.A miscarriage may be confirmed by an obstetric ultrasound and by the examination of the passed tissue. When chromosomal abnormalities are found in more than one miscarriage, genetic testing of both parents may be done. 
Do preparations with rose root have an effect against stress and its consequences, e.g. exhaustion? [SEP] Physical fitness can be improved to give the diver better capacity to deal with physical challenges, and properly conducted stress exposure training can improve situational awareness and the ability to focus on relevant responses under stress. The practice of stress exposure training in controlled conditions, where the diver is task loaded with an increasing level of simulated problems and must deal with them, is thought to develop the diver's confidence in their ability to manage an emergency effectively, which may give them the ability to avoid panic and continue to respond usefully to the situation, giving a better chance of survival.Continued occasional practice of emergency procedures after initial training ensures that the skills are not lost due to lack of use. On 3 February, Sir Hugh Rose broke the 3-month siege of Saugor. Luckily, this once-daily supplement gives men the energy they need to handle their paramours' constant rehearsing, mastering of foreign accents, emotional swings over callbacks, etc. BeautyBath — When insurgent forces attacking Malacañang Palace gives her far too much stress, Phillippine present Corazon Aquino (Jan Hooks) relaxes and recharges in "[her] own private sanctuary of softness" thanks to this bath soap's "soothing caress." Homocil – a special drug that helps reduce the stress of parents whose male children express homosexual tendencies. But once she sees Katie feeling stressed out, Nancy recommends to Katie this non-prescription "stress relief" medication ("No need to consult a physician before use" according to an on-screen graphic). Rosé Zone — Analogous to NFL RedZone, this channel features only the trashiest moments from all of reality television, so you don't have to sit through the not-so-raunchy parts ("It's blood lust for women"). 
Is microwave therapy effective and safe for long-term reduction of excessive sweating (primary hyperhidrosis) in adults? [SEP] Microwave thermotherapy is a type of treatment in which body tissue is heated by microwave irradiation to damage and kill cancer cells or to make cancer cells more sensitive to the effects of radiation and certain anticancer drugs. See also
Transurethral microwave thermotherapy
Hyperthermia therapy

References
Microwave therapy entry in the public domain NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms This article incorporates public domain material from Dictionary of Cancer Terms. Most, if not all, of the therapeutic effects of microwave therapy are related to the conversion of energy into heat and its distribution throughout the body tissues. Microwaves cannot be used in high dosage on  edematous tissue, over wet dressings, or near metallic implants in the body because of the danger of local burns. Hyperthermia induced by microwave diathermy raises the temperature of deep tissues from 41 °C to 45 °C using electromagnetic power. Microwave diathermy treatment at 434 and 915 MHz can be effective in the short-term management of musculo-skeletal injuries. Microwave diathermy-induced hyperthermia produced short-term pain relief in established supraspinatus tendinopathy. Nevertheless, adequately designed prospective-controlled clinical studies need to be completed to confirm the therapeutic effectiveness of hyperthermia with large number of patients, longer-term follow-up and mixed populations.Microwave diathermy is used in the management of superficial tumours with conventional radiotherapy and chemotherapy. 
Does ointment with comfrey help against back pain and knee pain better than a placebo? [SEP] "Efficacy and safety of comfrey root extract ointment in the treatment of acute upper or lower back pain: results of a double-blind, randomised, placebo controlled, multicentre trial". NSAIDs have been proven more effective than placebo, and are usually more effective than paracetamol (acetaminophen). For severe back pain not relieved by NSAIDs or acetaminophen, opioids may be used. Opioids may not be better than NSAIDs or antidepressants for chronic back pain with regard to pain relief and gain of function. Benefits with NSAIDs is thought to be small, but is more effective than Acetaminophen (paracetamol), which may be no more effective than placebo at improving pain, quality of life, or function. Capsicum, in the form of either a gel or a plaster cast, has been found to reduce pain and increase function.Behavioral therapy may be useful for chronic pain. This was more effective for people with acute rather than chronic back pain. Pain
Placebos are believed to be capable of altering a person's perception of pain. 
Does ointment with comfrey help with ankle sprains and sore muscles??? [SEP] "Efficacy and safety of comfrey root extract ointment in the treatment of acute upper or lower back pain: results of a double-blind, randomised, placebo controlled, multicentre trial". The leaves were also thought to be edible as a vegetable, similar to spinach.A 2013 review of clinical studies assessing the possible effect of comfrey on osteoarthritis found the research quality was too low to allow conclusions about its efficacy and safety. These elements have been recommended by physicians for decades for the treatment of soft tissue damage, and sprained ankles, one of the most common soft tissue injuries. Ankle mobilization/manipulation
For acute ankle sprains, manual joint mobilization/manipulation of the ankle has been found to diminish pain and increase range of motion. "Treatment and prevention of acute and recurrent ankle sprain: an overview of systematic reviews with meta-analysis" (PDF). These elements have been recommended by physicians for decades for the treatment of soft tissue damage, and sprained ankles, one of the most common soft tissue injuries. Ankle mobilization/manipulation
For acute ankle sprains, manual joint mobilization/manipulation of the ankle has been found to diminish pain and increase range of motion. "Treatment and prevention of acute and recurrent ankle sprain: an overview of systematic reviews with meta-analysis" (PDF). 
Can chlorhexidine in the form of dental varnish prevent the formation of caries in adults? [SEP] Dental sealants have been shown to be more effective at preventing occlusal decay when compared to fluoride varnish applications.Calcium, as found in food such as milk and green vegetables, is often recommended to protect against dental caries. While some products containing chlorhexidine have been shown to limit the progression of existing tooth decay; there is currently no evidence suggesting that chlorhexidine gels and varnishes can prevent dental caries or reduce the population of Streptococcus mutans in the mouth.An oral health assessment carried out before a child reaches the age of one may help with management of caries. Chlorhexidine
Chlorhexidine gluconate is an antiseptic mouthrinse that should only be used in two-week time periods due to brown staining on the teeth and tongue. Other agents to prevent tooth decay include antibacterials such as chlorhexidine and sugar substitutes such as xylitol. : 216–217  There is some evidence that chlorhexidine mouthwash used prior to extractions prevents alveolar osteitis. Therefore, fluoride mouthwashes, toothpastes, gels and varnishes can help to reduce the prevalence of caries. However, findings from investigations into the effect of fluoride-containing varnish, on the level of Streptococcus mutans in the oral environment in children suggest that the reduction of caries cannot be explained by a reduction in the level of Streptococcus mutans in saliva or dental plaque. Fluoride varnish treatment with or without prior dental hygiene has no significant effect on the plaque and salivary levels of S. mutans.S. 
Can chlorhexidine in the form of mouth rinses and gels for home use in children and adults, and as a dental varnish in children, prevent the formation of caries? [SEP] While some products containing chlorhexidine have been shown to limit the progression of existing tooth decay; there is currently no evidence suggesting that chlorhexidine gels and varnishes can prevent dental caries or reduce the population of Streptococcus mutans in the mouth.An oral health assessment carried out before a child reaches the age of one may help with management of caries. This decreases the biofilm pathogenesis, and therefore its caries promoting potential. This offers the potential for an anti-fungal to be used in the prevention of dental caries. Therefore, fluoride mouthwashes, toothpastes, gels and varnishes can help to reduce the prevalence of caries. However, findings from investigations into the effect of fluoride-containing varnish, on the level of Streptococcus mutans in the oral environment in children suggest that the reduction of caries cannot be explained by a reduction in the level of Streptococcus mutans in saliva or dental plaque. Extrinsic tooth staining occurs when chlorhexidine rinse has been used for 4 weeks or longer.Mouthwashes containing chlorhexidine which stain teeth less than the classic solution have been developed, many of which contain chelated zinc.Chlorhexidine is a cation which interacts with anionic components of toothpaste, such as sodium lauryl sulfate and sodium monofluorophosphate, and forms salts of low solubility and reduced antibacterial activity. Hence, to enhance the antiplaque effect of chlorhexidine, "it seems best that the interval between toothbrushing and rinsing with CHX [chlorhexidine] be more than 30 minutes, cautiously close to 2 hours after brushing". For this reason, chlorhexidine mouth rinses should be used at least 30 minutes after other dental products. 
Does a legal smoking ban reduce the likelihood of cardiovascular disease in nonsmokers? [SEP] Cigarette companies have capitalized on this philosophical objection and exploited the doubts of clinicians, who consider only individual cases, on the causal link in the stochastic expression of the toxicity as actual disease.There have been multiple court cases against tobacco companies for having researched the health effects of smoking, but having then suppressed the findings or formatted them to imply lessened or no hazard.After a ban on smoking in all enclosed public places was introduced in Scotland in March 2006, there was a 17 percent reduction in hospital admissions for acute coronary syndrome. Smoking also increases blood pressure and weakens blood vessels. Claimed benefits
Against the background of the overwhelmingly negative effects of smoking on health, some observational studies have suggested that smoking might have specific beneficial effects, including in the field of cardiovascular disease. Cigarette smoke increases proinflammatory cytokines in the bloodstream, causing atherosclerosis. Non-smokers who are exposed to second-hand smoke at home or work are thought, due to a wide variety of statistical studies, to increase their heart disease risk by 25–30% and their lung cancer risk by 20–30%. According to the International Agency for Research on Cancer, "Some health scientists have suggested that smokeless tobacco should be used in smoking cessation programmes and have made implicit or explicit claims that its use would partly reduce the exposure of smokers to carcinogens and the risk for cancer. Cigar smoking also increases the risk of lung and heart diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Smokeless tobacco has been linked with oral cancer, hypertension, and heart disease. 
Do pregnant women who take vitamin D have a lower risk of preterm birth? [SEP] There is also some evidence that folic acid supplement preconceptionally (before becoming pregnant) may reduce premature birth. Supplemental intake of C and E vitamins have not been found to reduce preterm birth rates.While periodontal infection has been linked with preterm birth, randomized trials have not shown that periodontal care during pregnancy reduces preterm birth rates. Trials using low-dose aspirin, fish oil, vitamin C and E, and calcium to reduce preeclampsia demonstrated some reduction in preterm birth only when low-dose aspirin was used. Use of nutritional supplements such as omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids is based on the observation that populations who have a high intake of such agents are at low risk for preterm birth, presumably as these agents inhibit production of proinflammatory cytokines. Consequently, an altered gene expression can possibly mediate impaired foetal growth and the programming of non-communicable diseases.Vitamin B12 and folate status during pregnancy is associated with the increasing risk of low birth weight, preterm birth, insulin resistance and obesity in the offspring. Pregnancy
Antioxidant vitamins as dietary supplements have been proposed as having benefits if consumed during pregnancy. Further, there is no evidence that changing salt intake has an effect.Supplementation with antioxidants such as vitamin C, D and E has no effect on pre-eclampsia incidence; therefore, supplementation with vitamins C, E, and D is not recommended for reducing the risk of pre-eclampsia.Calcium supplementation of at least 1 gram per day is recommended during pregnancy as it prevents pre-eclampsia where dietary calcium intake is low, especially for those at high risk. Prenatal supplementation with folic acid did not appear to reduce the risk of preterm births. 
Do pregnant women who take vitamin D in combination with calcium have a lower risk of preterm birth? [SEP] calcium supplementation in areas where dietary calcium intake is low has been shown to reduce the risk of pre-eclampsia
Environmental factors, e.g. Further, there is no evidence that changing salt intake has an effect.Supplementation with antioxidants such as vitamin C, D and E has no effect on pre-eclampsia incidence; therefore, supplementation with vitamins C, E, and D is not recommended for reducing the risk of pre-eclampsia.Calcium supplementation of at least 1 gram per day is recommended during pregnancy as it prevents pre-eclampsia where dietary calcium intake is low, especially for those at high risk. Several studies have shown lower risk of preterm delivery and low birth weight in mothers with higher intakes. For women with low calcium diets, there is low quality evidence to suggest that calcium supplementation during pregnancy may reduce the risk of preeclampsia. Low-quality evidence also suggests that calcium supplementation may reduce the risk of the mother having the baby before 37th week of pregnancy (preterm birth). Vitamins C and E
The combination of vitamin E and vitamin C supplemented to pregnant women does not appear to be efficacious for reducing risk of stillbirth, neonatal death, preterm birth, preeclampsia or any other maternal or infant outcomes, either in healthy women or those considered at risk for pregnancy complications. Antioxidant vitamins as dietary supplements had been proposed as having benefits if consumed during pregnancy. The UK National Health Service recommends that a physician or registered dietitian should be consulted about taking supplements during pregnancy.A 2022 French expert consensus paper recommended a minimum of 800 IU and a maximum of 1600 IU of vitamin D per day for vegan children aged 2-18 years. 
Does aromatherapy have a calming effect on agitation and aggression typical of dementia? [SEP] More than half of people with dementia may experience psychological or behavioral symptoms including agitation, sleep problems, aggression, and/or psychosis. Because people with dementia can be aggressive, resistant to their treatment, and otherwise disruptive, sometimes antipsychotic drugs are considered as a therapy in response. Aromatherapy is based on the usage of aromatic materials including essential oils and other aroma compounds, with claims for improving psychological and physical well-being. However, for cancer patients, aromatherapy tests showed mixed results in lowering anxiety and depression symptoms. A number of systematic reviews have studied the clinical effectiveness of aromatherapy in respect to pain management in labor, the treatment of post-operative nausea and vomiting, managing challenging behaviors in people suffering from dementia and symptom relief in cancer. Aromatherapy may be useful to induce relaxation, but there is not sufficient evidence that essential oils can effectively treat any condition. Aromatherapy may be useful to induce relaxation, but there is not sufficient evidence that essential oils can effectively treat any condition. Advanced Aromatherapy: The Science of Essential Oil Therapy. 
Does aromatherapy have other positive effects for dementia patients??? [SEP] However, there is good evidence that omega-3 incorporation into the diet is of benefit in treating depression, a common symptom, and potentially modifiable risk factor for dementia. Some evidence suggests that education and support for the person with dementia, as well as caregivers and family members, improves outcomes. Exercise programs are beneficial with respect to activities of daily living, and potentially improve dementia.The effect of therapies can be evaluated for example by assessing agitation using the Cohen-Mansfield Agitation Inventory (CMAI); by assessing mood and engagement with the Menorah Park Engagement Scale (MPES); and the Observed Emotion Rating Scale (OERS) or by assessing indicators for depression using the Cornell Scale for Depression in Dementia (CSDD) or a simplified version thereof.Often overlooked in treating and managing dementia is the role of the caregiver and what is known about how they can support multiple interventions. Psychological and psychosocial therapies
Psychological therapies for dementia include some limited evidence for reminiscence therapy (namely, some positive effects in the areas of quality of life, cognition, communication and mood – the first three particularly in care home settings), some benefit for cognitive reframing for caretakers, unclear evidence for validation therapy and tentative evidence for mental exercises, such as cognitive stimulation programs for people with mild to moderate dementia. Many studies of its use in mild to moderate dementia have shown it to significantly improve cognitive function, activities of daily living, neuropsychiatric symptoms, and quality of life. Better memory and more positive emotional states have also been observed in peoples experiencing Alzheimer's disease. With psychosocial therapies such as massage, aromatherapy, multi-sensory stimulation, music therapy, and reality orientation, treatment of dementia and dementia related diseases has become possible in a less traditional yet non-pharmacological form. Fish oil has not been shown to cure dementia, though there is evidence to support the effectiveness of lemon oil as a way to reduce agitation in patients with dementia. 
Does tomato extract reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] Research
There is no conclusive evidence to indicate that the lycopene in tomatoes or in supplements affects the onset of cardiovascular diseases or cancer.In the United States, supposed health benefits of consuming tomatoes, tomato products or lycopene to affect cancer cannot be mentioned on packaged food products without a qualified health claim statement. Research and potential health effects
A 2020 review of randomized controlled trials found conflicting evidence for lycopene having an effect on cardiovascular risk factors, whereas a 2017 review concluded that tomato products and lycopene supplementation reduced blood lipids and blood pressure.A 2015 review found that dietary lycopene was associated with reduced risk of prostate cancer, whereas a 2021 meta-analysis found that dietary lycopene did not affect prostate cancer risk. Although lycopene from tomatoes has been tested in humans for cardiovascular diseases and prostate cancer, no effect on any disease was found. A 2015 meta-analysis showed no antitumor effect nor improvement in quality-of-life measures from high-dose vitamin C. This review included trials of oral and intravenous vitamin C.

Cardiovascular disease
In 2017, an independent study evaluating 15,445 participants found no evidence to show vitamin C decreases the risk cardiovascular disease. These results supported one 2013 review which found no evidence that antioxidant vitamin supplementation reduces the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, cardiovascular mortality, or all-cause mortality (it did not provide subset analysis for trials that just used vitamin C).However, another 2013 review found an association between higher circulating vitamin C levels or dietary vitamin C and a lower risk of stroke.A 2014 review found a positive effect of vitamin C on endothelial dysfunction when taken at doses greater than 500 mg per day. Medical research
Cardiovascular
As of 2016, clinical research found that consuming garlic produces only a small reduction in blood pressure (4 mmHg), and there is no clear long-term effect on hypertension, cardiovascular morbidity or mortality. A 2016 meta-analysis indicated there was no effect of garlic consumption on blood levels of lipoprotein(a), a biomarker of atherosclerosis.Because garlic might reduce platelet aggregation, people taking anticoagulant medication are cautioned about consuming garlic. A 2014 meta-analysis found garlic supplements or allium vegetables to have no effect on colorectal cancers.A 2013 meta-analysis of case-control and cohort studies found limited evidence for an association between higher garlic consumption and reduced risk of prostate cancer, but the studies were suspected as having publication bias. 
Does quitting smoking prolong life? [SEP] This report found that such "dual-use" of e-cigarettes and tobacco "will have much smaller beneficial effects on overall survival compared with quitting smoking completely." Data regarding their use includes at least 26 randomized controlled trials and a number of user surveys, case reports, and cohort studies.At least once recent review (2019) found that vaping did not seem to greatly increase the odds of quitting smoking. A 2013 study in smokers who were not trying to quit, found that vaping, with or without nicotine decreased the number of cigarettes consumed. The Health Consequences of Smoking—50 Years of Progress: A Report of the Surgeon General. In another study, it was found that, after one year, the prevalence of angina in smoking men under 60 after an initial attack was 40% less in those having quit smoking compared to those that continued. Studies have found that there are short-term and long-term benefits to smoking cessation. Approximately 10% of cardiovascular disease is attributed to smoking; however, people who quit smoking by age 30 have almost as low a risk of death as never smokers. Stopping smoking reduces risk by about 35%. 
Does eating eggs increase the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] Some research suggests dietary cholesterol increases the ratio of total to HDL cholesterol and, therefore, adversely affects the body's cholesterol profile; whereas other studies show that moderate consumption of eggs, up to one a day, does not appear to increase heart disease risk in healthy individuals. Cardiovascular health
One systematic review and meta-analysis of egg consumption found that higher consumption of eggs (more than 1 egg/day) was associated with a significant reduction in risk of coronary artery disease. Another systematic review and meta-analysis of Dietary Cholesterol and Egg Consumption found that egg consumption was associated with an increased all-cause mortality and CVD mortality. In 2020, two meta-analyses found that moderate egg consumption (up to one egg a day) is not associated with an increased cardiovascular disease risk. A 2020 umbrella review concluded that increased egg consumption is not associated with cardiovascular disease risk in the general population. Another umbrella review found no association between egg consumption and cardiovascular disorders.A 2013 meta-analysis found no association between egg consumption and heart disease or stroke. A 2013 systematic review and meta-analysis found no association between egg consumption and cardiovascular disease or cardiovascular disease mortality, but did find egg consumption of more than once daily increased cardiovascular disease risk 1.69-fold in those with type 2 diabetes mellitus when compared to type 2 diabetics who ate less than one egg per week. Another 2013 meta-analysis found that eating four eggs per week increased the risk of cardiovascular disease by six percent.Eggs are one of the largest sources of phosphatidylcholine (lecithin) in the human diet. 
Does oseltamivir (brand name "Tamiflu") reduce the severity and duration of influenza in otherwise healthy adults? [SEP] Oseltamivir, sold under the brand name Tamiflu, is an antiviral medication used to treat and prevent influenza A and influenza B, viruses that cause the flu. A 2014 Cochrane Review concluded that oseltamivir does not reduce hospitalizations, and that there is no evidence of reduction in complications of influenza. However, another meta-analysis found that oseltamivir was effective for prevention of influenza at the individual and household levels.Common side effects include vomiting, diarrhea, headache, and trouble sleeping. A 2016 systematic review found that oseltamivir slightly reduced the time it takes for the symptoms of influenza to be alleviated, and that it also increased the risk of "nausea, vomiting, [and] psychiatric events in adults and vomiting in children." Any benefit of treatment must be balanced against side effects, which include psychiatric symptoms and increased rates of vomiting.The 2014 Cochrane Collaboration review concluded that oseltamivir did not affect the need for hospitalizations, and that there is no proof of reduction of complications of influenza (such as pneumonia) because of a lack of diagnostic definitions, or reduction of the spread of the virus. In 2003, a pooled analysis of ten randomised clinical trials concluded that oseltamivir reduced the risk of lower respiratory tract infections resulting in antibiotic use and hospital admissions in adults.Oseltamivir (as Tamiflu) was widely used during the H5N1 avian influenza epidemic in Southeast Asia in 2005. "FDA Drug Safety Communication: Important safety changes to the influenza drug Tamiflu (oseltamivir phosphate) for oral suspension". They reported that an analysis of 20 studies showed oseltamivir offered mild benefits for healthy adults if taken within 24 hours of onset of symptoms, but found no clear evidence it prevented lower respiratory tract infections or other complications of influenza. 
Is active surveillance ("active surveillance") of patients with low-risk prostate cancer associated with increased prostate cancer mortality risk in the long term? [SEP] Active surveillance is a management option for localized prostate cancer that can be offered to appropriate patients who would also be candidates for aggressive local therapies (surgery and radiotherapy), with the intent to intervene if the disease progresses. Active surveillance offers men with a prostate cancer that is thought to have a low risk of causing harm in the absence of treatment, a chance to delay or avoid aggressive treatment and its associated side effects.While prostate cancer is the most common non cutaneous cancer and second leading cause of cancer-related death in American men, it is conservatively estimated that approximately 100,000 men per year in the United States who would be eligible for conservative treatment through active surveillance, undergo unnecessary treatments. In the meantime, active surveillance for the treatment of low risk prostate cancer is now being offered to more and more patients where it is generally considered that prostate cancer will not cause the man harm during his lifetime if treatment is delayed or avoided. However, active surveillance should be considered for those with very low, low, and intermediate risk prostate cancer (see table above) depending on overall health state and life expectancy, as well as personal preferences. Localized disease
Men diagnosed with low-risk cases of prostate cancer often defer treatment and are instead monitored regularly for cancer progression by active surveillance. Active surveillance is often used when an early stage, slow-growing prostate cancer is suspected. The risk of disease progression and metastasis (spread of the cancer) may be increased, but this increase risk appears to be small if the program of surveillance is followed closely, generally including serial PSA assessments and repeat prostate biopsies every 1–2 years depending on the PSA trends.Study results in 2011 suggest active surveillance is the best choice for older 'low-risk' patients. Low-risk prostate cancer does not always require immediate treatment, but may be amenable to active surveillance. 
Does Active Surveillance reduce the likelihood of becoming impotent or incontinence, i.e. unintentional urine leakage ?? [SEP] Research projects that assess the efficacy of anti-incontinence therapies often quantify the extent of urinary incontinence. As of 2018, studies have not shown a change in outcomes with urinary incontinence screenings in women. Behavioral therapies, including bladder training, biofeedback, and pelvic floor muscle training, are most effective for improving urinary incontinence in women, with a low risk of adverse events. Behavioral therapy is not curative for urinary incontinence, but it can improve a person's quality of life. Stopping smoking is also recommended as it is associated with improvements in urinary incontinence in men and women. Physical therapy and exercise
Physical therapy can be effective for women in reducing urinary incontinence.Pelvic floor physical therapists work with patients to identify and treat underlying pelvic muscle dysfunction that can cease urinary incontinence. Efforts to increase the time between urination, known as bladder training, is recommended in those with urge incontinence. By using electronic devices or diaries to track when the bladder and urethral muscles contract, the patient can gain control over these muscles. 
Do extracts of prickly pear (Opuntia ficus-indica) help with hangover symptoms after alcohol consumption? [SEP] List of hangover foods
Scientific
Asparagus: In a small cell-based study, concentrated asparagus leaf extract showed marginal harmful by-product scavenging capabilities. Folk cures
The following foods and dishes have been described as having a theoretical potential for easing or alleviating symptoms associated with the hangover. Corpse Reviver
Fernet – an alcoholic beverage consumed as a drink choice to avoid the hangover
Jägerbomb
Underberg – a digestif bitter
VodkaWater rich foods:
Fruits
Banana
Kiwifruit
Prickly pear fruit
Drinks
Caffeinated drinks: No significant correlation between caffeine use and hangover severity has been found.Coffee
Espresso
Electrolyte replacement drinks
Pedialyte
Sports drinks
Juices
Fruit juice
Pickle juice
Tomato juice
Teas
Ginger tea
Green tea
Peppermint tea
Coconut water
Hangover drinks in South Korea – Mass-produced hangover drinks based on Traditional Korean medicine. Torta ahogada

Criticism
While recommendations and folk cures for foods and drinks to relieve hangover symptoms abound, hangover foods have not been scientifically proven to function as a remedy or cure for the hangover.In a review assessing eight randomised controlled trials of propranolol, tropisetron, tolfenamic acid, fructose/glucose, a yeast preparation and supplements containing Borago officinalis, Cynara scolymus and Opuntia ficus-indica, researchers concluded that "no compelling evidence exists to suggest that any conventional or complementary intervention is effective for preventing or treating alcohol hangover." Alcoholic writer Ernest Hemingway relied on tomato juice and beer.Other purported hangover cures includes more alcohol, for example cocktails such as Bloody Mary or Black Velvet (consisting of equal parts champagne and stout).A 1957 survey by an American folklorist found widespread belief in the efficacy of heavy fried foods, tomato juice and sexual activity. "12 Tasty Recipes Sure To Cure Any Hangover". Opuntia, commonly called the prickly pear cactus, is a genus of flowering plants in the cactus family Cactaceae, many known for their flavorful fruit and showy flowers. Mexicans may use Opuntia fruit to make an alcoholic drink called colonche.In Sicily, a prickly pear-flavored liqueur called ficodi is produced, flavored somewhat like a medicinal aperitif. 
Do statins help older people suffering from cardiovascular disease to live longer? Do they reduce the risk of heart attack and stroke? [SEP] In people over the age of 70, statins decrease the risk of cardiovascular disease but only in those with a history of heavy cholesterol blockage in their arteries.Most evidence suggests that statins are also effective in preventing heart disease in those with high cholesterol but no history of heart disease. Guidelines by the American College of Cardiology and the American Heart Association recommend statin treatment for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in adults with LDL cholesterol ≥ 190 mg/dL or those with diabetes, age 40–75 with LDL-C 70–190 mg/dl; or in those with a 10-year risk of developing heart attack or stroke of 7.5% or more. On average, statins can lower LDL cholesterol by 1.8 mmol/L (70 mg/dL), which translates into an estimated 60% decrease in the number of cardiac events (heart attack, sudden cardiac death) and a 17% reduced risk of stroke after long-term treatment. Mortality and adverse cardiovascular events were reduced in statin groups.Older adults who receive statin therapy at time of discharge from the hospital after an inpatient stay have been studied. Statins have been shown to decrease the risk of dementia, Alzheimer's disease, and improve cognitive impairment in some cases in 2010. However, the benefits of statin therapy in preventing fatal and non-fatal stroke, fatal coronary heart disease, and non-fatal myocardial infarction are significant. Statin treatment reduces cardiovascular mortality by about 31%. In those at risk, but without a history of cardiovascular disease (primary prevention), statins decrease the risk of death and combined fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular disease. 
Are statins useful in preventing cardiovascular disease in people 75 years and older??? [SEP] Primary prevention
For the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease, the United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) 2016 guidelines recommend statins for those who have at least one risk factor for coronary heart disease, are between 40 and 75 years old, and have at least a 10% 10-year risk of heart disease, as calculated by the 2013 ACC/AHA Pooled Cohort algorithm. In people over the age of 70, statins decrease the risk of cardiovascular disease but only in those with a history of heavy cholesterol blockage in their arteries.Most evidence suggests that statins are also effective in preventing heart disease in those with high cholesterol but no history of heart disease. Guidelines by the American College of Cardiology and the American Heart Association recommend statin treatment for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in adults with LDL cholesterol ≥ 190 mg/dL or those with diabetes, age 40–75 with LDL-C 70–190 mg/dl; or in those with a 10-year risk of developing heart attack or stroke of 7.5% or more. Secondary prevention
Statins are effective in decreasing mortality in people with pre-existing cardiovascular disease. Mortality and adverse cardiovascular events were reduced in statin groups.Older adults who receive statin therapy at time of discharge from the hospital after an inpatient stay have been studied. Statin treatment reduces cardiovascular mortality by about 31%. In those at risk, but without a history of cardiovascular disease (primary prevention), statins decrease the risk of death and combined fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular disease. Medication
Statins, drugs that act to lower blood cholesterol, decrease the incidence and mortality rates of myocardial infarctions. 
Is Traumeel gel or ointment effective for sports injuries such as sprains, bruises and strains? [SEP] Lysaght, Michael J. Knee Injuries and Therapies in Competitive Athletes. Medication is commonly used to treat injuries. Ice: Ice should be applied immediately to the sprain to reduce swelling and pain. Compression: Dressings, bandages, or wraps should be used to immobilize the sprain and provide support. These elements have been recommended by physicians for decades for the treatment of soft tissue damage, and sprained ankles, one of the most common soft tissue injuries. While nearly universally accepted as a treatment, there is insufficient evidence to determine its relative effectiveness as therapy for acute ankle sprains in adults, and the National Athletic Trainers Association notes that most of the rationale for using RICE or individual components is based largely on low-quality clinical trials and laboratory studies with uninjured participants or animal models

Conservative measures
Ice is often used to reduce swelling in cycles of 15–20 minutes on and 20–30 minutes off. "Managing ankle ligament sprains and tears: current opinion". for kids
Bruises in sports 
Are weather phenomena and weather changes triggers of migraine attacks? [SEP] It usually comes on gradually and is aggravated by physical activity during a migraine attack. Triggers
Migraine may be induced by triggers, with some reporting it as an influence in a minority of cases and others the majority. Most people with migraines report experiencing triggers. Migraine episodes are more likely to occur around menstruation. Dietary aspects
Between 12–60% of people report foods as triggers.There are many reports that tyramine – which is naturally present in chocolate, alcoholic beverages, most cheeses, processed meats, and other foods – can trigger migraine symptoms in some individuals. Environmental aspects
A 2009 review on potential triggers in the indoor and outdoor environment concluded that while there were insufficient studies to confirm environmental factors as causing migraine, "migraineurs worldwide consistently report similar environmental triggers". Childhood periodic syndromes that are commonly precursors of migraine include cyclical vomiting (occasional intense periods of vomiting), abdominal migraine (abdominal pain, usually accompanied by nausea), and benign paroxysmal vertigo of childhood (occasional attacks of vertigo). "Migraine". 
Does artichoke preparation help with gastrointestinal problems? [SEP] Egyptian healers used saffron as a treatment for all varieties of gastrointestinal ailments. Cauliflower, broccoli, cabbage, Brussels sprouts and other cruciferous vegetables that belong to the genus Brassica are commonly reputed to not only increase flatulence, but to increase the pungency of the flatus.In beans, endogenous gases seem to arise from complex oligosaccharides (carbohydrates) that are particularly resistant to digestion by mammals, but are readily digestible by microorganisms (methane-producing archaea; Methanobrevibacter smithii) that inhabit the digestive tract. Such preparations do not decrease the total amount of gas generated in or passed from the colon, but make the bubbles larger and thereby allowing them to be passed more easily.Other drugs including prokinetics, lubiprostone, antibiotics and probiotics are also used to treat bloating in patients with functional bowel disorders such as irritable bowel syndrome, and there is some evidence that these measures may reduce symptoms.A flexible tube, inserted into the rectum, can be used to collect intestinal gas in a flatus bag. Fermentative lactic acid bacteria such as Lactobacillus casei and Lactobacillus plantarum reduce flatulence in the human intestinal tract.Probiotics (live yogurt, kefir, etc.) are reputed to reduce flatulence when used to restore balance to the normal intestinal flora. Prebiotics, which generally are non-digestible oligosaccharides, such as fructooligosaccharide, generally increase flatulence in a similar way as described for lactose intolerance. Digestive enzyme supplements may significantly reduce the amount of flatulence caused by some components of foods not being digested by the body and thereby promoting the action of microbes in the small and large intestines. Activated charcoal
Despite being an ancient treatment for various digestive complaints, activated charcoal did not produce reduction in both the total flatus volume nor the release of sulfur-containing gasses, and there was no reduction in abdominal symptoms (after 0.52 g activated charcoal four times a day for one week). 
Does prickly pear help with long-term weight loss? [SEP] This assumption turns out to be correct, as a "tuna" can also mean a prickly pear. However, given the knowledge that "tuna" can also refer to a kind of edible prickly pear, the "fish" in "tuna fish" can be seen as non-pleonastic, but rather a disambiguator between the fish and the prickly pear. Eradication programs for ground squirrels have also been put in place. Some introductions have been seen as beneficial such as the introduction of Pacific salmon. It was first described as Pyrus sieversii due to its similarities with pears in 1833 by Carl Friedrich von Ledebour, a German naturalist who saw them growing in the Altai Mountains.Malus sieversii grows in many different habitats. It does this by improving antioxidant capability of wild apple trees following the infection, promoting root growth and enhancing soil metabolism. Prickly shrubs, such as eglantine and barberry exhibiting symbiotic relationships with wild apples by shielding them from predators were also cut. This and other desert crops, mesquite bead pods, tunas (prickly pear fruit), cholla buds, saguaro cactus fruit, and acorns are being actively promoted today by Tohono O'odham Community Action. 
Can turmeric relieve the symptoms of depression? [SEP] Weak evidence supports the use of wax baths (thermotherapy) to treat arthritis in the hands.Educational approaches that inform people about tools and strategies available to help them cope with rheumatoid arthritis may improve a person's psychological status and level of depression in the shorter-term. They have been found to improve symptoms, decrease joint damage, and improve overall functional abilities. Some mind and body practices and dietary supplements may help people with symptoms and therefore may be beneficial additions to conventional treatments, but there is not enough evidence to draw conclusions. There is beneficial effect in using a Mediterranean diet and Dong diet for a reduction in the number of tender joints, stiffness, and pain.Vitamins
Adequate Vitamin concentrations may provide an important defence against the increased oxidant stress in patients with RA. This works in a similar pattern to aspirin and vitamin E supplementation. Due to the false belief that herbal supplements are always safe, there is sometimes a hesitancy to report their use which may increase the risk of adverse reaction.The following are under investigation for treatments for RA, based on preliminary promising results (not recommended for clinical use yet): boswellic acid, curcumin, devil's claw, Euonymus alatus, and thunder god vine (Tripterygium wilfordii). At low amounts, it has a mild analgesic effect. At low amounts, it has a mild analgesic effect. 
Do phthalates affect semen quality in men? [SEP] Soldiers that were exposed to dioxins and dioxin-like compounds during the Vietnam war have given rise to children with an increased rate of birth defects.Phthalates, a ubiquitous pollutant, may cause decreased sperm production when having been exposed to it during prenatal development.Other potential xenoestrogens that have been associated with decreased sperm quality in some studies are bisphenol A, nonylphenol and octylphenol. Ethylene oxide, a chemical sterilizer, is associated with decreased semen quality.Other environmental agents associated with decreased semen quality include:

Cadmium, causing damage to Sertoli cells, thereby impeding spermatogenesis. Evaluating the actual effects of a specific compound such as a particular phthalate requires examining cumulative exposure across multiple compounds, rather than evaluating one compound in isolation.A widespread concern about phthalate exposure is the possibility (though not conclusive) that it is the cause of a worldwide drop in male fertility. Numerous studies on adult male humans show the similar result that phthalate exposure correlates with worsening metrics of male fertility, such as semen quality, the quantity of damaged DNA in sperm, decreased sperm motility, decreased semen volume, and other metrics. Phthalates causing harm to the male reproductive system is plausible, and continues to be researched. Prenatal phthalate exposure has been shown to be associated with lower levels of reproductive function in adolescent males. Yet, one study found a link between altered semen quality and exposure to monobutyl phthalate, a major metabolite of BBP. Exposure to phthalates can have varying effects in humans depending on maturity. 
Do phthalates reduce the likelihood of pregnancy in women? [SEP] This article deals with potential adverse effects of environmental toxicants on the prenatal development of both the embryo or fetus, as well as pregnancy complications. Exposures to environmental toxins such as lead, tobacco smoke, and DDT have been linked with an increased risk for spontaneous abortion, low birth weight, or preterm birth. Women with high exposure to toluene had three to five times the miscarriage rate of those with low exposure, and women with occupational benzene exposure have been shown to have an increased rate of miscarriages. The researchers found a significant association between higher levels of DEHP metabolites in pregnant mothers and several sex-related changes, including incomplete descent of the testes in their sons. DDT and hexachlorobenzene are associated with decreased semen quality, while PCBs are associated with decreased fertility overall. Soldiers that were exposed to dioxins and dioxin-like compounds during the Vietnam war have given rise to children with an increased rate of birth defects.Phthalates, a ubiquitous pollutant, may cause decreased sperm production when having been exposed to it during prenatal development.Other potential xenoestrogens that have been associated with decreased sperm quality in some studies are bisphenol A, nonylphenol and octylphenol. Phthalates in certain types of PVC are associated with asthma in both children and adults. Chemical disruptors
Environmental compounds such as plastic softeners (phthalate esters), which are pervasive environmental chemicals with anti-androgenic effects may interfere with sexual differentiation of the human brain during prenatal development. 
Does ginseng improve mental performance in healthy individuals and patients with Alzheimer's dementia? [SEP] Several meta-analyses found that it is likely effective for improving memory and learning in older people with mild cognitive decline, as well as in people who are recovering from a stroke. Ginkgo biloba –  An extract of Ginkgo biloba leaf is marketed in dietary supplement form with claims it can enhance cognitive function in people without known cognitive problems, although there is no high-quality evidence to support such effects on memory or attention in healthy people. Panax ginseng –  A review by the Cochrane Collaboration found that the results of its analysis "suggested improvement of some aspects of cognitive function, behavior and quality of life" but concluded that "there is a lack of convincing evidence to show a cognitive enhancing effect of Panax ginseng in healthy participants and no high quality evidence about its efficacy in patients with dementia." Vitamin B12 –  no cognition-enhancing effects in middle-aged and older adults without B12 deficiency. Ginseng: How to Find, Grow, and Use America´s Forest Gold. Ginseng, the Divine Root: The Curious History of the Plant That Captivated the World. Folk medicine
Ginseng is used as an herb in folk medicine. See also

American ginseng


== References == 
Does leaky gut syndrome cause health complaints or diseases? [SEP] Leaky gut syndrome is an alleged condition caused by the passage of harmful substances outward through the gut wall. Some skeptics and scientists say that the marketing of treatments for leaky gut syndrome is either misguided or an instance of deliberate health fraud. GIT symptoms include mouth ulcers, abdominal cramp, nausea, gas, intermittent diarrhea, constipation, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), and may include anaphylaxis.Food intolerance has been found associated with irritable bowel syndrome and inflammatory bowel disease, chronic constipation, chronic hepatitis C infection, eczema, NSAID intolerance, respiratory complaints, including asthma, rhinitis and headache, functional dyspepsia, eosinophilic esophagitis and ear, nose and throat (ENT) illnesses. The resultant production of gas potentially results in bloating and flatulence. Although FODMAPs can produce certain digestive discomfort in some people, not only do they not cause intestinal inflammation, but they avoid it, because they produce beneficial alterations in the intestinal flora that contribute to maintain the good health of the colon. FODMAPs are not the cause of irritable bowel syndrome nor other functional gastrointestinal disorders, but rather a person develops symptoms when the underlying bowel response is exaggerated or abnormal. It can ameliorate and mask the digestive symptoms of serious diseases, such as celiac disease, inflammatory bowel disease and colon cancer, avoiding their correct diagnosis and therapy. Significant presence of food-specific-IgG has also been detected jejunostomates, ileostomates, and in individuals with eosinophilic esophagitis or food malabsorption due to intolerance.Increased intestinal permeability, so called leaky gut, has been linked to food allergies and some food intolerances. 
Does the Alexander Technique help with back pain and neck pain? [SEP] The Alexander technique appears useful for chronic back pain, and there is some evidence to support small benefits from the use of yoga. The Alexander Technique, named after its developer Frederick Matthias Alexander (1869–1955), is a type of  alternative therapy based on the idea that poor posture gives rise to a range of health problems. As of 2021, the UK National Health Service cites evidence which suggests that the Alexander Technique may be helpful for long-term back pain and for long-term neck pain, and that it could help people cope with Parkinson's disease. Uses
The Alexander Technique is used as a therapy for stress-related chronic conditions. Health effects
The UK National Health Service says that advocates of the Alexander Technique made claims for it that were not supported by evidence, but that there was evidence suggesting that it might help with chronic back or neck pain, and Parkinson disease. It concluded that "the Alexander Technique may improve short-term pain and disability in people with low back pain, but the longer-term effects remain uncertain. physiotherapy in British-derived cultures) which utilises a wide range of techniques and modalities; spinal manipulation from osteopaths, manipulating physiotherapists and spinal adjustments from chiropractors; massage; muscle strengthening programmes including gyms and Pilates; postural approaches such as the Alexander Technique; stretching approaches such as yoga; ergonomic approaches including setting up desktop computers correctly and frequent breaks; and surgery for severe structural problems such as osteophytic impingement on the cervical nerve roots and cervical disc herniation. showed manipulation of the thoracic spine reduced neck pain immediately. 
Do the components of the Moringa oleifera tree have a positive effect on health? [SEP] Moringa oleifera is a fast-growing, drought-resistant tree of the family Moringaceae, native to the Indian subcontinent. Nutrition
Various parts of moringa are edible:
Immature seed pods, called "drumsticks"
Leaves
Mature seeds
Oil pressed from seeds
Flowers
Roots
Nutritional content of 100 g of fresh M. oleifera leaves (about 5 cups)  is shown in the table (USDA data). Moringa seed oil also has potential for use as a biofuel. Despite considerable preliminary research to determine if moringa components have bioactive properties, no high-quality evidence has been found to indicate that it has any effect on health or diseases. Other uses
In developing countries, moringa has the potential to improve nutrition, boost food security, foster rural development, and support sustainable landcare. It may be used as forage for livestock, a micronutrient liquid, a natural anthelmintic, and possible adjuvant.Moringa trees have been used to combat malnutrition, especially among infants and nursing mothers. Some 140 organizations worldwide have initiated moringa cultivation programs to lessen malnutrition, purify water, and produce oils for cooking.Moringa oleifera leaf powder was as effective as soap for hand washing when wetted in advance to enable antiseptic and detergent properties from phytochemicals in the leaves. "Moringa oleifera". 
Does an extract from the root of the Cape geranium (Pelargonium sidoides, Umckaloabo) work against bronchitis? [SEP] Pelargonium distillates and absolutes, commonly known as "geranium oil", are sold for aromatherapy and massage therapy applications. A 2013 Cochrane review found limited to no evidence of benefit with Pelargonium sidoides root extract for the symptoms of acute bronchitis, the common cold and acute rhinosinusitis. "Root extract of Pelargonium sidoides may be sold as a dietary supplement or traditional medicine under various brand names, including Umckaloabo and Zucol, but there is limited high-quality clinical evidence it provides any benefit. Several of the scented leaved pelargoniums are grown for the oil geraniol, which is extracted from the leaves and is an essential oil much used commercially in perfumery. Pelargonium distillates and absolutes, commonly known as "scented geranium oil" are sometimes used to supplement or adulterate expensive rose oils. Herbal medicine
In herbal medicine, Pelargonium has been used for intestinal problems, wounds and respiratory ailments, but Pelargonium species have also been used for fevers, kidney complaints and other conditions. Geranium (Pelargonium) oil is considered a relaxant in aromatherapy, and in recent years, respiratory/cold remedies made from  P. sidoides and P. reniforme have been sold in Europe and the United States. P. sidoides along with Echinacea is used for bronchitis. 
Does geranium extract help against colds and sinusitis??? [SEP] Medicinal Applications
There is potential for Geranium carolinianum to fight Hepatitis B. The presence of the anti-HBV compounds in the geraniin, ellagic acid and hyperin in G. carolinianum L. might account for the effectiveness of this folk medicine in the treatment of HBV infections. Intranasal corticosteroids have not been found to be useful.In adults short term use of nasal decongestants may have a small benefit. Ipratropium may also help with cough in adults. There is no firm evidence that Echinacea products or garlic provide any meaningful benefit in treating or preventing colds. There is tentative evidence for nasal irrigation in acute sinusitis, for example during upper respiratory infections. There is no clear evidence that plant extracts such as Cyclamen europaeum are effective as an intranasal wash to treat acute sinusitis. Corticosteroids
For unconfirmed acute sinusitis, nasal sprays using corticosteroids have not been found to be better than a placebo either alone or in combination with antibiotics. 
Does taking DHEA have an anti-aging effect by increasing the physical and mental well-being of older people? [SEP] Another androgenic hormone responsible for increased sebaceous gland activity is DHEA-S. According to Cancer Research UK, it has "not been shown to have any activity in fighting cancer in people". DHEA (Dehydroepiandrosterone) – a steroid hormone that has been promoted in supplement form for its claimed cancer prevention properties; there is no scientific evidence to support these claims. Dehydroepiandrosterone
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) is the most abundant circulating androgen hormone and can be rapidly metabolized within target tissues into potent androgens and estrogens. In several avian studies, circulating DHEA has been found to be elevated in birds during the non-breeding season. DHEA levels also have been studied in humans and may play a role in human aggression. Circulating DHEAS (its sulfated ester) levels rise during adrenarche (≈7 years of age) while plasma testosterone levels are relatively low. It may confer a modest protective effect against some diseases, including Parkinson's disease. 
Can DHEA prolong life or improve health in old age? [SEP] The elimination half-life of diazepam and also the active metabolite desmethyldiazepam increases significantly in the elderly, which may result in prolonged action, as well as accumulation of the drug during repeated administration. It is sometimes used for the treatment of depression in Parkinson's disease, but supporting evidence for that is lacking. It is also used to prevent migraine headaches. Syrup – Depakene by Abbott Laboratories. It also regulates apoptosis. It has since been elucidated that androgens like testosterone and dihydrotestosterone (DHT) function as trophic factors for the prostate gland, stimulating cell division and proliferation and producing tissue growth and glandular enlargement, which, in the context of prostate cancer, results in stimulation of tumors and a considerable acceleration of disease progression. Although ADT can shrink or stabilize prostate tumors and hence significantly slow the course of prostate cancer and prolong life, it is not generally curative. This has been determined to be due to uptake of circulating weak adrenal androgens like dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and androstenedione (A4) by the prostate and their de novo transformation into testosterone and DHT. 
Can the proper use of fluoride toothpaste cause serious long-term health problems? [SEP] Safety
Fluoride can be present naturally in water at concentrations well above recommended levels, which can have several long-term adverse effects, including severe dental fluorosis, skeletal fluorosis, and weakened bones. Antifluoridationist literature links fluoride exposure to a wide variety of effects, including AIDS, allergy, Alzheimer's disease, arthritis, cancer, and low IQ, along with diseases of the gastrointestinal tract, kidney, pineal gland, and thyroid, though there is no scientific evidence linking fluoridation to these adverse health effects. Fluoridated mouthwash may mitigate this effect or in high concentrations increase available fluoride, but is not as cost-effective as leaving the fluoride toothpaste on the teeth after brushing. People use toothpaste with nano-hydroxyapatite instead of fluoride as it performs the same function, and some people believe fluoride in toothpaste is a neurotoxin.Population studies shown that regular tooth brushing is associated with reduced risk of cardiovascular diseases and better blood pressure profile. Using a high fluoride toothpaste during treatment can be more effective than using a normal toothpaste. Recent studies suggest that water fluoridation, particularly in industrialized countries, may be unnecessary because topical fluorides (such as in toothpaste) are widely used and cavity rates have become low. For this reason, some scientists consider fluoridation to be unethical due to "the debilitating effects of fluoride toxicity" and the lack of informed consent.Although fluoridation can cause dental fluorosis, which can alter the appearance of developing teeth or enamel fluorosis, the differences are mild and usually not considered to be of aesthetic or public-health concern. There is also scientific evidence that fluoride in large amounts can lead to damage to health. 
Does fluoride toothpaste prevent tooth decay? [SEP] The decline of tooth decay during the 20th century has been attributed to the introduction and regular use of fluoride-containing toothpastes worldwide. Toothpastes containing fluoride are effective at preventing tooth decay. The additional fluoride in toothpaste has beneficial effects on the formation of dental enamel and bones. Unlike brushing, fluoride leads to proven reduction in caries incidence by approximately 25%; higher concentrations of fluoride (>1,000 ppm) in toothpaste also helps prevents tooth decay, with the effect increasing with concentration up to a plateau. Fluoride therapy is used to help prevent dental decay. Fluoride helps prevent dental decay by binding to the hydroxyapatite crystals in enamel. Further research showed that moderate fluoridation prevents tooth decay. Other fluoride therapies are also effective in preventing tooth decay; they include fluoride toothpaste, mouthwash, gel, and varnish, and fluoridation of salt and milk. 
Do products with the tropical fruit mangosteen promote health? [SEP] Similarly, sales of XanGo, a multiple-fruit juice containing mangosteen juice, grew from $40 million in 2002 to $200 million in 2005.Manufacturers may use some fruits to enhance the flavor of food products in an attempt to mask other tastes or provide impressions of novelty and health. Mangosteen – a fruit native to Southeast Asia which is promoted as a "superfruit" and in products such as XanGo Juice for treating a variety of human ailments. According to the American Cancer Society, "there is no reliable evidence that mangosteen juice, puree, or bark is effective as a treatment for cancer in humans". According to Cancer Research UK, it has "not been shown to have any activity in fighting cancer in people". The mango, or mangga in Malay. The mangosteen, or manggis in Malay. In contrast to the durian, mangosteen is often called the "queen of the fruits". Fruits and vegetables
Thailand is a leading producer and exporter of tropical fruits such as durian, mangosteen, rambutan, longan, salak, and langsat (longkong). 
Are topical agents containing acids and oils, such as Excilor and Nailner, effective for nail fungus? [SEP] One example of an antibiotic that may be applied topically is chloramphenicol. Fingernails and toenails are affected in most people with psoriasis at some point in time. Due to their similar safety profiles and minimal benefit of dual therapy over monotherapy, corticosteroid monotherapy appears to be an acceptable treatment for short-term treatment.Moisturizers and emollients such as mineral oil, petroleum jelly, calcipotriol, and decubal (an oil-in-water emollient) were found to increase the clearance of psoriatic plaques. Some emollients have been shown to be even more effective at clearing psoriatic plaques when combined with phototherapy. These agents are also regarded as first-line treatments for psoriatic erythroderma. These medications are generally well-tolerated, and limited long-term outcome data have demonstrated biologics to be safe for long-term use in moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. The aforementioned biologic agents hinder different aspects of these pathways.Another set of treatments for moderate to severe psoriasis are fumaric acid esters (FAE), which may be similar in effectiveness to methotrexate.It has been theorized that antistreptococcal medications may improve guttate and chronic plaque psoriasis; however, the limited studies do not show that antibiotics are effective. Some oils are particularly suitable as drying oils, and are used in making paints and other wood treatment products. 
Can weight loss programs reduce obesity in children and adolescents? [SEP] Both physical activity and diet can help to reduce the risk of obesity in children from 0 to 5 years old; meanwhile, exclusive physical activity can reduce the risk of obesity for children aged from 6 to 12 years old, and adolescents aged from 13 to 18 years old. Management
Obesity in children is treated with dietary changes and physical activity. Parents changing the diet and lifestyle of their offspring by offering appropriate food portions, increasing physical activity, and keeping sedentary behaviors at a minimum may also decrease the obesity levels in children.If children were more mobile and less sedentary, the rate of obesity would decrease. A Cochrane review in 2016 concluded that medications might reduce BMI and bodyweight to a small extent in obese children and adolescents. Bariatric surgical procedures are increasingly used amongst adolescents with severe adolescent obesity to promote weight loss. The results were a  "50 percent drop in incidence of obesity and overweight", as opposed to those individuals who were not part of the study.In the past decade, there have been school-based programs that target the prevention and management of childhood obesity. There is evidence that long term school-based programs have been effective in reducing the prevalence of childhood obesity.For two years, Duke University psychology and global health professor Gary Bennett and eight colleagues followed 365 obese patients who had already developed hypertension. Programs
There are many weight loss children programs for kids. 
Does valerian help with sleep disorders? [SEP] It has been found to be effective for chronic insomnia. This technique has been shown to reduce sleep effort and performance anxiety and also lower subjective assessment of sleep-onset latency and overestimation of the sleep deficit (a quality found in many insomniacs). A major 2022 systematic review and network meta-analysis of medications for insomnia in adults found that quetiapine did not demonstrate any short-term benefits for insomnia. Alternative medicine
Herbal products, such as valerian, kava, chamomile, and lavender, have been used to treat insomnia. Additionally, there have been other supplements like glycine, Valerian root, and L-theanine that may help improve sleep quality and the ability to fall asleep. The herb valerian can also be effective in gently inducing a relaxed state which is conducive to sleep. They are prescribed to treat conditions such as anxiety disorders, insomnia, and seizures. They improve sleep-related problems by shortening the time spent in bed before falling asleep, prolonging the sleep time, and, in general, reducing wakefulness. 
Is milk thistle extract an effective treatment for liver disease? [SEP] The role of coffee consumption for NAFLD treatment is unclear though some studies indicate that regular coffee consumption may have protective effects.Herbal compounds such as silymarin (a milk thistle seed extract), curcumin, a turmeric extract, and green tea appear to improve NAFLD biomarkers and reduce the grade of NAFLD. Medication
Treatment with medications is primarily aimed at improving liver disease and is generally limited to those with biopsy-proven NASH and fibrosis.No medicines specifically for NAFLD or NASH had received approval, as of 2018, although anti-diabetic medications may help in liver fat loss. Treatment with pentoxifylline is not recommended.As of 2018, neither the AASLD nor the Asia-Pacific Working Group recommends obeticholic acid or elafibranor due to inconsistent results for NASH treatment and concerns about safety.Omega-3 fatty acids may reduce liver fat and improve blood lipid profile but do not seem to improve liver histology (fibrosis, cirrhosis, cancer). In terms of pharmacological treatment, the AASLD and EASL do not recommend metformin, but vitamin E may improve liver health for some children. Hepatitis is inflammation of the liver tissue. Unfortunately, there are currently no drug treatments that decrease these patients' risk of dying in the longer term, at 3–12 months and beyond.Weak evidence suggests milk thistle extracts may improve survival in alcoholic liver disease and improve certain liver tests (serum bilirubin and GGT) without causing side effects, but a firm recommendation cannot be made for or against milk thistle without further study. Cancer Research UK say that milk thistle is promoted on the internet for its claimed ability to slow certain kinds of cancer, but that there is no good evidence in support of these claims. folate alone or with B vitamins – strokeA 2017 academic review indicated a rising incidence of liver injury from use of herbal and dietary supplements, particularly those with steroids, green tea extract, or multiple ingredients. 
Do dietary supplements with amino acids and proteins help against muscle atrophy in old age (sarcopenia)? [SEP] Sarcopenia is a type of muscle loss (muscle atrophy) that occurs with aging and/or immobility. Older adults may not utilize protein so efficiently as younger people and may require higher amounts to prevent muscle atrophy. Supplements
A component of sarcopenia is the loss of ability for aging skeletal muscle to respond to anabolic stimuli such as amino acids, especially at lower concentrations. However, aging muscle retains the ability of an anabolic response to protein or amino acids at larger doses. Supplementation with larger doses of amino acids, particularly leucine has been reported to counteract muscle loss with aging. "Amino acids and muscle loss with aging". Sarcopenia is age-related muscle atrophy and can be slowed by exercise. Supplementation of protein or branched-chain amino acids, especially leucine, can provide a stimulus for muscle synthesis and inhibit protein breakdown and has been studied for muscle atrophy for sarcopenia and cachexia. 
Can music therapy help people affected by stroke learn to walk normally again? [SEP] Coupled with counseling sessions, which involved reteaching Wilson basic social etiquette, this therapy was successful in bringing him back to physical health. American scientists demonstrate a medical procedure that may allow patients with nerve damage to recover within weeks, rather than months or years. Following the surgery and subsequent physiotherapy, the patient – who entirely lost the use of his hands in a car accident – can now feed himself and even write with some assistance. Scientists publish the results of a successful neurorehabilitation study, in which paralysed rats regained the ability to walk and even sprint after receiving targeted electrochemical therapy. The rats' damaged spinal cords were stimulated with chemicals and implanted electrodes, and a robotic assistive harness was used to "teach" the rats to walk again. Miniature surgical nets could be used to safely extract dangerous blood clots from the brains of stroke patients, potentially alleviating symptoms such as speech loss and paralysis, according to two new medical studies. Many of the 23 injured dogs treated with the experimental therapy regained some use of their legs even 12 months after their injury, and scientists believe that human patients could be treated in a similar fashion. The device, which provides deep brain stimulation and has already been used by those with Parkinson's disease, could boost memory and reverse cognitive decline. 
Can music therapy help stroke victims with other problems??? [SEP] Humanistic therapy can be used on people of all ages; it is very popular among children in its variant known as "play therapy". For example, patients with the disease multiple sclerosis have found a lot of help using CBT. Many things have been found to help at least some people, and a placebo effect may play a role in any intervention or medication. Creative therapies are sometimes used, including music therapy, art therapy or drama therapy. In March 1978, Bonin's father suffered a major stroke – presumably induced by his long-standing alcohol addiction – causing him to be hospitalized at the Long Beach Veterans Administration Hospital where his mother worked as a vocational nurse. Pain management
A number of studies show that hypnosis can reduce the pain experienced during burn-wound debridement, bone marrow aspirations, and childbirth. Researchers like Jerjes and his team have reported that hypnosis can help even those patients who have acute to severe orodental pain. Ordinary non-hypnotic suggestion also caused reduction in pain compared to placebo, but was able to reduce pain in a wider range of subjects (both high and low suggestible) than hypnosis. 
Does plant or animal protein have an influence on lifespan? [SEP] Children require more protein, depending on the growth phase. Low-protein vs calorie restriction
Calorie restriction has been demonstrated to increase the life span and decrease the age-associated morbidity of many experimental animals. Dairy and fish and/or specific types of other foods and/or supplements contain omega 3, vitamin K2, vitamin D3, iodine, magnesium and calcium many of which were generally lower in people consuming types of plant-based diets in studies.Nevertheless, reviews find beneficial effects of plant-based diets versus people who consume meat products on health and lifespan or mortality. : 25 The composition of the diet, especially the amount of protein provided, is also an important factor regulating animal growth. Higher protein entering the gut will lead to more putrefaction that give rise to various toxins including carcinogens and increase the chances of many bowel diseases, such as colorectal cancer.The age of dogs and cats is inversely proportional to protein consumption. There has also been discussion about higher protein content in diets being inversely related with lifespan (i.e. negative relationship), where lower protein content diets were related to longer lifespans. Evolution and aging rate
Various species of plants and animals, including humans, have different lifespans. 
Does chicken soup help with colds? [SEP] Chicken soup has acquired the reputation of a folk remedy for colds and influenza, and in many countries is considered a comfort food. Alleged medicinal properties
Chicken soup has long been touted as a form of folk medicine to treat symptoms of the common cold and related conditions. In 2000, scientists at the University of Nebraska Medical Center in Omaha studied the effect of chicken soup on the inflammatory response in vitro. They found that some components of the chicken soup inhibit neutrophil migration, which may have an anti-inflammatory effect that could hypothetically lead to temporary ease from symptoms of illness. "It has also been shown that chicken soup contains the amino acid cysteine, which is very similar to acetylcysteine, which is used by doctors for patients with bronchitis and other respiratory infections to help clear them. It is believed by some to help cure minor illnesses such as the common cold. It is believed to help a person overcome colds and digestive problems, among other mild forms of sickness. Chicken soup inhibits neutrophil chemotaxis in vitro. 
Do herbal remedies containing an extract of Chinese tragacanth root, such as Lectranal or Allvent, help against allergies? [SEP] It can be employed as a substitute for gum tragacanth. A. mongholicus is a component in Lectranal, a food supplement used in treatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis, though there is limited evidence of its effectiveness. Its use in food allergies is unclear.Allergies are common. The allergy is common and can trigger allergic reactions such as asthma, eczema, or itching. Allergy testing can help confirm or rule out allergies. Correct diagnosis, counseling, and avoidance advice based on valid allergy test results reduce the incidence of symptoms and need for medications, and improve quality of life. Allergen immunotherapy may be useful for some types of allergies. For seasonal allergies the benefit is small. 
Does alkaline water keep you healthy or can it prevent disease? [SEP] Health and pollution
Water fit for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Humans require water with few impurities. Water may require purification for human consumption. Like soap, ash is also a disinfecting agent because in contact with water, it forms an alkaline solution. Also important in pH regulation. Obesity and high sodium intake can contribute to ischemic heart disease, while consumption of fruits and vegetables can decrease the risk of developing cancer.Food-borne and infectious diseases can result in malnutrition, and malnutrition exacerbates infectious disease. The drinking of either natural or artificial mineral water was considered at the time to be a healthy practice, and was promoted by advocates of temperance. Drinking acidic drinks over a long period and continuous sipping may erode the tooth enamel. 
Do remedies with hops or valerian help with anxiety disorders? [SEP] Hops are also used for various purposes in other beverages and herbal medicine. Hops can be eaten; the young shoots of the bine are edible and can be cooked like asparagus.Hops may be used in herbal medicine in a way similar to valerian, as a treatment for anxiety, restlessness, and insomnia. A pillow filled with hops is a popular folk remedy for sleeplessness, and animal research has shown a sedative effect. Hops tend to be unstable when exposed to light or air and lose their potency after a few months' storage.Hops are of interest for hormone replacement therapy and are under basic research for potential relief of menstruation-related problems. Hops are toxic to dogs. It is unclear if meditation has an effect on anxiety and transcendental meditation appears to be no different from other types of meditation.A 2015 Cochrane review of Morita therapy for anxiety disorder in adults found not enough evidence to draw a conclusion.Adventure-based counseling can be an effective way to anxiety. Pregabalin and gabapentin are effective in treating some anxiety disorders but there is concern regarding their off-label use due to the lack of strong scientific evidence for their efficacy in multiple conditions and their proven side effects.Medications need to be used with care among older adults, who are more likely to have side effects because of coexisting physical disorders. Cannabis
As of 2019, there is little evidence for cannabis in treating anxiety disorders. 
Do extracts of African devil's claw (Harpagophytum procumbens) relieve pain in patients with osteoarthritis? [SEP] H. procumbens is one of the floral emblems of Botswana where it is thought to be useful in treating a variety of pain conditions.Preparations of the plant or its extracts, such as harpagoside, are presumed to have uses in folk medicine and phytotherapy as an anti-inflammatory herbal drug or dietary supplement. Although there is no accepted clinical evidence of its efficacy and bioavailability, limited effects were noted for treating lower back pain and osteoarthritis.A 2016 Cochrane review of clinical research noted that devil's claw seems to reduce low back pain more than placebo, although evidence was of moderate quality at best. H. procumbens is one of the floral emblems of Botswana where it is thought to be useful in treating a variety of pain conditions.Preparations of the plant or its extracts, such as harpagoside, are presumed to have uses in folk medicine and phytotherapy as an anti-inflammatory herbal drug or dietary supplement. Although there is no accepted clinical evidence of its efficacy and bioavailability, limited effects were noted for treating lower back pain and osteoarthritis.A 2016 Cochrane review of clinical research noted that devil's claw seems to reduce low back pain more than placebo, although evidence was of moderate quality at best. H. procumbens is one of the floral emblems of Botswana where it is thought to be useful in treating a variety of pain conditions.Preparations of the plant or its extracts, such as harpagoside, are presumed to have uses in folk medicine and phytotherapy as an anti-inflammatory herbal drug or dietary supplement. Although there is no accepted clinical evidence of its efficacy and bioavailability, limited effects were noted for treating lower back pain and osteoarthritis.A 2016 Cochrane review of clinical research noted that devil's claw seems to reduce low back pain more than placebo, although evidence was of moderate quality at best. Harpagoside is a natural product found in the plant Harpagophytum procumbens, also known as devil's claw. Biological activity
Harpagoside is widely used as a folk remedy to treat rheumatic complaints. 
Can probiotics prevent diarrhea after treatment with antibiotics? [SEP] Diarrhea
Some probiotics are suggested as a possible treatment for various forms of gastroenteritis. As a treatment for infectious diarrhea probiotics are of no benefit to people who have the condition for more than two days, and there is no evidence they lessen the duration of diarrhea overall. Subsequent reviews, however, did not find an increase in adverse effects with treatment, and overall treatment appears safe and moderately effective in preventing Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea.One study in particular found that there does appear to be a "protective effect" of probiotics, specifically reducing the risk of antibiotic-associated diarrhea (AAD) by 51% in 3,631 outpatients, but it is important to note that the types of infections in the subjects were not specified. Others
Probiotics decrease the risk of diarrhea in those taking antibiotics. Antibiotics can also cause diarrhea, and antibiotic-associated diarrhea is the most common adverse effect of treatment with general antibiotics. A Cochrane Review from 2020 concludes that probiotics make little or no difference to people who have diarrhoea lasting 2 days or longer and that there is no proof that they reduce its duration. The probiotic lactobacillus can help prevent antibiotic-associated diarrhea in adults but possibly not children. Taking probiotics during the course of antibiotic treatment can help prevent antibiotic-associated diarrhea. 
Is exercise an effective measure to combat depression? [SEP] These exercises may result in a slight reduction in depression and reduction in fatigue. Libido
One 2013 study found that exercising improved sexual arousal problems related to antidepressant use. The act of gaining endurance through physical activity has been shown to decrease anxiety, depression, and stress, or any chronic disease in total. Other researchers noted the connection between exercise and depression, concluding a moderate amount of exercise was more helpful than no exercise in symptom improvement. Additionally, meeting exercise requirements can also aid in alleviating symptoms of avoidance disorders and anxiety, while also providing a higher quality of life for the patient in terms of physical health.As a sub-discipline, the amount of research in exercise psychology increased in the 1950s and 1960s, leading to several presentations at the second gathering of the International Society of Sport Psychology in 1968. Exercise effectively reduces fatigue, improves sleep, enhances overall cognitive function such as alertness and concentration, decreases overall levels of tension, and improves self-esteem. Because many of these are depleted when an individual experiences chronic stress, exercise provides an ideal coping mechanism. The results demonstrated that the "exercise" condition had the most significant reduction in stress and anxiety symptoms. 
Can a tantrum trigger a heart attack? [SEP] UG tells them that a Hooligan has been sending love letters to his daughter, Tantrum O'Ugerly, and explains that if the person is of royal blood, the person can ask for Tantrum's hand in marriage after the person finishes an Impossible Task. The next day, Capitol Police officer Brian Sicknick died after suffering two strokes, having been physically attacked and pepper sprayed during the riot.All times are specified or approximated in Eastern Time, or UTC-5:00. By 1:03 p.m., a vanguard of rioters have overrun three layers of barricades and have forced police officers to the base of the west Capitol steps. 1:50 p.m.: D.C. Metropolitan Police on-scene incident commander Robert Glover declares a riot. As a police lieutenant sprays the crowd with a chemical substance, rioter Julian Elie Khater raises his arm above the mob and sprays a chemical substance toward United States Capitol Police officer Brian Sicknick, who dies the following day from a stroke. 4:26 p.m.: Rosanne Boyland, as shown in bodycam video, collapses and is taken to the hospital where she is later pronounced dead of an amphetamine overdose. The Chief also mentions that many other officers are suffering from trauma related to the riot. He had suffered a heart attack at Broadmoor Hospital two days earlier. 
Can anger over a long period of time increase the risk of heart attack??? [SEP] Anger, also known as wrath or rage, is an intense emotional state involving a strong uncomfortable and non-cooperative response to a perceived provocation, hurt or threat.A person experiencing anger will often experience physical effects, such as increased heart rate, elevated blood pressure, and increased levels of adrenaline and noradrenaline. Uncontrolled anger can negatively affect personal or social well-being and negatively impact those around them. Anger, in its strong form, impairs one's ability to process information and to exert cognitive control over one's behavior. While anger can activate aggression or increase its probability or intensity, it is neither a necessary nor a sufficient condition for aggression. In one study, test subjects primed to feel angry felt less likely to have heart disease, and more likely to receive a pay raise, compared to fearful people. There are also studies that link suppressed anger and medical conditions such as hypertension, coronary artery disease, and cancer. Anger inflames the mind. Prolongation of this stress on the body can cause plaque buildup in the artery walls which impedes blood flow and results in a much higher likelihood of major cardiovascular events, including heart attack and stroke. 
Can capsules with omega-3 fatty acids from fish oil relieve depression? [SEP] Mental health
Omega-3 supplementation has not been shown to significantly affect symptoms of anxiety, major depressive disorder or schizophrenia. Omega−3 fatty acids have also been investigated as an add-on for the treatment of depression associated with bipolar disorder although there is limited data available. Two reviews have suggested that omega-3 fatty acid supplementation significantly improves depressive symptoms in perinatal women.In contrast to dietary supplementation studies, there is significant difficulty in interpreting the literature regarding dietary intake of omega−3 fatty acids (e.g. The most promising evidence supports supplementation for prevention of cardiac death.Fish oil and omega-3 fatty acids have also been studied in a wide variety of other conditions such as clinical depression, anxiety, cancer, and macular degeneration, yet their benefit in these conditions has also not been verified.The fish used as sources do not actually produce omega-3 fatty acids. In the one eligible study, omega-3s were an effective adjunctive therapy for depressive but not manic symptoms in bipolar disorder. The authors found an "acute need" for more randomised controlled trials.A 2009 metastudy found that patients taking omega-3 supplements with a higher EPA:DHA ratio experienced fewer depressive symptoms. Prescription fish oil pills, capsules and tablets have more omega-3 fatty acids than those which are non-prescription. Diets supplemented with cod liver oil have also been demonstrated to have beneficial effects on psoriasis and depression. 
Does regular consumption of coffee increase the risk of heart disease such as heart attack or stroke? [SEP] Drinking more than this amount actually increases the risk of heart disease, high blood pressure, atrial fibrillation, and stroke. There is an increased risk of hypertriglyceridemia, cardiomyopathy, hypertension, and stroke if three or more standard drinks of alcohol are taken per day. Boston University/National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism Journal
Alcohol is linked to high blood pressure, cancers and heart attack (NHS) It increases the risk of ischemic heart disease, strokes, peripheral vascular disease, and other cardiovascular diseases, including heart failure, aortic aneurysms, diffuse atherosclerosis, chronic kidney disease, atrial fibrillation, cancers, leukemia and pulmonary embolism. Not drinking caffeinated beverages is associated with small increases in risk. Caffeine appears protective with a greater decrease in risk occurring with a larger intake of caffeinated beverages such as coffee.Antioxidants, such as vitamins C and E, have been proposed to protect against the disease, but results of studies have been contradictory and no positive effect has been shown. Cardiovascular effects may not lead to serious health issues for the majority of young, healthy users; on the contrary, heart attack, that is myocardial infarction, stroke, and other adverse cardiovascular events, have occurred in association with its use. This change reflects damage to the lining of the arteries (the vascular endothelium), which increases both the risk of long-term heart disease and an acute event such as a myocardial infarction (heart attack). 
Do cesarean babies have a higher risk of becoming overweight later in life? [SEP] The presence of chorioamnionitis and obesity predisposes the woman to develop a surgical site infection.Women who had caesarean sections are more likely to have problems with later pregnancies, and women who want larger families should not seek an elective caesarean unless medical indications to do so exist. In the case of caesarean sections, rates of respiratory death were 14 times higher in pre-labor at 37 compared with 40 weeks gestation, and 8.2 times higher for pre-labor caesarean at 38 weeks. Higher infant mortality risk: In caesarean sections performed with no indicated medical risk (singleton at full term in a head-down position with no other obstetric or medical complications), the risk of death in the first 28 days of life has been cited as 1.77 per 1,000 live births among women who had caesarean sections, compared to 0.62 per 1,000 for women who delivered vaginally.Birth by caesarean section also seems to be associated with worse health outcomes later in life, including overweight or obesity, problems in the immune system, and poor digestive system. During pregnancy, insufficient or excessive weight gain can compromise the health of the mother and fetus. Being or becoming overweight in pregnancy increases the risk of complications for mother and fetus, including cesarean section, gestational hypertension, pre-eclampsia, macrosomia and shoulder dystocia. Adolescents face  higher health risks than women who give birth at age 20 to 24 and their infants are at a higher risk for preterm birth, low birth weight, and other severe neonatal conditions. There are also higher chances that a complication will occur during birth. However, the study showed that children of overweight and obese mothers are more than likely to become obese or overweight by the age of 5. 
Do cesarean babies have a higher risk of asthma and allergies later in life? Do they have an increased risk of type 1 diabetes?? [SEP] There are also higher chances that a complication will occur during birth. Risk factors for this delay include maternal diabetes, stressful delivery, retained placenta, prolonged labor and birth by C-section. : 105–109  Additionally, tobacco smoking, regardless of feeding method, increases risk of SIDS and respiratory illnesses. Infants who are not breastfed are at mildly increased risk of developing acute and chronic diseases, including lower respiratory infection, ear infections, bacteremia, bacterial meningitis, botulism, urinary tract infection and necrotizing enterocolitis. The CDC reports that infants who are breastfed have reduced risks of ear infections, obesity, type 1 diabetes, asthma, SIDS, and lower respiratory, and gastrointestinal infections. Breastfed babies also appear to have a lower likelihood of developing diabetes mellitus type 2 later in life.Breastfeeding may decrease the risk of cardiovascular disease in later life, as indicated by lower cholesterol and C-reactive protein levels in breastfed adult women. Chronic conditions
Breastfeeding is also associated with a lower risk of type 2 diabetes among mothers who practice it. Healthcare
Caesarean section
Women are less likely to start breastfeeding after caesarean delivery compared with vaginal delivery. 
Does the pregnancy hormone hCG help with weight loss? [SEP] HCG diet
British endocrinologist Albert T. W. Simeons proposed HCG as an adjunct to an ultra-low-calorie weight-loss diet (fewer than 500 calories). There is no substantial evidence that HCG increases weight loss beyond that resulting from caloric restriction, that it causes a more attractive or "normal" distribution of fat, or that it decreases the hunger and discomfort associated with calorie-restrictive diets. There was a resurgence of interest in the "HCG diet" following promotion by Kevin Trudeau, who was banned  from making HCG diet weight-loss claims by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission in 2008, and eventually jailed over such claims.A 1976 study in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition concluded that HCG is not more effective as a weight-loss aid than dietary restriction alone.A 1995 meta analysis found that studies supporting HCG for weight loss were of poor methodological quality and concluded that "there is no scientific evidence that HCG is effective in the treatment of obesity; it does not bring about weight-loss or fat-redistribution, nor does it reduce hunger or induce a feeling of well-being".On November 15, 2016, the American Medical Association (AMA) passed policy that "The use of human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) for weight loss is inappropriate." There is no scientific evidence that HCG is effective in the treatment of obesity. The authors stated "…the use of HCG should be regarded as an inappropriate therapy for weight reduction…" In the authors opinion, "Pharmacists and physicians should be alert on the use of HCG for Simeons therapy. According to the American Society of Bariatric Physicians, no new clinical trials have been published since the definitive 1995 meta-analysis.The scientific consensus is that any weight loss reported by individuals on an "HCG diet" may be attributed entirely to the fact that such diets prescribe calorie intake of between 500 and 1,000 calories per day, substantially below recommended levels for an adult, to the point that this may risk health effects associated with malnutrition. Homeopathic HCG for weight control
Controversy about, and shortages of, injected HCG for weight loss have led to substantial Internet promotion of "homeopathic HCG" for weight control. The United States Food and Drug Administration has stated that over-the-counter products containing HCG are fraudulent and ineffective for weight loss. 
Does cupping relieve chronic neck and back pain? [SEP] For example, the American Society of Anesthesiologists states it may be considered in the treatment for nonspecific, noninflammatory low back pain only in conjunction with conventional therapy.Acupuncture is the insertion of thin needles into the skin. Cupping therapy is an ancient Chinese form of alternative medicine in which a local suction is created on the skin; practitioners believe this mobilizes blood flow in order to promote healing. Some research suggests acupuncture can alleviate pain but the majority of research suggests that acupuncture's effects are mainly due to placebo. Release of endorphins or adenosine
Some modern practitioners support the use of acupuncture to treat pain, but have abandoned the use of qi, meridians, yin, yang and other mystical energies as an explanatory frameworks. In 2011, a systematic review found no compelling evidence that osteopathic manipulation was effective for the treatment of musculoskeletal pain.A 2018 systematic review found that there is no evidence for the reliability or specific efficacy of the techniques used in visceral osteopathy.The New England Journal of Medicine's 4 November 1999 issue concluded that patients with chronic low back pain can be treated effectively with manipulation. As of 2015, there was evidence suggesting the Alexander Technique may be helpful for both long-term back pain and long-term neck pain and may help people cope with Parkinson's disease. Cupping therapy is an ancient form of alternative medicine. There is no good evidence it has any health benefits and there are some risks of harm, especially in case of wet and fire cupping. 
Can eating broccoli or broccoli sprouts improve gastritis symptoms? [SEP] Broccoli (Brassica oleracea var. Broccoli is a particularly rich source of vitamin C and vitamin K. Contents of its characteristic sulfur-containing glucosinolate compounds, isothiocyanates and sulforaphane, are diminished by boiling but are better preserved by steaming, microwaving or stir-frying.Rapini, sometimes called "broccoli rabe," is a distinct species from broccoli, forming similar but smaller heads, and is actually a type of turnip (Brassica rapa). Broccoli has its origins in primitive cultivars grown in the Roman Empire and was most likely improved via artificial selection in the southern Italian Peninsula or in Sicily. Cooking
Boiling substantially reduces the levels of broccoli glucosinolates, while other cooking methods, such as steaming, microwaving, and stir-frying, have no significant effect on glucosinolate levels. Broccoli (Brassica oleracea var. Broccoli is a particularly rich source of vitamin C and vitamin K. Contents of its characteristic sulfur-containing glucosinolate compounds, isothiocyanates and sulforaphane, are diminished by boiling but are better preserved by steaming, microwaving or stir-frying.Rapini, sometimes called "broccoli rabe," is a distinct species from broccoli, forming similar but smaller heads, and is actually a type of turnip (Brassica rapa). Cooking
Boiling substantially reduces the levels of broccoli glucosinolates, while other cooking methods, such as steaming, microwaving, and stir-frying, have no significant effect on glucosinolate levels. Brussels sprouts, as with broccoli and other brassicas, contain sulforaphane, a phytochemical under basic research for its potential biological properties. 
Do Schuessler salts work? (alternative spellings: Schuessler salts or Schuessler salts) [SEP] Schuessler salts are discussed in Western Australia's Government Gazette of 12 April 1946:

THE following report is issued under section 210 of the Health Act, 1911-1944:- It is claimed that the above "remedy" [Dr. Schuessler's Cell Salts, Kali Phos. Dr. Schuessler's Cell Salts can therefore have no curative value. Schuessler salts are discussed in Western Australia's Government Gazette of 12 April 1946:

THE following report is issued under section 210 of the Health Act, 1911-1944:- It is claimed that the above "remedy" [Dr. Schuessler's Cell Salts, Kali Phos. Dr. Schuessler's Cell Salts can therefore have no curative value. Schuessler salts are discussed in Western Australia's Government Gazette of 12 April 1946:

THE following report is issued under section 210 of the Health Act, 1911-1944:- It is claimed that the above "remedy" [Dr. Schuessler's Cell Salts, Kali Phos. Dr. Schuessler's Cell Salts can therefore have no curative value. Schuessler salts are discussed in Western Australia's Government Gazette of 12 April 1946:

THE following report is issued under section 210 of the Health Act, 1911-1944:- It is claimed that the above "remedy" [Dr. Schuessler's Cell Salts, Kali Phos. Dr. Schuessler's Cell Salts can therefore have no curative value. 
Does pelvic floor training help women with stress-related urinary incontinence? [SEP] Behavioral therapies, including bladder training, biofeedback, and pelvic floor muscle training, are most effective for improving urinary incontinence in women, with a low risk of adverse events. Physical therapy and exercise
Physical therapy can be effective for women in reducing urinary incontinence.Pelvic floor physical therapists work with patients to identify and treat underlying pelvic muscle dysfunction that can cease urinary incontinence. Exercising the muscles of the pelvis such as with Kegel exercises are a first line treatment for women with stress incontinence. In another randomized controlled trial the addition of biofeedback to the training of pelvic floor muscles for the treatment of stress incontinence, improved pelvic floor muscle function, reduced urinary symptoms, and improved the quality of life.Preoperative pelvic floor muscle training (PFMT) in men undergoing radical prostatectomy was not effective in reducing urinary incontinence.Alternative exercises have been studied for stress urinary incontinence in women. Pelvic-floor exercises may help in cases of fecal incontinence and in pelvic organ prolapse conditions e.g. Urinary incontinence
Pelvic floor exercises (muscle training) can be included in conservative treatment approaches for women with urinary incontinence. This approach is thought to be more highly recommended for people with stress urinary incontinence rather than for treating overactive bladder symptoms.Behavioural therapy typically involves a combination of training exercises such as bladder training exercises combined with biofeedback pelvic floor muscle training. In another randomized controlled trial the addition of biofeedback to the training of pelvic floor muscles for the treatment of stress urinary incontinence, improved pelvic floor muscle function, reduced urinary symptoms, and improved of the quality of life.In 1992, the United States Agency for Health Care Policy and Research recommended biofeedback as a first-line treatment for adult urinary incontinence.In 2019, the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence recommended against the routine use of use biofeedback in managing urinary incontinence in women who can actively contract the pelvic floor. 
Can methadone enhance the effects of chemotherapy or other cancer treatments and help cure cancer? [SEP] The use of cannabis as medicine has not been rigorously tested due to production and governmental restrictions, resulting in limited clinical research to define the safety and efficacy of using cannabis to treat diseases.Preliminary evidence has indicated that cannabis might reduce nausea and vomiting during chemotherapy and reduce chronic pain and muscle spasms. There is no consistent evidence that it helps with chronic pain and muscle spasms.Low quality evidence suggests its use for reducing nausea during chemotherapy, improving appetite in HIV/AIDS, improving sleep, and improving tics in Tourette syndrome. Nausea and vomiting
Medical cannabis is somewhat effective in chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) and may be a reasonable option in those who do not improve following preferential treatment. Long-term cannabis use may cause nausea and vomiting, a condition known as cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome (CHS).A 2016 Cochrane review said that cannabinoids were "probably effective" in treating chemotherapy-induced nausea in children, but with a high side-effect profile (mainly drowsiness, dizziness, altered moods, and increased appetite). According to a 2019 systematic review, there have been inconsistent results of using cannabis for neuropathic pain, spasms associated with multiple sclerosis and pain from rheumatic disorders, but was not effective treating chronic cancer pain. Cancer Research UK say that while cannabis is being studied for therapeutic potential, "claims that there is solid "proof" that cannabis or cannabinoids can cure cancer is highly misleading to patients and their families, and builds a false picture of the state of progress in this area". As an antiemetic, these medications are usually used when conventional treatment for nausea and vomiting associated with cancer chemotherapy fail to work.Nabiximols is used for treatment of spasticity associated with MS when other therapies have not worked, and when an initial trial demonstrates "meaningful improvement". Walter Bock: chemist, Styrene-butadiene
Max Bockmühl: chemist, he developed Methadone together with German Gustav Ehrhart in 1937 in Germany, working for I.G. 
Can treatment with tea tree oil relieve pimples (acne)? [SEP] Hormonal agents
In women, the use of combined birth control pills can improve acne. Alternative medicine
Researchers are investigating complementary therapies as treatment for people with acne. Low-quality evidence suggests topical application of tea tree oil or bee venom may reduce the total number of skin lesions in those with acne. Tea tree oil appears to be approximately as effective as benzoyl peroxide or salicylic acid but is associated with allergic contact dermatitis. Proposed mechanisms for tea tree oil's anti-acne effects include antibacterial action against C. acnes and anti-inflammatory properties. Numerous other plant-derived therapies have demonstrated positive effects against acne (e.g., basil oil; oligosaccharides from seaweed; however, few well-done studies have examined their use for this purpose. Probiotics may have therapeutic effects for those affected by acne due to their ability to decrease skin inflammation and improve skin moisture by increasing the skin's ceramide content. However, tea tree oil can cause contact dermatitis for some as well as breast development in teenage boys and should not be used if one has rosacea due to the potentiality of worsening the symptoms of that skin condition. 
Does sugar consumption impair memory or other mental performance? [SEP] Each macronutrient can impact cognition through multiple mechanisms, including glucose and insulin metabolism, neurotransmitter actions, oxidative stress and inflammation, and the gut-brain axis. Glucose deficiencies such as hypoglycaemia reduce available energy for the brain and impair all cognitive processes and performance. Additionally, situations with high cognitive demand, such as learning a new task, increase brain glucose utilization, depleting blood glucose stores and initiating the need for supplementation.Complex carbohydrates, especially those with high dietary fibre, are associated with increased cognitive performance and improved memory function. An improperly functioning glucose and insulin metabolism is a primary mechanism for cognitive impairment, and general metabolic dysfunction, as it can cause inflammation and oxidative stress within the brain, potentially leading to neurodegeneration. Simple carbohydrates negatively impact many essential cognitive processes, including attention, memory, reaction time, visual-spatial processing, mental processing speed, and executive functions. Simple carbohydrates impair cognition through glucose and insulin metabolism dysfunction, as well as causing inflammation and oxidative stress within the brain. Excessive tyrosine consumption can also negatively impact short-term working memory. Saturated and trans fatty acids decrease cognitive functioning and specifically impact memory and learning performance. 
Does extra folic acid in men help prevent birth defects in children? [SEP] The review found that oral antioxidants given to  men in couples with male factor or unexplained subfertility may improve live birth rates, but more evidence is needed.A Cochrane review in 2015 came to the result that there is no evidence identified regarding the effect of preconception lifestyle advice on the chance of a live birth outcome. Preconceptional intake of folic acid is recommended to reduce birth defects. There is also some evidence that folic acid supplement preconceptionally (before becoming pregnant) may reduce premature birth. Adequate periconceptional (time before and right after conception) folic acid (also called folate or Vitamin B9) intake has been shown to decrease the risk of fetal neural tube defects, such as spina bifida. Similarly, folate deficiency has been linked to neural tube defects.Iodine deficiency is "the most common preventable cause of mental impairment worldwide." A 2008 review of interventions estimated that universal supplementation with calcium, iron, and folic acid during pregnancy could prevent 105,000 maternal deaths (23.6 percent of all maternal deaths). Malnutrition has been found to affect three quarters of UK women aged 16–49 indicated by them having less folic acid than the WHO recommended levels.Frequent pregnancies with short intervals between them and long periods of breastfeeding add an additional nutritional burden. It is recommended to accompany regular meals with a daily prenatal vitamin supplement that has sufficient folic acid and iron content.If the fetus is predicted to have low birth weight, in addition to the general recommendations, it would be ideal to increase caloric intake, which can be done by having extra Food Guide Servings daily. 
Does taking ginger reduce nausea and vomiting during pregnancy? [SEP] In the United States and Canada, the doxylamine-pyridoxine combination (as Diclegis in US and Diclectin in Canada) is the only approved pregnancy category "A" prescription treatment for nausea and vomiting of pregnancy.Ondansetron may be beneficial, but there are some concerns regarding an association with cleft palate, and there is little high quality data. Nausea is a side effect of many medications including chemotherapy, or morning sickness in early pregnancy. The combination of pyridoxine and doxylamine is the first line treatment for pregnancy-related nausea and vomiting. Several studies have demonstrated the therapeutic effects of cannabinoids for nausea and vomiting in the advanced stages of illnesses such as cancer and AIDS.In hospital settings topical anti-nausea gels are not indicated because of lack of research backing their efficacy. Topical gels containing lorazepam, diphenhydramine, and haloperidol are sometimes used for nausea but are not equivalent to more established therapies.Ginger has also been shown to be potentially effective in treating several types of nausea. Aluminum hydroxide/magnesium hydroxide and calcium carbonate, when consumed, do not cross the placenta and are regarded as safe pharmacological options to treat heartburn, since there are no significant association with maldevelopment or injury to fetus.Ginger and acupressure are common non-pharmacological options used to treat nausea and vomiting as alternatives to antacids, histamine H2 blockers, and proton pump inhibitors. Antihistamines
Antihistamines may be prescribed in early pregnancy for the treatment of nausea and vomiting along with symptoms of asthma and allergies. Reviews found tentative evidence that ginger powder may be effective for primary dysmenorrhea. 
Does taking ginger prevent motion sickness?? [SEP] Disequilibrium
A number of conditions involving balance such as motion sickness and vertigo can lead to nausea and vomiting. These include movements that cause motion sickness and dizziness. For people with motion sickness and vertigo, antihistamines and anticholinergics such as meclizine and scopolamine are particularly effective. Several studies have demonstrated the therapeutic effects of cannabinoids for nausea and vomiting in the advanced stages of illnesses such as cancer and AIDS.In hospital settings topical anti-nausea gels are not indicated because of lack of research backing their efficacy. Topical gels containing lorazepam, diphenhydramine, and haloperidol are sometimes used for nausea but are not equivalent to more established therapies.Ginger has also been shown to be potentially effective in treating several types of nausea. Current evidence suggests that 5-HT3 antagonists are ineffective in controlling motion sickness. A randomized, placebo-controlled trial of ondansetron to treat motion sickness in air ambulance personnel showed subjective improvement, but it was not statistically significant. Galanolactone, a diterpenoid found in ginger, is a 5-HT3 antagonist and is believed to at least partially mediate the anti-emetic activity of this plant. 
Are electric cigarettes less harmful than tobacco smoking? [SEP] E-cigarette vapor contains fewer toxins than cigarette smoke. Health effects
The health risks of e-cigarettes are not known for certain, but the risk of serious adverse events is thought to be low, and e-cigarettes are likely safer than combusted tobacco products. According to the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, "Laboratory tests of e-cigarette ingredients, in vitro toxicological tests, and short-term human studies suggest that e-cigarettes are likely to be far less harmful than combustible tobacco cigarettes." Quitting smoking is the most effective strategy to tobacco harm reduction.Tobacco smoke contains 100 known carcinogens and 900 potentially cancer-causing chemicals, but e-cigarette vapor contains less of the potential carcinogens than found in tobacco smoke. Nicotine-containing e-cigarettes were associated with greater effectiveness for quitting smoking than e-cigarettes without nicotine. Regulated US FDA products such as nicotine inhalers may be safer than e-cigarettes, but e-cigarettes are generally seen as safer than combusted tobacco products such as cigarettes and cigars.The risk of early death is anticipated to be similar to that of smokeless tobacco. There is general agreement that e-cigarettes expose users to fewer toxicants than tobacco cigarettes. Electronic cigarettes are marketed to smoking and non-smoking men, women, and children as being safer than cigarettes. 
Does parents licking the pacifier protect children from allergic diseases? [SEP] According to this "hygiene hypothesis," such exposures give the infant's immune system some exercise, making it less likely to overreact. One possible explanation, supported by the U.S. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, is that parents keep their children "too clean for their own good". According to this "hygiene hypothesis", such exposures give the infant's immune system some exercise, making it less likely to overreact. In 2016 a large review of studies  reported that the use of a pacifier beginning at birth or after lactation was established did not significantly affect the duration of exclusive and partial breastfeeding up to four months of age. The CDC, however, currently (2022) reports that early use of pacifiers can have a negative outcome on the success of breastfeeding and they suggest that it should be delayed until breastfeeding is firmly established. Early skin-to-skin contact between mother and baby improves breastfeeding outcomes and increases cardio-respiratory stability. The CDC reports that infants who are breastfed have reduced risks of ear infections, obesity, type 1 diabetes, asthma, SIDS, and lower respiratory, and gastrointestinal infections. Allergic diseases
In children who are at risk for developing allergic diseases (defined as at least one parent or sibling having atopy), atopic syndrome can be prevented or delayed through 4-month exclusive breastfeeding, though these benefits may not persist. 
Does calcium help with allergy? [SEP] References
Further reading
"Woman's metal allergy causes severe symptoms after knee replacement". Typically, people take antihistamines as an inexpensive, generic (not patented) drug that can be bought without a prescription and provides relief from nasal congestion, sneezing, or hives caused by pollen, dust mites, or animal allergy with few side effects. Chronic allergies increase the risk of health problems which antihistamines might not treat, including asthma, sinusitis, and lower respiratory tract infection. Antihistamines can also help correct Eustachian Tube dysfunction, thereby helping correct problems such as muffled hearing, fullness in the ear and even tinnitus.Itching, sneezing, and inflammatory responses are suppressed by antihistamines that act on H1-receptors. Subsequently, other non-sedating antihistamines like loratadine (Claritin), cetirizine (Zyrtec), and fexofenadine (Allegra) were developed and introduced.The introduction of the first-generation antihistamines marked the beginning of medical treatment of nasal allergies. In addition to calcium, milk is a good source of many other vitamins. Allergy
One of the most common food allergies in infants is to cow's milk. Milk allergy affects between 2% and 3% of babies and young children. 
Can taking vitamin D relieve chronic pain? [SEP] Q10 coenzyme and vitamin D supplements may reduce pain and improve quality of life. It appears that Q10 coenzyme and vitamin D supplements can improve pain and quality of life for fibromyalgia patients. Vitamin D has been shown to improve some fibromyalgia measures, but not others.A review article including four studies with 98 patients found that melatonin treatment has several positive effects on fibromyalgia patients, including the improvement of sleep quality, pain, and disease impact. Vitamin D deficiency
Epidemiological studies show that patients with vitamin D levels 8-10 ng/mL lower than healthy controls are at risk for rheumatoid arthritis. Supplementation
Evidence suggests that increasing vitamin D levels to the range of 40–60 ng/mL could reduce the risk of rheumatoid arthritis. From these studies I can conclude that vitamin C supplementation may be more effective for the pain associated with RA however long-term use might aggravate onset of osteoarthritis. A study of calcium combined with vitamin D3 in RA patients taking low-dose corticosteroids demonstrated a reduction in bone mineral density loss in both the spine and trochanter, but not the femoral neck. Therefore, there is little evidence to support calcium and vitamin D supplementation in corticosteroid receiving RA patients. 
Does aloe vera relieve discomfort caused by psoriasis? [SEP] Aloe gel typically is used to make topical medications for skin conditions, such as burns, wounds, frostbite, rashes, psoriasis, cold sores, or dry skin. There is some evidence that topical use of aloe products might relieve symptoms of certain skin disorders, such as psoriasis, acne, or rashes, but topical application may cause an allergic reaction in some people.Aloe vera gel is used commercially as an ingredient in yogurts, beverages, and some desserts, but at high or prolonged doses, ingesting aloe latex or whole leaf extract can be toxic. Use of topical aloe vera in small amounts is likely to be safe. Traditional medicine
Aloe vera is used in traditional medicine as a skin treatment. Dead Sea balneotherapy is also effective for psoriatic arthritis. Diet
Uncontrolled studies have suggested that individuals with psoriasis or psoriatic arthritis may benefit from a diet supplemented with fish oil rich in eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). Preliminary research has suggested that antioxidants such as polyphenols may have beneficial effects on the inflammation characteristic of psoriasis.Many novel medications being researched during the 2010s target the Th17/IL-23 axis, particularly IL-23p19 inhibitors, as IL-23p19 is present in increased concentrations in psoriasis skin lesions while contributing less to protection against opportunistic infections. References
Further reading
External links

"Psoriatic arthritis". 
Does aloe vera help with neurodermatitis, poorly healing or fresh wounds? [SEP] Aloe gel typically is used to make topical medications for skin conditions, such as burns, wounds, frostbite, rashes, psoriasis, cold sores, or dry skin. Aloe latex may be obtained in a dried form called resin or as "aloe dried juice".There is conflicting evidence regarding whether Aloe vera is effective as a treatment for wounds or burns. Use of topical aloe vera in small amounts is likely to be safe. Traditional medicine
Aloe vera is used in traditional medicine as a skin treatment. Aloe vera is used both internally and externally on humans as folk or alternative medicine. The Aloe species is known for its medicinal and cosmetic properties. The Ancient Greeks and Romans used Aloe vera to treat wounds. Both the translucent inner pulp and the resinous yellow aloin from wounding the aloe plant are used externally for skin discomforts. 
Does electromagnetic radiation from cell phone towers cause health problems such as headaches or sleep disorders? [SEP] There is no scientific basis to link such symptoms to electromagnetic field exposure.The prevalence of some reported symptoms is geographically or culturally dependent and does not imply "a causal relationship between symptoms and attributed exposure". See also
Wireless electronic devices and health
Electromagnetic radiation and health
Bioelectromagnetics – the study of the interaction between electromagnetic fields and biological entities
Microwave auditory effect
List of questionable diseases
Radiophobia – the fear of ionizing radiation and radio (RF) waves, originating in the early 1900s
Arthur Firstenberg – author, "EHS sufferer" and activist
Tinfoil hat – a popular stereotype and byword for paranoia, persecutory delusions, pseudoscience and conspiracy theories

References
External links
Radiofrequency Electromagnetic Energy and Health: Research Needs from the Australian Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety Agency (ARPANSA) (Technical Report 178 – published June 2017) Health effects
The effect of mobile phone radiation on human health is the subject of recent interest and study, as a result of the enormous increase in mobile phone usage throughout the world. Mobile phones use electromagnetic radiation in the microwave range, which some believe may be harmful to human health. Other digital wireless systems, such as data communication networks, produce similar radiation.On 31 May 2011, the World Health Organization stated that mobile phone use may possibly represent a long-term health risk, classifying mobile phone radiation as "possibly carcinogenic to humans" after a team of scientists reviewed studies on mobile phone safety. Mobile pollution by transmitting electromagnetic waves can be decreased up to 90% by adopting the circuit as designed in mobile phone and mobile exchange.In May 2016, preliminary findings of a long-term study by the US government suggested that radio-frequency (RF) radiation, the type emitted by cell phones, can cause cancer. Radio power and health
According to the U.S. Federal Communications Commission: "Measurement data obtained from various sources have consistently indicated that 'worst-case' ground-level power densities near typical cellular towers are on the order of 1 µW/cm² (or 10 mW/m²) or less (usually significantly less). "Cell phones, cell towers, wi-fi, smart meters, digital enhanced cordless telecommunications phones, cordless phones, baby monitors, and other wireless devices all emit non-ionizing radio frequencies, which the World Health Organization (WHO) has classified as a "potential" carcinogen, According to the U.S. National Cancer Institute, "No mechanism by which ELF-EMFs or radiofrequency radiation could cause  cancer has been identified. 
Can antibiotic-resistant germs from animal husbandry be transferred to humans? [SEP] Limiting antimicrobial use in animals and farming
It is established that the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry can give rise to AMR resistances in bacteria found in food animals to the antibiotics being administered (through injections or medicated feeds). The FDA first determined in 1977 that there is evidence of emergence of antibiotic-resistant bacterial strains in livestock. optimize the use of antimicrobial medicines in human and animal health. Antibiotic resistance can also be acquired as a result of either genetic mutation or horizontal gene transfer. Resistant bacteria in food can cause infections in humans. Similar to humans, giving antibiotics to food animals will kill most bacteria, but resistant bacteria can survive. When food animals are slaughtered and processed, resistant germs in the animal gut can contaminate the meat or other animal products. Resistant germs from the animal gut can also get into the environment, like water and soil, from animal manure. 
Does the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry harm human health? [SEP] Antibiotics are an important tool to treat animal as well as human disease, safeguard animal health and welfare, and support food safety. However, used irresponsibly, this may lead to antibiotic resistance which may impact human, animal and environmental health.While levels of use vary dramatically from country to country, for example some Northern European countries use very low quantities to treat animals compared with humans, worldwide an estimated 73% of antimicrobials (mainly antibiotics) are consumed by farm animals. Antibiotics given to livestock in sub-therapeutic concentrations to stimulate growth when there is no diagnosis of disease – a practice still permitted in some countries – may kill some, but not all, of the bacterial organisms in the animal, possibly leaving those that are naturally antibiotic-resistant in the environment. It noted that many dairy and meat producers in Asia and the Americas had an economic incentive to continue high usage of antibiotics, particularly in crowded or unsanitary living conditions.However, the World Organisation for Animal Health has acknowledged the need to protect antibiotics but argued against a total ban on antibiotic use in animal production. These bills were endorsed by public health and medical organizations, including the American Holistic Nurses' Association, the American Medical Association, and the American Public Health Association.Despite pledges by food companies and restaurants to reduce or eliminate meat that comes from animals treated with antibiotics, the purchase of antibiotics for use on farm animals has been increasing every year.There has been extensive use of antibiotics in animal husbandry. Additionally, human antimicrobial resistance from antibiotic use in industrial animal agriculture represents a serious risk to societal wellbeing. Regardless, the World Health Organization has recommended that the non-therapeutic use of antibiotics in animal husbandry be reevaluated, as it contributes to the overuse of antibiotics and thus the emergence of resistant bacteria that can spread to humans. There are debates over whether the use of antibiotics in meat production is harmful to humans.We have discussed that milk production is a metric of a cows health. 
Does regular vitamin D intake lower the risk of cancer in adults? [SEP] Research
Some evidence suggests vitamin D deficiency may be associated with a worse outcome for some cancers, but evidence is insufficient to recommend that vitamin D be prescribed for people with cancer. Taking vitamin D supplements has no significant effect on cancer risk. Vitamin D supplements do not alter the outcomes for myocardial infarction, stroke or cerebrovascular disease, cancer, bone fractures or knee osteoarthritis.A US Institute of Medicine (IOM) report states: "Outcomes related to cancer, cardiovascular disease and hypertension, and diabetes and metabolic syndrome, falls and physical performance, immune functioning and autoimmune disorders, infections, neuropsychological functioning, and preeclampsia could not be linked reliably with calcium or vitamin D intake and were often conflicting. Cancer
Potential associations have been found between low vitamin D levels and the risk of developing several types of cancer. Meta-analyses of observational studies have found reduced risk of cancer incidence related to vitamin D intake and 25(OH)D levels, particularly for colorectal cancer, although the strength of the associations was classified as weak. While randomized controlled trials have not confirmed that vitamin D supplements reduce the risk of cancer incidence, the relative risk of cancer deaths was lower by up to 16% in several meta-analyses. As of 2022, there is insufficient evidence for an effect of vitamin D supplementation on the risk of cancer. Vitamin D intake and blood levels are associated with a lower risk of colon cancer. 
Does regular consumption of ground flaxseed harm health? [SEP] Cardiovascular disease
Numerous studies have found that consumption of TFAs increases risk of cardiovascular disease. The Harvard School of Public Health advises that replacing TFAs and saturated fats with cis monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats is beneficial for health.Consuming trans fats has been shown to increase the risk of coronary artery disease in part by raising levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL, often termed "bad cholesterol"), lowering levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL, often termed "good cholesterol"), increasing triglycerides in the bloodstream and promoting systemic inflammation.The primary health risk identified for trans fat consumption is an elevated risk of coronary artery disease (CAD). In general, there is much less scientific consensus asserting that eating trans fat specifically increases the risk of other chronic health problems:

Alzheimer's disease: A study published in Archives of Neurology in February 2003 suggested that the intake of both trans fats and saturated fats promotes the development of Alzheimer disease, although not confirmed in an animal model. Cancer: There is no scientific consensus that consuming trans fats significantly increases cancer risks across the board. They may impair the metabolism of long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCPUFAs). The diet is rich in flaxseed oil mixed with cottage cheese, and emphasizes meals high in fruit, vegetables and fiber; it avoids sugar, animal fats, salad oil, meats, butter and especially margarine. It can cause serious and harmful side effects. It may also cause potentially serious side effects." 
1. can MMR vaccination cause autism? [SEP] The scientific consensus on vaccines and autism is that there is no causal connection between MMR, or any other vaccine, and autism. The scientific consensus is that there is no link between the MMR vaccine and autism and that the vaccine's benefits greatly outweigh its potential risks. Italy
In June 2012, a local court in Rimini, Italy, ruled that the MMR vaccination had caused autism in a 15-month-old boy. The Petitioners' Steering Committee have claimed that MMR vaccines can cause autism, possibly in combination with thiomersal-containing vaccines. A 2006 review of the literature regarding vaccines and autism found "[t]he bulk of the evidence suggests no causal relationship between the MMR vaccine and autism." MMR vaccine
The MMR vaccine as a cause of autism is one of the most extensively debated hypotheses regarding the origins of autism. Before describing the research in Wakefield's 1998 paper in The Lancet, at the same page this patent explicitly states that the use of the MMR vaccine causes autism:

It has now also been shown that use of the MMR vaccine (which is taken to include live attenuated measles vaccine virus, measles virus, mumps vaccine virus and rubella vaccine virus, and wild strains of the aforementioned viruses) results in ileal lymphoid nodular hyperplasia, chronic colitis and pervasive developmental disorder including autism (RBD), in some infants. The study's authors found no evidence of any link between MMR and autism.The Institute of Medicine (IOM) of the United States National Academy of Sciences, along with the CDC and the UK National Health Service, have found no link between vaccines and autism. 
3. does vaccination against rotavirus increase the risk of intestinal intussusception in infants? [SEP] Rotaviruses are the most common cause of diarrhoeal disease among infants and young children. Maternal trans-placental IgG might play a role in the protection neonates from rotavirus infections, but on the other hand might reduce vaccine efficacy. The experience provoked intense debate about the relative risks and benefits of a rotavirus vaccine.In 2006, two new vaccines against rotavirus A infection were shown to be safe and effective in children, and in 2009, the WHO recommended that rotavirus vaccine be included in all national immunisation programmes.The incidence and severity of rotavirus infections has declined significantly in countries that have acted on this recommendation. The rotavirus vaccine is recommended as a prevention for children. Rotavirus gastroenteritis is a major cause of severe diarrhoea among infants and young children globally. "Pathogenesis of intestinal and systemic rotavirus infection". Unfortunately, there are many strains of rotavirus and the vaccine can not cover all of them, so it is still possible for a child to become infected with rotavirus. Studies show that this vaccine is 85-98% effective against severe rotavirus disease and is 74-87% effective against rotavirus disease of any severity in the first year after the vaccination.Side effects of the vaccine include both mild and more severe symptoms
mild:

Irritability
Mild, temporary diarrhea or vomitingsevere:

intussusception
This is a type of bowel blockage that is treated in a hospital and may require surgery
1 in 20,000 to 1 in 100,000 infants may develop intussusception. 
Is ozone suitable for the treatment of tooth decay? [SEP] Additional treatment options
Water fluoridation: in many areas fluoride is added to water with the goal of preventing tooth decay. Agents such as chlorhexidine can help fight gum disease and thus reduce the amount of bacteria in the mouth that are responsible for tooth decay. There is also increasing use of newer technologies such as photo-activated disinfection and treating with ozone.There is also an aspect of minimising the effect of the caries to control the symptoms of decay. Ozone (O3) has been shown to be a good disinfectant and water treatment that can cause breakdown of organic and inorganic materials. Studies in the U.S. in the 1950s and 1960s showed that water fluoridation reduced childhood cavities by fifty to sixty percent, while studies in 1989 and 1990 showed lower reductions (40% and 18% respectively), likely due to increasing use of fluoride from other sources, notably toothpaste, and also the "halo effect" of food and drink that is made in fluoridated areas and consumed in unfluoridated ones.A 2000 UK systematic review (York) found that water fluoridation was associated with a decreased proportion of children with cavities of 15% and with a decrease in decayed, missing, and filled primary teeth (average decreases was 2.25 teeth). A 2002 systematic review found strong evidence that water fluoridation is effective at reducing overall tooth decay in communities. Alternatives to the practice exist – topical fluoride therapy (toothbrushing etc.) Reviews of the scholarly literature in 2000 and 2007 associated water fluoridation with a significant reduction of tooth decay in children. 
Does the so-called blood group diet have any health benefits? [SEP] Their use allows for a diet with a lower proportion of fat and a greater proportion of protein and carbohydrate, leading to more food choices and larger portion sizes. This diet is high on carbohydrates and fibre, with fresh fruit, vegetables, and whole grains. Community support of healthy eating patterns for everyone.Contrary to the previous editions which mainly focused on dietary components such as food groups and nutrients, the latest offer a more global approach focusing on eating patterns and nutrients characteristics as "people do not eat food groups and nutrients in isolation but rather in combination, and the totality of the diet forms an overall eating pattern". People on such a diet have very slightly more weight loss initially, equivalent to approximately 100kcal/day, but that advantage diminishes over time and is ultimately insignificant. This healthy diet is low in energy density, which may protect against weight gain and associated diseases. The Mediterranean diet, which includes limiting consumption of red meat and using olive oil in cooking, has also been shown to improve cardiovascular outcomes. Research suggests that increasing adherence to Mediterranean diet patterns is associated with a reduction in total and cause-specific mortality, extending health- and lifespan. There is limited evidence which compare it with placebo and shows modest effect to blood pressure in short term. 
Can pumpkin seeds or preparations from them help women and men with irritable bladder, bladder weakness or incontinence? [SEP] The exalbuminous seeds include the legumes (such as beans and peas), trees such as the oak and walnut, vegetables such as squash and radish, and sunflowers. When fruits do not open and release their seeds in a regular fashion, they are called indehiscent, which include the fruits achenes, caryopses, nuts, samaras, and utricles. Some seeds (e.g. Seeds with a fleshy covering (e.g. The seeds of many legumes, including the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), contain proteins called lectins which can cause gastric distress if the beans are eaten without cooking. Many important nonfood oils are extracted from seeds. Seeds are the source of some medicines including castor oil, tea tree oil and the quack cancer drug Laetrile. Plant Fix: Check out various plant seeds and learn more information about them 
Do products from bees like honey, propolis, royal jelly or bee venom help against cancer? [SEP] Bee-fungus symbiosis
As mentioned above, honey bees cannot produce steroids themselves, they must be ingested through their diet, specifically in the early development process. These sterols thus have a high impact on the survival rate of honey bees. Knowledge of how mycelium boosts honey bees immunity could be pivotal to the increase of a honey bee's lifespan and boost reproduction by helping implement new policies to prevent the use of harmful pesticides (Paludo, C.R. They also produce some substances used as dietary supplements with possible health benefits, pollen, propolis, and royal jelly, though all of these can also cause allergic reactions. As alternative medicine
Apitherapy is a branch of alternative medicine that uses honey bee products, including raw honey, royal jelly, pollen, propolis, beeswax and apitoxin (Bee venom). One insect, the honey bee, provides honey, pollen, royal jelly, propolis and an anti-inflammatory peptide, melittin; its larvae too are eaten in some societies. Propolis, a resinous, waxy mixture collected by honeybees and used as a hive insulator and sealant, is often consumed by menopausal women because of its high hormone content, and it is said to have antibiotic, anesthetic, and anti-inflammatory properties. Apitherapy is a branch of alternative medicine that uses honey bee products, including honey, pollen, propolis, royal jelly and bee venom. 
Do pumpkin seed preparations improve symptoms caused by a benign enlarged prostate? [SEP] Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), also called prostate enlargement, is a noncancerous increase in size of the prostate gland. Surgical removal of part of the prostate may be carried out in those who do not improve with other measures. Other herbal medicines somewhat effective at improving urine flow include beta-sitosterol from Hypoxis rooperi (African star grass), pygeum (extracted from the bark of Prunus africana), pumpkin seeds (Cucurbita pepo), and stinging nettle (Urtica dioica) root.About 105 million men are affected globally. Therapy with a 5α-reductase inhibitor markedly reduces the DHT content of the prostate and, in turn, reduces prostate volume and BPH symptoms.Testosterone promotes prostate cell proliferation, but relatively low levels of serum testosterone are found in patients with BPH. An enlarged prostate gland on rectal examination that is symmetric and smooth supports a diagnosis of BPH. Through catheters, embolic agents are released in the main branches of the prostatic artery, in order to induce a decrease in the size of the prostate gland, thus reducing the urinary symptoms. Other herbal medicines somewhat effective at improving urine flow include beta-sitosterol from Hypoxis rooperi (African star grass), pygeum (extracted from the bark of Prunus africana), pumpkin seeds (Cucurbita pepo), and stinging nettle (Urtica dioica) root. References
External links

Extrinsic Compression by Prostate 
Can gels and ointments containing arnica, hawthorn, cypress, butcher's broom, Asian (or Indian) pennywort, and heparin, such as VaricoFix, relieve discomfort and secondary symptoms of varicose veins? [SEP] Evaluation of ointments:
Drug content
Release of medicament from base
Medicament penetration
Consistency of the preparation
Absorption of medicament into blood stream
Irritant effectProperties which affect choice of an ointment base are:
Stability
Penetrability
Solvent property
Irritant effects
Ease of application and removalMethods of preparation of ointments:

Fusion: In this method the ingredients are melted together in descending order of their melting points and stirred to ensure homogeneity. Examples are deodorant, antiperspirants, astringents, and hemostatic agents. For instance, King's American Dispensatory states in the entry on belladonna: "Belladonna and opium appear to exert antagonistic influences, especially as regards their action on the brain, the spinal cord, and heart; they have consequently been recommended and employed as antidotes to each other in cases of poisoning" going on to make the extravagant claim that "this matter is now positively and satisfactorily settled; hence in all cases of poisoning by belladonna the great remedy is morphine, and its use may be guided by the degree of pupillary contraction it occasions." Gallery
See also
Besom
Cunning folk
Deliriants
Hedgewitch
Nightshades
Witches' Sabbath
Johannes Hartlieb
Will Erich Peuckert

References
External links
Flying Potions and Getting to the Sabbat
Belladonna in flying ointments
Ritual of the Raven
If Witches No Longer Fly: Today's Pagans and the Solanaceous Plants
King's American Dispensatory on Belladonna
FLYING OINTMENTS: Their Ingredients and Their Use
Witches' Ointment: Information from the Gale Encyclopedia of Occultism & Parapsychology Arnica montana
The species Arnica montana, native to Europe, has long been used medicinally, but the effectiveness of this use has not been substantiated. Arnica montana is used as an herbal medicine for analgesic and anti-inflammatory purposes, but there is insufficient high-quality clinical evidence for such effects, and it is toxic when taken internally or applied to injured skin. Chemical constituents
The main constituents of Arnica montana are essential oils, fatty acids, thymol, pseudoguaianolide sesquiterpene lactones and flavanone glycosides. Use in herbal medicine
Arnica montana has been used as an herbal medicine for centuries, with it generally being employed for analgesic and anti-inflammatory purposes.Clinical trials of Arnica montana have yielded mixed results:

When used topically in a gel at 50% concentration, A. montana was found to have the same effectiveness (albeit with possibly worse side effects) as a 5% ibuprofen gel for treating the symptoms of hand osteoarthritis. 
Does putting onion bags help with acute otitis media? [SEP] He documented Roman beliefs about the onion's ability to improve ocular ailments, aid in sleep, and heal everything from oral sores and toothaches to dog bites, lumbago, and even dysentery. Management
Oral and topical pain killers are effective to treat the pain caused by otitis media. Antibiotics
Use of antibiotics for acute otitis media has benefits and harms. For people requiring surgery to treat otitis media with effusion, preventative antibiotics may not help reduce the risk of post-surgical complications.For bilateral acute otitis media in infants younger than 24 months, there is evidence that the benefits of antibiotics outweigh the harms. There is tentative evidence that children with recurrent acute otitis media (AOM) who receive tubes have a modest improvement in the number of further AOM episodes (around one fewer episode at six months and less of an improvement at 12 months following the tubes being inserted). An option for severe acute otitis media in which analgesics are not controlling ear pain is to perform a tympanocentesis, i.e., needle aspiration through the tympanic membrane to relieve the ear pain and to identify the causative organism(s). Burow's solution is a very effective remedy against both bacterial and fungal external otitis. Oral anti-pseudomonal antibiotics can be used in case of severe soft tissue swelling extending into the face and neck and may hasten recovery.Although the acute external otitis generally resolves in a few days with topical washes and antibiotics, complete return of hearing and cerumen gland function may take a few more days. 
Can serious problems occur after stopping antidepressants? [SEP] Rarely psychosis may occur.A discontinuation syndrome can occur after stopping any antidepressant including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin–norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) and tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). People may also be switched to the long acting antidepressant fluoxetine which can then be gradually decreased.Approximately 20–50% of people who suddenly stop an antidepressant develop an antidepressant discontinuation syndrome. While people taking antidepressants do not commonly exhibit drug-seeking behavior, stopping antidepressants leads to  similar symptoms as found in drug withdrawal from benzodiazapines, and other psychotropic drugs. Discontinuation syndrome, which resembles recurrent depression, along with post-SSRI sexual dysfunction (PSSD) in the case of the SSRI class, may occur after stopping the intake of any antidepressant, effects of which may be permanent and irreversible.Research regarding the effectiveness of antidepressants for depression in adults is controversial, and has found both benefits and drawbacks. Rarely psychosis may occur.A discontinuation syndrome can occur after stopping any antidepressant including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin–norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), and tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). People may also be switched to the long-acting antidepressant fluoxetine, which can then be gradually decreased.Approximately 20–50% of people who suddenly stop an antidepressant develop an antidepressant discontinuation syndrome. Antidepressant withdrawal syndrome may occur if stopped. Most healthcare providers will monitor patients more closely during the acute phase of treatment and continue to monitor them at longer intervals in the continuation and maintenance phases.Sometimes, people stop taking antidepressant medications due to side effects, although side effects often become less severe over time. 
Does self urine help with health problems? [SEP] Release of urine is experienced as a lessening of the discomfort. The loss of urine may be large. Behavioral therapy has benefits as both a monotherapy and as an adjunct to medications for symptom reduction.Avoiding heavy lifting and preventing constipation may help with uncontrollable urine leakage. Stopping smoking is also recommended as it is associated with improvements in urinary incontinence in men and women. This has the effect of pulling water from the interstitial space, making more water available in the blood, and causing the kidney to compensate by removing it as urine. Urine that leaves the body of a healthy person is close to being sterile and requires much less treatment for pathogen removal than feces or fecal sludge. The composition of urine reflects not only the functioning of the kidneys, but numerous other aspects of the body's regulatory processes. It is frequently used to help diagnose urinary tract infections and to investigate other issues with the urinary system, such as incontinence. 
Do unsaturated fats (from plants and fish) reduce cardiovascular disease compared to saturated fats (from meat and dairy products)? [SEP] "The replacement of saturated fat or trans unsaturated fat by cis (unhydrogenated) unsaturated fats was associated with larger reductions in risk than an isocaloric replacement by carbohydrates." By comparison, replacing a larger 5% of food energy from saturated fat with non-trans unsaturated fats reduces the risk of CAD by 43%.Another study considered deaths due to CAD, with consumption of trans fats being linked to an increase in mortality, and consumption of polyunsaturated fats being linked to a decrease in mortality.There are two accepted tests that measure an individual's risk for coronary artery disease, both blood tests. Saturated fat
Replacing saturated and trans unsaturated fats with unhydrogenated monounsaturated or polyunsaturated fats is more effective in preventing coronary heart disease than reducing overall fat intake. See saturated fat and cardiovascular disease. Unsaturated fat
Consumption of unsaturated fatty acids has been found to decrease LDL cholesterol levels and increase HDL cholesterol levels in the blood, thus reducing the risk of developing cardiovascular diseases.There are two types of unsaturated oils: mono- and poly-unsaturated fats, both of which are recognized as beneficial to health in contrast to saturated fats. Many careful studies have found that replacing saturated fats with cis unsaturated fats in the diet reduces risk of cardiovascular diseases (CVDs), diabetes, or death. "The replacement of saturated fat or trans unsaturated fat by cis (unhydrogenated) unsaturated fats was associated with larger reductions in risk than an isocaloric replacement by carbohydrates." OmniHeart demonstrated that partial replacement of carbohydrate with either protein (about half from plant sources) or with unsaturated fat (mostly monounsaturated fat) can further reduce blood pressure, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and coronary heart disease risk. 
Is a vegetarian diet including eggs and dairy products healthier than a diet that includes meat? [SEP] The committee that drafted it wrote: "The major findings regarding sustainable diets were that a diet higher in plant-based foods, such as vegetables, fruits, whole grains, legumes, nuts, and seeds, and lower in calories and animal-based foods is more health promoting and is associated with less environmental impact than is the current U.S. diet. Ovo-lacto vegetarianism: A vegetarian diet that includes eggs and dairy. There are many variations of the vegetarian diet: an ovo-lacto vegetarian diet includes both eggs and dairy products, an ovo-vegetarian diet includes eggs but not dairy products, and a lacto-vegetarian diet includes dairy products but not eggs. The American Dietetic Association has stated that at all stages of life, a properly planned vegetarian diet can be "healthful, nutritionally adequate, and may be beneficial in the prevention and treatment of certain diseases." Vegetarian diets offer lower levels of saturated fat, cholesterol and animal protein, and higher levels of carbohydrates, fibre, magnesium, potassium, folate, vitamins C and E, and phytochemicals. Protein
Protein intake in vegetarian diets tends to be lower than in meat diets but can meet the daily requirements for most people. The related vegan diets can often be higher in iron than vegetarian diets, because dairy products are low in iron. Dairy and eggs
One of the main differences between a vegan and a lacto-ovo vegetarian diet is the avoidance of both eggs and dairy products such as milk, cheese, butter and yogurt. 
Can washing hands with antibacterial soaps or wash lotions containing triclosan or triclocarban prevent the risk of contracting diseases in the household? [SEP] The majority of antibacterial soaps contain triclosan, though other chemical additives are also common. Ingredients
Triclosan and triclocarban are the most common compounds used as antibacterials in soaps. Effectiveness
Claims that antibacterial soap is effective stem from the long-standing knowledge that triclosan can inhibit the growth of various bacteria, as well as some fungi. However, more recent reviews have suggested that antibacterial soaps are no better than regular soaps at preventing illness or reducing bacteria on the hands of users.In September 2016, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration banned the use of the common antibacterial ingredients triclosan and triclocarban, and 17 other ingredients frequently used in "antibacterial" soaps and washes, due to insufficient information on the long-term health effects of their use and a lack of evidence on their effectiveness. This is due to the fact that hand sanitizer typically utilizes alcohol
to kill microbes rather than triclosan or similar ingredients.A 2017 statement by 200 scientists and medics published in the scientific journal Environmental Health Perspectives warns that anti-bacterial soaps and gels are useless and may cause harm.The statement also cautioned against the use of antimicrobial agents in food contact materials, textiles, and paints. )".In September 2016, the FDA ruled that antibacterial soaps containing triclocarban and triclosan can no longer be marketed. Some studies suggest that antimicrobial hand soaps containing triclosan provide a slightly greater bacterial reduction on the hands compared to plain soap. Alternatives
A comprehensive meta-analysis published in 2007 indicated that, in community settings, plain soap was no less effective than soaps containing triclosan for "preventing infectious illness symptoms and reducing bacterial levels on the hands. 
Can hand washing with antibacterial soaps or wash lotions containing other disinfectants reduce the risk of infection compared to regular soap??? [SEP] Soap lifts pathogens from the skin, and studies show that people tend to wash their hands more thoroughly when soap is used rather than water alone. 48% of reductions in diarrhoea episodes can be associated with hand washing with soap.Handwashing with soap is the single most effective and inexpensive way to prevent diarrhea and acute respiratory infections (ARI), as automatic behavior performed in homes, schools, and communities worldwide. Besides the surfactant and skin-protecting agent, the sophisticated formulations may contain acids (acetic acid, ascorbic acid, lactic acid) as pH regulator, antimicrobially active benzoic acid and further skin conditioners (aloe vera, vitamins, menthol, plant extracts).A 2007 meta-analysis from the University of Oregon School of Public Health indicated that plain soaps are as effective as consumer-grade anti-bacterial soaps containing triclosan in preventing illness and removing bacteria from the hands. Effectiveness in healthcare settings
To reduce the spread of pathogens, it is better to wash the hands or use a hand antiseptic before and after tending to a sick person. Washing with plain soap results in more than triple the rate of bacterial infectious disease transmitted to food as compared to washing with antibacterial soap.Comparing hand-rubbing with alcohol-based solution with hand washing with antibacterial soap for a median time of 30 seconds each showed that the alcohol hand-rubbing reduced bacterial contamination 26% more than the antibacterial soap. However, one review suggests that promoting hand washing with soap is significantly more cost-effective than other water and sanitation interventions. The FDA stated "There is no data demonstrating that over-the-counter antibacterial soaps are better at preventing illness than washing with plain soap and water". This is due to the fact that hand sanitizer typically utilizes alcohol
to kill microbes rather than triclosan or similar ingredients.A 2017 statement by 200 scientists and medics published in the scientific journal Environmental Health Perspectives warns that anti-bacterial soaps and gels are useless and may cause harm.The statement also cautioned against the use of antimicrobial agents in food contact materials, textiles, and paints. 
Does homeopathy work better than a placebo? [SEP] Efficacy
No individual homeopathic preparation has been unambiguously shown by research to be different from placebo. Referring specifically to homeopathy, the House of Commons of the United Kingdom Science and Technology Committee has stated:In the Committee's view, homeopathy is a placebo treatment and the Government should have a policy on prescribing placebos. Efficacy
No individual homeopathic preparation has been unambiguously shown by research to be different from placebo. No good-quality, well-designed studies with enough participants for a meaningful result reported either that homeopathy caused greater health improvements than placebo, or caused health improvements equal to those of another treatment. The authors concluded that "the results of the available randomized trials suggest that individualized homeopathy has an effect over placebo. : 209  A 2014 systematic review and meta-analysis found that individualized homeopathic remedies may be slightly more effective than placebos, though the authors noted that their findings were based on low- or unclear-quality evidence. Explanations of perceived effects
Science offers a variety of explanations for how homeopathy may appear to cure diseases or alleviate symptoms even though the preparations themselves are inert:: 155–167 
The placebo effect – the intensive consultation process and expectations for the homeopathic preparations may cause the effect. who concluded on the basis of a systematic review of the scientific literature that there is no evidence that homeopathic treatments work better than a placebo. 
Does toothpaste containing xylitol reduce the risk of caries? [SEP] Xylitol
A systematic review reported two out of ten studies by the same authors on the same population showed toothpastes with xylitol as an ingredient were more effective at preventing dental caries in permanent teeth of children than toothpastes containing fluoride alone. Replacing sugar with xylitol in food products may promote better dental health, but evidence is lacking on whether xylitol itself prevents dental cavities. Over long periods of xylitol use, S. mutans alters its enzymatic activity.Chewing gums containing xylitol and sorbitol may affect caries development. A Cochrane review suggested a positive anticariogenic effect of xylitol-containing fluoride toothpastes when compared to fluoride-only toothpaste, but there was insufficient evidence to determine whether other xylitol-containing products can prevent caries in infants, children or adults. As of 2015 the evidence concerning the use of xylitol in chewing gum was insufficient to determine if it is effective at preventing caries. There are often claims of significant dental benefits of Xylitol. Dental health
Sugar-free gum sweetened with xylitol has been shown to reduce cavities and plaque. There is evidence that the addition of xylitol to fluoride-containing toothpastes reduces incidence of tooth decay by about 13%. 
Do other xylitol-containing products (e.g. chewing gums, sweets, mouth rinses) reduce the risk of caries in addition to normal dental care? [SEP] Replacing sugar with xylitol in food products may promote better dental health, but evidence is lacking on whether xylitol itself prevents dental cavities. Over long periods of xylitol use, S. mutans alters its enzymatic activity.Chewing gums containing xylitol and sorbitol may affect caries development. Xylitol-containing chewing gums displayed anticariogenic properties in all protocols, but it was unclear whether this effect was due to increased saliva flow. A Cochrane review suggested a positive anticariogenic effect of xylitol-containing fluoride toothpastes when compared to fluoride-only toothpaste, but there was insufficient evidence to determine whether other xylitol-containing products can prevent caries in infants, children or adults. Xylitol has been posited to have a plaque-reducing effect which helps to prevent dental caries, but a 2014 meta-analysis found only a weak effect. Despite the weak evidence for their benefits, xylitol-sweetened mints are still better for dental health than sugared breath mints, as sugar actively contributes to tooth decay while xylitol does not. Dental health
Sugar-free gum sweetened with xylitol has been shown to reduce cavities and plaque. One study has shown that calcium lactate enhances enamel remineralization when added to xylitol-containing gum, but another study showed no additional remineralization benefit from calcium lactate or other calcium compounds in chewing-gum.Other studies indicated that the caries preventive effect of chewing sugar-free gum is related to the chewing process itself rather than being an effect of gum sweeteners or additives, such as polyols and carbamide. 
Are paper towels or electric dryers more hygienic after washing hands? [SEP] However, paper towels are quicker than hand dryers: after ten seconds, paper towels achieve 90% dryness, while hot air dryers require 40 seconds to achieve a similar dryness. WHO recommends that everyone “frequently clean [their] hands…” and “dry [them] thoroughly by using paper towels or a warm air dryer.” The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report that, “Both [clean towels or air hand dryers] are effective ways to dry hands.” 
A study in 2020 found that hand dryers and paper towels were both found to be equally hygienic hand-drying solutions.Other research suggests paper towels are much more hygienic than the electric hand dryers found in many public toilets. A review in 2012 concluded that "From a hygiene standpoint, paper towels are superior to air dryers; therefore, paper towels should be recommended for use in locations in which hygiene is paramount, such as hospitals and clinics. Respondents overwhelmingly considered paper towels to offer faster hand drying than electric hand dryers (68% vs 14%). The CDC report that, "Both [clean towels or air hand dryers] are effective ways to dry hands." A growing volume of research suggests paper towels are much more hygienic than the electric hand dryers found in many public toilets. A review in 2012 concluded that "From a hygiene standpoint, paper towels are superior to air dryers; therefore, paper towels should be recommended for use in locations in which hygiene is paramount, such as hospitals and clinics. Paper towels are more hygienic than electric air dryers. 
Are soy foods risky for people with unremarkable, or subclinical, hypothyroidism? [SEP] Soy milk does not naturally contain significant amounts of digestible calcium. There is insufficient research to indicate whether taking soy dietary supplements (e.g., as a pill or capsule) has any effect on health or cancer risk.As of 2018, rigorous dietary clinical research in people with cancer has proved inconclusive. Cardiovascular health
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted the following health claim for soy: "25 grams of soy protein a day, as part of a diet low in saturated fat and cholesterol, may reduce the risk of heart disease." AHA concluded that "many soy products should be beneficial to cardiovascular and overall health because of their high content of polyunsaturated fats, fiber, vitamins, and minerals and low content of saturated fat". Soy allergy
Allergy to soy is common, and the food is listed with other foods that commonly cause allergy, such as milk, eggs, peanuts, tree nuts, shellfish. Only a few reported studies have attempted to confirm allergy to soy by direct challenge with the food under controlled conditions. Soy can also trigger symptoms via food intolerance, a situation where no allergic mechanism can be proven. Thyroid function
One review noted that soy-based foods may inhibit absorption of thyroid hormone medications required for treatment of hypothyroidism. 
Does taking vitamin B3 prolong life? [SEP] Cobalt deficiency
In humans, consumption of cobalt-containing vitamin B12 meets all needs for cobalt. Another review finds that omega-3 fatty acids and vitamin D are among the nutritional factors known to have a beneficial effect on mental health. Life extension
There is some evidence metformin may be helpful in extending lifespan, even in otherwise healthy people. It has received substantial interest as an agent that delays aging, possibly through similar mechanisms as its treatment of diabetes (insulin and carbohydrate regulation).A study used retrospective observational data from the UK Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) from 2000. Use of slow or extended-release preparations may improve tolerability.Long-term use of metformin has been associated with increased homocysteine levels and malabsorption of vitamin B12. Higher doses and prolonged use are associated with increased incidence of vitamin B12 deficiency, and some researchers recommend screening or prevention strategies. They also had reduced cancer and cardiovascular disease compared with those on other therapies.There is also some research suggest that although metformin prevents diabetes, it does not reduce the risk of cancer and cardiovascular disease and thus does not extend lifespan in non-diabetic individuals. Furthermore, some studies suggest that long-term chronic use of metformin by healthy individuals may develop vitamin B12 deficiency. 
Can taking Ribose help with heart conditions such as heart failure, narrowing of the coronary arteries (coronary artery disease), or heart attack? [SEP] Medical uses
d-ribose has been suggested for use in management of congestive heart failure (as well as other forms of heart disease) and for chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS), also called myalgic encephalomyelitis (ME) in an open-label non-blinded, non-randomized, and non-crossover subjective study.Supplemental d-ribose can bypass part of the pentose phosphate pathway, an energy-producing pathway, to produce d-ribose-5-phosphate. Studies suggest that supplementing d-ribose following tissue ischemia (e.g. Supplemental d-ribose enhances recovery of ATP levels while also reducing cellular injury in humans and other animals. One study suggested that the use of supplemental d-ribose reduces the instance of angina in men with diagnosed coronary artery disease. d-Ribose has been used to treat many pathological conditions, such as chronic fatigue syndrome, fibromyalgia, and myocardial dysfunction. This is recommended in those with symptoms consistent with heart failure such as shortness of breath.The European Society of Cardiology defines the diagnosis of heart failure as symptoms and signs consistent with heart failure in combination with "objective evidence of cardiac structural or functional abnormalities". Heart failure can also be prevented by lowering high blood pressure and high blood cholesterol, and by controlling diabetes. This regimen has been shown to reduce mortality in people with moderate heart failure. 
Are vitamins and minerals effective and safe in lowering cholesterol? [SEP] The United States National Institutes of Health states that supplements "may be of value" for those who are nutrient deficient from their diet and receive approval from their medical provider.In the United States, it is against federal regulations for supplement manufacturers to claim that these products prevent or treat any disease. "Adequate calcium and vitamin D as part of a healthful diet, along with physical activity, may reduce the risk of osteoporosis in later life. Society and culture
Public health
Work done by scientists in the early 20th century on identifying individual nutrients in food and developing ways to manufacture them raised hopes that optimal health could be achieved and diseases prevented by adding them to food and providing people with dietary supplements; while there were successes in preventing vitamin deficiencies, and preventing conditions like neural tube defects by supplementation and food fortification with folic acid, no targeted supplementation or fortification strategies to prevent major diseases like cancer or cardiovascular diseases have proved successful.For example, while increased consumption of fruits and vegetables are related to decreases in mortality, cardiovascular diseases and cancers, supplementation with key factors found in fruits and vegetable, like antioxidants, vitamins, or minerals, do not help and some have been found to be harmful in some cases. Absence of benefit
The potential benefit of using essential nutrient dietary supplements to lower the risk of diseases has been refuted by findings of no effect or weak evidence in numerous clinical reviews, such as for HIV, or tuberculosis. A 2021 scientific review of evidence on diets for lowering the risk of atherosclerosis found that:
low consumption of salt and foods of animal origin, and increased intake of plant-based foods—whole grains, fruits, vegetables, legumes, and nuts—are linked with reduced atherosclerosis risk. Some studies have found a link between cholesterol consumption and serum cholesterol levels. Some supplements have exhibited benefits for specific conditions, while a few have been confirmed to be harmful; the consumption of nutritious foods is the best recognized method to obtain vitamins, minerals, and nutrients crucial for good health. Initial hopes for the usefulness of vitamin E in orthomolecular medicine were based on epidemiological studies suggesting that people who consumed more vitamin E had lower risks of chronic disease, such as coronary heart disease. 
Is fasting effective and safe in the long term for arthritis and other diseases? [SEP] Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a long-term autoimmune disorder that primarily affects joints. The combination of aerobic activity and cryotherapy may be an innovative therapeutic strategy to improve the aerobic capacity in arthritis patients and consequently reduce their cardiovascular risk while minimizing pain and disease activity. Studies showing beneficial effects in RA on a wide variety of CAM modalities are often affected by publication bias and are generally not high quality evidence such as randomized controlled trials (RCTs).A 2005 Cochrane review states that low level laser therapy can be tried to improve pain and morning stiffness due to rheumatoid arthritis as there are few side-effects.There is limited evidence that Tai Chi might improve the range of motion of a joint in persons with rheumatoid arthritis. Gamma-linolenic acid, an omega-6 fatty acid, may reduce pain, tender joint count and stiffness, and is generally safe. Collectively, the current evidence is not strong enough to determine that supplementation with omega-3 fatty acids or regular consumption of fish are effective treatments for rheumatoid arthritis. There is beneficial effect in using a Mediterranean diet and Dong diet for a reduction in the number of tender joints, stiffness, and pain.Vitamins
Adequate Vitamin concentrations may provide an important defence against the increased oxidant stress in patients with RA. A 2014 Cochrane review found that while ASU might help relieve pain in the short term for some people with osteoarthritis, it does not appear to improve or maintain the health of affected joints. To limit the possible risk of dietary intake disturbing hemostasis in acute gastrointestinal bleeding, temporary fasting is often considered necessary in hospital settings. 
Do green smoothies promote health? [SEP] Super Smoothies consist of a blend of fruits, veg, botanicals and crushed flax seeds, with added vitamins.In 2015 they launched a range of cold press fruit and veg juices.In 2018 the brand launched their first range of vegan nut and oat drinks. In the first study, scientists at the Department of Biological and Medical Sciences, Oxford Brookes University, said suggestions that puréeing fruit destroys the cell wall matrix that gives fruit its structure and makes smoothies less fibrous than fruit eaten whole were not justified. "This is particularly evident when you look at a smoothie under the microscope and can see big chunks or undamaged cellular material," said lead author Professor Chris Hawes. Researchers found smoothies contained comparable fiber to that contained in whole fruit. In the study by Oxford Brookes Functional Food Centre, the strawberry and banana and mango and passion fruit Innocent smoothies were found to have a low GI value, meaning the naturally found sugars were absorbed slowly by the body, making them no more harmful than the impact of eating an apple on blood glucose levels. The extent to which polyphenols as dietary antioxidants may promote health is unknown, as no credible evidence indicates any antioxidant role for polyphenols in vivo.When three commercially available juice mixes, containing unspecified percentages of açaí juice, were compared for in vitro antioxidant capacity against red wine, tea, six types of pure fruit juice, and pomegranate juice, the average antioxidant capacity ranked lower than that of pomegranate juice, Concord grape juice, blueberry juice, and red wine. The average was roughly equivalent to that of black cherry or cranberry juice, and was higher than that of orange juice, apple juice, and tea.The medical watchdog website Quackwatch said that "açaí juice has only middling levels of antioxidants – less than that of Concord grape, blueberry, and black cherry juices, but more than cranberry, orange, and apple juices." The brand is focused on consuming more fruits and vegetables for improving health. 
Does chocolate have a mood-lifting effect? [SEP] Subsequent to this, there has been a resurgence in interest in stimulants for depression in recent years.Stimulants produce a fast-acting and pronounced but transient and short-lived mood lift. At therapeutic doses, this causes emotional and cognitive effects such as euphoria, change in libido, increased arousal, and improved cognitive control. It seemed to add to the mood. Some foods may be tied to improving cognitive function. While not a true element of diet, chewing on a piece of gum may also help to improve certain elements of episodic and working memory. Research illustrates that this technique for stress management can increase memory by doing so, allowing for influence on stress processing pathways in the amygdala and prefrontal cortex. Promising results have been found suggesting that learning music can improve various aspects of memory. See also
Cognitive enhancer
Effect of caffeine on memory
Emotion and memory
Music-related memory
Sleep and Memory
Spaced repetition
Working memory training

Notes


== References == 
Do sprouts or buds have a healing effect? [SEP] Stages of development
Germination
Germination is the process by which a seed sprouts and a root emerges. This process can take from a few days to two weeks, depending on the size and density of the buds and the relative humidity of the air. Topping also causes more rapid growth of all of the branches below the cut while the plant heals. In general, this produces a plant that is healthier, stronger, or quicker growing than its predecessors. There are several other propagation ways via seeds or buds. The extracts of these plants also possess wound healing and anti-inflammatory activities which could also be attributed to the phytoconstituents.Clematis has been listed as one of the 38 plants used to prepare Bach flower remedies, a kind of alternative medicine promoted for its effect on health. These identities are still somewhat flexible, but the initial characterization is important to the embryonic remodelling process.Angiogenesis also contributes to the complexity of the initial network; spouting endothelial buds form by an extrusion-like process which is prompted by the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). When blood flow is disrupted, angiogenesis provides sprouting vessels which migrate into deprived tissues and restore perfusion. 
Is belly fat or is a large abdominal girth particularly dangerous for health? [SEP] Abdominal obesity, also known as central obesity and truncal obesity, is the human condition of an excessive concentration of visceral fat around the stomach and abdomen to such an extent that it is likely to harm its bearer's health. Health risks
Heart disease
Abdominal obesity is typically associated with a statistically higher risk of heart disease, hypertension, insulin resistance, and type 2 diabetes (see below). It is now generally believed that intra-abdominal fat is the depot that conveys the biggest health risk.Recent validation has concluded that total and regional body volume estimates correlate positively and significantly with biomarkers of cardiovascular risk and BVI calculations correlate significantly with all biomarkers of cardio-vascular risk. (2007) concluded that a high abdominal circumference is associated with great functional repercussion.Research published in The Lancet (2023) found that high levels of visceral fat were related to poorer cognitive performance. Another diagnosis of obesity is the analysis of intra-abdominal fat having the most risk to one's personal health. As mentioned above, abdominal fat is linked with cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and cancer. Specifically it is the deepest layer of belly fat (the fat that cannot be seen or grabbed) that poses health risks, as these "visceral" fat cells produce hormones that can affect health (e.g. Excess abdominal fat is a risk factor for developing heart disease and other obesity related diseases. 
Can choline ingested with food - alone or in the form of lecithin, for example - improve memory? [SEP] Its consumption elevates the free choline levels for about 8–12 hours, but does not affect phosphatidylcholine levels significantly.Choline is a water-soluble ion and thus requires transporters to pass through fat-soluble cell membranes. It substitutes for choline nutritionally, but only partially. Higher maternal intake of choline is likely associated with better neurocognition/neurodevelopment in children. Cognition
Studies observing the effect between higher choline intake and cognition have been conducted in human adults, with contradictory results. In particular, there is interest in the impact of choline consumption on the brain. Choline is also in demand for the production of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine, which can influence the structure and organization of brain regions, neurogenesis, myelination, and synapse formation. N-cyclohexylcholine inhibits choline uptake primarily in brains. Certain conducted double-blind, placebo-controlled studies of the effects of choline bitartrate treatment against Alzheimer-type dementias suggest improvement in some areas of patients' cognitive performance. 
Does white sugar cause cancer? [SEP] Approved artificial sweeteners do not cause cancer. Acceptable daily intake levels
Approved artificial sweeteners do not cause cancer. Cancer
Artificial sweeteners do not cause cancer. Multiple reviews have found no link between artificial sweeteners and the risk of developing cancer. White sugar is a refined form of sucrose. Excessive consumption of sugar is associated with obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, cancer and tooth decay. Some studies report evidence of causality between high consumption of refined sugar and hyperactivity. White women are at a 30–40% higher risk for ovarian cancer when compared to Black women and Hispanic women, likely due to socioeconomic factors; white women tend to have fewer children and different rates of gynecologic surgeries that affect risk for ovarian cancer.Tentative evidence suggests that talc, pesticides, and herbicides increase the risk of ovarian cancer. 
Do wound care products with sodium hypochlorite such as ActiMaris promote the healing process of wounds? [SEP] Cleaning
Sodium hypochlorite has destaining properties. It is also used in sodium hypochlorite washes. Disinfection
Sodium hypochlorite in solution exhibits broad spectrum anti-microbial activity and is widely used in healthcare facilities in a variety of settings. Liquids containing sodium hypochlorite as the main active component are also used for household cleaning and disinfection, for example toilet cleaners. Endodontics
Sodium hypochlorite is the medicament of choice due to its efficacy against pathogenic organisms and pulp digestion in endodontic therapy. According to work published by researchers at the Stanford University School of Medicine in November 2013, a very dilute (0.005%) solution of sodium hypochlorite in water was successful in treating skin damage with an inflammatory component caused by radiation therapy, excess sun exposure or aging in laboratory mice. Wound Healing and Repair
Lorenz H.P. Wounds: Biology, Pathology, and Management. 
Does the dietary supplement MSM help with osteoarthritis? [SEP] Some researchers have suggested that MSM has anti-inflammatory effects. These studies of MSM have suggested some benefits, particularly for treatment of oxidative stress and osteoarthritis, but evidence for other uses is lacking. The review authors stated: "No definitive conclusion can currently be drawn" and there is "no definitive evidence that MSM is superior to placebo in the treatment of mild to moderate osteoarthritis of the knee. Two other studies investigated the effects of MSM in combination with glucosamine and chondroitin (GC) on joint function. Oxidative stress and inflammation
Multiple human and animal trials indicate MSM may reduce oxidative stress and inflammation. In one small human trial, MSM has been shown to protect muscles from damage by reducing the amount of oxidative stress damage incurred through exercise. In a second small trial the total antioxidant capacity was significantly increased after taking MSM. A 2004 multi-centered, open-label clinical trial found that MSM reduced both upper and lower respiratory symptoms associated with seasonal allergic rhinitis (SAR), and increased energy levels. 
Is wheat lectin, which is found in high amounts especially in whole wheat, harmful to health? [SEP] Raw lentils, for example, contain lectins, anti-nutritional proteins which can be reduced by sprouting or cooking. Corn, soy and safflower oil are sources of lecithin, though the majority of lecithin commercially available is derived from soy. According to the FDA, no evidence shows or suggests hazard to the public when lecithin is used at common levels. Lecithin added to foods amounts to only 2 to 10 percent of the 1 to 5 g of phosphoglycerides consumed daily on average. No reports of ill effects have been documented in the human population from genetically modified food.There is a scientific consensus that currently available food derived from GM crops poses no greater risk to human health than conventional food, but that each GM food needs to be tested on a case-by-case basis before introduction. Pusztai fed rats potatoes transformed with the Galanthus nivalis agglutinin (GNA) gene from the Galanthus (snowdrop) plant, allowing the tuber to synthesise the GNA lectin protein. While some companies were considering growing GM crops expressing lectin, GNA was an unlikely candidate. Lectin is toxic, especially to gut epithelia. 
Is it harmful to health to regularly eat large quantities of fish contaminated with dioxins and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs)? [SEP] However, two other recent umbrella reviews have found no statistically significant associations between fish consumption and cancer risks and have cautioned researchers when it comes to interpreting reported associations between fish consumption and cancer risks because the quality of evidence is very low.The parts of fish containing essential fats and micronutrients, often cited as primary health benefits for eating seafood, are frequently discarded in the developed world. Fish and shellfish have a natural tendency to concentrate inorganic and organic toxins and pollutants in their bodies, including methylmercury, a highly toxic organic compound of mercury, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), and microplastics. A widely cited study in JAMA which synthesised government and MEDLINE reports, and meta-analyses to evaluate risks from methylmercury, dioxins, and polychlorinated biphenyls to cardiovascular health and links between fish consumption and neurologic outcomes concluded that: "The benefits of modest fish consumption (1-2 servings/wk) outweigh the risks among adults and, excepting a few selected fish species, among women of childbearing age. In a study of 32 different common food products from three grocery stores in Dallas, fish and other animal products were found to be contaminated with PBDE. Some suspect fish consumption is a major source of many environmental contaminants. Recent studies show the endocrine interference of certain PCB congeners is toxic to the liver and thyroid, increases childhood obesity in children exposed prenatally, and may increase the risk of developing diabetes.PCBs in the environment may also be related to reproductive and infertility problems in wildlife. Potential health concern: PBDEs are structurally very similar to Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), and have similar neurotoxic effects. Research has correlated halogenated hydrocarbons, such as PCBs, with neurotoxicity. 
Is the DMPS test suitable to reliably indicate mercury poisoning? [SEP] Mercury poisoning is a type of metal poisoning due to exposure to mercury. In those with acute poisoning from inorganic mercury salts, chelation with either dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) or dimercaptopropane sulfonate (DMPS) appears to improve outcomes if given within a few hours of exposure. Although whole-blood mercury concentrations are typically less than 6 μg/L, diets rich in fish can result in blood mercury concentrations higher than 200 μg/L; it is not that useful to measure these levels for suspected cases of elemental or inorganic poisoning because of mercury's short half-life in the blood. Chelation therapy
Chelation therapy for acute inorganic mercury poisoning, a formerly common method, was done with DMSA, 2,3-dimercapto-1-propanesulfonic acid (DMPS), D-penicillamine (DPCN), or dimercaprol (BAL). Only DMSA is FDA-approved for use in children for treating mercury poisoning. However, several studies found no clear clinical benefit from DMSA treatment for poisoning due to mercury vapor. The EPA has classified mercuric chloride and methyl mercury as possible human carcinogens (ATSDR, EPA)

Detection in biological fluids
Mercury may be measured in blood or urine to confirm a diagnosis of poisoning in hospitalized people or to assist in the forensic investigation in a case of fatal over dosage. A study has shown that acute exposure (4–8 hours) to calculated elemental mercury levels of 1.1 to 44 mg/m3 resulted in chest pain, dyspnea, cough, hemoptysis, impairment of pulmonary function, and evidence of interstitial pneumonitis. 
Can stevia lower high blood pressure? [SEP] A class of drugs called angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) increase bradykinin levels by inhibiting its degradation, thereby increasing its blood pressure lowering effect. ACE inhibitors are FDA approved for the treatment of hypertension and heart failure. In the second study, the total and LDL-cholesterol levels of mildly hypercholesterolaemic men were lowered.In another study, a dietary supplement consisting of both soluble fibre (guar gum, pectin) and insoluble fibre (soy fibre, pea fibre, corn bran) was found to reduce LDL-cholesterol for individuals that have mild to moderate hypercholesterolaemia without reducing HDL-cholesterol  or increasing triglycerides.Supplements containing extracted insoluble fibre may have an effect on blood lipids that most resembles the effects of dietary fibre. Paracetamol may slightly increase systolic blood pressure in hypertensive patients at a dose of 4 grams a day. Paracetamol slightly but significantly increases blood pressure and heart rate. In animal models, 20-HETE raises blood pressure by contracting arteries and stimulating the kidney to reabsorb salt and water to increase the intravascular volume (see 20-Hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid). This causes these cells to relax and thereby lowers blood pressure. Hypertension
As indicated above, 20-HETE may raise blood pressure by constricting arterial blood vessels but also may lower blood pressure by promoting the loss of sodium and fluids in the kidneys. 
Is eating genetically modified corn a health concern? [SEP] Genetically modified maize (corn) is a genetically modified crop. No reports of ill effects have been documented in the human population from genetically modified food.There is a scientific consensus that currently available food derived from GM crops poses no greater risk to human health than conventional food, but that each GM food needs to be tested on a case-by-case basis before introduction. Health
There is a scientific consensus that currently available food derived from GM crops poses no greater risk to human health than conventional food, but that each GM food needs to be tested on a case-by-case basis before introduction. These cases have been used as evidence that genetic modification can produce unexpected and dangerous changes in foods, and as evidence that safety tests effectively protect the food supply.During the Starlink corn recalls in 2000, a variety of GM maize containing the Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) protein Cry9C, was found contaminating corn products in U.S. supermarkets and restaurants. About 90% of the corn grown in the US was genetically modified in 2010. Health and safety
There is a scientific consensus that currently available food derived from GM crops poses no greater risk to human health than conventional food, but that each GM food needs to be tested on a case-by-case basis before introduction. In 1996 FDA updated consultation procedures.The StarLink corn recalls occurred in the autumn of 2000, when over 300 food products were found to contain a genetically modified maize/corn that had not been approved for human consumption. Although there is a scientific consensus that currently available food derived from GM crops poses no greater risk to human health than conventional food, critics consider GM food safety a leading concern. 
Are privately performed IgG tests to clarify food intolerances meaningful? [SEP] There are specific diagnostic tests for certain food intolerances. Clinical investigation is generally undertaken only for more serious cases, as for minor complaints which do not significantly limit the person's lifestyle the cure may be more inconvenient than the problem.Immunoglobulin (IgG) tests measure the types of food-specific antibodies present. Most commercially available tests only test for IgG4 antibodies, however some companies such as YorkTest Laboratories test for all four types.IgG4 only tests are debatably invalid; IgG4 presence indicates that the person has been repeatedly exposed to food proteins recognized as foreign by the immune system which is a normal physiological response of the immune system after exposure to food components. The IgG-4 test specificity is questionable as healthy individuals with no symptoms of food intolerance also test positive for IgG-4 to several foods.Diagnosis is made using medical history and cutaneous and serological tests to exclude other causes, but to obtain final confirmation a double blind controlled food challenge must be performed. Clinically, measured IgG antibody levels are generally considered to be indicative of an individual's immune status to particular pathogens. A common example of this practice are titers drawn to demonstrate serologic immunity to measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR), hepatitis B virus, and varicella (chickenpox), among others.Testing of IgG is not indicated for diagnosis of allergy, and there is no evidence that it has any relationship to food intolerances. Food challenges test for allergens other than those caused by IgE allergens. Unlike with IgE reactions, there are no specific biomarker molecules circulating in the blood, and confirmation of the allergy is achieved by removing the suspect food from the diet and determining if symptoms dissipate as a result. 
Is a gluten-free diet recommended for people who do not have celiac disease? [SEP] People with a poor understanding of a gluten-free diet often believe that they are strictly following the diet, but are making regular errors.In addition, a gluten-free diet may, in at least some cases, improve gastrointestinal or systemic symptoms in diseases like irritable bowel syndrome, rheumatoid arthritis, or HIV enteropathy, among others. Although gluten is highly immunologically reactive and humans appear not to have evolved to digest it well, a gluten-free diet is not a healthier option for the general population, other than people with gluten-related disorders or other associated conditions which improve with a gluten-free diet in some cases, such as irritable bowel syndrome and certain autoimmune and neurological disorders. Local initiatives by clinical commissioning groups had already reduced the cost of gluten-free foods to the NHS by 39% between 2015 and 2017.Healthcare professionals recommend against undertaking a gluten-free diet as a form of self-diagnosis, because tests for coeliac disease are reliable only if the person has been consuming gluten recently. Eating gluten-free
A gluten-free diet is a diet that strictly excludes gluten, proteins present in wheat (and all wheat varieties such as spelt and kamut), barley, rye, oat, and derivatives of these grains such as malt and triticale, and foods that may include them, or shared transportation or processing facilities with them. Catassi and Fasano proposed in 2010 that in patients without celiac disease antibodies, either lymphocytic infiltration associated with IgA subepithelial deposits or a histological response to a gluten-free diet, could support a diagnosis of celiac disease. Many people who are making a gluten-free diet did not previously exclude celiac disease or, when they are fully evaluated, other alternative diagnoses can be found such as fructose intolerance or small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, or a better response to a low-FODMAP diet obtained. The results of a 2017 study suggest that non-celiac gluten sensitivity may be a chronic disorder, as is the case with celiac disease.For people with wheat allergy, the individual average is six years of gluten-free diet, excepting persons with anaphylaxis, for whom the diet is to be wheat-free for life.Preferably, newly diagnosed celiacs seek the help of a dietician to receive support for identifying hidden sources of gluten, planning balanced meals, reading labels, food shopping, dining out, and dining during travel. Risks of non-medical and self-diagnosed adoption of a gluten-free diet
Withdrawing gluten from the diet without previously carrying out a complete medical examination can hamper the diagnosis of celiac disease. 
Does the plant substance nobiletin contained in mandarins protect against weight gain? [SEP] In general, it acts as an inhibitory chemical compound that affects bud growth, and seed and bud dormancy. They inhibit root growth and leaf abscission. Nobiletin is a flavonoid isolated from citrus peels. References
External links
Nobiletin, phytochemicals.info Nobiletin (NBL), tangeretin and sinensetin, where nobiletin is predominate. A mature mandarin tree can yield up to 79 kilograms (175 lb) of fruit. Medical
Traditional medicine
In traditional Chinese medicine, the dried peel of the fruit is used in the regulation of ch'i and to enhance digestion. Cleopatra mandarin, acidic mandarin containing very small amount of pomelo introgression. 
Does consumption of dairy products in middle and advanced age protect against bone fractures? [SEP] A diet high in protein may be optimal for bone health, as higher protein diets tend to increase absorption of calcium from the diet and are associated with higher bone density. People with lactose intolerance or milk allergy may develop osteoporosis due to restrictions of calcium-containing foods. A 2018 review by the USPSTF found low-quality evidence that the routine use of calcium and vitamin D supplements (or both supplements together) did not reduce the risk of having an osteoporotic fracture in male and female adults living in the community who had no known history of vitamin D deficiency, osteoporosis, or a fracture. The USPSTF does not recommend low dose supplementation (less than 1 g of calcium and 400 IU of vitamin D) in postmenopausal women as there does not appear to be a difference in fracture risk. There has been conflicting evidence about whether or not dairy is an adequate source of calcium to prevent fractures. A review of the evidence shows no adverse effect of higher protein intake on bone health. There is some evidence that physical exercise may be beneficial for bone density in postmenopausal women and lead to a slightly reduced risk of a bone fracture (absolute difference 4%). A position statement concluded that increased bone activity and weight-bearing exercises at a young age prevent bone fragility in adults. 
Is the milk of horn-bearing cows less rich in allergens and more easily tolerated by lactose-intolerant individuals? [SEP] Immune factors and immune-modulating components in milk contribute to milk immunity. Milk contains many nutrients, including protein and lactose.As an agricultural product, dairy milk is collected from farm animals. The term dairy relates to animal milk and animal milk production. Dairy cattle, such as the Holstein, have been bred selectively for increased milk production. Milk from other bovines and non-bovine mammals varies in composition, but has a similar pH. Allergy
One of the most common food allergies in infants is to cow's milk. In the Qur'an, there is a request to wonder on milk as follows: "And surely in the livestock there is a lesson for you, We give you to drink of that which is in their bellies from the midst of digested food and blood, pure milk palatable for the drinkers" (16-The Honeybee, 66). In one study, subjects allergic to milk were 16x more likely to develop complete milk tolerance compared to complete milk avoidance. 
Does daily flossing protect against tooth decay, periodontitis and tooth loss? [SEP] Reasons
Brushing teeth properly helps prevent cavities, and periodontal, or gum disease, which causes at least one-third of adult tooth loss. Further evidence is needed to determine the clinical importance of these findings.Patients need to be aware of the importance of brushing and flossing their teeth daily. Eating a balanced diet and limiting sugar intake can help prevent tooth decay and periodontal disease. Regular flossing is as important as brushing, and helps to remove any plaque build-up, as well as smaller food particles that are stuck in your braces or between your teeth. Twice-daily brushing and flossing are a way to help prevent periodontal diseases.Healthy gingiva can be described as stippled, pale or coral pink in Caucasian people, with various degrees of pigmentation in other races. Personal oral hygiene is often considered an essential aspect of controlling chronic periodontitis. Brushing twice a day and interdental cleaning are necessary in maintaining a healthy periodontium and preventing the continuation of periodontal destruction. Flossing must be done at least once a day, as well because it is helpful in preventing oral problems by removing the plaque between the teeth, which is not removed when brushing. 
Do protein supplements help build muscle? [SEP] In the fitness and medical fields it is generally accepted that protein after exercise helps build the muscles used. Athletes may choose to consider taking dietary supplements to assist in improving their athletic performance. Dietary protein intake for well-trained athletes should occur before, during and after physical activity as it is advantageous in gaining muscle mass and strength. Proteins, carbohydrates and fats are the three major macronutrients that the human body needs in order to build muscle. Whey is the type of protein contained in many popular brands of protein supplements and is preferred by many bodybuilders because of its high biological value (BV) and quick absorption rates. Dietary supplements
The important role of nutrition in building muscle and losing fat means bodybuilders may consume a wide variety of dietary supplements. Although the amount of protein eaten should be enough for some people to build good muscle mass, some observe that high-protein shakes and meal bars should be consumed to increase protein intake. Mechanism of effects
Skeletal muscle
Resistance training and subsequent consumption of a protein-rich meal promotes muscle hypertrophy and gains in muscle strength by stimulating myofibrillar muscle protein synthesis (MPS) and inhibiting muscle protein breakdown (MPB). 
Does music therapy promote recovery from severe limitations of consciousness after severe brain injury? [SEP] Music therapy, when used with other rehabilitation methods, has increased the success rate of sensorimotor, cognitive, and communicative rehabilitation. Rhythmic stimuli has been found to help balance training for those with a brain injury.Singing is a form of rehabilitation for neurological impairments. In a study conducted in Fuzhou, China, it was discovered that preoperative music therapy lead to a decrease in anxiety around surgery, reduced the psychological impact on the patient, stabilized vital signs, and improved patient cooperation with anesthesia induction. In a study on stroke patients in the recovery phase, music therapy was used in addition to other types of therapy in one group of patients and was not used in the other group. A study of over 330 subjects showed that music therapy produces highly significant improvements in social behaviors, overt behaviors like wandering and restlessness, reductions in agitated behaviors, and improvements to cognitive defects, measured with reality orientation and face recognition tests. In addition, moderate-to-low-quality evidence suggests that music therapy as an addition to standard care improves the global state, mental state (including negative and general symptoms). Music therapy may be a useful tool for helping treat people with post-traumatic stress disorder however more rigorous empirical study is required.For adults with depressive symptoms, there is some weak evidence to suggest that music therapy may help reduce symptoms and recreative music therapy and guided imagery and music being superior to other methods in reducing depressive symptoms.In the use of music therapy for adults, there is "music medicine" which is called for listening to prerecorded music as treated like a medicine. They found that music therapy was effective in altering perceptions in the midst of adversity, was a strong component of remembrance, provided a multifaceted treatment, and as the other study also mentioned, increased communication and expression in both the adults and children (Lindenfelser Grocke & McFerran, 2008). 
Can eating grapefruit in combination with some medications lead to harmful interactions? [SEP] Some fruit juices and fruits can interact with numerous drugs, in many cases causing adverse effects. Affected drugs typically have an auxiliary label saying "Do not take with grapefruit" on the container, and the interaction is elaborated upon in the package insert. Because there is a growing number of medications that are known to interact with citrus, patients should consult a pharmacist or physician before consuming citrus while taking their medications. Affected fruit
Grapefruit is not the only citrus fruit that can interact with medications. According to a review done by the Canadian Medical Association, there is an increase in the number of potential drugs that can interact with grapefruit juice, and of the number of fruit types that can interact with those drugs. From 2008 to 2012, the number of drugs known to potentially interact with grapefruit, with risk of harmful or even dangerous effects (gastrointestinal bleeding, nephrotoxicity), increased from 17 to 43. Drugs that are metabolized by these enzymes may have interactions with components of grapefruit. Warfarin (coumadin)
Zolpidem (Ambien): Little or no interaction with grapefruit juice


== References == 
Can regular consumption of chocolate prevent cardiovascular disease? [SEP] Cardiovascular disease
Psoriasis has been associated with obesity and several other cardiovascular and metabolic disturbances. Cardiovascular disease risk appeared to be correlated with the severity of psoriasis and its duration. Chocolate
Chocolate derived from cocoa beans contains a small amount of caffeine. Regular physical activity can reduce the risk for noncommunicable diseases like diabetes, heart disease, and dyslipidemia (high cholesterol). It has been shown to be effective for long term weight loss with added cardiovascular health benefits. Cardiovascular effects may not lead to serious health issues for the majority of young, healthy users; on the contrary, heart attack, that is myocardial infarction, stroke, and other adverse cardiovascular events, have occurred in association with its use. Cannabis use by people with cardiovascular disease poses a health risk because it can lead to increased cardiac work, increased catecholamine levels, and impaired blood oxygen carrying capacity due to the production of carboxyhemoglobin. Researchers from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention studied strategies to prevent cardiovascular disease and found that over a two- to five-year period, companies with comprehensive workplace wellness programs and appropriate health plans in place can yield $3 to $6 for each dollar invested and reduced the likelihood of employee heart attacks and strokes. 
Is barley grass good for health? [SEP] Barley (Hordeum vulgare), a member of the grass family, is a major cereal grain grown in temperate climates globally. Biology
Barley is a member of the grass family. It was released as a feed barley. Health implications
According to Health Canada and the US Food and Drug Administration, consuming at least 3 grams per day of barley beta-glucan or 0.75 grams per serving of soluble fiber can lower levels of blood cholesterol, a risk factor for cardiovascular diseases.Eating whole-grain barley, as well as other high-fiber grains, improves regulation of blood sugar (i.e., reduces blood glucose response to a meal). Consuming breakfast cereals containing barley over weeks to months also improved cholesterol levels and glucose regulation.Like wheat, rye, and their hybrids and derivatives, barley contains gluten, which makes it an unsuitable grain for consumption by people with gluten-related disorders, such as celiac disease, non-celiac gluten sensitivity and wheat allergy sufferers, among others. Barley is an important feed grain in many areas of the world not typically suited for maize production, especially in northern climates—for example, northern and eastern Europe. "Barley" . Barley Information for Growers, eXtension 
Are diets with reduced carbohydrate content better for weight loss than other weight loss programs? [SEP] Intentional weight loss
Diets
As weight loss depends partly on calorie intake, different kinds of calorie-reduced diets, such as those emphasizing particular macronutrients (low-fat, low-carbohydrate, etc. A low-carbohydrate diet can also improve weight loss, HDL, and cholesterol in certain individuals. Compared to a typical diet, low-carbohydrate, low-fat, and moderate macronutrient diets can all positively impact weight loss. A moderate decrease in caloric intake will lead to a slow weight loss, which is often more beneficial than a rapid weight loss for long term weight management. VLCDs can achieve higher short-term weight loss compared to other more modest or gradual calorie restricted diets, and the maintained long-term weight loss is similar or greater. This review found that low carbohydrate diets consistently reduced insulin requirements but found inconsistent results in regard to the diet's effect on blood glucose levels. This review as well as the ADA consensus statement suggests that low carbohydrate diets may be beneficial for type 1 diabetics but larger clinical trials are needed for further evidence.A low-carbohydrate diet gives slightly better control of glucose metabolism than a low-fat diet in type 2 diabetes. ", it also states that reducing overall carbohydrate intake with low- or very low- carbohydrate eating plans is a viable approach.The ADA say low-carbohydrate diets can be useful to help people with type 2 diabetes lose weight, but that these diets were poorly defined, difficult to sustain, unsuitable for certain groups of people and that, for diet composition in general". 
Does taking probiotics during pregnancy and early life protect children from atopic dermatitis? [SEP] Diet
The role of vitamin D on atopic dermatitis is not clear, but vitamin D supplementation may improve its symptoms.There is no clear benefit for pregnant mothers taking omega 3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid (LCPUFA) in preventing the development of AD in their child.Several probiotics seem to have a positive effect, with a roughly 20% reduction in the rate of AD. Prevention
Breastfeeding for more than four months may prevent atopic dermatitis, cow's milk allergy, and wheezing in early childhood. Environmental and lifestyle factors, such as early life nutrition and antibiotic treatment, may contribute to food allergy prevalence by affecting gut microbial composition, and thus, intestinal immune homeostasis in infants and young children.A number of desensitization techniques are being studied. The benefits of allergen immunotherapy for food allergies is unclear, thus is not recommended as of 2015.There is research on the effects of increasing intake of polyunsaturated fatty acids during pregnancy, lactation, via infant formula and in early childhood on the subsequent risk of developing food allergies during infancy and childhood. From two reviews, maternal intake of omega-3, long-chain fatty acids during pregnancy appeared to reduce the risks of medically diagnosed IgE-mediated allergy, eczema and food allergy per parental reporting in the first 12 months of life, but the effects were not all sustained past 12 months. For infants, supplementing their diet with oils high in polyunsaturated fatty acids did not affect the risks of food allergies, eczema or asthma either as infants or into childhood.There is research on probiotics, prebiotics and the combination of the two (synbiotics) as a means of treating or preventing infant and child allergies. Probiotics may have therapeutic effects for those affected by acne due to their ability to decrease skin inflammation and improve skin moisture by increasing the skin's ceramide content. A 2018 clinical study using the multistrain De Simone Formulation probiotic showed it helped some infants reduce symptoms of infant colic. 
Is Bulletproof Coffee recommended? [SEP] He initially started the Bulletproof brand after developing Bulletproof Coffee. The stated goal of Bulletproof Nutrition is to enhance human performance. It supports the Quantified Self movement as a way to empower individuals to understand and 'hack' their own health.In 2014, Asprey authored The Bulletproof Diet published by Rodale Books and in 2015 opened a cafe in Santa Monica selling Bulletproof Coffee and high fat foods. Bulletproof diet
The Bulletproof diet developed and marketed by Asprey recommends eating foods high in fat, moderate in protein, and low in carbohydrates with a foundation being the consumption of "Bulletproof Coffee", a coffee made and marketed by Asprey. The Bulletproof diet promotes the consumption of grass-fed beef and butter and considers soy, wheat, canned vegetables and microwaved foods to be toxic. He promotes his Bulletproof-brand "Upgraded Coffee" alleged to omit mycotoxins. Stephan Guyenet reviewing the book for Red Pen Reviews commented that although some of the Bulletproof diet's advice such as eating whole foods and avoiding processed foods is healthful, "much of the dietary advice presented in the book seems either based on a superficial understanding of nutritional science or a complete rejection of it. Dietitians also point out there is no scientific basis for claims of an IQ boost, and that any sense of alertness from Bulletproof Coffee is "just a caffeine buzz".Asprey has been accused of making false health claims about his vitamin products to prevent and treat COVID-19. 
Do apples help with smoking cessation? [SEP] [Alternative tobacco products: harm reduction?] For example, they are advertised as being effective for quitting smoking. E-cigarettes are being promoted as a quitting smoking tool to assist smokers to reduce the number of traditional cigarettes used. E-cigarettes are marketed for quitting smoking, but it is uncommon youth use them for this reason.A 2019 review found "Vaping has been promoted as a beneficial smoking cessation tool and an alternative nicotine delivery device that contains no combustion by-products. "There is limited supporting evidence to back up the direct and indirect marketing assertion that vaping will assist smokers to give up or cut back their use of traditional cigarettes. Many e-cigarette businesses market their products as a smoking cessation aid without evidence of effectiveness. It has been suggested that these devices may be a less harmful alternative to smoking, provide health benefits to smokers who switch completely to them, lessen cigarette cravings, and facilitate smoking cessation. People who use e-cigarettes regularly cite smoking cessation as their motivation for vaping initiation; for this group of people, price promotions that enable affordability of these products longer term could be viewed as appropriate, although evidence supporting the use of these devices as a smoking cessation aid is still out for debate, as of 2019. 
Do products made from fenugreek seeds help you lose weight? [SEP] The seeds were praised for their high nutritional value and their ability to help with weight loss. Basil seeds have also been shown to help with weight loss, blood sugar control, and heart health. Weight loss
Basil seeds have been used in Ayurvedic medicine for centuries to treat a variety of conditions, including high blood pressure, cholesterol, depression, type II diabetes, and metabolic imbalances. Recently, there has been growing interest in the potential of basil seeds for weight loss. Basil seeds are also a good source of fiber, which can help to keep you feeling full after eating.In addition to their weight loss benefits, basil seeds are also a good source of nutrients, including calcium, magnesium, iron, phosphorus, and vitamins A and C. The high fiber content of basil seeds can also help regulate bowel movements and reduce constipation. However, it is important to note that there is no clear clinical evidence to confirm that basil seeds can help you lose weight. More research is needed to assess the effectiveness of basil seeds for weight loss. There is some evidence that these diets results in considerable weight loss. 
Does skipping breakfast increase heart attack risk? [SEP] Although the study at Harvard Medical School has observed "remnants of oral bacteria within atherosclerotic blood vessels far from the mouth," there are other factors including gender, alcohol consumption, diabetes, exercise, smoking, and family history of heart problems that could increase the risk of coronary artery disease as well. These factors make it hard to judge how much not brushing one's teeth elevates the risk of coronary heart disease, but there is a proven correlation between poor oral health and coronary heart disease.Another negative side effect of not brushing one's teeth is halitosis or bad breath. Tooth brushing before breakfast/dinner
One study found that brushing immediately after an acidic meal (such as diet soda or common breakfast foods like orange juice, coffee, citrus fruit, dried fruit, bread, or pastries) caused more damage to enamel and dentin compared to waiting 30 minutes. It is better to brush before breakfast or dinner. If brushing after a meal, wait at least a half hour after eating to prevent tooth damage.To protect tooth enamel, brushing immediately after waking is better than brushing after breakfast. If it is necessary to brush after breakfast, try to wait between 30 and 60 minutes before brushing. All-day breakfast was phased out from menus at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020. Clock shifts were found to increase the risk of heart attack by 10 percent, and to disrupt sleep and reduce its efficiency. 
Does wheat make you fat and sick? [SEP] William R. Davis (born 1957) is a Milwaukee-based American cardiologist, low-carbohydrate diet advocate and author of health books known for his stance against "modern wheat", which he labels a "perfect, chronic poison. "Medical experts have criticized Davis for making false assertions about wheat, unsupported by evidence-based medicine. Davis says that all modern wheat, which he refers to as "Frankenwheat", is as toxic and as addictive as many drugs and makes people want to eat more food, especially junk foods. "Harriet Hall has described Davis' wheat belly diet as "another low-carb diet that ignores the bulk of the scientific evidence, makes false associations, and exaggerates grains (pun intended) of truth into delusional mountains." Flours are used to make many different foods. Cereal flour, particularly wheat flour, is the main ingredient of bread, which is a staple food for many cultures. Hard wheat is high in gluten, a protein that makes dough stretchy. Common wheat flour (T. aestivum) is the flour most often used for making bread. 
Do whole grains lower the likelihood of dying early? [SEP] Like black powder, they were produced in different grain sizes. However, it causes certain damages to the grains that germinate in spring and to sweet corn in summer, while the grains are still soft, tearing the foliaceous covering of the ears and ruining them from a commercial point of view. In the southern states, they seriously harm rice by plucking seedlings in spring and eating the still-soft grains as they mature, being in this sense almost as harmful as the Bobolink. The increased availability of residual grains in spring and summer. Frison further asserts that almost 60% of yearly deaths of children under age five in developing countries are related to malnutrition.The strategies developed by the Green Revolution focused on fending off starvation and was very successful in raising overall yields of cereal grains, but did not give sufficient relevance to nutritional quality. High yield-cereal crops have low quality proteins, with essential amino acid deficiencies, are high in carbohydrates, and lack balanced essential fatty acids, vitamins, minerals and other quality factors.High-yield rice (HYR), introduced since 1964 to poverty-ridden Asian countries, such as the Philippines, was found to have inferior flavor and be more glutinous and less savory than their native varieties. A 2020 study of 37 developing countries found that the diffusion of modern crop varieties "reduced infant mortality by 2.4–5.3 percentage points (from a baseline of 18%), with stronger effects for male infants and among poor households." Another 2020 study found that high yield crop varieties reduced infant mortality in India, with particularly large effects for rural children, boys and low-caste children.Consumption of pesticides and fertilizer agrochemicals associated with the Green Revolution may have adverse health impacts. 
Does the consumption of dairy products promote mucus and diseases of the ear, nose and throat? [SEP] Drinking milk or consuming other dairy products does not increase mucus production. The AICR, WCRF, CCA and Prostate Cancer UK have stated that there is limited but suggestive evidence that dairy products increase risk of prostate cancer. A 2021 umbrella review found strong evidence that consumption of dairy products decreases risk of colorectal cancer. Fermented dairy is associated with significantly decreased bladder cancer and colorectal cancer risk.A 2023 review found no association between consumption of dairy products and breast cancer. Other
Consumption of dairy products such as low-fat and whole milk have been associated with an increased acne risk, however, as of 2022 there is no conclusive evidence. Consumption of dairy products are also associated with a decreased risk of gout. This is a list of dairy products. A dairy product is food produced from the milk of mammals. 
Does regular consumption of energy drinks harm heart health? [SEP] A 2010 study said that consuming one to two sugary drinks a day increases your risk of developing diabetes by 26%.Heart disease is responsible for 31% of all global deaths and although one sugary drink has minimal effects on the heart, consuming sugary drinks daily are associated with long term consequences. A study found that men, for every added serving per day of sugar-sweetened beverages, each serving was associated with a 19% increased risk of developing heart disease. Another study also found increased risks for heart disease in women who drank sugary drinks daily.Obesity is also a global public and health policy concern, with the percentage of overweight and obese people in many developed and middle income countries rising rapidly. Other studies found no such effects.Drinking more than the standard drink amount increases the risk of cardiovascular diseases, high blood pressure, atrial fibrillation, stroke, and cancer. Caffeine has both positive and negative health effects. Energy drinks
High caffeine consumption in energy drinks (at least 1 liter or 320 mg of caffeine) was associated with short-term cardiovascular side effects including hypertension, prolonged QT interval, and heart palpitations. These cardiovascular side effects were not seen with smaller amounts of caffeine consumption in energy drinks (less than 200 mg). Excessive alcohol intake increases the risk of cardiovascular disease and consumption of alcohol is associated with increased risk of a cardiovascular event in the day following consumption. 
Do light drinks promote obesity? [SEP] Causes of obesity
"In the United States, most people's diets are too high in calories — often from fast food and high-calorie beverages. "In mid-2006, the American Beverage Association (including Cadbury, Coca-Cola, and PepsiCo) agreed to a voluntary ban on the sale of all high-calorie drinks and all beverages in containers larger than 8, 10 and 12 ounces in elementary, middle and high schools, respectively.There have been many strategies to try to control obesity issues. According to Circulation, “Beverages with added sugar are a prime candidate for taxation; they constitute >10% of caloric intake nationwide and provide little or no nutritional value.” Weight gain is due to consumption of these sugary drinks along with other health issues such as diabetes, hypertension, and more. People's weight will determine if they choose healthier options or not to replace these sugary beverages. "Glucose-sweetened beverages," however, did not cause as significant influence as "fructose-sweetened beverages" in promoting visceral adipose, gaining weight, interrupting lipid syntheses, and damaging lipoprotein rebuilding process.Given the diversity in human food and each human individually distinguished metabolic capacity, the results of testing the diet induce obesity in rodents are limited in term of translatability. Although generally diets containing more than 30% of total energy from fat are considered to induce obesity, scientists have induced obesity with diets containing 13% to 85% of total energy from fat. In first-world countries like the United States, the UK, Australia, and most Western European countries, evolution has led to an increased sedentary lifestyle and high rates of sugar and fat consumption, directly leading to obesity. In the long term, they are more likely to use tobacco, alcohol, and drugs than their active peers.Sedentary behaviour is strongly associated with obesity, and this imparts a great health risk. 
Does coffee reduce the risk of dementia? [SEP] Mortality
In 2012, the National Institutes of Health–AARP Diet and Health Study found that higher coffee consumption was associated with lower risk of death, and that those who drank any coffee lived longer than those who did not. An association of coffee drinking with reduced risk for death from various sources was confirmed by a widely cited prospective cohort study of ten European countries in 2017. A 2016 meta-analysis showed that coffee consumption was associated with a reduced risk of death in patients who have had a myocardial infarction.The effect of no or moderate daily consumption of coffee on risk for developing hypertension has been assessed in several reviews during the 21st century. Parkinson's disease
Meta-analyses have consistently found that long-term coffee consumption is associated with a lower risk of Parkinson's disease. Risk of other diseases
A neuroprotective effect of caffeine against Alzheimer's disease and dementia is possible but the evidence is inconclusive.Regular consumption of caffeine may protect people from liver cirrhosis. Caffeine appears protective with a greater decrease in risk occurring with a larger intake of caffeinated beverages such as coffee.Antioxidants, such as vitamins C and E, have been proposed to protect against the disease, but results of studies have been contradictory and no positive effect has been shown. There is preliminary evidence that the caffeine from long-term tea (or coffee) consumption provides a small amount of protection against the progression of dementia or Alzheimer's disease during aging, although the results across numerous studies were inconsistent. Also conferring protective benefits to age related neurological disease in consumption of coffee or caffeine. 
Does sugar consumption increase the risk of developing type 2 diabetes regardless of obesity? [SEP] Bariatric surgery often improves diabetes in those who are obese.Rates of type 2 diabetes have increased markedly since 1960 in parallel with obesity. Lifestyle
Lifestyle factors are important to the development of type 2 diabetes, including obesity and being overweight (defined by a body mass index of greater than 25), lack of physical activity, poor diet, psychological stress, and urbanization. Smoking appears to increase the risk of type 2 diabetes. Consumption of sugar-sweetened drinks in excess is associated with an increased risk. Diabetes mellitus type 2
The metabolic syndrome quintuples the risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus. In people with impaired glucose tolerance or impaired fasting glucose, presence of metabolic syndrome doubles the risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Obesity is very common in type 2 diabetes and contributes greatly to insulin resistance. A study in the Journal of Periodontology found that poorly controlled type 2 diabetic patients are more likely to develop periodontal disease than well-controlled diabetics are. 
Does a lower salt diet reduce the likelihood of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] A low-protein, low-salt diet may result in slower progression of CKD and reduction in proteinuria as well as controlling symptoms of advanced CKD to delay dialysis start. Additionally, controlling salt ingestion helps to decrease the incidence of coronary heart disease, lowering blood pressure and reducing albuminuria. Dietary salt intake
High dietary sodium intake may increase the risk of hypertension and cardiovascular disease. The effect of dietary restriction of salt in foods has been investigated in people with chronic kidney disease. A 2021 Cochrane review of controlled trials in people with CKD at any stage, including those on dialysis, found high-certainty evidence that reduced salt intake may help to lower both systolic and diastolic blood pressure, as well as albuminuria. There is considerable evidence that reducing dietary salt intake lowers blood pressure, but whether this translates into a reduction in mortality and cardiovascular disease remains uncertain. Dietary changes shown to reduce blood pressure include diets with low sodium, the DASH diet (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension), which was the best against 11 other diet in an umbrella review, and plant-based diets. Sodium has a role in the etiology of hypertension demonstrated from studies showing that a reduction of table salt intake may reduce blood pressure. 
Is less eaten from red plates? [SEP] In old times, food was traditionally served on copper plates or disposable plates made of sal leaves.Odia cooks, particularly from the Puri region, were much sought after due to their ability to cook food in accordance with Hindu scriptures. Cooked with lentils or alone with fried onions. Mola fry/ chips/ boiled grind. + Plates 1-40. Lizards are also eaten. + Plates 1–40. + Plates I-XX. Different napkins were used for breakfast than for dinner. 
Does red wine protect better against cardiovascular disease than white wine? [SEP] Health effects
Because of its shorter maceration, white wine contains very little tannin and therefore little antioxidants that make red wine so interesting medically speaking. However, some studies in California may indicate beneficial effect of wine at a low daily dose for non-alcoholic cirrhosis.In recent studies white wine was indicated to have some cardiovascular benefits. As well, white wine contains antioxidants, although red wine contains higher levels of antioxidants. Both white and red wines are effective in preventing LDL oxidation. Red wine will be richer in phenols abundant in the skin and seeds, such as anthocyanin, proanthocyanidins and flavonols, whereas the phenols in white wine will essentially originate from the pulp, and these will be the phenolic acids together with lower amounts of catechins and stilbenes. Both red and white wine grape varieties contain resveratrol, but more frequent skin contact and maceration leads to red wines normally having ten times more resveratrol than white wines. Limited preliminary research indicates that wine polyphenols may decrease platelet aggregation, enhance fibrinolysis, and increase HDL cholesterol, but high-quality clinical trials have not confirmed such effects, as of 2017. "Although red wine contains more of the stilbene resveratrol and of other polyphenols than white wine, the evidence for a cardiac health benefit is of poor quality and at most, the benefit is trivial. 
Do azo food dyes cause attention deficit disorder and hyperactivity in children? [SEP] Nevertheless, existing evidence neither refutes nor supports the association between ADHD and food colouring.Dietary supplements and specialized diets are sometimes used by people with ADHD with the intent to mitigate some or all of the symptoms. Criticism and health implications
Widespread public belief that artificial food coloring causes ADHD-like hyperactivity in children originated from Benjamin Feingold, a pediatric allergist from California, who proposed in 1973 that salicylates, artificial colors, and artificial flavors cause hyperactivity in children; however, there is no evidence to support broad claims that food coloring causes food intolerance and ADHD-like behavior in children. : 452  It is possible that certain food colorings may act as a trigger in those who are genetically predisposed, but the evidence is weak.Despite concerns expressed that food colorings may cause ADHD-like behavior in children, the collective evidence does not support this assertion. CSPI: Food Dyes Pose Rainbow of Risks Food intolerance and ADHD-like behavior
Although tartrazine is one of various food colors said to cause food intolerance and ADHD-like behavior in children, evidence for this claim is lacking. "Tartrazine is among six artificial colors for which the European Union requires products that contain them to be marked with the statement May have an adverse effect on activity and attention in children. : 2, 7

Society and culture
Since the 1970s and the well-publicized advocacy of Benjamin Feingold, there has been public concern that food colorings may cause ADHD-like behavior in children. Possible cause of hyperactivity
Since the 1970s and the well-publicized advocacy of Benjamin Feingold, there has been public concern that food colourings may cause ADHD-like behavior in children. 
Does turmeric prevent or cure cancer? [SEP] About 40% of African cancer patients take herbal preparations. Areas of research
Specific methods
Curcumin is a component of turmeric. It is under preliminary research for therapeutic potential but according to Cancer Research UK no reputable organization supports claims that it can "cure" cancer. This belief that generally boosting the immune system's activity will kill the cancer cells is not supported by any scientific research. If you or someone you care about has cancer, the last thing you need is a scam from the US Federal Trade Commission
187 Cancer Cure Frauds from the US Food and Drug Administration
Herbs, Botanicals & Other Products from Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center Consuming turmeric has been claimed to help prevent COVID-19, but the WHO says there is no evidence that it does. Curcumin (turmeric) therapy, in conjunction with taking the medications mesalamine or sulfasalazine, may be effective and safe for maintaining remission in people with quiescent ulcerative colitis. There is no evidence that it helps prevent or cure cancer.In the traditional medicine of India, A. paniculata has also been used for jaundice therapy.A. 
Does breastfeeding reduce the risk of sudden infant death syndrome? [SEP] Breastfeeding
Breastfeeding is associated with a lower risk of SIDS. Increased breastfeeding to near-universal levels in low and medium income countries could prevent approximately 820,000 deaths of children under the age of five annually. Breastfeeding decreases the risk of respiratory tract infections,  ear infections,  sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), and diarrhea for the baby, both in  developing and  developed countries. Breastfeeding may protect against sudden infant death syndrome, insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, childhood lymphoma, allergic diseases, digestive diseases, obesity, or childhood leukemia later in life. According to the American Heart Association, breastfeeding also reduces the risk of maternal heart disease and stroke.A 2011 review found it unclear whether breastfeeding affects the risk of postpartum depression. Breastfeeding helps reduce the risk of SIDS when done exclusively for any length of time. It is recommended to breastfeed the infant from birth to 6 months exclusively to decrease the risk of SIDS by 50%. Diarrhea and upper respiratory illnesses, both linked to a higher risk of SIDS, occur less frequently for infants who are breastfed when compared to babies that are not breastfed, thus reducing the risk. 
Do boron preparations such as borax, boric acid, or calcium fructoborate relieve pain associated with age-related joint wear (osteoarthritis)? [SEP] Boron is primarily used in chemical compounds. A few boron-containing organic pharmaceuticals are used or are in study. Boron-containing organic antibiotics are known. Boron is added to the glass as borax pentahydrate or boron oxide, to influence the strength or fluxing qualities of the glass fibers. Borates are used as environmentally benign wood preservatives. Some boron compounds show promise in treating arthritis, though none have as yet been generally approved for the purpose.Tavaborole (marketed as Kerydin) is an Aminoacyl tRNA synthetase inhibitor which is used to treat toenail fungus. Boron supplementation markedly reduced urinary calcium excretion and elevated the serum concentrations of 17 beta-estradiol and testosterone.The U.S. Institute of Medicine has not confirmed that boron is an essential nutrient for humans, so neither a Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) nor an Adequate Intake have been established. Dietary supplementation of boron may be helpful for bone growth, wound healing, and antioxidant activity, and insufficient amount of boron in diet may result in boron deficiency. 
Can glutamate in food cause intolerance symptoms? [SEP] Food intolerance reactions can occur to naturally occurring chemicals in foods, as in salicylate sensitivity. GIT symptoms include mouth ulcers, abdominal cramp, nausea, gas, intermittent diarrhea, constipation, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), and may include anaphylaxis.Food intolerance has been found associated with irritable bowel syndrome and inflammatory bowel disease, chronic constipation, chronic hepatitis C infection, eczema, NSAID intolerance, respiratory complaints, including asthma, rhinitis and headache, functional dyspepsia, eosinophilic esophagitis and ear, nose and throat (ENT) illnesses. Celiac disease, an autoimmune disorder caused by an immune response to the protein gluten, results in gluten intolerance and can lead to temporary lactose intolerance.The most widely distributed naturally occurring food chemical capable of provoking reactions is salicylate, although tartrazine and benzoic acid are well recognised in susceptible individuals. Symptoms due to, or exacerbated by, food additives usually involve non-IgE-mediated mechanisms (food intolerance) and are usually less severe than those induced by food allergy, but can include anaphylaxis. A trial of gluten reintroduction to observe any reaction after 1–2 years of strict gluten-free diet might be performed.A subgroup of people with NCGS may not improve by eating commercially available gluten-free products, which are usually rich of preservatives and additives, because chemical additives (such as sulphites, glutamates, nitrates and benzoates) might have a role in evoking functional gastrointestinal symptoms of NCGS. There may be ingestion of gluten, in the form of cross contamination or food containing hidden sources. In some cases, the amelioration of gastrointestinal symptoms with a gluten-free diet is only partial, and these patients could significantly improve with the addition of a low-FODMAP diet.A subgroup may not improve when eating commercially available gluten-free products, as these can be rich in preservatives and additives such as sulfites, glutamates, nitrates and benzoates, which can also have a role in triggering functional gastrointestinal symptoms. In a 2015 double-blind placebo cross-over trial, small amounts of purified wheat gluten triggered gastrointestinal symptoms (such as abdominal bloating and pain) and extra-intestinal manifestations (such as foggy mind, depression and aphthous stomatitis) in self-reported NCGS. 
Does the Orthopulse device accelerate the orthodontic correction of malocclusions? [SEP] Orthodontics is a dentistry specialty that addresses the diagnosis, prevention, management, and correction of mal-positioned teeth and jaws, as well as misaligned bite patterns. It may also address the modification of facial growth, known as dentofacial orthopedics. It became evident that orthodontic therapy could adjust mandibular development, leading to the formation of functional jaw orthopedics in Europe and extraoral force measures in the US. Headgear
Orthodontic headgear—sometimes referred to as an "extra-oral appliance"—is a treatment approach that requires the patient to have a device strapped onto their head to help correct malocclusion—typically used when the teeth do not align properly. Those who have more severe malocclusions, which present as a part of craniofacial anomalies, may require orthodontic and sometimes surgical treatment (orthognathic surgery) to correct the problem. Treatment
Malocclusion is often treated with orthodontics, such as tooth extraction, clear aligners, or dental braces, followed by growth modification in children or jaw surgery (orthognathic surgery) in adults. Studies indicate that tooth extraction can have benefits to correcting malocclusion in individuals. For children, orthodontics is usually used to compensate for continued growth. 
Is it harmful for the mental development of the unborn child if the mother regularly eats fish contaminated with mercury during pregnancy? [SEP] Instead, toxic exposure often causes physiological abnormalities or minor congenital malformation. Methamphetamine
Prenatal methamphetamine exposure has shown to negatively impact brain development and behavioral functioning. A 2019 study further investigated neurocognitive and neurodevelopmental effects of prenatal methamphetamine exposure. Iodine deficiencies increase the risk of miscarriage, stillbirth, and fetal brain abnormalities. Environmental toxins
Exposure to environmental toxins in pregnancy lead to higher rates of miscarriage, sterility, and birth defects. Toxins include fetal exposure to lead, mercury, and ethanol or hazardous environments. Prenatal exposure to mercury may lead to physical deformation, difficulty in chewing and swallowing, and poor motoric coordination. Exposure to high levels of lead prenatally is related to prematurity, low birth weight, brain damage, and a variety of physical defects. 
Can the consumption of caffeine during pregnancy harm the unborn child? [SEP] Tobacco, alcohol, marijuana, and illicit drug use while pregnant may be dangerous for the unborn baby and may lead to severe health problems and/or birth defects. There is no established association with teratogenicity or elevated occurrence of birth defects and the usage of acetaminophen at any point during a pregnancy. Some dietary supplements can cause side effects and harm to the mother or unborn child. Consumption of caffeine is not associated with adverse reproductive and developmental effects. The half-life of caffeine is longer in pregnancy by 8 to 16 more hours, which means that caffeine stays in the person longer, increases fetal exposure to caffeine, and is eliminated slower in the body. Other comprehensive reviews reported that caffeine intake of more than 300 mg per day have been associated with spontaneous abortions and low birth weight, but further research is needed to establish this causal relationship. During the early months of pregnancy, it may increase the risk of miscarriage. During the early months of pregnancy, it may increase the risk of miscarriage. 
Are vegetables prepared in a microwave oven less healthy than those prepared in other ways? [SEP] The micronutrients, minerals, and vitamins in fruit and vegetables may be destroyed or eluted by cooking. By many it is considered a healthy form of cooking, holding nutrients within the vegetable or meat being cooked. However, research has shown that in the specific case of carotenoids a greater proportion is absorbed from cooked vegetables than from raw vegetables.German research in 2003 showed significant benefits in reducing breast cancer risk when large amounts of raw vegetable matter are included in the diet. Home-cooked meals tend to be healthier with fewer calories, and less saturated fat, cholesterol and sodium on a per calorie basis while providing more fiber, calcium, and iron. Microwave ovens do not cook food from the inside out. Microwave ovens do not cause cancer, as microwave radiation is non-ionizing and therefore does not have the cancer risks associated with ionizing radiation such as X-rays. Microwaving food does not reduce its nutritive value and may preserve it better than other cooking processes due to shorter cooking times. There is a scientific consensus that currently available food derived from genetically modified crops poses no greater risk to human health than conventional food. 
Can garlic extract reduce high blood pressure and thus the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] Medical research
Cardiovascular
As of 2016, clinical research found that consuming garlic produces only a small reduction in blood pressure (4 mmHg), and there is no clear long-term effect on hypertension, cardiovascular morbidity or mortality. A 2016 meta-analysis indicated there was no effect of garlic consumption on blood levels of lipoprotein(a), a biomarker of atherosclerosis.Because garlic might reduce platelet aggregation, people taking anticoagulant medication are cautioned about consuming garlic. Cancer
A 2016 meta-analysis of case-control and cohort studies found a moderate inverse association between garlic intake and some cancers of the upper digestive tract. A 2014 meta-analysis of observational epidemiological studies found that garlic consumption was associated with a lower risk of stomach cancer in Korean people.A 2016 meta-analysis found no effect of garlic on colorectal cancer. A 2014 meta-analysis found garlic supplements or allium vegetables to have no effect on colorectal cancers.A 2013 meta-analysis of case-control and cohort studies found limited evidence for an association between higher garlic consumption and reduced risk of prostate cancer, but the studies were suspected as having publication bias. Common cold
A 2014 review found insufficient evidence to determine the effects of garlic in preventing or treating the common cold. Garlic has antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, which give it great therapeutic potential against a number of diseases. It is believed that the cardioprotective effects of garlic are due to red blood cells converting its sulfur compounds into hydrogen sulfide.Red blood cells also play a part in the body's immune response: when lysed by pathogens such as bacteria, their hemoglobin releases free radicals, which break down the pathogen's cell wall and membrane, killing it. 
Can fructose damage the liver? [SEP] Other risks include being overweight, metabolic syndrome (defined as at least three of the five following medical conditions: abdominal obesity, high blood pressure, high blood sugar, high serum triglycerides, and low serum HDL cholesterol), a diet high in fructose, and older age. Diet composition and quantity, in particular omega-6 fatty acid and fructose, have important roles in disease progression from NAFL to NASH and fibrosis. Fructose consumption
Non-alcoholic and alcoholic fatty liver disease share similar histological features, which suggests that they might share common pathogenic pathways. Fructose can cause liver inflammation and addiction similarly to ethanol by using similar metabolic pathways, unlike glucose. Furthermore, high fructose consumption promotes fat accumulation in the liver by stimulating de novo lipogenesis in the liver and reducing the beta-oxidation of fat. Unlike the sugar glucose, the enzyme fructokinase rapidly metabolizes fructose. The increased transport of these harmful substances to the liver promotes liver inflammation, enhances nutrient and calorie absorption, and alters choline metabolism. See also
Citizens for Health
High-fructose corn syrup and health
That Sugar Film


== References == 
Can green tea affect the likelihood of dying early and reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] Frequent consumption of scalding hot tea may produce esophageal cancer. Coffee is associated with a reduced risk of liver cancer. Aspirin has been found to reduce the risk of death from cancer by about 7%. Another 2014 review concluded that vitamin D3 may decrease the risk of death from cancer (one fewer death in 150 people treated over 5 years), but concerns with the quality of the data were noted.Beta-Carotene supplementation increases lung cancer rates in those who are high risk. It also increases risk of stroke, heart attack, cardiac arrhythmia, lung injury (when smoked), and sudden cardiac death. The article stated that drinking two cups of the tea per day gave a mild stimulation, increased heart rate, and mood elevation, and the tea was essentially harmless. Acute exposure may also lead to angina, heart attack, and congestive heart failure. Cocaine use also increases the risk of having a heart attack. 
Is matcha tea particularly healthy? [SEP] This practise survives in Japanese powdered tea (matcha). Since then the area has been a producer of high quality tea. Green, oolong, and white teas have recently become more popular again, and are often touted as health foods.Fast-food coffee chains have significantly impacted how Americans are exposed to herbal and exotic teas. A powdered form of tea also emerged. It is the most popular form of tea in Japan today. The Tea Enthusiast's Handbook: A Guide to the World's Best Teas. Coffee and tea shops now offer hot or iced latte versions of masala chai, matcha, and Royal Milk Tea. It is produced in Japan and prepared in various forms such as matcha, the tea used in the Japanese tea ceremony. 
Can acupuncture prevent migraines and tension headaches? [SEP] A 2016 systematic review suggests better evidence among those with frequent tension headaches, but concludes that further trials comparing acupuncture with other treatment options are needed.People with tension-type headache often use spinal manipulation, soft tissue therapy, and myofascial trigger point treatment. Alternative therapies
Acupuncture has a small effect in reducing migraine frequency, compared to sham acupuncture, a practice where needles are placed randomly or do not penetrate the skin. Overall, they show that acupuncture is probably not helpful for tension-type headaches. A study conducted by the University of North Carolina School of Medicine found that compared to medicinal treatment alone, medicinal treatment plus acupuncture resulted in more improvement for chronic daily headache patients. Trials show that acupuncture can cause "relevant improvements" for people with chronic headaches. "A Randomized, Controlled Trial of Acupuncture for Chronic Daily Headache". "Acupuncture for Chronic Headaches--an Epidemiological Study". Alternative medicine
Acupuncture
Cochrane reviews have found that acupuncture is effective in the treatment of migraine. 
Can green tea reduce the likelihood of dying from cancer ? [SEP] Some specific foods are linked to specific cancers. Frequent consumption of scalding hot tea may produce esophageal cancer. Between 70% and 90% of common cancers are due to environmental factors and therefore potentially preventable.Greater than 30% of cancer deaths could be prevented by avoiding risk factors including: tobacco, excess weight/obesity, poor diet, physical inactivity, alcohol, sexually transmitted infections and air pollution. Coffee is associated with a reduced risk of liver cancer. Aspirin has been found to reduce the risk of death from cancer by about 7%. A 2021 review found that green leafy vegetables, allium vegetables, fiber, flavanoids and green tea intake can significantly reduce ovarian cancer risk. While it is suggested that the polyphenol compounds in tea may have an inhibitory effect on bladder tumor formation and growth, there is limited evidence to suggesting drinking tea decreases bladder cancer risk. Cancer prevention
Aspirin may reduce the overall risk of both getting cancer and dying from cancer. 
Can plant sterols or foods with them reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] Health claims
EFSA
The European Foods Safety Authority (EFSA) concluded that blood cholesterol can be reduced on average by 7 to 10.5% if a person consumes 1.5 to 2.4 grams of plant sterols and stanols per day, an effect usually established within 2–3 weeks. Based on this and other efficacy data, the EFSA scientific panel provided the following health advisory: "Plant sterols have been shown to lower/reduce blood cholesterol. FDA
The FDA has approved the following claim for phytosterols:  For plant sterol esters: (i) Foods containing at least 0.65 g per serving of plant sterol esters, eaten twice a day with meals for a daily total intake of at least 1.3 g, as part of a diet low in saturated fat and cholesterol, may reduce the risk of heart disease. From 1954 to 1982, phytosterols were subsequently marketed as a pharmaceutical under the name Cytellin as a treatment for elevated cholesterol.Unlike the statins, where cholesterol lowering has been proven to reduce risk of cardiovascular diseases (CVD) and overall mortality under well-defined circumstances, the evidence has been inconsistent for phytosterol-enriched foods or supplements to lower risk of CVD, with two reviews indicating no or marginal effect, and another review showing evidence for use of dietary phytosterols to attain a cholesterol-lowering effect.Coadministration of statins with phytosterol-enriched foods increases the cholesterol-lowering effect of phytosterols, again without any proof of clinical benefit and with anecdotal evidence of potential adverse effects. Plant sterol levels in the blood have been shown to be positively, negatively or not associated with CVD risk, depending on the study population investigated.The link between plant sterols and CVD or CHD risk is complicated because phytosterol levels reflect cholesterol absorption. Plant sterols and stanols, when compared head-to-head in clinical trials, have been shown to equally reduce cholesterol levels. A meta-analysis of 14 randomized, controlled trials comparing plant sterols to plant stanols directly at doses of 0.6 to 2.5 g/day showed no difference between the two forms on total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, or triglyceride levels. Plant sterols can also modulate the activity of membrane-bound enzymes. 
Can too much iodine cause autoimmune thyroid disease and consequently hypothyroidism? [SEP] In hypothyroid states or iodine deficiency, the body recognizes that it is not producing enough thyroid hormone and starts to produce more TSH to help stimulate the thyroid to produce more thyroid hormone. In more rare cases, the thyroid may become enlarged because it becomes filled with thyroid hormone or thyroid hormone precursors that it is unable to release or because of congential abnormalities or because of increased intake of iodine from supplementation or medication. Overactivity or underactivity of the gland, as may occur with hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism, is usually reflected in increased or decreased radioiodine uptake. Radioiodine treatment can also cause hypothyroidism (which is sometimes the end goal of treatment) and, although rare, a pain syndrome (due to radiation thyroiditis). Epidemiology
In the United States, autoimmune inflammation is the most common form of thyroid disease while worldwide hypothyroidism and goiter due to dietary iodine deficiency is the most common. In areas where iodine-deficiency is not found, the most common type of hypothyroidism is an autoimmune subtype called Hashimoto's thyroiditis, with a prevalence of 1-2%. Side effects
There is reason for caution with prescribing the ingestion of high doses of potassium iodide and iodate, because their unnecessary use can cause conditions such as the Jod-Basedow phenomena, trigger and/or worsen hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism, and then cause temporary or even permanent thyroid conditions. Chronic overexposure can have adverse effects on the thyroid. 
Is the sweetener aspartame harmful to health? [SEP] The artificial sweetener aspartame has been the subject of several controversies since its initial approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1974. With the exception of the risk to those with phenylketonuria, aspartame is considered to be a safe food additive by governments worldwide and major health and food safety organizations. FDA officials describe aspartame as "one of the most thoroughly tested and studied food additives the agency has ever approved" and its safety as "clear cut." The weight of existing scientific evidence indicates that aspartame is safe as a non-nutritive sweetener. Based on government research reviews and recommendations from advisory bodies such as those listed above, aspartame has been found to be safe for human consumption by more than ninety countries worldwide. Specifically, the hoax websites allege that aspartame is responsible for multiple sclerosis, systemic lupus, and methanol toxicity, causing "blindness, spasms, shooting pains, seizures, headaches, depression, anxiety, memory loss, birth defects" and death. On January 8, 2013, the EFSA released its draft report, which found that aspartame and its metabolites "pose no toxicity concern for consumers at current levels of exposure. "Skeptoid #127: The Truth about Aspartame". 
Does coffee affect cancer death risk? [SEP] A 2021 umbrella review found that coffee, egg, and fat intake significantly increases the risk of ovarian cancer. Coffee is associated with a reduced risk of liver cancer. Consumption of polyunsaturated fats, tea, alcoholic beverages, and coffee are all associated with reduced risk of developing lung cancer.Along with diet, body weight and exercise habits are also associated with lung cancer risk. Aflatoxin B1, a frequent food contaminant, increases risk of liver cancer, while drinking coffee is associated with a reduced risk. A 2016 meta-analysis showed that women and men who drank coffee had a lower risk of liver cancer. An umbrella review of meta-analyses found that coffee was associated with a lower risk of liver and endometrial cancer. Other mechanisms
Additional mechanisms contribute to cancer risk with alcohol consumption. Colorectal cancer
Drinking may be a cause of earlier onset of colorectal cancer. 
Do diets with primarily or exclusively uncooked foods have health benefits? [SEP] That raw foods have higher nutrient values than foods that have been cooked,: 44  when in fact cooking affects nutrient contents variably – depending on the plant food and cooking method – and may actually increase availability of fat-based nutrients, such as vitamin E and beta-carotene. While a healthy diet minimizes fried food and red meat, not all cooked food contains harmful chemicals, and a diet containing a mix of cooked and raw food is normal. Health effects
A raw food diet is likely to impair the development of children and infants. This technique is USDA approved and allows raw food to remain uncooked while greatly improving its safety and shelf-life. These diets generally consist of some form of cooked or raw meat, bone, vegetables, and supplements, such as taurine and multivitamins. The American Dietetic Association has stated that at all stages of life, a properly planned vegetarian diet can be "healthful, nutritionally adequate, and may be beneficial in the prevention and treatment of certain diseases." Vegetarian diets offer lower levels of saturated fat, cholesterol and animal protein, and higher levels of carbohydrates, fibre, magnesium, potassium, folate, vitamins C and E, and phytochemicals. However, vegetables, such as melons, garlic, leek and onions were also eaten uncooked. 
Can increased water consumption prevent migraines or other headaches? [SEP] Medications
Caffeine sometimes increases the effectiveness of some medications, such as those for headaches. Paracetamol may relieve pain in acute mild migraine but only slightly in episodic tension headache. The aspirin/paracetamol/caffeine combination also "has strong evidence of effectiveness and can be used as a first-line treatment for migraine". A 2017 review reported that daily riboflavin taken at 400 mg per day for at least three months may reduce the frequency of migraine headaches in adults. Botulinum toxin for migraine is an effective treatment method for individuals who do not find any oral medication helpful anymore. This was initially thought to be an indirect effect of reduced muscle tension, but the toxin is now known to inhibit release of peripheral nociceptive neurotransmitters, suppressing the central pain processing systems responsible for migraine headache. Approval followed evidence presented to the agency from two studies funded by Allergan showing a very slight improvement in incidence of chronic migraines for those with migraines undergoing the Botox treatment.Since then, several randomized control trials have shown botulinum toxin type A to improve headache symptoms and quality of life when used prophylactically for patients with chronic migraine who exhibit headache characteristics consistent with: pressure perceived from outside source, shorter total duration of chronic migraines (<30 years), "detoxification" of patients with coexisting chronic daily headache due to medication overuse, and no current history of other preventive headache medications. It is most effective at stopping migraines when they are first beginning. 
Offer the following herbal appetite suppressants effective and safe weight loss support:
Devil's Tongue (Konjac Root), Caralluma fimbriata, Garcinia cambogia, Gymnea sylvestre, Ephedra, Irvinia gabonensis, Fenugreek, Hoodia gordonii, Common Bean, Bitter Orange? [SEP] Medications
Other methods of weight loss include use of anti-obesity drugs that decrease appetite, block fat absorption, or reduce stomach volume. In the United States, orlistat (Xenical) and semaglutide (Wegovy) are approved by the FDA for long-term use.Because of potential side effects, and limited evidence of small benefits in weight reduction for children and adolescents with obesity, it is recommended that anti-obesity medications only be prescribed for obesity where it is hoped that the benefits of the treatment outweigh its risks. Most of them reduce body weight by small amounts, and several of them are no longer marketed for obesity because of their side effects. Canadian clinical practice 2006 guidelines state that there is insufficient evidence to recommend in favor of or against using herbal medicine, dietary supplements or homeopathy against obesity. Quality control
Many products marketed as botanical weight loss supplements actually contain unapproved stimulants including analogues of amphetamine, methamphetamine and ephedra. Pharmacotherapy of obesity: options and alternatives. External links
 Media related to Anti-obesity medication at Wikimedia Commons
Prescription Medications for the Treatment of Obesity The company Obesity Research Institute, the marketer of FiberThin, Zylotrim, Propolene and Lipozene, settled FTC charges that their misleading weight-loss claims violated federal laws by agreeing to pay $1.5 million in consumer redress.In 2001, a number of jelly-type candy products containing konjac-derived glucomannan were barred from import by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration due to choking hazards. 
Are there health benefits to screening the general population for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) as a precaution? [SEP] This allows for early treatment, which can both prevent disease progression and  decrease the likelihood of transmission to others. Hepatitis B
The CDC, WHO, USPSTF, and ACOG recommend routine hepatitis B screening for certain high-risk populations. Hepatitis D
The CDC, WHO, USPSTF, AASLD, and ACOG recommend screening people at high risk for hepatitis D infection. Along with laboratory testing, chest CT scans may be helpful to diagnose COVID‑19 in individuals with a high clinical suspicion of infection. Imaging
Chest CT scans may be helpful to diagnose COVID‑19 in individuals with a high clinical suspicion of infection but are not recommended for routine screening. The WHO recommended that people with respiratory symptoms be screened for both diseases, as testing positive for COVID‑19 could not rule out co-infections. Progressive dyspnea on exertion without the exacerbations and remissions that are characteristic of asthma or COPD sometimes prompt a chest CT. A review of the CT by an expert familiar with LAM may increase diagnostic accuracy. Screening of demographics known to be at risk for specific disorders may be useful. 
Can cow's milk cause iron deficiency in babies in the first year of life? [SEP] For proper growth and development, infants and children need iron from their diet. For children, a high intake of cow's milk is associated with an increased risk of iron-deficiency anemia. Iron deficiency can lead to premature labor and to problems with neural functioning, including delays in language and motor development in the infant.Some studies show that women pregnant during their teenage years can be at greater risk of iron-deficiency anemia due to an already increased need for iron and other nutrients during adolescent growth spurts. In addition, infants who are given cow's milk too early can develop anemia due to gastrointestinal blood loss.Children who are at risk for iron-deficiency anemia include:
Preterm infants
Low birth weight infants
Infants fed with cow's milk under 12 months of age
Breastfed infants who have not received iron supplementation after age 6 months, or those receiving non-iron-fortified formulas
Children between the ages of 1 and 5 years old who receive more than 24 ounces (700 mL) of cow milk per day
Children with low socioeconomic status
Children with special health care needs
Children of Hispanic ethnicity
Children who are overweight

Blood donation
Frequent blood donors are also at risk for developing iron deficiency anemia. Some studies have found an association between infant formula and lower cognitive development, including iron supplementation in baby formula being linked to lowered I.Q. Although cow's milk is the basis of almost all infant formula, plain cow's milk is unsuited for infants because of its high casein content and low whey content, and untreated cow's milk is not recommended before the age of 12 months. The infant intestine is not properly equipped to digest non-human milk, and this may often result in diarrhea, intestinal bleeding and malnutrition. Fetuses, infants, and children
Human milk is relatively low in copper, and the neonate's liver stores falls rapidly after birth, supplying copper to the fast-growing body during the breast feeding period. 
Does cow's milk for babies have other health disadvantages?? [SEP] Sick or pre-term babies may not be able to breastfeed or take a bottle effectively and may need specialized care.The design characteristics of the bottle and teat have been found to affect infant feeding and milk intake. Interactions between the infant and the caregiver feeding them affect the infant's milk intake during feeding. Infants fed using "Bottle A" were reported to engage in less "fussing", but no difference were found in "crying" or "colic" or in rates of ear infection.Health recommendations for the storage and handling of human milk typically focus on preventing the growth of dangerous bacteria, but some research is also being done on nutrition. The body of the policy statement notes and cites literature indicating that, in addition to the importance of mother's milk, the manner of the food delivery has implications: that "breastfed infants self-regulate intake volume", whereas bottle-fed infants receiving expressed breast milk or formula have "increased bottle emptying, poorer self-regulation, and excessive weight gain in late infancy", and that such early practice of self-regulation correlate with adult patterns of weight gain (ibid.). Automatic milker take-off
It can be harmful to an animal for it to be over-milked past the point where the udder has stopped releasing milk. Though milking speed is not related to the quality of milk produced by the cow, it does impact the management of the milking process. This first milk, called colostrum, is rich in fats, protein, and also maternal immune cells. This leaves children less likely to contract diarrheal diseases and respiratory infections.Besides the quality and frequency of breastfeeding, the nutritional status of mothers affects infant health. 
Does drinking breast milk as a baby have a positive effect on later health and development? [SEP] Breast milk also contains substances that help protect an infant against infection and inflammation, whilst also contributing to healthy development of the immune system and gut microbiome. Benefits
Breastfeeding offers health benefits to mother and child even after infancy. Breastfeeding can also reduce the risk of breast cancer later in life. Breastfeeding may also improve cognitive development and decrease the risk of obesity in adulthood.Benefits for the mother include less  blood loss following  delivery, better contraction of the uterus, and a decreased risk of postpartum depression. WHO states, "Breast milk is the ideal food for the healthy growth and development of infants; breastfeeding is also an integral part of the reproductive process with important implications for the health of mothers. Some studies show that breastfeeding aids general health, growth and development in the infant. Breastfed babies also appear to have a lower likelihood of developing diabetes mellitus type 2 later in life.Breastfeeding may decrease the risk of cardiovascular disease in later life, as indicated by lower cholesterol and C-reactive protein levels in breastfed adult women. Breastfed infants have somewhat lower blood pressure later in life, but it is unclear how much practical benefit this provides.A 1998 study suggested that breastfed babies have a better chance of good dental health than formula-fed infants because of the developmental effects of breastfeeding on the oral cavity and airway. 
Does Almased help with excess weight better than other diets? [SEP] A meta-analysis of 16 trials of 2–12 months' duration found that low-fat diets (without intentional restriction of caloric intake) resulted in average weight loss of 3.2 kg (7.1 lb) over habitual eating.A low-fat, plant-based diet has been found to improve control of weight, blood sugar levels, and cardiovascular health. There is some evidence that these diets results in considerable weight loss. Plant-based diets are effective for short-term treatment of overweight and obesity, likely due to the high consumption of low energy density foods. Some limited evidence suggests various health benefits and effective weight loss with this diet. Effectiveness
Several diets are effective for short-term weight loss for obese individuals, with diet success most predicted by adherence and little effect resulting from the type or brand of diet. Partly because diets do not reliably produce long-term positive health outcomes, some argue against using weight loss as a goal, preferring other measures of health such as improvements in cardiovascular biomarkers, sometimes called a Health at Every Size (HAES) approach or a "weight neutral" approach.Long term losses from dieting are best maintained with continuing professional support, long term increases in physical activity, the use of anti-obesity medications, continued use of meal replacements, and additional periods of dieting to undo weight regain. Considered a fad diet. The diet is intended to reduce neurological deterioration such as Alzheimer's disease. 
Do products with talc, such as baby powder, increase the risk of ovarian cancer? [SEP] Safety
Suspicions have been raised that talc use contributes to certain types of disease, mainly cancers of the ovaries and lungs. Research published in 1995 and 2000 concluded that it was plausible that talc could cause ovarian cancer, but no conclusive evidence was shown. Litigation
In 2006 the International Agency for Research on Cancer classified talcum powder as a possible human carcinogen if used in the female genital area. The family claimed that the use of talcum powder was responsible for her cancer. The British charity, Ovacome was quoted as saying that while there were 16 studies which showed that using talc increased the risk of ovarian cancer by around a third, and a 2013 review of US studies had similar results for genital, but not general, talcum powder use they were not convinced that the results were reliable. A large study performed in 2003 found that ovarian cancer risk increased from a baseline of 0.0121% to 0.0161% in people who reported regularly using talc in the genital area. The company says the talc-based powder is safe to use and does not contain asbestos.In 2023, the number of lawsuits regarding talc-based baby powder has exceeded 40,000 as more claimants come forward to say that the company's product caused them to have cancer. Recently, J&J has been hit by thousands of lawsuits by women claiming that J&J baby powder, containing talc, caused their ovarian cancer. 
Do large portions, large plates or glasses, and larger packaging cause us to eat and drink more? [SEP] Overweight people tend to underestimate the amount of food they eat, and underweight people tend to overestimate. In fact, overweight people tend to have faster metabolic rates due to the increased energy required by the larger body. Water content varies depending on the type of food consumed, with fruit and vegetables containing more than cereals, for example. Women are more likely than men to be obese, where the rate of obesity in women doubled from 8% to 14% between 1980 and 2008. Being overweight as a child has become an increasingly important indicator for later development of obesity and non-infectious diseases such as heart disease. Industrialized nations more often face malnutrition in the form of over-nutrition from excess calories and non-nutritious carbohydrates, which has contributed greatly to the public health epidemic of obesity. Inevitably, such large-scale concentration changes the nutritional content of food, saving certain nutrients while removing others. Before this, glass photographic plates were used, which were far more expensive and cumbersome, although of better quality due to their size. 
Does taking coconut oil improve mental abilities in dementia like Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] Conversely, no clinically significant effect has been found for the drug, as nicotinamide administration has not been found to promote memory functions in patients with mild to moderate dementia of either Alzheimer's, vascular, or fronto-temporal types. Different methods of processing corn may result in a higher degree of bioavailability of the vitamin.Though treatment with niacin does little to alter the effects of Alzheimer's dementia, niacin intake from foods is inversely associated with the disease. This increase in memory is particularly beneficial to memory loss experienced by old age. Oral doses of CDP-choline (another form of choline) given to elderly subjects with memory deficits, but without dementia, for four weeks showed improved memory in free recall tasks, but not in recognition tests. Medium-chain triglycerides can stimulate ketone synthesis and coconut oil is a rich source of medium chain triglycerides that several anecdotal reports suggest can improve cognitive function in Alzheimer's type dementia patients. Instead, studies have found that coconut oil consumption has health effects similar to those of other unhealthy fats, including butter, beef fat, and palm oil. Treatment with catalytic lipase has reportedly given coconut oil antimicrobial characteristics. Coconut Oil received positive reviews from music critics. 
Does the preparation "CAPS immu" from Ringana reduce the risk of infections in healthy people? [SEP] It is the basis for many coffee drinks. (Note: though having a similar term, this is not to be confused with the Beirut herbal tea from Lebanon or the Malaysian Ipoh white coffee.) (See above for preparation method.) Caps are flat headgear. In addition, switching to all caps may make text appear hectoring and obnoxious for cultural reasons, since all-capitals is often used in transcribed speech to indicate that the speaker is shouting. Mikrosha is switchable to KOI-7N1, in this mode, it can display both caps and lower-case, but in Cyrillic only. A 2020 study found that all-caps in legal texts is ineffective and is, in fact, harmful to older readers. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the European Medicines Agency (EMA) consider it to be a first-in-class medication. 
Do extracts from grape seeds have a health-promoting effect? [SEP] The extent to which polyphenols as dietary antioxidants may promote health is unknown, as no credible evidence indicates any antioxidant role for polyphenols in vivo.When three commercially available juice mixes, containing unspecified percentages of açaí juice, were compared for in vitro antioxidant capacity against red wine, tea, six types of pure fruit juice, and pomegranate juice, the average antioxidant capacity ranked lower than that of pomegranate juice, Concord grape juice, blueberry juice, and red wine. In addition to having a softening effect on the grape's naturally high tannins, the unique wood flavours of vanilla and baking spice complement the natural grape flavours of blackcurrant and tobacco. Grapes – fruit, popularized for supposed anti-cancer effect by Johanna Brandt (1876–1964) who championed a "grape diet", and promoted more recently in the form of grape seed extract (GSE). According to the American Cancer Society, "there is very little reliable scientific evidence available at this time that drinking red wine, eating grapes, or following the grape diet can prevent or treat cancer in people". This has been claimed to bring many benefits such as slowing aging or curing cancer; however, according to the American Cancer Society, "there is no convincing scientific evidence that extracted juices are healthier than whole foods". Grape seed extract
Grape seed proanthocyanidin extract (GSPE) is a powerful antioxidant. It is derived from grape seed and is enriched with polyphenolic flavonoids and other ingredients. Grapes also contain a fair amount of fiber. 
Is the administration of magnesium through the skin effective? [SEP] (Topical use of these agents is thought to be safe due to minimal systemic absorption.) Prevention
Magnesium deficiency causes neurogenic inflammation in a rat model. In a later study, researchers provided rats dietary levels of magnesium that were reduced but still within the range of dietary intake found in the human population, and observed an increase in substance P, TNF alpha (TNFα) and Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β), followed by exacerbated bone loss. The metal salts work in another way to prevent sweat from reaching the surface of the skin: the  aluminium salts interact with the keratin fibrils in the sweat ducts and form a physical plug that prevents sweat from reaching the skin's surface. Due to its low effectiveness and negative side effects, its use as a medication for treating muscle cramps is not recommended by the FDA.Magnesium is commonly used to treat muscle cramps. Moderate quality evidence indicates that magnesium is not effective for treating or preventing cramps in older adults. It is not known if magnesium helps cramps due to pregnancy, liver cirrhosis, other medical conditions, or exercising. Oral magnesium treatment does not appear to have significant major side effects, however, it may be associated with diarrhea and nausea in 11-37% of people who use this medicine.With exertional heat cramps due to electrolyte abnormalities (primarily potassium loss and not calcium, magnesium, and sodium), appropriate fluids and sufficient potassium improves symptoms. 
Do kava kava supplements help with anxiety disorders? [SEP] A systematic review done by the British nonprofit Cochrane concluded it was likely to be more effective than placebo at treating short-term anxiety.Moderate consumption of kava in its traditional form, i.e., as a water-based suspension of kava roots, has been deemed to present an "acceptably low level of health risk" by the World Health Organization. Changes in the activity of 5-HT neurons could explain the sleep-inducing action However, failure of the GABAA receptor inhibitor flumazenil to reverse the anxiolytic effects of kava in mice suggests that benzodiazepine-like effects are not contributing to the pharmacological profile of kava extracts.Heavy, long-term use of kava has been found to be free of association with reduced ability in saccade and cognitive tests, but has been associated with elevated liver enzymes. Kava may produce an initial talkative period, followed by muscle relaxation and eventual sleepiness.As noted in one of the earliest Western publications on kava (1886): "A well prepared Kava potion drunk in small quantities produces only pleasant changes in behavior. Kava soothes temperaments. Clinical trials examining the efficacy of aqueous extracts of kava in treating anxiety, although limited, have also not identified adverse health effects. Anxiolytics (CNS depressants such as benzodiazepines and barbiturates): Kava may have potential additive CNS depressant effects (such as sedation and anxiolytic effects) with benzodiazepines and barbiturates. Preliminary randomized controlled trials in anxiety disorders indicate a higher rate of improvement in anxiety symptoms after kava treatment, relative to placebo. Both cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) and medications (such as SSRIs) have been shown to be effective in reducing anxiety. 
Do ultrasound devices help against dust mites? [SEP] There are also products available based on sound production, particularly ultrasound (inaudibly high-frequency sounds) which purport to be insect repellents. However, scientists have determined that these plants are "effective" for a limited time only when the leaves are crushed and applied directly to the skin.There are several, widespread, unproven theories about mosquito control, such as the assertion that vitamin B, in particular B1 (thiamine), garlic, ultrasonic devices or incense can be used to repel or control mosquitoes. Moreover, manufacturers of "mosquito repelling" ultrasonic devices have been found to be fraudulent, and their devices were deemed "useless" according to a review of scientific studies. van Bronswijk, for taking a census of all the mites and other life forms that live in people's beds. Peace: Milo Puhan, Alex Suarez, Christian Lo Cascio, Alfred Zahn, Markus Heitz, and Otto Braendli, for demonstrating that regular playing of a didgeridoo is an effective treatment for obstructive sleep apnoea and snoring. The devices could be used to fix electronics or remove objects from the body. Researchers report the development of a viable wearable continuous heart ultrasound imager. Botanists report plants emit ultrasonic sounds under stress which can be interpreted, relevant to agriculture. 
Does the risk of food allergy decrease if babies are fed potentially allergenic foods (cow's milk, peanuts, chicken egg) as late as possible for the first time? [SEP] It is unclear if the early introduction of the eggs to the diet of babies aged 4–6 months decreases the risk of egg allergies.Egg allergy appears mainly in children but can persist into adulthood. Prevention
When eggs are introduced to a baby's diet is thought to affect risk of developing allergy, but there are contradictory recommendations. A 2016 review acknowledged that introducing peanuts early appears to have a benefit, but stated "The effect of early introduction of egg on egg allergy are controversial." A meta-analysis published the same year supported the theory that early introduction of eggs into an infant's diet lowers risk, and a review of allergens in general stated that introducing solid foods at 4–6 months may result in the lowest subsequent allergy risk. Early exposure to potential allergens may be protective. Specifically, early exposure to eggs and peanuts reduces the risk of allergies to these. The benefits of allergen immunotherapy for food allergies is unclear, thus is not recommended as of 2015.There is research on the effects of increasing intake of polyunsaturated fatty acids during pregnancy, lactation, via infant formula and in early childhood on the subsequent risk of developing food allergies during infancy and childhood. Desensitization through exposure
In infants with a family history of peanut allergy, consuming peanut proteins at 4 to 11 months old has been shown to reduce the risk of developing an allergic response by 11–25%. 
for fish, sesame, wheat? [SEP] Other major importers are United States, Canada, the Netherlands, Turkey, and France.Sesame seed is a high-value cash crop. Culinary use
Sesame seed is a common ingredient in various cuisines. In Sicily and France, the seeds are eaten on bread (ficelle sésame, sesame thread). In Togo, the seeds are a main soup ingredient and in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in the north of Angola, wangila is a dish of ground sesame, often served with smoked fish or lobster. Sesame seeds and oil are used extensively in India. Sesame is a common ingredient in many Middle Eastern cuisines. "Evidence for Cultivation of Sesame in the Ancient World". For food labeling requirements established in many countries, sesame labeling is required in addition to the eight most common food allergens, responsible for 90% of allergic reactions to foods: cow's milk, eggs, wheat, shellfish, peanuts, tree nuts, fish, and soy beans.In addition to water-soluble allergenic proteins, sesame seeds share with peanuts and hazelnuts a class of allergenic proteins known as oleosins. 
Can willow bark tea help with inflammation, pain or fever? [SEP] : 8–13  Hippocrates referred to the use of salicylic tea to reduce fevers around 400 BC, and willow bark preparations were part of the pharmacopoeia of Western medicine in classical antiquity and the Middle Ages. Willow bark extract became recognized for its specific effects on fever, pain, and inflammation in the mid-eighteenth century. Willow bark
Plants of the genus Salix have been used since the time of Hippocrates (400 BC) when patients were advised to chew on the bark to reduce fever and inflammation. Willow bark has been used throughout the centuries in China and Europe to the present for the treatment of pain (particularly low back pain and osteoarthritis), headache, and inflammatory conditions such as bursitis and tendinitis. This tea is used to treat colds, sinus headache, and general sore achy ailments. A tea was made from the leaves to treat stomach aches, colds, sore throats, and to clear up mucus in the lungs. W
The inner bark of willow trees has been used by Native American groups for health issues including headache, bleeding cuts, skin sores, fever, cough and hoarseness, menstrual cramping, stomach pain and diarrhea. The inner bark is most often made into tea and drank, though it is also made into a poultice to cover the skin over broken bones or used to wash skin and hair to promote skin repair and hair growth.Willow bark contains salicin, a compound similar to aspirin that has anti-inflammatory, antipyretic, and analgesic properties. 
Can a supposedly "high acid" diet weaken bones? [SEP] This can lead to bone weakening and the inability to repair bone damage. It is also a component of Moffett's solution, used in nasal surgery.It has been proposed that acidic diets weaken bones. Osteoclasts have shown to be "absolutely dependent on extracellular acidification". A drop in pH of <0.1 units can cause a 100% increase in osteoclast cell activity, this effect persists with prolonged acidosis with no desensitization, "amplifying the effects of modest pH differences". Bone balance
Acidosis inhibits bone osteoblast matrix mineralization with reciprocal effect on osteoclast activation. The utilization of bone to buffer even a small percentage of daily acid production can lead to significant loss of bone mass in the course of a decade. Metabolic acidosis can become more severe as kidney function weakens, and the body will depend more heavily on bone and blood to maintain acid-base homeostasis. High protein diets supply larger amounts of amino acids that could be degraded to acidic compounds. 
Does a supposedly "alkaline-rich" diet prevent chronic diseases? [SEP] Such a diet can lead to deficiencies of vitamins and dietary fiber, and increase the risk of chronic diseases. Diet
A diet high in fruits and vegetables decreases the risk of cardiovascular disease and death. A tailored low-protein diet, designed for low acidity, may help prevent damage to kidneys for people with CKD. The evidence supporting uptake of a renal diet and a reduction in cardiovascular events and mortality is limited, but dietary interventions may increase health-related quality of life and estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate (eGFR) while lowering serum albumin and serum cholesterol levels.The restrictiveness of a renal diet depends on the severity of the patient's kidney disease, and the diet should be undertaken with the advice of a dietician. Advocates promote the paleolithic diet as a way of improving health. The evidence related to Paleolithic diets is best interpreted as supporting the idea that diets based largely on plant foods promote health and longevity, at least under conditions of food abundance and physical activity." Following the paleolithic diet, however, can lead to nutritional deficiencies such as those of vitamin D and calcium, which in turn could lead to compromised bone health; it can also lead to an increased risk of ingesting toxins from high fish consumption.There is some evidence the diet helps achieve weight loss, possibly because of the increased satiety from the foods typically eaten. As with any other diet regime, the paleolithic diet leads to weight loss because of overall decreased caloric intake, rather than a special feature of the diet itself.There is no good evidence that following a paleolithic diet lessens the risk of cardiovascular disease or metabolic syndrome. 
Can a blood test detect mental illness? [SEP] If the healthcare provider finds no physical reason for the symptoms, they may refer the person to a psychiatrist or psychologist (mental health professionals who are specially trained to diagnose and treat mental illnesses). Then they may take a careful history and seek medical records to look for early deprivation, childhood abuse, or mental illness. Blood tests may be taken to rule out other possible causes that may be reversible, such as hypothyroidism (an underactive thyroid), and to determine the dementia subtype. Blood tests (also called serology tests or serology immunoassays) can detect the presence of such antibodies. They sample blood, plasma, or serum. The test requires a blood sample. Diagnosis is typically made by blood, urine, and stool tests. All states currently test infants for phenylketonuria (a genetic disorder that causes mental illness if left untreated) and congenital hypothyroidism (a disorder of the thyroid gland). 
Is surgery for an anterior cruciate ligament tear (by replacing the broken anterior cruciate ligament with tendon tissue from another part of the leg) followed by physical therapy better than physical therapy alone? [SEP] Anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACL reconstruction) is a surgical tissue graft replacement of the anterior cruciate ligament, located in the knee, to restore its function after an injury. ACL repair is also a surgical option. Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction (ACL) surgery is a common intervention. In those with high activity levels, surgical repair via arthroscopic anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction is often recommended. Treatment
Treatment for ACL tears is important to:
Reduce abnormal knee movements and improve knee function
Build trust and confidence to use the knee normally again
Prevent further injury to the knee and reduce the risk of osteoarthritis
Optimise long-term quality of life following the injury

Nonsurgical
Nonsurgical treatment for ACL rupture involves progressive, structured rehabilitation that aims to restore muscle strength, dynamic knee control and psychological confidence. Surgery
ACL reconstruction surgery involves replacing the torn ACL with a "graft," which is a tendon taken from another source. This method is less invasive and is proven to result in less pain from surgery, less time in the hospital, and quicker recovery times than "open" surgery (in which a long incision is made down the front of the knee and the joint is opened and exposed).Young athletes or anyone opting for ACL surgery should consider delaying their surgery and completing a 4-6 week prehabilitation program. If an individual with an ACL injury undergoes surgery, the rehabilitation process will first focus on slowly increasing the range of motion of the joint, then on strengthening the surrounding muscles to protect the new ligament and stabilize the knee. 
Can motherwort reduce migraine attacks? [SEP] Frovatriptan is effective for prevention of menstrual migraine.The antidepressants amitriptyline and venlafaxine are probably also effective. The frequency of migraine was positively affected after treatment with feverfew. Some studies have shown to be effective in both preventing and treating migraine in intravenous form. Children
Ibuprofen helps decrease pain in children with migraines and is the initially recommended treatment. This method is considered to be efficient for migraine prevention. Alternative medicine
Acupuncture
Cochrane reviews have found that acupuncture is effective in the treatment of migraine. It has been reported to help people through an attack by relieving the nausea and dulling the head pain, as well as possibly preventing the headache completely when used as soon as possible after the onset of pre-migraine symptoms, such as aura. FeverfewThe plant feverfew (Tanacetum parthenium) is a traditional herbal remedy believed to reduce the frequency of migraine attacks. 
Does metal in bed disturb sleep? [SEP] The album is considered by many to have started the nu metal genre. While recording their first album, Butler read an occult book and woke up seeing a dark figure at the end of his bed. For the treatment, the guests must endure the pain of lying on a bed of nails. A sleeping person makes noises that warn spiders of danger. Human body and health
Sleeping in a closed room with an electric fan running does not result in "fan death", as is widely believed in South Korea. Waking up a sleepwalker does not harm them. Sleepwalkers may be confused or disoriented for a short time after awakening, but the health risks associated with sleepwalking are from injury or insomnia, not from being awakened. There is also little evidence it impacts body weight. 
Does heat treatment (radiofrequency ablation or radiofrequency heat ablation of benign nodules of the thyroid gland work as well as conventional surgical methods? [SEP] In some conditions, especially forms of intra-nodal re-entry (the most common type of SVT), also called atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia or AVNRT, ablation can also be accomplished by cryoablation (tissue freezing using a coolant which flows through the catheter) which avoids the risk of complete heart block – a potential complication of radiofrequency ablation in this condition. Microwave ablation, where tissue is ablated by the microwave energy "cooking" the adjacent tissue, and ultrasonic ablation, creating a heating effect by mechanical vibration, or laser ablation have also been developed but are not in widespread use. Although the initial use of radiofrequency-generated heat to ablate nerve endings in the renal arteries to aid in management of 'resistant hypertension' were encouraging, the most recent phase 3 studying looking at catheter-based renal denervation for the treatment of resistant hypertension failed to show any significant reduction in systolic blood pressure. Barrett's esophagus
Radiofrequency ablation has been shown to be a safe and effective treatment for Barrett's esophagus. In some conditions, especially forms of intra-nodal re-entry (the most common type of SVT), also called atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia or AVNRT, ablation can also be accomplished by cryoablation (tissue freezing using a coolant which flows through the catheter) which avoids the risk of complete heart block – a potential complication of radiofrequency ablation in this condition. Although the initial use of radiofrequency-generated heat to ablate nerve endings in the renal arteries to aid in management of 'resistant hypertension' were encouraging, the most recent phase 3 studying looking at catheter-based renal denervation for the treatment of resistant hypertension failed to show any significant reduction in systolic blood pressure. Barrett's esophagus
Radiofrequency ablation has been shown to be a safe and effective treatment for Barrett's esophagus. Procedure
Targeted radiofrequency ablation is not a treatment for cancer, but is used for pain management. 
Does Imunoglukan strengthen the immune system? [SEP] Here, the immune system adapts its response during an infection to improve its recognition of the pathogen. This improved response is then retained after the pathogen has been eliminated, in the form of an immunological memory, and allows the adaptive immune system to mount faster and stronger attacks each time this pathogen is encountered. Other hormones appear to regulate the immune system as well, most notably prolactin, growth hormone and vitamin D.

Vitamin D
Although cellular studies indicate that vitamin D has receptors and probable functions in the immune system, there is no clinical evidence to prove that vitamin D deficiency increases the risk for immune diseases or vitamin D supplementation lowers immune disease risk. These cytokines then stimulate immune functions such as immune cell activation, proliferation, and differentiation. Immunostimulation
Claims made by marketers of various products and alternative health providers, such as chiropractors, homeopaths, and acupuncturists to be able to stimulate or "boost" the immune system generally lack meaningful explanation and evidence of effectiveness. Cancer immunotherapy covers the medical ways to stimulate the immune system to attack cancer tumors. The innate and acquired portions of the immune system work together, not in spite of each other. Antibodies exert additive or synergistic effects with mechanisms of innate immunity. 
Do cell phones promote the development and growth of tumors in the head? [SEP] Clear evidence establishes ultraviolet radiation, especially the non-ionizing medium wave UVB, as the cause of most non-melanoma skin cancers, which are the most common forms of cancer in the world.Non-ionizing radio frequency radiation from mobile phones, electric power transmission and other similar sources has been described as a possible carcinogen by the World Health Organization's International Agency for Research on Cancer. Non-ionizing radio frequency radiation from mobile phones, electric power transmission, and other similar sources have been described as a possible carcinogen by the World Health Organization's International Agency for Research on Cancer. However, studies have not found a consistent link between cell phone radiation and cancer risk.Higher-energy radiation, including ultraviolet radiation (present in sunlight), x-rays, and gamma radiation, generally is carcinogenic, if received in sufficient doses. Numerous studies have reported no significant relationship between mobile phone use and health, but the effect of mobile phone usage on health continues to be an area of public concern.For example, at the request of some of their customers, Verizon created usage controls that meter service and can switch phones off, so that children could get some sleep. By one measure, nearly 40% of automobile drivers aged 16 to 30 years old text while driving, and by another, 40% of teenagers said they could text blindfolded.18 studies have been conducted on the link between cell phones and brain cancer; A review of these studies found that cell phone use of 10 years or more "give a consistent pattern of an increased risk for acoustic neuroma and glioma". The tumors are found mostly on the side of the head that the mobile phone is in contact with. In July 2008, Dr. Ronald Herberman, director of the University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, warned about the radiation from mobile phones. He stated that there was no definitive proof of the link between mobile phones and brain tumors but there was enough studies that mobile phone usage should be reduced as a precaution. 
Does wearing bras promote breast cancer risk? [SEP] She states that there is evidence "that wearing a bra can make the muscles and ligaments that support the breasts lazy over time, leading to breast sagging and laxity." Cancer fears
Some women choose not to wear bras because they worry that it might increase the risk of breast cancer. A 2002 survey found that 6% of women agreed that "Under-wire bras can cause breast cancer", 63% disagreed with this claim, and another 31% did not know.There is no credible scientific evidence that wearing bras causes cancer. The United States National Cancer Institute states that bras have not been found to increase a woman's risk for breast cancer, and the American Cancer Society stated, "There are no scientifically valid studies that show wearing bras of any type causes breast cancer. "Misinformation about bras and cancer spread across the internet "mostly inspired by one study with several scientific flaws...The study, never published in a peer-reviewed journal, did not adjust for known breast cancer risk factors that might be associated with bra-wearing behavior, like weight and age. A well-regarded 2014 study by researchers at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle found no direct link between wearing a bra and developing breast cancer. The report noted, "no aspect of bra wearing, including bra cup size, recency, average number of hours a day worn, wearing a bra with an underwire, or age first began regularly wearing a bra, was associated with risks" of breast cancer. The study included detailed studies of women's lifestyle and bra-wearing habits and found no correlation between bra use and cancer. 
Are tattoo inks harmful to health? [SEP] Pigments and preservatives in tattoo ink can cause allergic reactions in skin. Some common tattoo pigments are chemicals that may cause cancer, but longer-term studies would be needed to determine whether these chemicals increase risk of cancer if embedded in the skin. This ink may cause irritation and may be carcinogenic, and tattoo artists are divided on whether they consider it safe to use. Health effects
Components of tattoo ink may cause allergic reactions in skin, including red, green, yellow and blue pigments. Tattooed Skin and Health. A variety of health effects can result from tattooing . The wide range of pigments currently used in tattoo inks may create unforeseen health problems. Once ingested, ink can be hazardous to one's health. 
Do plant hormones (phytoestrogens) other than genistein reduce the number and intensity of hot flashes during menopause? [SEP] Since the incidence of cardiovascular disease in women has shown a rise that matches the increase in the number of post menopausal women, recent studies have examined the benefits and side effects of oral versus transdermal application of different estrogens and found that transdermal applications of estradiol may give the vascular benefits lowering the incidences of cardiovascular events with less adverse side effects than oral preparations.Women who experience troublesome hot flashes are advised by some to try alternatives to hormonal therapies as the first line of treatment. They have been found efficient in alleviating hot flashes. The two soy isoflavones implicated in relieving menopausal symptoms are genistein and daidzein, and are also known as phytoestrogens. Other phytoestrogens
It is believed that dietary changes that include a higher consumption of phytoestrogens from sources such as soy, red clover, ginseng, and yam may relieve hot flashes. Ginseng: Very few studies exist on the effect of ginseng for relief of menopausal symptoms. Flaxseed may reduce the number of hot flashes and improve mood and quality of life in postmenopausal women not receiving estrogen therapy. A Cochrane review of the use of phytoestrogens to relieve the vasomotor symptoms of menopause (hot flashes) stated that there was no conclusive evidence to suggest any benefit to their use, although genistein effects should be further investigated. In a rigorous study, the use of one such source of phytoestrogen, red clover, has been shown to be safe, but ineffective in relieving menopausal symptoms (black cohosh is also used for menopausal symptoms, but does not contain phytoestrogens). 
Does the herbal hormone genistein reduce the number and intensity of hot flashes during menopause??? [SEP] They include hormone-mimicking phytoestrogens and astringent tannins. Plants containing phytoestrogens have been administered for centuries for gynecological disorders, such as fertility, menstrual, and menopausal problems. See also
Ethnomedicine
European Directive on Traditional Herbal Medicinal Products
Australian Phytochemical Survey
Plant Resources of Tropical Africa

Notes


== References == Since testosterone levels decrease as men age, testosterone is sometimes used in older men to counteract this deficiency. Nevertheless, maintaining normal testosterone levels in elderly men has been shown to improve many parameters that are thought to reduce cardiovascular disease risk, such as increased lean body mass, decreased visceral fat mass, decreased total cholesterol, and glycemic control.High androgen levels are associated with menstrual cycle irregularities in both clinical populations and healthy women. Testosterone may be a treatment for postmenopausal women as long as they are effectively estrogenized.In females, testosterone levels peak at about 17-18 years of age. Drugs: Natural or man-made antiandrogens including spearmint tea reduce testosterone levels. Licorice can decrease the production of testosterone and this effect is greater in females. 
Does bloodletting according to Hildegard von Bingen have health benefits? [SEP] Bloodletting (or blood-letting) is the withdrawal of blood from a patient to prevent or cure illness and disease. In the overwhelming majority of cases, the historical use of bloodletting was harmful to patients.Today, the term phlebotomy refers to the drawing of blood for laboratory analysis or blood transfusion. One British medical text recommended bloodletting for acne, asthma, cancer, cholera, coma, convulsions, diabetes, epilepsy, gangrene, gout, herpes, indigestion, insanity, jaundice, leprosy, ophthalmia, plague, pneumonia, scurvy, smallpox, stroke, tetanus, tuberculosis, and for some one hundred other diseases. Bloodletting was even used to treat most forms of hemorrhaging such as nosebleed, excessive menstruation, or hemorrhoidal bleeding. The psychological benefit of bloodletting to the patient (a placebo effect) may sometimes have outweighed the physiological problems it caused. Some physicians considered bloodletting useful for a more limited range of purposes, such as to "clear out" infected or weakened blood or its ability to "cause hæmorrhages to cease"—as evidenced in a call for a "fair trial for blood-letting as a remedy" in 1871.Some researchers used statistical methods for evaluating treatment effectiveness to discourage bloodletting. Phlebotomy
Bloodletting is used today in the treatment of a few diseases, including hemochromatosis and polycythemia. In alternative medicine
Though bloodletting as a general health measure has been shown to be pseudoscience, it is still commonly indicated for a wide variety of conditions in the Ayurvedic, Unani, and traditional Chinese systems of alternative medicine. 
Can FGXpress Power Strips reduce pain or improve wound healing? [SEP] Platelets, the cells present in the highest numbers shortly after a wound occurs, release mediators into the blood, including cytokines and growth factors. They also cleanse the wound by secreting proteases that break down damaged tissue. By secreting these factors, macrophages contribute to pushing the wound healing process into the next phase. Local factors
Moisture; keeping a wound moist rather than dry makes wound healing more rapid and with less pain and less scarring
Mechanical factors
Oedema
Ionizing radiation
Faulty technique of wound closure
Ischemia and necrosis
Foreign bodies. In addition to providing support for fibroblast and endothelial cell attachment, biodegradable scaffolds inhibit wound contraction, thereby allowing the healing process to proceed towards a more-regenerative/less-scarring pathway. are better than sterile water or saline solutions to help venous leg ulcers heal. Early removal of dressings from clean or clean-contaminated wounds does affect primary healing of wounds. are better than sterile water or saline solutions to help venous leg ulcers heal. 
Does treatment according to the fascial distortion model help with chronic shoulder pain? [SEP] (March 25, 1957 – April 5, 2006) was an American physician who was the founder of the Fascial Distortion Model, an anatomical and physiological model of medicine. He developed many of his early treatments working in the Emergency room setting, while employed by EMCare (an ER staffing firm) in Plainview, Texarkana, Ennis, and Ft. Worth, Texas from 1992 to 1996, and then later in his practice in Brewer, Maine.“The fascial distortion model is an anatomical perspective in which the underlying etiology of virtually every musculoskeletal injury (and many neurological and medical conditions as well) is considered to be comprised of one or more of six specific pathological alterations of the body’s connecting tissues (fascial bands, ligaments, tendons, retinacula, etc.). This model not only allows for strikingly effective manipulative treatments for diverse afflictions such as pulled muscles, fractures, and frozen shoulders, but the results are objective, obvious, measurable, and immediate.”From 1992 to 2005 Typaldos presented numerous seminars in the USA and around the world (Austria, Japan, France, Portugal, and Germany) as he taught physicians and international osteopaths his insights and treatments for musculoskeletal injuries and pain. Publications
Introducing the Fascial Distortion Model, American Academy of Osteopathy (AAO) Journal, Vol.4, No. Orthopathic Medicine: The Unification of Orthopedics with Osteopathy Through the Fascial Distortion Model • First Edition, 1997, Orthopathic Global Health Publications (OGHP), Brewer, ME • Second Edition, 1998, OGHP, Brewer, ME • Third Edition, 1999, OGHP, Brewer, ME • Japanese Edition, 1998, Sky East Publishing, Tokyo, Japan • German Edition, Verlag für Ganzheltiliche Medicin (VGM), Kötzting, Germany, 1999
FDM – Clinical and Theoretical Application of the Fascial Distortion Model Within the Practice of Medicine and Surgery • 2002, Orthopathic Global Health Publications (OGHP), Brewer, ME • Japanese Edition, 2004, FDM Asia Association, Fukuoka, Japan

References
External links
www.afdma.com
http://www.fdm-europe.com/en_US/
http://osteopathie-blog.blogspot.com/
http://www.typaldos-akademie.de/
http://www.fdm.cc/
http://www.fascialdistortion.com Acupuncture has also been found to be an effective and safe treatment in reducing pain and improving quality of life in chronic pain including chronic pelvic pain syndrome.Transcranial magnetic stimulation for reduction of chronic pain is not supported by high quality evidence, and the demonstrated effects are small and short-term.Spa therapy could potentially improve pain in patients with chronic lower back pain, but more studies are needed to provide stronger evidence of this.While some studies have investigated the efficacy of St John's Wort or nutmeg for treating neuropathic (nerve) pain, their findings have raised serious concerns about the accuracy of their results.Kinesio Tape has not been shown to be effective in managing chronic non-specific low-back pain.Myofascial release has been used in some cases of fibromyalgia, chronic low back pain, and tennis elbow but there is not enough evidence to support this as method of treatment. Those that do have symptoms tend to have intermittent shoulder pain, particularly during forward should flexion (i.e. Those affected tend to hold the shoulder rotated inwards to alleviate pain, and have difficulty lying on the affected shoulder. 
Are there effective alternatives to the breathing mask (CPAP) for sleep apnea? [SEP] Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is the most effective treatment for severe obstructive sleep apnea, but oral appliances are considered a first-line approach equal to CPAP for mild to moderate sleep apnea, according to the American Academy of Sleep Medicine (AASM) parameters of care. Continuous positive airway pressure
For moderate to severe sleep apnea, the most common treatment is the use of a continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) or automatic positive airway pressure (APAP) device. Treatment
The management of obstructive sleep apnea was improved with the introduction of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP), first described in 1981 by Colin Sullivan and associates in Sydney, Australia. CPAP therapy is highly effective for managing obstructive sleep apnea. Medical uses
Severe to moderate obstructive sleep apnea
CPAP is the most effective treatment for moderate to severe obstructive sleep apnea, in which the mild pressure from the CPAP prevents the airway from collapsing or becoming blocked. Therapy alternatives
Continuous positive airway pressure
In 1981, Dr. Sullivan and colleagues introduced continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP), which replaced tracheostomy as the gold standard treatment for obstructive sleep apnea. CPAP is the most effective treatment for obstructive sleep apnea, in which the pressure from CPAP prevents the airway from collapsing or becoming blocked. CPAP treatment can be highly effective in treatment of obstructive sleep apnea. 
Does closure of the foramen ovale prevent further strokes in people who have had a stroke of unknown cause? [SEP] In about 25% of adults, the foramen ovale does not entirely seal. can cause the foramen ovale to remain open. In about 25% of people, the foramen ovale does not close, leaving them with a PFO or at least with what some physicians classify as a "pro-PFO", which is a PFO that is normally closed, but can open under increased right atrial pressure. No cause is established for a foramen ovale to remain open instead of closing, but heredity and genetics may play a role. "Evidence for increasing patency of the foramen ovale in divers". If the closure is incomplete, the result is a patent foramen ovale. Patent foramen ovale closure
There is significant evidence that a link exists between migraine with aura and the presence of a patent foramen ovale (PFO), a hole between the upper chambers (the atria) of the heart. patent foramen ovale, arguably a variant of normal) to serious life-threatening abnormalities (e.g. 
Does stimulation current therapy (TENS - Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation) help with worn knee joints (knee osteoarthritis)? [SEP] Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS or TNS) is the use of electric current produced by a device to stimulate the nerves for therapeutic purposes. Given the age and comorbidities of the KOA population being generally older, often prone to polypharmacy and sensitive to adverse reactions, TENS could be a relevant non-pharmacological therapeutic alternative to pharmacological analgesics for the management of Knee Osteoarthritis pain. Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS or TNS) is the use of electric current produced by a device to stimulate the nerves for therapeutic purposes. Given the age and comorbidities of the KOA population being generally older, often prone to polypharmacy and sensitive to adverse reactions, TENS could be a relevant non-pharmacological therapeutic alternative to pharmacological analgesics for the management of Knee Osteoarthritis pain. Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS or TNS) is the use of electric current produced by a device to stimulate the nerves for therapeutic purposes. Given the age and comorbidities of the KOA population being generally older, often prone to polypharmacy and sensitive to adverse reactions, TENS could be a relevant non-pharmacological therapeutic alternative to pharmacological analgesics for the management of Knee Osteoarthritis pain. Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS or TNS) is the use of electric current produced by a device to stimulate the nerves for therapeutic purposes. Given the age and comorbidities of the KOA population being generally older, often prone to polypharmacy and sensitive to adverse reactions, TENS could be a relevant non-pharmacological therapeutic alternative to pharmacological analgesics for the management of Knee Osteoarthritis pain. 
Does taking magnesium salts decrease the frequency and intensity of muscle cramps with unknown cause? [SEP] The metal is obtained mainly by electrolysis of magnesium salts obtained from brine. Magnesium compounds are used medicinally as common laxatives and antacids (such as milk of magnesia), and to stabilize abnormal nerve excitation or blood vessel spasm in such conditions as eclampsia. Intracellular magnesium is correlated with intracellular potassium. Increased magnesium lowers calcium and can either prevent hypercalcemia or cause hypocalcemia depending on the initial level. There is limited evidence that magnesium supplementation may play a role in the prevention and treatment of migraine.Sorted by type of magnesium salt, other therapeutic applications include:

Magnesium sulfate, as the heptahydrate called Epsom salts, is used as bath salts, a laxative, and a highly soluble fertilizer. Potential health effects of magnesium sulfate are reflected in medical studies on the impact of magnesium on resistant depression and as an analgesic for migraine and chronic pain. Magnesium sulfate has been studied in the treatment of asthma, preeclampsia and eclampsia.Magnesium sulfate is the usual component of the concentrated salt solution used in isolation tanks to increase its specific gravity to approximately 1.25–1.26. Double salts
Double salts containing magnesium sulfate exist. 
Does taking magnesium salts reduce the frequency and intensity of exercise-induced muscle cramps during sports? [SEP] Magnesium compounds are used medicinally as common laxatives and antacids (such as milk of magnesia), and to stabilize abnormal nerve excitation or blood vessel spasm in such conditions as eclampsia. Supplementation
Numerous pharmaceutical preparations of magnesium and dietary supplements are available. Increased magnesium lowers calcium and can either prevent hypercalcemia or cause hypocalcemia depending on the initial level. Magnesium sulfate – intravenous – is used for the management of pre-eclampsia and eclampsia. There is limited evidence that magnesium supplementation may play a role in the prevention and treatment of migraine.Sorted by type of magnesium salt, other therapeutic applications include:

Magnesium sulfate, as the heptahydrate called Epsom salts, is used as bath salts, a laxative, and a highly soluble fertilizer. Potential health effects of magnesium sulfate are reflected in medical studies on the impact of magnesium on resistant depression and as an analgesic for migraine and chronic pain. Magnesium sulfate has been studied in the treatment of asthma, preeclampsia and eclampsia.Magnesium sulfate is the usual component of the concentrated salt solution used in isolation tanks to increase its specific gravity to approximately 1.25–1.26. Double salts
Double salts containing magnesium sulfate exist. 
Does taking magnesium salts reduce the frequency and intensity of muscle cramps in pregnancy? [SEP] The metal is obtained mainly by electrolysis of magnesium salts obtained from brine. Magnesium compounds are used medicinally as common laxatives and antacids (such as milk of magnesia), and to stabilize abnormal nerve excitation or blood vessel spasm in such conditions as eclampsia. Increased magnesium lowers calcium and can either prevent hypercalcemia or cause hypocalcemia depending on the initial level. The newborn children of mothers who received parenteral magnesium sulfate during labor may exhibit toxicity with normal serum magnesium levels. Magnesium sulfate – intravenous – is used for the management of pre-eclampsia and eclampsia. There is limited evidence that magnesium supplementation may play a role in the prevention and treatment of migraine.Sorted by type of magnesium salt, other therapeutic applications include:

Magnesium sulfate, as the heptahydrate called Epsom salts, is used as bath salts, a laxative, and a highly soluble fertilizer. Magnesium sulfate has been studied in the treatment of asthma, preeclampsia and eclampsia.Magnesium sulfate is the usual component of the concentrated salt solution used in isolation tanks to increase its specific gravity to approximately 1.25–1.26. Double salts
Double salts containing magnesium sulfate exist. 
Does the active ingredient rivaroxaban (drug Xarelto) have a higher risk of dangerous bleeding than other anticoagulants? [SEP] Rivaroxaban, sold under the brand name Xarelto among others, is an anticoagulant medication (blood thinner) used to treat and prevent blood clots. Rivaroxaban is associated with lower rates of serious and fatal bleeding events than warfarin, though rivaroxaban is associated with higher rates of bleeding in the gastrointestinal tract.In July 2012, the UK's National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence recommended rivaroxaban to prevent and treat venous thromboembolism. Rivaroxaban is associated with lower rates of serious and fatal bleeding events than warfarin but is associated with higher rates of bleeding in the gastrointestinal tract.As of 2015, post-marketing assessments showed liver toxicity, and further studies are needed to quantify this risk. The bleeding rates reported in the current study also are counterintuitive: if the excess strokes in rivaroxaban patients were the result of underanticoagulation in the post-trial period, then why did these patients also have a higher bleeding risk? Rivaroxaban, sold under the brand name Xarelto among others, is an anticoagulant medication (blood thinner) used to treat and prevent blood clots. Rivaroxaban is associated with lower rates of serious and fatal bleeding events than warfarin, though rivaroxaban is associated with higher rates of bleeding in the gastrointestinal tract.In July 2012, the UK's National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence recommended rivaroxaban to prevent and treat venous thromboembolism. Rivaroxaban is associated with lower rates of serious and fatal bleeding events than warfarin but is associated with higher rates of bleeding in the gastrointestinal tract.As of 2015, post-marketing assessments showed liver toxicity, and further studies are needed to quantify this risk. Xarelto (rivaroxaban) is a small molecule inhibitor of Factor Xa, a key enzyme involved in blood coagulation. 
Does vitamin D protect against dementia or memory loss? [SEP] Nutritional factors associated with the proposed diets for reducing dementia risk include unsaturated fatty acids, vitamin E, vitamin C, flavonoids, vitamin B, and vitamin D. A study conducted at the University of Exeter in the United Kingdom seems to have confirmed these findings with fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and healthy fats creating an optimum diet that can help reduce the risk of dementia by roughly 25%.The MIND diet may be more protective but further studies are needed. Cognitive training
There is no strong evidence to suggest that cognitive training is beneficial for people with Parkinson's disease, dementia, or mild cognitive impairment. Dementia can be prevented by reducing the risk factors for vascular disease such as diabetes, high blood pressure, obesity, smoking, physical inactivity and depression. Thus, physical exercise, having good blood cholesterol, healthy body weight and blood pressure lowers the risk of developing dementia. In particular, deficiency of vitamin B12 and/or of folate can cause an increase in Hcy plasma levels, which in turn leads to toxic effects on the vascular and nervous systems.Vitamin D deficiency correlates with cognitive impairment and dementia; however, the value of vitamin D substitution in cognitive impairment remains doubtful. Steroid hormones
Estrogen may also help in the prevention of dementia but cannot help when dementia is already present and when cognitive function is already impaired. Alzheimer's disease does not affect all memory capacities equally. Supplementation with B vitamins has been shown to significantly improve symptoms, and to put in reverse some of the cognitive deficits. 
Does brain training boost intelligence? [SEP] Education
According to a 2018 metastudy of educational effects on intelligence, education appears to be the "most consistent, robust, and durable method" known for raising intelligence.Myopia
A number of studies have shown a correlation between IQ and myopia. Improving
Genetic engineering
Because intelligence appears to be at least partly dependent on brain structure and the genes shaping brain development, it has been proposed that genetic engineering could be used to enhance the intelligence, a process sometimes called biological uplift in science fiction. Education
IQ leads to greater success in education, but independently education raises IQ scores. A 2017 meta-analysis suggests education increases IQ by 1-5 points per year of education, or at least increases IQ test taking ability. Activities and adult neural development
Exercise enhances cognition for healthy and non healthy subjects
Which (e.g. "intellectually demanding work") and how one does work
Quality of sleep

Digital tools
Digital media
Brain training
Attempts to raise IQ with brain training have led to increases on aspects related with the training tasks – for instance working memory – but it is yet unclear if these increases generalize to increased intelligence per se.A 2008 research paper claimed that practicing a dual n-back task can increase fluid intelligence (Gf), as measured in several different standard tests. He also asks whether it represents a real increase in intelligence beyond IQ scores. More intensive, but much smaller projects, such as the Abecedarian Project, have reported lasting effects, often on socioeconomic status variables, rather than IQ.Recent studies have shown that training in using one's working memory may increase IQ. 
Does petroleum help against cancer? [SEP] In the United States, the petroleum industry began in 1859 when Edwin Drake found oil near Titusville, Pennsylvania. Standard inspection, product sampling, process turnaround, or equipment maintenance/cleaning activities.Interestingly, even though petroleum refineries utilize and produce chemicals that are known carcinogens, the literature on cancer rates among refinery workers is mixed. For example, benzene has been shown to have a relationship with leukemia, however studies examining benzene exposure and resultant leukemia specifically in the context of oil refinery workers have come to opposing conclusions. Asbestos-related mesothelioma is another particular cancer-carcinogen relationship that has been investigated in the context of oil refinery workers. To date, this work has shown a marginally significant link to refinery employment and mesothelioma. Iraqi Environment Minister Jassem al-Falahi later admitted that "pollution from oil production is the main reason for increases in local cancer rates. Oil clean up workers reported that they were not allowed to use respirators, and that their jobs were threatened if they did.A peer-reviewed study published in The American Journal of Medicine reported significantly altered blood profiles of individuals exposed to the spilled oil and dispersants that put them at increased risk of developing liver cancer, leukemia and other disorders. Consumption of polyunsaturated fats, tea, alcoholic beverages, and coffee are all associated with reduced risk of developing lung cancer.Along with diet, body weight and exercise habits are also associated with lung cancer risk. 
Does lavender scent help with sleep disorders? [SEP] Crude extract of valerian root may have sedative and anxiolytic effects, and is commonly sold in dietary supplement capsules to promote sleep, but clinical evidence that it is effective for this purpose is weak or inconclusive as yet. Hippocrates described its properties, and Galen later prescribed it as a remedy for insomnia. Traditional medicine
Although valerian is a common traditional medicine used for treating insomnia, there is no good evidence it is effective for this purpose. Valerian has not been shown to be helpful in treating restless leg syndrome or anxiety.The European Medicines Agency (EMA) approved the health claim that valerian can be used as a traditional herb to relieve mild nervous tension and to aid sleep; the EMA stated that although there is insufficient evidence from clinical studies, its effectiveness as a dried extract is considered plausible.The American Academy of Sleep Medicine's 2017 clinical practice guidelines recommended against the use of valerian in the treatment of insomnia due to poor effectiveness and low quality of evidence. Miscellaneous: Sleep: (REM sleep) increases nocturnal testosterone levels. Relaxation can be induced with music and odors, which cue involuntary memory on both free recall and recognition tasks. Cassaday specifically used lemon and lavender odors to induce a calm learning environment which was later reinstated for retrieval tasks. As well, tests have shown that two retrieval cues seem more effective than one A test conducted by Cassaday focused on environmental conditions deemed to be relaxing such as smaller rooms and a lavender scent. 
Does the drug Sovaldi (sofosbuvir) enable high cure rates for chronic hepatitis C? [SEP] Sofosbuvir, sold under the brand name Sovaldi among others, is a medication used to treat hepatitis C. It is taken by mouth.Common side effects include fatigue, headache, nausea, and trouble sleeping. Sofosbuvir is in the nucleotide analog family of medications and works by blocking the hepatitis C NS5B protein.Sofosbuvir was discovered in 2007 and approved for medical use in the United States in 2013. Pharmacology
Mechanism of action
Sofosbuvir inhibits the hepatitis C NS5B protein. Two months before, the FDA had approved another drug, simeprevir, as a hepatitis C treatment.In 2014, the fixed dose combination drug sofosbuvir/ledipasvir, the latter a viral NS5A inhibitor, was approved; it had also been granted breakthrough status.Prior to the availability of sofosbuvir, hepatitis C treatments involved 6 to 12 months of treatment with an interferon-based regimen. In 2013, the FDA approved this drug, under the trade name Sovaldi, as a treatment for the hepatitis C virus. Pricing
Sovaldi
Gilead came under intense criticism for its high pricing of its patented drug sofosbuvir (sold under the brand name Sovaldi), used to treat hepatitis C. In the US, for instance, it was launched at $1,000 per pill or $84,000 for the standard 84-day course, but it was drastically cheaper in the developing world; in India, it dropped as low as $4.29 per pill. The company's research and development concentrated on nucleoside analogs.Pharmasset's PSI-7977 medication was further developed by Gilead and approved in December 2013 by the FDA as sofosbuvir (Sovaldi) for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C.Among Pharmasset's competitors were Abbott Laboratories, Merck & Co., and Vertex Pharmaceuticals. In April 2017, press reports stated that a combination treatment involving ravidasvir and sofosbuvir had achieved a 97% clearup rate against hepatitis C in a clinical trial conducted in Malaysia and Thailand, and 100% in another conducted in Egypt. 
Does alpha lipoic acid help prevent or treat Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] It is a prebiotic (see Microbiome) and may promote healthy aging. Other popular supplements with less clear biological pathways to target aging include, lipoic acid, senolytics such as curcumin, and Coenzyme Q10. The alleged benefits of the treatment, none of which have been demonstrated in a proper study, include a longer life, darker hair, better memory, better sleep, curing heart diseases, diabetes and Alzheimer's disease. Use of the antioxidant alpha-lipoic acid (before or after irradiation) was shown to eliminate the radiation-induced rise in ROS levels. The use of the antioxidant lipoic acid was able to reduce ROS levels below background levels when added before or after 56Fe-ion irradiation. Figure 6-8.Molecular pathways important in Alzheimer's disease. The isoform ApoE ε4 has been shown to increase the risk of cognitive impairments and to lower the age for Alzheimer's disease. It has been studied as a treatment for Alzheimer's disease, but there is no evidence that it is effective or ineffective. 
Are Vemma products good for health? [SEP] Vemma () Nutrition Company was a privately held multi-level marketing  company that sold dietary supplements. Vemma Nutrition Company was incorporated in 2004, and by 2011, New Vision had been entirely folded into Vemma.Vemma sold its products through its website, and also through independent distributors (referred to internally as affiliates)  who could potentially earn a share of the revenue from their own product sales as well as those from the network of distributors they build.In 2013, Vemma started describing itself as an affiliate marketing company, although Benson K. Boreyko has said that the compensation plan is the same. Vemma is a member of the U.S. Business model
Vemma was a multi-level marketing (MLM) company. Products
Vemma had four product lines, all based on their core Vemma nutritional formulation: Vemma, Verve, Bod-e and Next. The name "Vemma" is an acronym representing: vitamins, essential minerals, mangosteen, aloe. The company has since corrected its website and has begun amending its product packaging.TINA.org’s investigation and criticism of Vemma, which makes the energy drink Verve and enlists students ostensibly to sell its products, has been cited and quoted in New York Post articles that raised questions about whether Vemma is running a legitimate multi-level marketing business or an illegal pyramid scheme. In June 2015, the FTC began returning $1.9 million to people who had lost money in the scheme.In August 2015, the United States FTC filed a lawsuit against Vemma Nutrition Company, an Arizona-based dietary supplement Multi-Level Marketing firm, accused of operating an illegal pyramid scheme. 
Do over-the-counter cough medicines relieve cough symptoms? [SEP] Types
There are a number of different cough and cold medications, which may be used for various coughing symptoms. A 2014 Cochrane review concluded that "There is no good evidence for or against the effectiveness of OTC medicines in acute cough". Some cough medicines may be no more effective than placebos for acute coughs in adults, including coughs related to upper respiratory tract infections. The American College of Chest Physicians emphasizes that cough medicines are not designed to treat whooping cough, a cough that is caused by bacteria and can last for months. No over-the-counter cough medicines have been found to be effective in cases of pneumonia. Some placebo-controlled trials have found that it is ineffective against some forms of cough, including acute cough in children. A number of other commercially available cough treatments have not been shown to be effective in viral upper respiratory infections. Consider imaging studies in recurrent or unclear cases; some sinus involvement is frequent early in the course of uncomplicated viral URI

Cough medicine
No good evidence exists for or against the effectiveness of over-the-counter cough medications for reducing coughing in adults or children. 
Does a diet rich in vitamin K2 protect against diseases of the cardiovascular system? [SEP] Research
Preliminary research indicated that a diet high in fruit and vegetables may decrease the risk of cardiovascular disease and death, but not cancer. In theory, oxidative modification of LDL-cholesterol promotes blockages in coronary arteries that lead to atherosclerosis and heart attacks, so vitamin E functioning as an antioxidant would reduce oxidized cholesterol and lower risk of cardiovascular disease. Tentative evidence suggests that a diet containing dairy products has no effect on or decreases the risk of cardiovascular disease.A diet high in fruits and vegetables decreases the risk of cardiovascular disease and death. Other
There is evidence that some anticoagulants, particularly warfarin, which inhibit clot formation by interfering with Vitamin K metabolism, may actually promote arterial calcification in the long term despite reducing clot formation in the short term. A 2015 meta-analysis showed no antitumor effect nor improvement in quality-of-life measures from high-dose vitamin C. This review included trials of oral and intravenous vitamin C.

Cardiovascular disease
In 2017, an independent study evaluating 15,445 participants found no evidence to show vitamin C decreases the risk cardiovascular disease. These results supported one 2013 review which found no evidence that antioxidant vitamin supplementation reduces the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, cardiovascular mortality, or all-cause mortality (it did not provide subset analysis for trials that just used vitamin C).However, another 2013 review found an association between higher circulating vitamin C levels or dietary vitamin C and a lower risk of stroke.A 2014 review found a positive effect of vitamin C on endothelial dysfunction when taken at doses greater than 500 mg per day. The relationship between cardiovascular disease and vitamin D deficiency also suggest a link between health of cardiac and smooth muscle. One animal experiment has demonstrated that co-consumption with vitamin K reduced adverse effects, but this has not been tested in humans. 
Can shoe insoles relieve pain in people with high arches? [SEP] Insoles may help some people. Insoles
Low arches can cause overpronation or the feet to roll inward too much increasing load on the patellofemoral joint. Shoe insoles may help some people. Causes
The most common cause of foot pain is wearing ill fitting shoes. There are orthotic shoe insoles (foot orthotics) that help correct flat feet. Relieving pain, pressure, changing shoe wear or wearing a type of shoe insert is adequate for most people. The thick fibrous bands at the bottom of the heel get inflamed and cause excruciating pain. Footwear
Diabetic shoes, insoles and socks are personalised products that relieve pressure on the foot in order to prevent ulcers. 
Can shoe insoles relieve pain in people with foot deformities other than high arch? [SEP] Signs and symptoms
Pain and disability
As with certain cases of flat feet, high arches may be painful due to metatarsal compression; however, high arches— particularly if they are flexible or properly cared-for—may be an asymptomatic condition.People with pes cavus sometimes—though not always—have difficulty finding shoes that fit and may require support in their shoes. Children with high arches who have difficulty walking may wear specially-designed insoles, which are available in various sizes and can be made to order.Individuals with pes cavus frequently report foot pain, which can lead to a significant limitation in function. Otherwise, high arches may be handled with care and proper treatment.Suggested conservative management of patients with painful pes cavus typically involves strategies to reduce and redistribute plantar pressure loading with the use of foot orthoses and specialised cushioned footwear. Causes
The most common cause of foot pain is wearing ill fitting shoes. There are orthotic shoe insoles (foot orthotics) that help correct flat feet. Footwear
Diabetic shoes, insoles and socks are personalised products that relieve pressure on the foot in order to prevent ulcers. : 105 The 1993 American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society Women’s Shoe Survey found that women who wore shoes no more than 0.5 cm narrower than their feet (12% of those surveyed) very rarely had foot pain and had less foot deformity than the average woman (who wore shoes 1.2cm narrower than her foot). Of women who wore shoes that were more than 0.5cm narrower than their feet, 80% had foot pain and 73 percent were orthopaedic patients. 
Can dowsers find harmful soil zones or water veins? [SEP] nutrient status, metal toxicity, humus form). Soil can be over-irrigated due to poor distribution uniformity or management wastes water, chemicals, and may lead to water pollution. Where water levels from the irrigation source permit, the levels are controlled by dikes, usually plugged by soil. Root rot can occur in poorly drained soils. It can be found almost everywhere in rock, soil, rivers, and oceans. The mineralised zones are oriented parallel to the direction of groundwater flow, but on a small scale the ore zones may cut across sedimentary features of the host sandstone. Surficial deposits also occur in peat bogs, karst caverns and soils. Uranium Ore Deposits. 
Does bioresonance therapy help with health complaints? [SEP] Bioresonance therapy
Bioresonance therapy (including MORA therapy) is a pseudoscientific medical practice in which it is proposed that electromagnetic waves can be used to diagnose and treat human illness. History and method
Bioresonance therapy was invented (in Germany) in 1977 by Franz Morell and his son-in-law, engineer Erich Rasche. Some practitioners also claim they can treat diseases using this therapy without drugs, by stimulating a change of "bioresonance" in the cells, and reversing the change caused by the disease. Scientific evaluation
Lacking any scientific explanation of how bioresonance therapy might work, researchers have classified bioresonance therapy as pseudoscience. WebMD states: "There is no reliable scientific evidence that bioresonance is an accurate indicator of medical conditions or disease or an effective treatment for any condition. See also
References
Further reading
Bioresonance therapy"Your Friday Dose of Woo: MORA the same ol' same ol' woo". Wandtke F, Biorensonanz-Allergietest versus pricktest und RAST, Allergologie 1993, 16, p. 144
Wille A, Bioresonance therapy (biophysical information therapy) in stuttering children, Forsch Komplementärmed, 1999 Feb; 6 Suppl 1:50-2
Hörner M, Bioresonanz: Anspruch einer Methode und Ergebnis einer technischen Überprüfung, Allergologie, 1995, 18 S. 302
Kofler H, Bioresonanz bei Pollinose. An overview of the pseudoscience behind "bioresonance therapy":  "Electrodiagnostic" Devices 
Do irradiations with cold red light help with chronic gingivitis? [SEP] If gingivitis is not responsive to treatment, referral to a periodontist (a specialist in diseases of the gingiva and bone around teeth and dental implants) for further treatment may be necessary. In a 2004 clinical study, the beneficial effect of hydrogen peroxide on gingivitis has been highlighted. Thus, several of the methods used in the prevention of gingivitis can also be used for the treatment of manifest gingivitis, such as scaling, root planing, curettage, mouth washes containing chlorhexidine or hydrogen peroxide, and flossing. Powered toothbrushes work better than manual toothbrushes in reducing the disease.The active ingredients that "reduce plaque and demonstrate effective reduction of gingival inflammation over a period of time" are triclosan, chlorhexidine digluconate, and a combination of thymol, menthol, eucalyptol, and methyl salicylate. Hydrogen peroxide was long considered a suitable over-the-counter agent to treat gingivitis. There has been evidence to show the positive effect on controlling gingivitis in short-term use. A study indicates the fluoridated hydrogen peroxide-based mouth rinse can remove teeth stain and reduce gingivitis.Based on a limited evidence, mouthwashes with essential oils may also be useful, as they contain ingredients with anti-inflammatory properties, such as thymol, menthol and eucalyptol.The bacteria that causes gingivitis can be controlled by using an oral irrigator daily with a mouthwash containing an antibiotic. Intensive oral hygiene care (oral health education plus supra-gingival scaling) without any periodontal therapy improves gingival health, and may prevent progression of gingivitis in well-controlled diabetes. 
Does the Aspire system help you lose weight? [SEP] After five years, gains can decrease to as little as 3–10 pounds (1–5 kg) per year. The larger the calorie deficit, the faster one will lose weight. In preparation of a contest, a sub-maintenance level of food energy is combined with cardiovascular exercise to lose body fat. Well-controlled studies using whole-body calorimetry and doubly labeled water have demonstrated that there is no metabolic advantage to eating more frequently. In 1974, she lost 40 pounds (18 kg) on a very-low-calorie diet and maintained her new weight until the end of the decade. Following the surgery, Franklin lost 85 lbs. ; however, she denied that she had undergone weight-loss surgery. Phoenix lost 52 pounds (23 kg) for his role in the film. 
Can FLEXISEQ ointment relieve osteoarthritis pain? [SEP] Oral steroids are not recommended in the treatment of osteoarthritis.Use of the antibiotic doxycycline orally for treating osteoarthritis is not associated with clinical improvements in function or joint pain. The use of topical capsaicin to treat osteoarthritis is controversial, as some reviews found benefit while others did not. The European Society for Clinical and Economic Aspects of Osteoporosis and Osteoarthritis (ESCEO) recommends glucosamine sulfate and chondroitin sulfate for knee osteoarthritis. Its use as a therapy for osteoarthritis is usually safe.A 2015 Cochrane review of clinical trials of chondroitin found that most were of low quality, but that there was some evidence of short-term improvement in pain and few side effects; it does not appear to improve or maintain the health of affected joints. A 2014 Cochrane review found that while ASU might help relieve pain in the short term for some people with osteoarthritis, it does not appear to improve or maintain the health of affected joints. A 2021 review found that hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) had no benefit in reducing pain and improving physical function in hand or knee osteoarthritis, and the off-label use of HCQ for people with osteoarthritis should be discouraged. There is no evidence for the use of colchicine for treating the pain of hand or knee arthritis.There is limited evidence to support the use of hyaluronan, methylsulfonylmethane, rose hip, capsaicin, or vitamin D.

Acupuncture and other interventions
While acupuncture leads to improvements in pain relief, this improvement is small and may be of questionable importance. It is safe treatment to relieve pain and improve physical function in patients with knee osteoarthritis.Continuous and pulsed ultrasound modes (especially 1 MHz, 2.5 W/cm2, 15min/ session, 3 session/ week, during 8 weeks protocol) can be effective in improving patients physical function and pain.There is weak evidence suggesting that electromagnetic field treatment may result in moderate pain relief; however, further research is necessary and it is not known if electromagnetic field treatment can improve quality of life or function.Viscosupplementation for osteoarthritis of the knee may have positive effects on pain and function at 5 to 13 weeks post-injection. 
Can butterbur prevent migraine attacks? [SEP] Some studies have shown to be effective in both preventing and treating migraine in intravenous form. Children
Ibuprofen helps decrease pain in children with migraines and is the initially recommended treatment. This method is considered to be efficient for migraine prevention. It has been reported to help people through an attack by relieving the nausea and dulling the head pain, as well as possibly preventing the headache completely when used as soon as possible after the onset of pre-migraine symptoms, such as aura. Currently, butterbur extract is used for migraine prevention and treatment of allergic rhinitis, which have the most evidence for its effectiveness. Migraine
Some butterbur species contain the chemicals petasin and isopetasin which are believed to have potential benefits in treating migraines. Butterbur extracts have been reported to be effective in reducing frequency and severity of migraine headaches. Some studies have shown to be effective in both preventing and treating migraine in intravenous form. 
Does bisphenol A trigger allergies? [SEP] However, there is substantial evidence in a variety of recent studies to indicate that xenoestrogens can increase breast cancer growth in tissue culture.It has been suggested that very low levels of a xenoestrogen, Bisphenol A, could affect fetal neural signalling more than higher levels, indicating that classical models where dose equals response may not be applicable in susceptible tissue. As this study involved intra-cerebellar injections, its relevance to environmental exposures is unclear, as is the role of an estrogenic effect compared to some other toxic effect of bisphenol A. It is also noteworthy that, of the bisphenols, bisphenol A is a weak xenoestrogen. Other compounds, such as bisphenol Z, have been shown to have stronger estrogenic effects in rats.It has been suggested that biphenol A and other xenoestrogens might cause disease to humans and animals. The damage that results in these dysfunctions is via the mechanisms of enzyme interference, cellular oxidation, epigenetic changes, and the breaking of DNA strands.Bisphenol S (BPS), an analog of BPA, has also been shown to alter estrogenic activity. In adults, phthalate exposure has been linked to conditions like asthma, metabolic disorders like type II diabetes and insulin resistance, allergies, and asthma. Parents should avoid using storage containers which contain bisphenol A (BPA). Bis-GMA based resins contain Bisphenol A, a known endocrine disrupter chemical, and may contribute to the development of breast cancer. 
Can maggots accelerate the healing of chronic wounds compared to conventional treatment? [SEP] Maggot therapy (also known as larval therapy) is a type of biotherapy involving the introduction of live, disinfected maggots (fly larvae) into non-healing skin and soft-tissue wounds of a human or other animal for the purpose of cleaning out the necrotic (dead) tissue within a wound (debridement), and disinfection. There is evidence that maggot therapy may help with wound healing. Medical uses
Maggot therapy improves healing in chronic ulcers. History
Written records have documented that maggots have been used since antiquity as a wound treatment. "Maggot Therapy for Treating Diabetic Foot Ulcers Unresponsive to Conventional Therapy". "Maggot therapy for the treatment of intractable wounds". The National Institutes of Health experience with maggot therapy Maggot therapy
Throughout recorded history, maggots have been used therapeutically to clean out necrotic wounds, an application known as maggot therapy.Fly larvae that feed on dead tissue can clean wounds and may reduce bacterial activity and the chance of a secondary infection. 
Do electric toothbrushes protect oral health better than manual brushes? [SEP] Effectiveness
In 2014, a Cochrane review demonstrated that power toothbrushes remove more plaque and reduce gingival inflammation more than manual toothbrushes. This review showed electric toothbrushes had greater effectiveness over manual ones. For patients with limited manual dexterity or where difficulty exists in reaching rear teeth, electric toothbrushes may be especially beneficial.With regards to the effectiveness of different electric toothbrushes, the oscillation rotation models have been found to remove more plaque than manual toothbrushes. Powered toothbrushes reduce dental plaque and gingivitis more than manual toothbrushing in both short and long term. Although there is conflicting evidence as to which is more effective, most evidence points to electric toothbrushes with an oscillatory motion being more effective than manual toothbrushes, with toothbrushes lacking an oscillatory motion being equivalent. A 2014 Cochrane review found moderate evidence that electric toothbrushes reduce plaque and gingivitis more than manual ones. Overall, both manual and electric toothbrushes are effective, however, and it is often recommended that people use whichever they feel comfortable with, determine is affordable for them, and will be more likely to regularly brush with. The use of rotational electric toothbrushes might reduce the risk of plaque and gingivitis, though it is unclear whether they are of clinical importance.However, oral hygiene is effective at preventing gum disease (gingivitis / periodontal disease). 
Do antidepressants from the group of serotonin reuptake inhibitors help with depression? [SEP] Dual inhibition of serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake can offer advantages over other antidepressant drugs by treating a wider range of symptoms. Drugs that selectively block the reuptake of serotonin and norepinephrine effectively treat depression and are better tolerated than TCAs. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) selectively inhibit the reuptake of serotonin and are a widely used group of antidepressants. Clinical trials
Depression
Several studies have shown that antidepressant drugs which have combined serotonergic and noradrenergic activity are generally more effective than SSRIs, which act upon serotonin reuptake by itself. Serotonergic-noradrenergic antidepressant drugs may have a modest efficacy advantage compared to SSRIs in treating major depressive disorder (MDD), but are slightly less well tolerated. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are a class of drugs that are typically used as antidepressants in the treatment of major depressive disorder, anxiety disorders, and other psychological conditions. SSRIs inhibit the reuptake of serotonin. Antidepressants including ones with a similar mechanism of action as duloxetine, i.e. 
Is there a health risk from metal contaminants in lipsticks? [SEP] Some lipsticks contain traces of toxic materials, such as lead and PFAS, which prompted health concerns and regulation. In the 1850s, reports were being published warning women of the dangers of using lead and vermilion in cosmetics applied to the face. Safety
Lead traces
Lead and other trace metals may be found in many lipsticks; these occur naturally and can accidentally contaminate other ingredients during production. The study found that 61 percent of lipsticks contained lead with levels up to 0.65 parts per million (ppm). The lead levels ranged from 0.09 to 3.06 ppm, with the highest levels found in lipsticks made by Cover Girl, L'Oreal, and Revlon.In 2011, the FDA conducted an expanded survey on its previous study, which broadened the testing to 400 lipsticks that were available on the U.S. market at the time. The Campaign for Safe Cosmetics made a list of chemicals for concern which can contain toxic chemicals such as lead. Whilst only trace amounts of lead are ingested from lipstick, lead accumulates in the body over time, which can eventually lead to lead poisoning. The FDA's maximum lead limit level is 20 parts per million in cosmetics; however, since lipstick is absorbed through the skin and only ingested in very small quantities, the FDA does not "consider the lead levels we found in the lipsticks to be a safety concern". 
Can topiramate reduce the frequency of migraine attacks? [SEP] Manual therapy
A systematic review stated that chiropractic manipulation, physiotherapy, massage and relaxation might be as effective as propranolol or topiramate in the prevention of migraine headaches; however, the research had some problems with methodology. Propranolol and topiramate have the best evidence in children; however, evidence only supports short-term benefit as of 2020.The beta blocker timolol is also effective for migraine prevention and in reducing migraine attack frequency and severity. Chronic migraine
Topiramate and botulinum toxin (Botox) have evidence in treating chronic migraine. Topiramate, sold under the brand name Topamax among others, is a medication used to treat epilepsy and prevent migraines. Topiramate is used to treat medication overuse headache and is recommended by the European Federation of Neurological Societies as one of the few medications showing effectiveness for this indication. This might be particularly important for women who take topiramate to prevent migraine attacks. Topiramate
Topiramate has been approved by the FDA for prevention of migraine. Studies have shown that it provides significant reductions in the frequency of migraine episodes in patients with 3-12 headaches a month

Topiramate adverse reactions
Adverse reactions related to topiramate treatment occurred in 82.5% of 328 subjects who took part in an extensive trial covering 46 different centres. 
Does particulate matter pollution increase the risk of heart attack - even if the EU limits are complied with? [SEP] Anthropogenic fine particulates as main hazard
Increased levels of fine particles in the air as a result of anthropogenic particulate air pollution "is consistently and independently related to the most serious effects, including lung cancer and other cardiopulmonary mortality." Cardiovascular and respiratory disease
A 2002 study indicated that PM2.5 leads to high plaque deposits in arteries, causing vascular inflammation and atherosclerosis – a hardening of the arteries that reduces elasticity, which can lead to heart attacks and other cardiovascular problems. A 2014 meta analysis reported that long term exposure to particulate matter is linked to coronary events. An increase in estimated annual exposure to PM 2.5 of just 5 μg/m3 was linked with a 13% increased risk of heart attacks. A 2011 study concluded that traffic exhaust is the single most serious preventable cause of heart attack in the general public, the cause of 7.4% of all attacks.Particulate matter studies in Bangkok, Thailand from 2008 indicated a 1.9% increased risk of dying from cardiovascular disease, and 1.0% risk of all disease for every 10 micrograms per cubic meter. One study found that PM2.5 exposure increases the risk of cardiovascular diseases by 13%. heart attacks, strokes, heart disease, congestive heart failure)
May cause harm to the central nervous system
May cause reproductive and developmental harmEPA Concludes Fine Particle Pollution Poses Serious Health Threats:

Causes early death (both short-term and long-term exposure)
Causes cardiovascular harm (e.g. Effects on mortality rate
Long-term exposure to particulate air pollution is associated with mortality from heart disease and stroke. 
Are endocrine disruptors in cosmetics a health risk? [SEP] Endocrine disruptors, sometimes also referred to as hormonally active agents, endocrine disrupting chemicals, or endocrine disrupting compounds are chemicals that can interfere with endocrine (or hormonal) systems. Found in many household and industrial products, endocrine disruptors "interfere with the synthesis, secretion, transport, binding, action, or elimination of natural hormones in the body that are responsible for development, behavior, fertility, and maintenance of homeostasis (normal cell metabolism). Endocrine disrupting effects have been noted in animals exposed to environmentally relevant levels of some chemicals. Consumer goods are another potential source of exposure to endocrine disruptors. As such, phthalates are considered to be endocrine disruptors—a substance that interferes with the normal hormonal mechanisms that allow a biological organism to interact with its environment, and has sparked demands to ban or restrict its use in baby toys.Endocrine disruptors exhibit numerous behaviors that can make studying them a challenge. Environmental endocrine disruptors
Endocrine disruptors are molecules that alter the structure or function of the endocrine system. One of the most common endocrine disruptor is Bisphenol A (BPA). Many endocrine disrupting chemicals are not only found in plastic, but also found in many hygiene products, cosmetics, cleaners, food, and much more. 
Can a dietary supplement containing omega-3 fatty acids, lipids, vitamins, and nutrients ("Souvenaid") noticeably slow or halt the decline of mental performance in Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] The omega−3 fatty acid DHA, also known as docosahexaenoic acid, is found in high abundance in the human brain. In this population omega−3 fatty acid supplementation decreases the risk of heart disease by about 25%.A 2019 review found that omega-3 fatty acid supplements make little or no difference to cardiovascular mortality and that patients with myocardial infarction yield no benefit in taking the supplements. Developmental disabilities
One meta-analysis concluded that omega−3 fatty acid supplementation demonstrated a modest effect for improving ADHD symptoms. Another review concluded that the evidence is inconclusive for the use of omega−3 fatty acids in behavior and non-neurodegenerative neuropsychiatric disorders such as ADHD and depression.A 2015 meta-analysis of the effect of omega−3 supplementation during pregnancy did not demonstrate a decrease in the rate of preterm birth or improve outcomes in women with singleton pregnancies with no prior preterm births. Mental health
Omega-3 supplementation has not been shown to significantly affect symptoms of anxiety, major depressive disorder or schizophrenia. Omega−3 fatty acids have also been investigated as an add-on for the treatment of depression associated with bipolar disorder although there is limited data available. Cognitive aging
A 2016 Cochrane review found no convincing evidence for the use of omega‐3 PUFA supplements in treatment of Alzheimer's disease or dementia. A 2020 review suggested that omega 3 supplementation has no effect on global cognitive function but has a mild benefit in improving memory in non-demented adults.A 2022 review found promising evidence for prevention of cognitive decline in people who regularly eat long-chain omega 3 rich foods. 
Do vitamin E supplements increase the likelihood of early death? [SEP] Vitamins C and E function as antioxidants. The likelihood of consuming too much of any vitamin from food is remote, but excessive intake (vitamin poisoning) from dietary supplements does occur. Vitamin A and E supplements not only provide no health benefits for generally healthy individuals, but they may increase mortality, though the two large studies that support this conclusion included smokers for whom it was already known that beta-carotene supplements can be harmful. There is little evidence of benefit when vitamins are consumed as a dietary supplement by those who are healthy and have a nutritionally adequate diet.The U.S. Institute of Medicine sets tolerable upper intake levels (ULs) for some of the vitamins. Vitamins C and E
The combination of vitamin E and vitamin C supplemented to pregnant women does not appear to be efficacious for reducing risk of stillbirth, neonatal death, preterm birth, preeclampsia or any other maternal or infant outcomes, either in healthy women or those considered at risk for pregnancy complications. For the combination of vitamin E with vitamin C supplemented to pregnant women, a Cochrane review of 21 clinical trials concluded that the data do not support vitamin E supplementation – majority of trials alpha-tocopherol at 400 IU/day plus vitamin C at 1000 mg/day – as being efficacious for reducing risk of stillbirth, neonatal death, preterm birth, preeclampsia or any other maternal or infant outcomes, either in healthy women or those considered at risk for pregnancy complications. They do not appear to affect the risk of death.Osteoporosis becomes more common with age. Barbiturates, phenytoin and some other enzyme-inducing antiepileptics – these probably accelerate the metabolism of vitamin D.
L-Thyroxine over-replacement may contribute to osteoporosis, in a similar fashion as thyrotoxicosis does. 
Does meditation help against stress? [SEP] Since the 19th century, Asian meditative techniques have spread to other cultures where they have also found application in non-spiritual contexts, such as business and health.Meditation may significantly reduce stress, anxiety, depression, and pain, and enhance peace, perception, self-concept, and well-being. Rather than focusing on spiritual growth, secular meditation emphasizes stress reduction, relaxation and self-improvement.The 2012 US National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) (34,525 subjects) found 8% of US adults used meditation, with lifetime and 12-month prevalence of meditation use of 5.2% and 4.1% respectively. Evidence has also shown possible improvement to stress, cognitive performance in school taught meditation.Positive effects on emotion regulation, stress and anxiety can also be seen in students in university and nursing. Studies demonstrate that meditation has a moderate effect to reduce pain. Meditation for Everyday Living. Mindfulness relaxationMindfulness relaxation uses breathing methods, guided imagery, and other practices to relax the body and mind and help reduce stress. An often-cited meta-analysis on meditation research published in JAMA in 2014, found insufficient evidence of any effect of meditation programs on positive mood, attention, substance use, eating habits, sleep, and weight, but found that there is moderate evidence that meditation reduces anxiety, depression, and pain. Meditation also may allow one to modulate pain. 
Are there methods that effectively help against hormonal hair loss? [SEP] In accordance with the preceding, antiandrogens have been found to be highly effective in the treatment of the aforementioned androgen-dependent skin and hair conditions. Studies have reported bicalutamide to be effective in the treatment of scalp hair loss in women.In addition to hirsutism, bicalutamide can be used in the treatment of acne in women. Other androgen-dependent skin and hair conditions, such as seborrhea and pattern hair loss, may also be treated by bicalutamide. In addition to acne, flutamide has been found to produce an 80% or greater decrease in scores of seborrhea and androgen-dependent scalp hair loss. Moreover, in combination with a combined birth control pill, flutamide treatment resulted in an increase in cosmetically acceptable scalp hair density in almost all women suffering from pattern hair loss in one small study. It is usually associated with systemic treatment due to the high mitotic rate of hair follicles, and more reversible than androgenic hair loss, although permanent cases can occur. Chemotherapy induces hair loss in women more often than men.Scalp cooling offers a means of preventing both permanent and temporary hair loss; however, concerns about this method have been raised. Humans may also lose their hair as a result of hormonal imbalance due to drugs or pregnancy.In order to comprehend why humans have significantly less body hair than other primates, one must understand that mammalian body hair is not merely an aesthetic characteristic; it protects the skin from wounds, bites, heat, cold, and UV radiation. 
Does eye training help prevent myopia? [SEP] It also dilates the pupil. Tentative evidence shows that perceptual training may be beneficial in adults. As with other binocular vision disorders, the primary goal is comfortable, single, clear, normal binocular vision at all distances and directions of gaze.Whereas amblyopia (lazy eye), if minor and detected early, can often be corrected with use of an eye patch on the dominant eye or vision therapy, the use of eye patches is unlikely to change the angle of strabismus. The results showed that:
Wearing prescription eyeglasses is effective for some children with amblyopia, though others also need occlusion treatment, like patching. "No type of training has been shown to change the refractive power of the eye. No evidence was found that such techniques could objectively benefit eyesight, though some studies noted changes, both positive and negative, in the visual acuity of nearsighted subjects as measured by a Snellen chart. Nonsurgical Methods of Myopia Control or Reduction. "Seeing Space: Undergoing Brain Re-Programming to Reduce Myopia" (PDF). 
Does Cryolipolysis cause noticeable body fat reduction? [SEP] The procedure may be invasive, as with liposuction, or noninvasive using laser therapy, radiofrequency, ultrasound or cold (cryoablation or cryolipolysis) to reduce fat, sometimes in combination with injections.Fat is sometimes removed from one location to another on a person in an autograft, such as in some breast reconstruction and breast augmentation procedures. Passive heating of the skin may also induce collagen remodeling.Hydrolipoclasy is a technique that is being studied as an alternative to liposuction. Cryolipolysis
Cryolipolysis is a method intended to remove fat by freezing. It involves controlled application of cooling within the temperature range of −11 to +5 °C (+12.2 to +41 °F) for the localized reduction of fat deposits, intended to reshape the contours of the body. Some studies indicate that PAH side effects are common on a per-patient basis, since a typical patient receives multiple treatments.Based on the premise that fat cells are more easily damaged by cooling than skin cells (such as popsicle panniculitis), cryolipolysis was developed to apply low temperatures to tissue via thermal conduction. While the process is not fully understood, it appears that fatty tissue that is cooled below body temperature, but above freezing, undergoes localized cell death ("apoptosis") followed by a local inflammatory response that gradually over the course of several months results in a reduction of the fatty tissue layer.Typical cost per treatment area varies depending on location. In the U.S., the CoolSculpting procedure is FDA-cleared for the treatment of visible fat bulges in the submental area, thigh, abdomen and flank, along with bra fat, back fat, underneath the buttocks, and upper arm. As of 2013, clinical trials have found that Cryolipolysis is moderately effective and has mostly mild and temporary side effects.Cryolipolysis was invented by Rox Anderson and colleagues and Juniper Medical exclusively licensed patent filings on the invention from Massachusetts General Hospital when Juniper was founded. 
Is acupuncture for chronic pain more effective than placebo acupuncture treatment? [SEP] This technique combines traditional acupuncture with injection of what is often an effective dose of an approved pharmaceutical drug, and proponents claim that it may be more effective than either treatment alone, especially for the treatment of some kinds of chronic pain. In other words, 'sham' or 'placebo' acupuncture generally produces the same effects as 'real' acupuncture and, in some cases, does better." A 2013 meta-analysis found little evidence that the effectiveness of acupuncture on pain (compared to sham) was modified by the location of the needles, the number of needles used, the experience or technique of the practitioner, or by the circumstances of the sessions. Some research suggests acupuncture can alleviate pain but the majority of research suggests that acupuncture's effects are mainly due to placebo. Acupuncture is not better than mainstream treatment in the long term.The use of acupuncture has been criticized owing to there being little scientific evidence for explicit effects, or the mechanisms for its supposed effectiveness, for any condition that is discernible from placebo. Acupuncture has been called 'theatrical placebo', and David Gorski argues that when acupuncture proponents advocate 'harnessing of placebo effects' or work on developing 'meaningful placebos', they essentially concede it is little more than that. Release of endorphins or adenosine
Some modern practitioners support the use of acupuncture to treat pain, but have abandoned the use of qi, meridians, yin, yang and other mystical energies as an explanatory frameworks. SMT does not provide significant benefits compared to motor control exercises.Acupuncture is no better than placebo, usual care, or sham acupuncture for nonspecific acute pain or sub-chronic pain and there is no evidence that it improves function when compared to a sham or placebo treatment. 
Can Internet-based self-help training based on cognitive behavioral therapy reduce the burden of tinnitus? [SEP] Psychosocial treatment
Cognitive behavioral therapyThe cognitive behavioral therapy with Internet addicts (CBT-IA) is developed in analogy to therapies for impulse control disorder.Several key aspects are embedded in this therapy:
Learning time management strategies;
Recognizing the benefits and potential harms of the Internet;
Increasing self-awareness and awareness of others and one's surroundings;
Identifying "triggers" of Internet "binge behavior", such as particular Internet applications, emotional states, maladaptive cognitions, and life events;
Learning to manage emotions and control impulses related to accessing the Internet, such as muscles or breathing relaxation training;
Improving interpersonal communication and interaction skills;
Improving coping styles;
Cultivating interests in alternative activities.Three phases are implemented in the CBT-IA therapy:
Behavior modification to control Internet use: Examine both computer behavior and non-computer behavior and manage Internet addicts' time online and offline;
Cognitive restructuring to challenge and modify cognitive distortions: Identify, challenge, and modify the rationalizations that justify excessive Internet use;
Harm reduction therapy to address co-morbid issues: Address any co-morbid factors associated with Internet addiction, sustain recovery, and prevent relapse.Symptom management of CBT-IA treatment has been found to sustain six months post-treatment. A 2014 review (updated in 2022) found that music therapy may help in social interactions and communication.Music therapy can involve various techniques depending on where the subject is sitting on the ASD scale. The therapist can provide immediate feedback and suggestions through a “bug-in-ear” device or sit in the room to do the coaching. Internet-based
In an effort to increase accessibility and address obstacles of receiving treatment, especially in underserved communities, an internet-based delivery of PCIT has been proposed and tested. A 2021 Cochrane review found that remotely delivered interventions including support, training and information may reduce the burden for the informal caregiver and improve their depressive symptoms. Benefits and pitfalls
Several studies have shown the importance of the Internet in providing social support, particularly to groups with chronic health problems. While specialists trained in providing counseling interventions often serve this population in need, results from a recent systematic review and meta-analysis found that nonspecialist providers, including lay counselors, nurses, midwives, and teachers without formal training in counseling interventions, often provide effective services related to perinatal depression and anxiety.Internet-based cognitive behavioral therapy (iCBT) has shown promising results with lower negative parenting behavior scores and lower rates of anxiety, stress, and depression. Telephone-based peer support can be effective in the prevention and treatment of postpartum depression among women at high-risk. 
Do probiotic foods have an antidepressant effect or a positive effect on the mind? [SEP] Probiotics have positive effects such as enhancing the intestinal mucosal barrier, providing a physical barrier, bacteriocin production (resulting in reduced numbers of pathogenic and gas-producing bacteria), reducing intestinal permeability and bacterial translocation, and regulating the immune system both locally and systemically among other beneficial effects. Probiotics may also have positive effects on the gut–brain axis by their positive effects countering the effects of stress on gut immunity and gut function.A number of probiotics have been found to be effective, including Lactobacillus plantarum, and Bifidobacteria infantis; but one review found only Bifidobacteria infantis showed efficacy. Specifically, lactobacillus and bifidobacterial have been identified as having roles in modulating depression and anxiety behaviors. Mental Illness: autism spectrum disorder (ASD)
Use of probiotics in psychological states and autism is being studied and has shown that probiotics may influence psychological states. Microbiota reports consistently show significant differences in the gut of autistic patients compared to non-autistic.In studies with mice, probiotic treatment reduced anxiety and depressive behaviors, reversed the impact of maternal separation on depressive behaviors, reversed inflammatory induced and parasite induced anxiety behaviors. This evidence suggests that probiotic treatment has antidepressant and anxiolytic effects. A review found no evidence to support this but it concludes that probiotics may be of benefit in regulating bowel movements and lessening the metabolic effects of antipsychotics.A review explains the need for an optimal level of vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids for the proper synthesis and control of the neurotransmitter serotonin. Prebiotics and probiotics have been shown to reduce anxiety. 
Does treatment with radioactive agents help with pain in chronic inflammatory joint disease? [SEP] Colchicine works by decreasing inflammation via multiple mechanisms.Colchicine, in the form of the autumn crocus (Colchicum autumnale), has been used as early as 1500 BC to treat joint swelling. Nasal radium irradiation became a standard medical treatment and was used in over two and a half million Americans.In another study at the Walter E. Fernald State School, in 1956, researchers gave mentally disabled children radioactive calcium orally and intravenously. Where this condition has been correctly diagnosed, various anti-rheumatic drugs as well as colchicine may be trialled to find the most effective option. Tenderness of the joint may or may not be present. With RA, small joints are mostly affected in an inflammatory, destructive manner. Low-dose colchicine (and some other ‘anti-rheumatic’ therapies e.g. More aggressive treatments such as synovectomy, achieved using intra-articular agents (chemical or radioactive) can provide good results, with efficacy reported for at least 1 year.Reducing acute joint swelling:
Arthrocentesis (or drainage of joint) may be useful to relieve joint swelling and improve range of motion. treated 53 patients with rifampicin RV (600 mg intra-articular injections weekly for approximately 6 weeks) with good results at 1 year follow-up. 
Does frequent porn use reduce gray matter volume in the brain? [SEP] "A survey of students from 79 countries by the OECD found that the amount of time spent using an electronic device has increased, from under two hours per weekday in 2012 to close to three in 2019, at the expense of extracurricular reading.Psychologists have observed that sexting, the transmission of sexually explicit content via electronic devices, has seen noticeable growth among contemporary adolescents. Meanwhile, teenagers are increasingly turning to pornography as a source of information on sexuality, especially what to do during a sexual encounter, as teachers tend to focus on contraception. Effects of screen time
In his 2017 book Irresistible, professor of marketing Adam Alter explained that not only are children addicted to electronic gadgets, but their addiction jeopardizes their ability to read non-verbal social cues.A 2019 meta-analysis of thousands of studies from almost two dozen countries suggests that while as a whole, there is no association between screen time and academic performance, when the relation between individual screen-time activity and academic performance is examined, negative associations are found. Furthermore, excessive television viewing is known for harming the ability to pay attention as well as other cognitive functions; it also causes behavioral disorders, such as having unhealthy diets, which could damage academic performance. Excessive video gaming, on the other hand, is known for impairing social skills and mental health, and as such could also damage academic performance. Neurological damage
Research has shown that traumatic stress, including stress caused by sexual abuse, causes notable changes in brain functioning and development. Various studies have suggested that severe child sexual abuse may have a deleterious effect on brain development. (1993) found that child sexual abuse was associated with a reduced corpus callosum area; various studies have found an association of reduced volume of the left hippocampus with child sexual abuse; and Ito et al. 
Can the active ingredient acetyl salicylic acid (ASA) protect against cancer? [SEP] There is evidence that aspirin is effective at preventing colorectal cancer, though the mechanisms of this effect are unclear. Cancer prevention
Aspirin may reduce the overall risk of both getting cancer and dying from cancer. There is evidence that aspirin is effective at preventing colorectal cancer, though the mechanisms of this effect are unclear. Cancer prevention
Aspirin may reduce the overall risk of both getting cancer and dying from cancer. Aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid or ASA) is prepared by the esterification of the phenolic hydroxyl group of salicylic acid with the acetyl group from acetic anhydride or acetyl chloride. Mechanism of action
Salicylic acid modulates COX-1 enzymatic activity to decrease the formation of pro-inflammatory prostaglandins. Acetylsalicylic Acid (2 ed.). Aspirin has been found to reduce the risk of death from cancer by about 7%. 
Is tick-borne tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) much milder in children than in adults? [SEP] During the adult stage, Lyme disease transmission is less common because adult ticks are less likely to bite humans and tend to be larger in size, so can be easily seen and removed. Tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) is a viral infectious disease involving the central nervous system. TBE is posing a concerning health challenge to Europe, as the number of reported human cases of TBE in all endemic regions of Europe have increased by almost 400% within the last three decades.The tick-borne encephalitis virus is known to infect a range of hosts including ruminants, birds, rodents, carnivores, horses, and humans. Cause
TBE is caused by tick-borne encephalitis virus, a member of the genus Flavivirus in the family Flaviviridae. References
External links

Tickborne encephalitis at Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
Factsheet from Viral Special Pathogens Branch at the CDC Tick-borne encephalitis vaccine is a vaccine used to prevent tick-borne encephalitis (TBE). Medical uses
In the United States, tick-borne encephalitis vaccine is indicated for active immunization to prevent tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) in individuals one year of age and older.The efficacy of these vaccines has been well documented. References
External links
"Tick-borne Encephalitis Vaccine". 
Does treatment with cyanoacrylate (for example, Sapheon Venaseal™) help against varicose veins as well or better than other methods? [SEP] A 1986 independent study suggests that cyanoacrylate can be safer and more functional for wound closure than traditional suturing (stitches). Topical gel application helps in managing symptoms related to varicose veins such as inflammation, pain, swelling, itching, and dryness. The overall effectiveness compared to stripping, radiofrequency ablation treatment, or endovenous laser therapy is not clear and there is no strong evidence to suggest that CHIVA is superior to stripping, radiofrequency ablation, or endovenous laser therapy for recurrence of varicose veins. Sclerotherapy
A commonly performed non-surgical treatment for varicose and "spider leg veins" is sclerotherapy, in which medicine called a sclerosant is injected into the veins to make them shrink. Sclerotherapy has been used in the treatment of varicose veins for over 150 years. Sclerotherapy is often used for telangiectasias (spider veins) and varicose veins that persist or recur after vein stripping. Sclerotherapy can also be performed using foamed sclerosants under ultrasound guidance to treat larger varicose veins, including the great saphenous and small saphenous veins.There is some evidence that sclerotherapy is a safe and may be an effective treatment option for improving the cosmetic appearance, reducing residual varicose veins, improving the quality of life, and reducing symptoms that may be present due to the varicose veins. Varicose veins can be treated with foam sclerotherapy, endovenous laser treatment, radiofrequency ablation, or open surgery. 
Did oseltamivir (Tamiflu®) or other neuraminidase inhibitors help reduce deaths from the H1N1 influenza virus ("swine flu" virus)? [SEP] Oseltamivir, sold under the brand name Tamiflu, is an antiviral medication used to treat and prevent influenza A and influenza B, viruses that cause the flu. A 2014 Cochrane Review concluded that oseltamivir does not reduce hospitalizations, and that there is no evidence of reduction in complications of influenza. However, another meta-analysis found that oseltamivir was effective for prevention of influenza at the individual and household levels.Common side effects include vomiting, diarrhea, headache, and trouble sleeping. A 2016 systematic review found that oseltamivir slightly reduced the time it takes for the symptoms of influenza to be alleviated, and that it also increased the risk of "nausea, vomiting, [and] psychiatric events in adults and vomiting in children." Any benefit of treatment must be balanced against side effects, which include psychiatric symptoms and increased rates of vomiting.The 2014 Cochrane Collaboration review concluded that oseltamivir did not affect the need for hospitalizations, and that there is no proof of reduction of complications of influenza (such as pneumonia) because of a lack of diagnostic definitions, or reduction of the spread of the virus. In 2003, a pooled analysis of ten randomised clinical trials concluded that oseltamivir reduced the risk of lower respiratory tract infections resulting in antibiotic use and hospital admissions in adults.Oseltamivir (as Tamiflu) was widely used during the H5N1 avian influenza epidemic in Southeast Asia in 2005. They reported that an analysis of 20 studies showed oseltamivir offered mild benefits for healthy adults if taken within 24 hours of onset of symptoms, but found no clear evidence it prevented lower respiratory tract infections or other complications of influenza. Two drugs named zanamivir (Relenza) and oseltamivir (Tamiflu) that have been recently introduced to treat influenza prevent the release of viral particles by blocking a molecule named neuraminidase that is found on the surface of flu viruses, and also seems to be constant across a wide range of flu strains. 
Is aluminum intake responsible for the development of Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] Exposure to air pollution may be a contributing factor to the development of Alzheimer's disease.According to one theory, dysfunction of oligodendrocytes and their associated myelin during aging contributes to axon damage, which in turn generates in amyloid production and tau hyper-phosphorylation. Diet
Diet may be a modifiable risk factor for the development of Alzheimer's disease. Evidence published in 1989 indicates that, for Alzheimer's patients, aluminium may act by electrostatically crosslinking proteins, thus down-regulating genes in the superior temporal gyrus. A final report into the incident in 2013 concluded it was unlikely that this had caused long-term health problems.Aluminium has been suspected of being a possible cause of Alzheimer's disease, but research into this for over 40 years has found, as of 2018, no good evidence of causal effect.Aluminium increases estrogen-related gene expression in human breast cancer cells cultured in the laboratory. However it is claimed that chronic aluminium intake can cause Alzheimer's by disrupting the microtubules in the filaments. At high concentrations copper is known to produce oxidative damage to biological systems, including peroxidation of lipids or other macromolecules.While the cause and progression of Alzheimer's disease are not well understood, research indicates that, among several other key observations, iron, aluminum, and copper accumulate in the brains of Alzheimer's patients. This is based in part on the erroneous popular belief that aluminium causes Alzheimer disease. Additionally, systemic aluminium levels are known to increase with age, and have been shown to correlate with Alzheimer's disease, implicating it as a neurotoxic causative compound of the disease. 
Can regular exercise prevent or relieve migraine symptoms? [SEP] The pain is generally made worse by physical activity during an attack, although regular physical exercise may prevent future attacks. However, the effects of physical activity on migraine are complex, and some researchers have concluded that, while exercise can trigger migraine attacks, regular exercise may have a prophylactic effect and decrease frequency of attacks. The article suggests that people living with migraine take some preventive measures related to indoor air quality and lighting. Recommended lifestyle changes include stopping tobacco use and reducing behaviors that interfere with sleep.The goal is to reduce the frequency, painfulness, and duration of migraine episodes, and to increase the effectiveness of abortive therapy. Numerous psychological approaches have been developed that are aimed at preventing or reducing the frequency of migraine in adults including educational approaches, relaxation techniques, assistance in developing coping strategies, strategies to change the way one thinks of a migraine attack, and strategies to reduce symptoms. There is also tentative evidence for transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation decreases the frequency of migraines. Some studies have shown to be effective in both preventing and treating migraine in intravenous form. Sexual activity, particularly orgasm, may provide relief for some migraineurs. 
Does less than 7h of sleep daily increase mental performance? [SEP] Sleep function
Sleep deprivation studies show that sleep is particularly important to normal brain function. Memory processing
According to Plihal & Born, sleep generally increases recalling of previous learning and experiences, and its benefit depends on the phase of sleep and the type of memory. while some individuals have high degrees of cognitive impairment with lack of sleep, in others, it has minimal effects. Short naps at mid-day and mild evening exercise were found to be effective for improved sleep, cognitive tasks, and mental health in elderly people. Children who sleep through the night and have few night waking episodes have higher cognitive attainments and easier temperaments than other children.Sleep also influences language development. Memory processing
It has been widely accepted that sleep must support the formation of long-term memory, and generally increasing previous learning and experiences recalls. Thus, a full and uninterrupted 7-hour sleep is crucial for the proper functioning of the amygdala in modulating an individual's mood states—by reducing negative emotional intensities and increasing reactivity to positive emotional stimuli. Moderate sleep deprivation was found to be detrimental; people who slept 6 hours a night for 10 days had similar results to those who were completely sleep deprived for 1 day. 
Does regular intake of extra virgin olive oil protect against coronary heart disease such as heart attack? [SEP] Some fat is needed in the diet, but it is usually considered that fats should not be consumed excessively, unsaturated fats should be preferred, and saturated fats in particular should be limited.In preliminary research, omega-3 fatty acids in algal oil, fish oil, fish and seafood have been shown to lower the risk of heart attacks. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration permitted a claim on olive oil labels stating: "Limited and not conclusive scientific evidence suggests that eating about two tablespoons (23 g) of olive oil daily may reduce the risk of coronary heart disease." (23 g) of olive oil daily may reduce the risk of coronary heart disease due to the monounsaturated fat in olive oil. In a review by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) in 2011, health claims on olive oil were approved for protection by its polyphenols against oxidation of blood lipids, and for maintenance of normal blood LDL-cholesterol levels by replacing saturated fats in the diet with oleic acid. Despite its approval, the EFSA has noted that a definitive cause-and-effect relationship has not been adequately established for consumption of olive oil and maintaining normal (fasting) blood concentrations of triglycerides, normal blood HDL-cholesterol concentrations, and normal blood glucose concentrations.A 2014 meta-analysis concluded that increased consumption of olive oil was associated with reduced risk of all-cause mortality, cardiovascular events and stroke, while monounsaturated fatty acids of mixed animal and plant origin showed no significant effects. Another meta-analysis in 2018 found high-polyphenol olive oil intake was associated with improved measures of total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, malondialdehyde, and oxidized LDL when compared to low-polyphenol olive oils, although it recommended longer studies, and more investigation of non-Mediterranean populations. Olives and Olive Oil in Health and Disease Prevention, Academic Press, 2010. Keeping a healthy weight, drinking alcohol within the recommended limits, and quitting smoking reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease.Substituting unsaturated fats such as olive oil and rapeseed oil instead of saturated fats may reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, although there is not universal agreement. 
Do frequent ejaculations have a protective effect against prostate cancer? [SEP] In rare cases, ejaculation occurs because of prostatic disease. Health issues
For most men, no detrimental health effects have been determined from ejaculation itself or from frequent ejaculations, though sexual activity in general can have health or psychological consequences. Some doctors speculate that the frequency of POIS "in the population may be greater than has been reported in the academic literature", and that many POIS sufferers are undiagnosed.It is not clear whether frequent ejaculation has any effect on the risk of prostate cancer. Two large studies examining the issue were "Ejaculation Frequency and Subsequent Risk of Prostate Cancer" and "Sexual Factors and Prostate Cancer". These suggest that frequent ejaculation after puberty offers some reduction of the risk of prostate cancer. The US study involving 29,342 US men aged 46 to 81 years suggested that "high ejaculation frequency was related to decreased risk of total prostate cancer". An Australian study involving 1,079 men with prostate cancer and 1,259 healthy men found that "there is evidence that the more frequently men ejaculate between the ages of 20 and 50, the less likely they are to develop prostate cancer":

[T]he protective effect of ejaculation is greatest when men in their twenties ejaculated on average seven or more times a week. This group were one-third less likely to develop aggressive prostate cancer when compared with men who ejaculated less than three times a week at this age. 
Does condom use cause depression in women? [SEP] Producers claim that condom use depresses sales. In less-developed countries and among less-educated populations, misperceptions about how disease transmission and conception work negatively affect the use of condoms; additionally, in cultures with more traditional gender roles, women may feel uncomfortable demanding that their partners use condoms. Frequent condom use is also considered by some Maasai to cause impotence. Female victims of non-consensual condom removal were more likely to be a current sex worker and MSM who had experienced non-consensual condom removal were more likely to report anxiety or depression. Condom use decreases the risk. Biological factors include incorrect condom usage because of erectile dysfunction from hormones taken to become more feminine and receptive anal intercourse without a condom which is a high risk for developing HIV. It is also found that sexual promiscuity in teens can be a result of substance misuse and pre-existing mental health conditions such as clinical depression.In relation to the contraction of sexually transmitted diseases, there is shown to be a correlation to decreased mental health. The chlamydia infection is known to increase rates of depression even in asymptomatic individuals.STDs can put women at a high risk for infertility, which generally leads to feelings of depression. 
Do today's children have a shorter life expectancy than their parents? [SEP] Life expectancy, longevity, and maximum lifespan are not synonymous. Economic circumstances
Economic circumstances also affect life expectancy. In Glasgow, the disparity is amongst the highest in the world: life expectancy for males in the heavily deprived Calton area stands at 54, which is 28 years less than in the affluent area of Lenzie, which is only 8 km (5.0 mi) away.A 2013 study found a pronounced relationship between economic inequality and life expectancy. Most of the difference in life expectancy between the sexes is accounted for by differences in the rate of death by cardiovascular diseases among persons aged 50–70. In every way we can measure, human lifespans are longer today than in the immediate past, and longer today than they were 2000 years ago... age-specific mortality rates in adults really have reduced substantially." Includes life expectancy for different age groups. "The United Nations forecasted that while the global average life expectancy would rise from 70 in 2015 to 83 in 2100, the ratio of people of working age to senior citizens would shrink due to falling fertility rates worldwide. A 2016 study from Pew Research showed millennials delay some activities considered rites of passage of adulthood with data showing young adults aged 18–34 were more likely to live with parents than with a relationship partner, an unprecedented occurrence since data collection began in 1880. 
Do rising temperatures and CO2 levels increase the risk of pollen allergy? [SEP] Pollen allergies
A warming climate can lead to increases of pollen season lengths and concentrations in some regions of the world. The rise in pollen also comes from rising CO2 concentrations in the atmosphere and resulting CO2 fertilisation effects. Global warming has a "direct" effect on respiratory illnesses because increased CO2 levels stimulate pollen production, which stimulates allergies. Increased carbon dioxide levels have already and will continue to increase the level of pollen output in the state. This would cause a serious increase in the need for medication for allergies and exacerbate the effects of global warming on the economy.Impact on heat-related illnesses  
Heat-related deaths will increase as average yearly temperatures increase. Allergens and pollenClimate change will potentially lead to shifts in precipitation patterns, more frost-free days, warmer seasonal air temperatures, and more carbon dioxide (CO2) in the atmosphere. These occurrences will lead to both higher pollen concentrations and longer pollen seasons, causing more people to suffer more health effects from pollen and other allergens. "Climate change may also increase the length and severity of the pollen season for allergy sufferers. 
Does training on vibration platforms cause a noticeable buildup of muscle strength? [SEP] Humans are generally exposed to many different forms of vibration in their daily lives. A 2018 meta-analysis showed that whole body vibration can improve bone mineral density in the lumbar spine of postmenopausal women as well as the femoral neck density of postmenopausal women younger than 65. Workplace exposure
Workplace exposures to whole-body vibrations for long durations can lead to musculoskeletal problems of many kinds. Vibration training
Vibration training is the deliberate exposure to the body of varying frequencies/amplitudes/forces using certain joint angles for any limited time (approximately 1 minute sets). Training effects
A 2018 meta-analysis concluded that whole body vibration improved lumbar spine bone mineral density (BMD) in postmenopausal women, and enhanced femoral neck BMD in postmenopausal women younger than 65 years.A review in 2014 concluded that there is little and inconsistent evidence that acute or chronic whole body vibration could improve the performance of competitive or elite athletes.Cochrane reviews have concluded that there is insufficient evidence of effect of whole body vibration training on functional performance of people with neurodegenerative disease, or in disease-related problems in people with fibromyalgia.Some research supports benefits for arthritis and knee pain. In terms of athletic performance and training, the plyometric movements that utilize total body vibration produced an overall increase in performance output. Vibrating while you are lifting weights is thought to magnify the conditioning effects to help promote faster muscle growth. Some research suggests that certain vibrating machines might help improve strength and balance, but our experts said it's unclear whether the Soloflex would. 
Does glucosamine prolong life? [SEP] Subsequently, metformin was reported to extend the lifespan of short-lived or genetically cancer-prone mouse strains. However, two studies in rats and mice with normal genetics and longevity have found no effect of metformin on maximum lifespan, and only a very small effect on median lifespan. In the short-lived roundworm Caenorhabditis elegans, supplementing the medium with oxaloacetate does increase average life expectancy; it was unclear whether it had an effect on maximum lifespan. However, when tested by two independent groups of scientists across four university laboratories, oxaloacetate supplements had no effect on lifespan in healthy laboratory mice.Rimonabant (Acomplia) is an anti-obesity drug initially approved for use in the European Union but later withdrawn due to psychiatric side effects including anxiety and depression. Lipoic Acid (α-Lipoic Acid, Alpha Lipoic Acid, or ALA) has failed to extend lifespan in normal mice or rats in numerous studies, either alone or as part of combination therapy. It was reported to extend the lives of C. elegans worms; however, studies in different strains of rats found that 2DG did not extend lifespan at several tested doses, and exhibited toxic effects "Histopathological analysis of the hearts revealed increasing vacuolarization of cardiac myocytes with dose, and tissue staining revealed the vacuoles were free of both glycogen and lipid." While knocking out elements of the mTOR cascade seems to block the lifespan effects of rapamycin in invertebrate animals, surprisingly the effects of CR and rapamycin on metabolism and gene expression exhibit substantial differences in mice, with evidence suggesting that the mechanisms of the two anti-aging therapies may be in large part distinct and possibly additive.Other candidate CRM are:

Glucosamine or its derivative n-acetylglucosamine have extended the life of both nematodes and mice. It is a highly sulfated glycosaminoglycan. 
Does Kinesio tape help in the treatment of joint and muscle injuries? [SEP] This increase in the interstitial space purportedly reduces pressure on the body's nociceptors, which detect pain, and stimulates mechanoreceptors, to improve overall joint proprioception.In the article, Kinesio Tape for Athletes: A Big Help, or Hype?, Web MD reports that "There has not been conclusive scientific or medical evidence to confirm the effectiveness of the tape. He reports that kinesio tape is claimed to be good for a plethora of issues including "pain management, injury treatment, injury prevention, enhanced performance, increased range of motion, and just about anything else an athlete might want." Based on two different studies, kinesio tape showed quicker drainage than manually and better patient compliance.A 2012 meta analysis found that the efficacy of elastic therapeutic tape in pain relief was trivial, because no reviewed study found clinically important results. The tape "may have a small beneficial role in improving strength, range of motion in certain injured cohorts, and force sense error compared with other elastic tapes, but further studies are needed to confirm these findings". In conclusion, there was little quality evidence to support the use of KT over other types of elastic taping in the management or prevention of sports injuries"A 2013 journal article examined the use of Kinesio Tape and Stretching on shoulder joint range of motion (ROM). It was found that the usage of Kinesio Tape can increase shoulder ROM, and that stretching had no effect on shoulder ROM if being used alone or when coupled with the Kinesio Tape.A 2014 meta analysis looked at methodological quality of studies, along with overall population effect, and suggested that studies of lower methodological quality are more likely to report beneficial effects of elastic therapeutic taping, thus indicating the perceived effect of using kinesio taping is not real. It was found that the color of the tape might affect the feelings of the participants, but no difference to the trapezius muscle was noted.In June 2016, an article published by The Physician and Sportsmedicine found that treatment for Pes anserinus bursitis using Kinesio Tape significantly decreased pain and swelling when compared to Naproxen (an anti inflammatory medicine) + Physical Therapy. Pain reduction and injury prevention are also frequently-cited benefits that similarly lack evidence, at least none showing an effect specific to kinesio tape... 
Do injections with Botulinum Toxin A (Botox®) help with urinary incontinence? [SEP] Similarly, botulinum toxin is used to relax the clenching of muscles, including those of the esophagus, jaw, lower urinary tract and bladder, or clenching of the anus which can exacerbate anal fissure. Botulinum toxin appears to be effective for refractory overactive bladder. Injection of botulinum toxin type-A into salivary glands is useful in reducing the secretions. Injections of botulinum toxin into the bladder is another option. A 2019 systematic review of studies related to urinary incontinence in women found that behavioral therapy, alone or combined with other treatments, is generally more effective than any other single treatment alone. Behavioral therapy as a treatment has been used to improve or cure urgency urinary incontinence, including improving patient satisfaction. Botulinum Toxin A injections into the bladder wall can suppress involuntary bladder contractions by blocking nerve signals and may be effective for up to 9 months. Neuromodulators
Botulinum toxin A (Botox) has been considered as a treatment option, under the idea of temporarily reducing the hypertonicity of the pelvic floor muscles. 
Can apigenin reduce cancer risk or prevent cancer progression? [SEP] Prevention and epidemiology
Epidemiologic analysis indicates that at least 35% of all cancer deaths in the world could now be avoided by primary prevention. According to a newer GBD systematic analysis, in 2019, ~44% of all cancer deaths – or ~4.5 M deaths or ~105 million lost disability-adjusted life years – were due to known clearly preventable risk factors, led by smoking, alcohol use and high BMI.However, one 2015 study suggested that between ~70% and ~90% of cancers are due to environmental factors and therefore potentially preventable. Cancer epigenetics
Cancer growth
Diet and cancer
Periods of intermittent fasting (time-restricted feeding which may not include caloric restriction) is investigated for potential usefulness in cancer prevention and treatment and as of 2021 additional trials are needed to elucidate the risks and benefits. Such and similar dietary supplements may contribute to prevention or treatment, with candidate substances including apigenin, berberine, jiaogulan, and rhodiola rosea. Progesterone appears to prevent endometrial cancer (involving the uterine lining) by regulating the effects of estrogen. The increase in risk of endometrial cancer is similarly decreased with continuous estrogen–progestogen therapy (RR = 0.2–0.7). These progestins included chlormadinone acetate, cyproterone acetate, medrogestone, medroxyprogesterone acetate, nomegestrol acetate, norethisterone acetate, and promegestone, with the associations for breast cancer risk not differing significantly between the different progestins in this group.In contrast to cisgender women, breast cancer is extremely rare in men and transgender women treated with estrogens and/or progestogens, and gynecomastia or breast development in such individuals does not appear to be associated with an increased risk of breast cancer. Long-term treatment with 5α-reductase inhibitors is also able to significantly reduce the overall risk of prostate cancer, although a simultaneous small increase in the risk of certain high-grade tumors has been observed. 
Do generic drugs work as well as original drugs? [SEP] Pharmaceutical companies may deal in generic or brand medications and medical devices. Patents and generics
Depending on a number of considerations, a company may apply for and be granted a patent for the drug, or the process of producing the drug, granting exclusivity rights typically for about 20 years. When the patent protection for the drug expires, a generic drug is usually developed and sold by a competing company. Often the owner of the branded drug will introduce a generic version before the patent expires in order to get a head start in the generic market. Generic drugs
Generic drugs are chemical and therapeutic equivalents of name-brand drugs, normally whose patents have expired. Approved generic drugs should have the same dosage, safety, effectiveness, strength, stability, and quality, as well as route of administration. For a pharmaceutical company to gain approval to produce a generic drug, the FDA requires scientific evidence that the generic drug is interchangeable with or therapeutically equivalent to the originally approved drug. As of 2012, 80% of all FDA approved drugs are available in generic form. 
Are animal-assisted therapies effective for mental illness? [SEP] Some studies have shown that animal-assisted therapy can improve many aspects of a patient's life, such as improving their overall mood or reducing feelings of isolation. It is understood that pets provide benefits to those with mental health conditions, but further research is required to test the nature and extent of this relationship with an animal as a pet and how it differs between pets, emotional support animals, service animals, and animal-assisted therapy. Animal-assisted therapy can be used in children with mental health problems, as a stand-alone treatment, or along with conventional methods. Animal-assisted therapy is commonly used for psychological disorders. Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, autism spectrum disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, and major depressive disorder are among the psychological disorders that can benefit from animal-assisted therapy.In recent decades, an increased amount of research indicates the social, psychological, and physiological benefits of animal assisted therapy in health and education field. Although the effectiveness of animal-assisted therapy is still unclear due to the lack of clarity regarding the degree to which the animal itself contributes in the recovery process, there is a growing awareness that the therapy may be effective in treating attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, autism spectrum disorder, and dementia. Studies show that animal-assisted therapy leads to an overall reduction of symptoms including anger, depression, and dissociation in survivors of sexual assault. Animal-assisted therapy has been shown to slightly reduce depressive symptoms in people with dementia in a 2019 systematic review. 
Can lack of sleep cause obesity? [SEP] Other factors
Not getting enough sleep is also associated with obesity. Obesity can cause poor sleep quality as well. Individuals who are overweight or obese can experience obstructive sleep apnea, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), depression, asthma, and osteoarthritis which all can disrupt a good night's sleep.In rats, prolonged, complete sleep deprivation increased both food intake and energy expenditure with a net effect of weight loss and ultimately death. Numerous studies have demonstrated an association between sleep disturbances and weight gain, and more specifically, that sleep deprivation is related to overweight. Lack of sleep related to weight gain
Lack of sleep has been strongly associated with weight gain in a variety of studies across all ages, though research suggests children and adolescents are particularly vulnerable. In general, sleeping less than 7 hours per night increases the risk to be obese.Another plausible explanation is that fatigue because of limited sleep reduces physical activity and thus energy expenditure, which predisposes weight gain. Others show a non-reciprocal relationship where fatness predicts less physical activity and also sleep duration predict fatness, but an association was not found in a model which includes all three factors.Sleep deprivation is believed to influence the brain's response to high-calorie food, making it more attractive, while also affecting the production of hormones that control appetite. Recent epidemiological and laboratory evidence confirm previous findings of an association between sleep loss and increased risk of obesity.Metabolism involves two biochemical processes that occur in living organisms. 
Is breaking an energy-saving lamp harmful to health? [SEP] Frequent switching on and off does not reduce life expectancy as with fluorescent lighting. A typical domestic LED lamp is stated to have an "average life" of 15,000 hours (15 years at 3 hours/day), and to support 50,000 switch cycles.Incandescent and halogen lamps naturally have a power factor of 1, but Compact fluorescent and LED lamps use input rectifiers and this causes lower power factors. Otherwise damage to the lamp and/or the dimmer may result. Also, the presence of incompatible volatile organic compounds can impair the performance and reduce lifetime.The long life of LEDs, expected to be about 50 times that of the most common incandescent lamps and significantly longer than fluorescent types, is advantageous for users but will affect manufacturers as it reduces the market for replacements in the distant future.The human circadian rhythm can be affected by light sources. Not only does this disturb occupants, it can also reduce lamp life. Otherwise, energy not only could be wasted but over-illumination can lead to adverse health and psychological effects. Environmental issues
Compact fluorescent lamps
Compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs) use less power than an incandescent lamp to supply the same amount of light, however they contain mercury which is a disposal hazard. Poorly designed lighting can also compromise safety. 
Does copper intake increase the risk of Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] At high concentrations copper is known to produce oxidative damage to biological systems, including peroxidation of lipids or other macromolecules.While the cause and progression of Alzheimer's disease are not well understood, research indicates that, among several other key observations, iron, aluminum, and copper accumulate in the brains of Alzheimer's patients. Research has been ongoing over the past two decades to determine whether copper is a causative or a preventive agent of Alzheimer's disease. For example, as a possible causative agent or an expression of a metal homeostasis disturbance, studies indicate that copper may play a role in increasing the growth of protein clumps in Alzheimer's disease brains, possibly by damaging a molecule that removes the toxic buildup of amyloid beta (Aβ) in the brain. There is an association between a diet rich in copper and iron together with saturated fat and Alzheimer's disease. For example, copper has been shown to 1) promote the non-amyloidogenic processing of amyloid beta precursor protein (APP), thereby lowering amyloid beta (Aβ) production in cell culture systems 2) increase lifetime and decrease soluble amyloid production in APP transgenic mice, and 3) lower Aβ levels in cerebral spinal fluid in Alzheimer's disease patients.Furthermore, long-term copper treatment (oral intake of 8 mg copper (Cu-(II)-orotate-dihydrate)) was excluded as a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease in a noted clinical trial on humans and a potentially beneficial role of copper in Alzheimer's disease has been demonstrated on cerebral spinal fluid levels of Aβ42, a toxic peptide and biomarker of the disease. Excess copper intake also induces toxicity indirectly by interacting with other nutrients. Some of the effects of aging may be associated with excess copper. Alzheimer's disease
Elevated free copper levels exist in Alzheimer's disease. 
Do air ions cause an improvement of allergies? [SEP] There are some substances that are known to cause asthma in exposed people and they are called asthmagens. Weak evidence suggests that efforts to decrease mold by repairing buildings may help improve asthma symptoms in adults. Evidence supporting the hygiene hypothesis includes lower rates of asthma on farms and in households with pets.Use of antibiotics in early life has been linked to the development of asthma. Low levels of evidence suggest that inhaled (nebulised) magnesium sulfate may have a small benefit for treating acute asthma in adults. Air ionisers show no evidence that they improve asthma symptoms or benefit lung function; this applied equally to positive and negative ion generators. For people with severe allergies, air purifiers are important to protect them from allergens within their own homes. This research demonstrates strong potential for impactful health improvements who suffer from severe allergies and asthma. Allergy: suitable for filtering out microscopic allergens. 
Do air ions cause an improvement of asthma?? [SEP] There are some substances that are known to cause asthma in exposed people and they are called asthmagens. Weak evidence suggests that efforts to decrease mold by repairing buildings may help improve asthma symptoms in adults. Other studies have found improvement in asthmatic symptoms from alcohol. These interventions may also reduce the number of days children experience asthma symptoms and may lead to small improvements in asthma-related quality of life. There is insufficient evidence to suggest that dehumidifiers are helpful for controlling asthma.Overall, exercise is beneficial in people with stable asthma. Yoga could provide small improvements in quality of life and symptoms in people with asthma. Low levels of evidence suggest that inhaled (nebulised) magnesium sulfate may have a small benefit for treating acute asthma in adults. Air ionisers show no evidence that they improve asthma symptoms or benefit lung function; this applied equally to positive and negative ion generators. 
Do smoking bans lead to fewer preterm births? [SEP] Babies with birth defects are at higher risk of being born preterm.Passive smoking and/or smoking before the pregnancy influences the probability of a preterm birth. Smoking bans are effective in decreasing preterm births. Health policies that take these findings into account can be expected to reduce the rate of preterm birth. Reducing smoking is expected to benefit pregnant women and their offspring. A 2013 review found that smoking bans were associated with "significant reduction in acute MI [myocardial infarction] risk", but noted that "studies with smaller population in the United States usually reported larger reductions, while larger studies reported relatively modest reductions".A 2014 systematic review and meta-analysis found that smoke-free legislation was associated with approximately 10% reductions in preterm births and hospital attendance for asthma, but not with a decrease in low birth weight. Systematic reviews show that psychosocial interventions can help women stop smoking in late pregnancy, reducing low birthweight and preterm births. Laws limiting smoking decrease premature births. Tobacco smoking reduces the chances of IVF producing a live birth by 34% and increases the risk of an IVF pregnancy miscarrying by 30%. 
Do special garments with the active ingredient Liporeductyl help against cellulite? [SEP] Cellulite or gynoid lipodystrophy (GLD) is the herniation of subcutaneous fat within fibrous connective tissue that manifests as skin dimpling and nodularity, often on the pelvic region (specifically the buttocks), lower limbs, and abdomen. Hormonal factors
Hormones play a dominant role in the formation of cellulite. Estrogen is thought to be an important hormone in the development of cellulite, and it has been proposed that an imbalance of estrogen relative to progesterone may be associated with cellulite. However, there has been no reliable clinical evidence to support the claim that estrogen levels are linked to cellulite, and many women with elevated estrogen levels do not get cellulite. Aside from 'topical' products (creams, ointments) and injectables (collagenase), treatments for cellulite include non-invasive therapy such as mechanical suction or mechanical massage. "Treatment of cellulite. "Treatment of cellulite. External links

 Media related to Cellulite at Wikimedia Commons 
Does alcohol in moderate amounts prolong life? [SEP] Mortality effects
A 2016 systematic review and meta-analysis found that moderate ethanol consumption does not prolong life compared with lifetime abstention from ethanol consumption. "Extensive research of Western cultures has consistently shown increased survival associated with light to moderate alcohol consumption. The observed decrease in mortality of light-to-moderate drinkers compared to never drinkers might be partially explained by superior health and social status of the drinking group; however, the protective effect of alcohol in light to moderate drinkers remains significant even after adjusting for these confounders. Additionally, confounders such as underreporting of alcohol intake might lead to the underestimation of how much mortality is reduced in light-to-moderate drinkers.A 2010 study confirmed the beneficial effect of moderate alcohol consumption on mortality. Low-to-moderate alcohol use increases the risk of death for individuals aged 16–34 (due to increased risk of cancers, accidents, liver disease, and other factors), but decreases the risk of death for individuals ages 55+ (due to decreased risk of ischemic heart disease).A study in the United Kingdom found that alcohol causes about 4% of cancer cases in the UK (12,500 cases per year). There is some inconclusive evidence that small amounts of alcohol taken in earlier adult life is protective in later life against cognitive decline and dementia. Among those who drank regularly, the one-quarter who drank the most were up to 50% less likely to develop the disease compared to the half who drank the least.The researchers noted that moderate alcohol consumption also reduces the risk of other inflammatory processes such as cardiovascular disease. The gut microbiome of a typical healthy individual naturally ferments small amounts of ethanol, and in rare cases dysbiosis leads to auto-brewery syndrome, therefore whether benefits of alcohol are derived from the behavior of consuming alcoholic drinks or as a homeostasis factor in normal physiology via metabolites from commensal microbiota remains unclear.In 2012, researchers at UCLA found that tiny amounts (1 mM, or 0.005%) of ethanol doubled the lifespan of Caenorhabditis elegans, a roundworm frequently used in biological studies, that were starved of other nutrients. 
Does caffeine make us die sooner??? [SEP] Caffeine has both positive and negative health effects. However, pure powdered caffeine, which is available as a dietary supplement, can be lethal in tablespoon-sized amounts. A systematic review, analyzing the results of observational studies, suggests that women who consume large amounts of caffeine (greater than 300 mg/day) prior to becoming pregnant may have a higher risk of experiencing pregnancy loss. In postmenopausal women, high caffeine consumption can accelerate bone loss.Acute ingestion of caffeine in large doses (at least 250–300 mg, equivalent to the amount found in 2–3 cups of coffee or 5–8 cups of tea) results in a short-term stimulation of urine output in individuals who have been deprived of caffeine for a period of days or weeks. Caffeine can have negative effects on anxiety disorders. Lethal dose
Death from caffeine ingestion appears to be rare, and most commonly caused by an intentional overdose of medications. Caffeinated: How Our Daily Habit Helps, Hurts, and Hooks Us. Therefore, the metabolism of caffeine depends on the state of this enzymatic system of the liver.Polyphenols in coffee have been shown to affect free radicals in vitro, but there is no evidence that this effect occurs in humans. 
Does light freezing help with weight loss? [SEP] For example, winter wind and an absence of snow cover may allow freezing deep enough to be protected from summer thaw, particularly in light-colored rock that does not readily absorb heat. Refrigeration, freezing at −10 °C (14 °F) for 9 days or long periods of salting is lethal to cysticerci. This produces the effect of feeling warm, when one is actually losing heat. exercise and shivering). In planning outdoor activity, prepare appropriately for possible cold weather. The cold water lowers the metabolism, allowing the brain to withstand a much longer period of hypoxia. The time limit for this technique, as also for accidental arrest in ice water (which internal temperatures may drop to as low as 15 °C), is about one hour. The heat transfer qualities of the materials can also significantly influence ice formation and freezing risk. 
Does acupuncture help against hay fever? [SEP] For seasonal allergies the benefit is small. The authors concluded that based on rigorous clinical trials of all types of homeopathy for childhood and adolescence ailments, there is no convincing evidence that supports the use of homeopathic treatments.According to the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health, U.S., the evidence is relatively strong that saline nasal irrigation and butterbur are effective, when compared to other alternative medicine treatments, for which the scientific evidence is weak, negative, or nonexistent, such as honey, acupuncture, omega 3's, probiotics, astragalus, capsaicin, grape seed extract, Pycnogenol, quercetin, spirulina, stinging nettle, tinospora, or guduchi. Epidemiology
The allergic diseases—hay fever and asthma—have increased in the Western world over the past 2–3 decades. The evidence for acupuncture is inconclusive with it appearing to be equivalent to sham acupuncture.A Cochrane review in 2002 showed some benefits of the electrical stimulation as a rehabilitation intervention to improve the power of the hand grip and help to resist fatigue. Acupuncture‐like TENS (AL-TENS) may decrease pain intensity and improve muscle power scores.Low-quality evidence suggests people with active RA may benefit from assistive technology. There have not been enough high-quality studies performed to determine if children with asthma should avoid eating food that contains MSG.Acupuncture is not recommended for the treatment as there is insufficient evidence to support its use. In 1886, F. H. Bosworth theorized a connection between asthma and hay fever. Acupuncture – a form of alternative medicine in which thin needles are inserted into the body. 
Do earrings cause discomfort by destroying acupuncture points or meridians? [SEP] They do hurt like any other cartilage piercing and bumping or tugging on them by accident during healing can be extremely painful. In the case of cartilage piercing, doing it with an ear piercing instrument can shatter the ear cartilage and lead to serious complications. After that time, earrings can be changed, but if the hole is left unfilled for an extended period of time, there is some risk of the piercing closing. One study found that up to 35 percent of persons with pierced ears had one or more complications, including minor infection (77 percent of pierced ear sites with complications), allergic reaction (43 percent), keloids (2.5 percent), and traumatic tearing (2.5 percent). Pierced ears are a significant risk factor for contact allergies to the nickel in jewelry. Negative effects of wearing earrings in light of research
The most frequent complications connected with wearing earrings are:
inflammation
keloids
loss of tissue by tearing
mechanical division of earlobes
potential skin disorderResearchers observed a correlation between the piercing of young girls' earlobes and subsequent development of allergies.In Professor Ewa Czarnobilska's view (the manager of the research team) the main reason of allergy (listed by allergists) is presence of nickel as a component of alloys used in the production of earrings – however the ingredients declared by producer are not significant, because nickel is a standard component of jewellery.Symptoms of allergy are visible as eczema. to milk), meanwhile the reason is contact with the earring (precisely nickel ions) with the lymphatic system.Ceasing of wearing earrings by children does not result in vanishing allergy symptoms. Even though the children ceased wearing earrings, it can appear as an allergic reaction to:
metal parts of wardrobe
dental braces
dental prosthesis
orthotics
meals cooked in pots with addition of nickel
margarine (nickel is a catalyst in hydrogenation of unsaturated fats)
coins
chocolate
nuts
leguminous vegetables
wine
beerResearch studying a sample of 428 pupils, age seven and eight, and sixteen and seventeen noticed that:
thirty percent of population were allergic to nickel
allergy occurred for many girls who had started wearing earrings in early childhoodOther symptoms of allergy to nickel are:
recurring infections
asthma attacks
chronic larynxis

See also
Jewelry wire gauge

References
Further reading
Chisholm, Hugh, ed. 
Does the "Rolfing" treatment cause an improvement of body malpositions as well as certain pains? [SEP] Other interventions include postural strategies, such as posture training in sitting, standing, and sleeping positions, and in using positioning supports such as pillows, wedges, rolls, and corsets.Adaptive and compensatory strategies are also employed to help facilitate individuals to returning daily activities. Scoliosis Specific Exercises
Scoliosis specific exercised have been found to improve treatment outcomes when utilized in addition to bracing and other standards of care. Scoliosis specific exercises include methods such as Schroth which specifically aim to correct aesthetic differences and strengthened muscles and connective tissue that may have atrophied as a result of scoliosis and asymmetric posture. Recent studies in healthcare have led to the development of a variety of treatments to assist in the management of scoliosis thereby maximizing productivity for people of all ages. For non-idiopathic scoliosis (ie. It has been proven possible to permanently correct cases of infantile idiopathic scoliosis by applying a series of plaster casts (EDF: elongation, derotation, flexion) on a specialized frame under corrective traction, which helps to "mould" the infant's soft bones and work with their growth spurts. EDF casting is now the only clinically known nonsurgical method of complete correction in progressive infantile scoliosis. This is a procedure to reduce the rib hump that affects most scoliosis patients with a thoracic curve. 
Does marijuana use reduce the risk of developing diabetes? [SEP] Increased levels of acrolein exposure by tobacco smoking but not exclusive marijuana smoking were detected both in HIV-positive and HIV-negative adults, and contribute to increased diagnoses of cardiovascular diseases and respiratory diseases among tobacco smokers.Cannabis smoke contains thousands of organic and inorganic chemical compounds. In day-to-day practice, a history of marijuana use is often not sought by many practitioners, and even when sought, the patient's response is not always truthful".A 2013 analysis of 3,886 myocardial infarction survivors over an 18-year period showed "no statistically significant association between marijuana use and mortality".A 2008 study by the National Institutes of Health Biomedical Research Centre in Baltimore found that heavy, chronic smoking of marijuana (138 joints per week) changed blood proteins associated with heart disease and stroke.A 2000 study by researchers at Boston's Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard School of Public Health found that a middle age person's risk of heart attack rises nearly fivefold in the first hour after smoking marijuana, "roughly the same risk seen within an hour of sexual activity".Cannabis arteritis is a very rare peripheral vascular disease similar to Buerger's disease. As of 2015, there is no consensus regarding whether cannabis smoking is associated with an increased risk of cancer. Smoking cannabis has also been shown to increase the risk of myocardial infarction by 4.8 times for the 60 minutes after consumption.There is preliminary evidence that cannabis interferes with the anticoagulant properties of prescription drugs used for treating blood clots. Marijuana use is also linked to other substance use disorders including nicotine addiction." Whether smoking cannabis increases cancer risk in general is difficult to establish since it is often smoked mixed with tobacco – a known carcinogen – and this complicates research. Diabetes
From weak evidence it appears cannabis use has little effect on the risk of developing type 2 diabetes, possibly slightly reducing it.There is emerging evidence that cannabidiol may help slow cell damage in diabetes mellitus type 1. There is a lack of meaningful evidence of the effects of medical cannabis use on people with diabetes; a 2010 review concluded that "the potential risks and benefits for diabetic patients remain unquantified at the present time". 
Do fish oil capsules promote prostate cancer? [SEP] An inverse relationship between dietary vitamin E and lung cancer was reported in observational studies. A trial which tracked people who chose to consume a vitamin E dietary supplement reported an increased risk of lung cancer for those consuming more than 215 mg/day.For prostate cancer, there are also conflicting results. The ATBC trial administered placebo or 50 mg/day alpha-tocopherol to male tobacco smokers for 5 to 8 years and reported a 32% decrease in the incidence of prostate cancer. Two large clinical trials (ATBC and CARET) were conducted in tobacco smokers to see if years of β-carotene supplementation at 20 or 30 mg/day in oil-filled capsules would reduce the risk of lung cancer. Unexpectedly, this high-dose β-carotene supplementation resulted in a higher incidence of lung cancer and of total mortality. Supplementation with β-carotene did not appear to decrease the risk of cancer overall, nor specific cancers including: pancreatic, colorectal, prostate, breast, melanoma, or skin cancer generally. 19 June – Men who are heavy tea drinkers may be more likely to develop prostate cancer, according to new research. A regular intake of fish oils, together with moderate exercise, significantly helps to slow aging decline, according to a recent trial. 
Does virgin conception exist? [SEP] In Christianity
In Christianity, Mary is commonly referred to as the Virgin Mary, in accordance with the belief that the Holy Spirit impregnated her, thereby conceiving her first-born son Jesus miraculously, without sexual relations with her betrothed/husband Joseph, "until her son [Jesus] was born". Virgin birth of Jesus: Mary conceived Jesus by action of the Holy Spirit while remaining a virgin. (Quran 4/171)The Quran says that Jesus was the result of a virgin birth. But according to later tradition, Zoroaster's mother, Dughdova, was a virgin when she conceived Zoroaster by a shaft of light. Historical figures
Alexander, the Ptolemies, and the Caesars were said by some scholars to have been "virgin-born." However, there is nothing in Hindu scriptures to suggest that it was a "virgin" birth. She asks "How this can be, since I am a virgin?". When this news was given to Mary, she asked the angel how she can have a baby as she was a virgin. 
Are movement exercises useful for back pain? [SEP] Physical management
Management of acute low back pain
Increasing general physical activity has been recommended, but no clear relationship to pain or disability or returning to work has been found when used for the treatment of an acute episode of pain. Aerobic exercises like progressive walking appears useful for subacute and acute low back pain, is strongly recommended for chronic low back pain, and is recommended after surgery. Directional exercises, which try to limit low back pain, are recommended in sub-acute, chronic and radicular low back pain. These exercises only work if they are limiting low back pain. Management of chronic low back pain
Exercise therapy is effective in decreasing pain and improving physical function, trunk muscle strength and the mental health for those with chronic low back pain. The Alexander technique appears useful for chronic back pain, and there is some evidence to support small benefits from the use of yoga. If a person with chronic low back pain is motivated, it is recommended to use yoga and tai chi as a form of treatment, but this is not recommended to treat acute or subacute low back pain. Massage therapy has been found to be more effective for acute low back pain than no treatment; the benefits were found to be limited to the short term and there was no effect for improving function. 
Does taking the birth control pill adversely affect mate choice? (Reader inquiry) [SEP] The recent introduction of hormonal contraception (including "the pill"), which were believed by some to be morally different from previous methods, prompted John XXIII to form a committee to advise him of the moral and theological issues with the new method. Contraception
The church teaches that sexual intercourse should only take place between a man and woman who are married to each other, and should be without the use of birth control or contraception. In his encyclical Humanae vitae (1968), Pope Paul VI firmly rejected all contraception, thus contradicting dissenters in the church that saw the birth control pill as an ethically justifiable method of contraception, though he permitted the regulation of births by means of natural family planning. Catholics for Choice, a political lobbyist group that is not associated with the Catholic Church, stated in 1998 that 96% of U.S. Catholic women had used contraceptives at some point in their lives and that 72% of Catholics believed that one could be a good Catholic without obeying the church's teaching on birth control. United States: Eisenstadt v. Baird, 405 U.S. 438 (1972), is a United States Supreme Court case that established the right of unmarried people to possess contraception on the same basis as married couples. The Court struck down a Massachusetts law prohibiting the distribution of contraceptives to unmarried people for the purpose of preventing pregnancy, ruling that it violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Constitution. Sexual intercourse entails a higher risk for women than men. United States: The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ruled that companies that provided insurance for prescription drugs to their employees but excluded birth control were violating the Civil Rights Act of 1964. 
Does UV light reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] Exposing skin to the ultraviolet radiation in sunlight has both positive and negative health effects. Long-term sun exposure is associated with reduced all-cause mortality and reduced mortality risk from cardiovascular disease (CVD), some forms of cancer, and non-CVD/noncancer related disease, with indications in these studies that Vitamin D is not the mediator. UV exposure also has positive effects for endorphin levels, and possibly for protection against multiple sclerosis. Abundant visible light to the eyes gives health benefits through its association with the timing of melatonin synthesis, maintenance of normal and robust circadian rhythms, and reduced risk of seasonal affective disorder.On the negative side, UV is a mutagen and carcinogen for skin. Long-term sunlight exposure is known to be associated with the development of some types of skin cancer, skin aging, immune suppression, eye diseases such as cataracts and maybe macular degeneration.Since UV rays, and therefore sunlight and sunlamps, have both health benefits and risks, a number of public health organizations state that there needs to be a balance between the risks of having too much sunlight or too little. Individuals whose metabolism makes taking oral vitamin D ineffective are able, through exposure to an ultraviolet lamp that emits UV-B radiation, to achieve a 25 (OH) D blood level.Three benefits of UV exposure are production of vitamin D, improvement in mood, and increased energy.UVB induces production of vitamin D in the skin at rates of up to 1,000 IUs per minute. It has been found that ultraviolet radiation (even UVA) produces nitric oxide (NO) in the skin, and nitric oxide can lower blood pressure. Although long-term exposure to ultraviolet contributes to non-melanoma skin cancers that are rarely fatal, it has been found in a Danish study that those who get these cancers were less likely to die during the study, and were much less likely to have a heart attack, than those who did not have these cancers.People in certain situations, such as people with intellectual disabilities and neurodevelopmental disorders who stay inside most of the time have low vitamin D levels. 
Is the Gynefix® contraceptive necklace as effective for contraception as the birth control pill or the "IUD"? [SEP] It is one of the most effective forms of birth control with a one-year failure rate around 0.7%. The copper IUD is the most effective form of emergency contraception. It is more effective than the hormonal EC pills currently available. It may reduce expulsion and discontinuation rates compared to framed copper IUDs.Gynefix is the only frameless IUD brand currently available. Therefore, the copper IUD is considered to be a true contraceptive and not an abortifacient. Origin
The original birth control necklace was invented in 1989 by the Austrian gynecologist Maria Hengstberger who developed this necklace together with local Ethiopian women and adapted it to their wishes and needs. While all forms of birth control can generally be used by young people, long-acting reversible birth control such as implants, IUDs, or vaginal rings are more successful in reducing rates of teenage pregnancy. A 2021 study found that the hormonal IUD was as effective at emergency contraception as the copper IUD, though it is not offered by clinicians at the moment due to the lack of research done into the subject.Insertion of an IUD is more effective than the use of emergency contraceptive pills – pregnancy rates when used as emergency contraception are the same as with normal IUD use. 
Can coenzyme Q10 lead to a rejuvenation of the skin's appearance? [SEP] Additional uses
Coenzyme Q10 has also been utilized as an active ingredient in cosmeceuticals and as an inactive ingredient in sunscreen formulations. Research has shown that Coenzyme Q10 supplementation helps to counteract endothelial dysfunction and has anti-inflammatory effects. As such, Coenzyme Q10 supports good cardiovascular function. The articles show the importance of Coenzyme Q10 in the progression of aging and in aging-related diseases. Coenzyme Q10 is an essential factor involved in two main aspects of cell function: bioenergetics and antioxidant protection. The chapters in the book present current knowledge on the bio-synthesis of Coenzyme Q10, the nature of CoQ10 deficiency, and the results of clinical trials based on CoQ10 supplementation. The researchers attributed the positive effects of the supplementation to the reduction of oxidative stress, systemic inflammation, and fibrosis.Littarru was the lead author on a review of the effect of Coenzyme Q10 on endothelial dysfunction in ischemic heart disease. The data from preclinical and clinical studies indicate that Coenzyme Q10 is highly safe for use as a nutritional supplement. 
Is there an increased risk of long-term effects on the unborn child with chemotherapy starting in the 2nd trimester of pregnancy? [SEP] Major medical and scientific bodies (including the WHO, National Cancer Institute, American Cancer Society, Royal College of OBGYN and American Congress of OBGYN) have concluded that abortion does not cause breast cancer.In the past even illegality has not automatically meant that the abortions were unsafe. Cancer
The rate of cancer during pregnancy is 0.02–1%, and in many cases, cancer of the mother leads to consideration of abortion to protect the life of the mother, or in response to the potential damage that may occur to the fetus during treatment. This is particularly true for cervical cancer, the most common type of which occurs in 1 of every 2,000–13,000 pregnancies, for which initiation of treatment "cannot co-exist with preservation of fetal life (unless neoadjuvant chemotherapy is chosen)". Treatment of breast cancer during pregnancy also involves fetal considerations, because lumpectomy is discouraged in favor of modified radical mastectomy unless late-term pregnancy allows follow-up radiation therapy to be administered after the birth.Exposure to a single chemotherapy drug is estimated to cause a 7.5–17% risk of teratogenic effects on the fetus, with higher risks for multiple drug treatments. Treatment with more than 40 Gy of radiation usually causes spontaneous abortion. Exposure to much lower doses during the first trimester, especially 8 to 15 weeks of development, can cause intellectual disability or microcephaly, and exposure at this or subsequent stages can cause reduced intrauterine growth and birth weight. Infection in earlier gestational stages correlates with poorer fetal and neonatal outcomes, particularly when the infection is untreated.Newborns who undergo 12 months of postnatal anti-toxoplasmosis treatment have a low chance of sensorineural hearing loss. In 1974, Desmonts and Couvreur showed that infection during the first two trimesters produces most harm to the fetus, that transmission depended on when mothers were infected during pregnancy, that mothers with antibodies before pregnancy did not transmit the infection to the fetus, and that spiramycin lowered the transmission to the fetus.Toxoplasma gained more attention in the 1970s with the rise of immune-suppressant treatment given after organ or bone marrow transplants and the AIDS epidemic of the 1980s. 
Can regular screening significantly reduce the risk of dying from prostate cancer? [SEP] Several large studies have found that men screened for prostate cancer have a reduced risk of dying from the disease; however, detection of cancer cases that would not have otherwise impacted health can cause anxiety, and lead to unneeded biopsies and treatments. Major national health body guidelines offer differing recommendations, though no major health body currently recommends population-wide prostate cancer screening.Many national health bodies recommend prostate cancer screening in a subset of the population, typically adult men aged at least 40 who anticipate substantial remaining healthy lifespan, and who are well-informed of the risks of screening by their healthcare provider. In men with a family history of prostate cancer, the CUA recommends screening be offered at age 45. Localized disease
Men diagnosed with low-risk cases of prostate cancer often defer treatment and are instead monitored regularly for cancer progression by active surveillance. Screening for cancer can lead to cancer prevention and earlier diagnosis. Fenton reports that the screening of 1,000 men every four years for 13 years reduces mortality from prostate cancer by just one. In their 2018 recommendations, the USPSTF estimates that 20%-50% of men diagnosed with prostate cancer following a positive PSA screening have cancer that, even if not treated, would never grow, spread, or harm them However, by 2022 the advent of new technologies, especially improved screening using blood tests, led the European Commission's Scientific Advice Mechanism to recommend organised population-level organised prostate cancer screening, concluding that the balance of harms and benefits had shifted. Mortality
The Cochrane Collaboration states that the best quality evidence does not demonstrate a reduction in mortality or a reduction in mortality from all types of cancer from screening mammography.The Canadian Task Force found that for women ages 50 to 69, screening 720 women once every 2 to 3 years for 11 years would prevent one death from breast cancer. 
Does removal and examination of the first lymph nodes after the prostate is affected by cancer (sentinel lymph nodes or sentinel lymph nodes) improve the chances of cure? (Reader Inquiry) [SEP] One or more lymph nodes may be biopsied during the surgery; increasingly the lymph node sampling is performed by a sentinel lymph node biopsy. Selective surgical removal (rather than total and more invasive removal) of vaginal lymph nodes reduces the risk of complications that can accompany more radical surgeries. These selective nodes act as sentinel lymph nodes. The condition of lymph nodes is very important in cancer staging, which decides the treatment to be used and determines the prognosis. Lymph node involvement is often a key part in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer, acting as "sentinels" of local disease, incorporated into TNM staging and other cancer staging systems. As part of the investigations or workup for cancer, lymph nodes may be imaged or even surgically removed. If removed, the lymph node will be stained and examined under a microscope by a pathologist to determine if there is evidence of cells that appear cancerous (i.e. The characterization of cancerous lymph nodes on CT scan, MRI or ultrasound is difficult, and usually requires confirmation by other nuclear imaging techniques such as PET scans. 
Can a treatment with singing bowls relieve pain? [SEP] In a slave narrative from Arkansas, enslaved people prayed under pots to decrease their noise to prevent nearby whites from hearing them have church. Spiritual charms imbued with power through prayer was combined with herbal teas to treat chronic illness. Rheumatism was treated by massaging eelskin onto affected areas or ingesting a decoction of oakbark or pokeberry tea. This practice includes singing and clapping. Luckily, bandmate Fred Armisen offers this frozen food product with medicine designed to counter constipation ("you eat it, and ay ay ay!"). The only cure is a form of "pointless root canal" in "The Dental Theater of Cruelty." A
Acupuncture: Acupuncture, the traditional Chinese medicinal practice of inserting needles into specific points of the body for therapeutic purposes and relieving pain, was first mentioned in the Huangdi Neijing compiled from the 3rd to 2nd centuries BC (Warring States period to Han Dynasty). In the Tang Dynasty, a cauldron was used to boil grounded tea, which was served in bowls. 
Is the HIV saliva self-test, which is about to be approved in the U.S., as reliable as a laboratory test or a rapid test at the doctor's office? [SEP] Rapid self-tests and point-of-care testing are also available and can offer a faster and less expensive method to test for the virus although with a lower accuracy. Some studies have  found that saliva yielded greater sensitivity and consistency when compared with swab samples.On 15 August 2020, the US FDA granted an emergency use authorization for a saliva test developed at Yale University that gives results in hours.On 4 January 2021, the US FDA issued an alert about the risk of false results, particularly false negative results, with the Curative SARS-Cov-2 Assay real-time RT-PCR test.Viral burden measured in upper respiratory specimens declines after symptom onset. Antigen tests produce results quickly (within approximately 15–30 minutes), and most can be used at the point-of-care or as self-tests. Self-tests are rapid tests that can be taken at home or anywhere, are easy to use, and produce rapid results. A two-month study by the Necker-Cochin hospital Paris in conjunction with the French national veterinary school reported in May 2021 that dogs were more reliable than current lateral flow tests.Researchers in Paris in March 2022 reported in a preprint not yet peer-reviewed that trained dogs were very effective for rapidly detecting the presence of SARS-Cov2 in people, whether displaying symptoms or not. The authors said "Canine testing is non-invasive and provides immediate and reliable results.Further studies will be focused on direct sniffing by dogs to evaluate sniffer dogs for mass pre-test in airports, harbors, railways stations, cultural activities or sporting events." Snapshot mass-testing
A study found that, despite possibly suboptimal implementation, the snapshot mass-testing approach conducted by Slovakia by which ~80% of its population was tested for COVID-19 within a weekend at the end of October 2020 was highly efficacious, decreasing observed prevalence by 58% within one week and by 70% compared to a hypothetical scenario of no snapshot mass-testing. The test is simpler and cheaper but less accurate than nucleic acid tests. 
Does religion promote mental health? [SEP] Some people who suffer from severe mental disorders may find comfort in religion. Mental health
According to a meta-analytical review, a large volume of research shows that people who are more religious and spiritual have better mental health and adapt more quickly to health problems compared to those who are less religious and spiritual.Studies have shown that religious believers experience higher levels of "mattering to others, dignity and meaning in their lives". In those who prayed often, the association was stronger.Religiosity has been found to mitigate the negative impact of income inequality and injustice on life satisfaction.The link between religion and mental health may be due to the guiding framework or social support that it offers to individuals. By these routes, religion has the potential to offer security and significance in life, as well as valuable human relationships, to foster mental health. Why religion and spirituality matter for public health: evidence, implications, and resources. Religion and personal functioning
Religion and health
There is considerable literature on the relationship between religion and health. More than 3000 empirical studies have examined relationships between religion and health, including more than 1200 in the 20th century, and more than 2000 additional studies between 2000 and 2009.Psychologists consider that religion may benefit both physical and mental health in various ways, including encouraging healthy lifestyles, providing social support networks and encouraging an optimistic outlook on life; prayer and meditation may also benefit physiological functioning. Religion and mental illness
Although many researchers have brought evidence for a positive role that religion plays in health, others have shown that religious beliefs, practices, and experiences may be linked to mental illnesses of various kinds (mood disorders, personality disorders, and psychiatric disorders). 
Do braces treatments have preventive medical benefits in addition to aesthetic ones? [SEP] Studies demonstrate that preventing force sideways across a joint by bracing prevents further curvature of the spine in idiopathic scoliosis, while other studies have also shown that braces can be used by individuals with scoliosis during physical activities. Additionally results suggested that the more a patient wore the brace, the better the result. Dental braces (also known as braces, orthodontic cases, or  cases) are devices used in orthodontics that align and straighten teeth and help position them with regard to a person's bite, while also aiming to improve dental health. They are often used to correct underbites, as well as malocclusions, overbites, open bites, gaps, deep bites, cross bites, crooked teeth, and various other flaws of the teeth and jaw. Braces can be either cosmetic or structural. Dental braces are often used in conjunction with other orthodontic appliances to help widen the palate or jaws and to otherwise assist in shaping the teeth and jaws. Often with this type of braces, treatment time is reduced, there is less pain on the teeth, and fewer adjustments are required than with traditional braces. Several important dentists helped to advance dental braces with specific instruments and tools that allowed braces to be improved. 
What are the advantages and disadvantages of vaccinating infants simultaneously with the usual six-dose vaccine (against diphtheria, tetanus, polio, pertussis, hepatitis B, and Haemophilus influenzae B) and a pneumococcal vaccine? (Reader inquiry) [SEP] Vaccination includes various ways of administering immunogens.Most vaccines are administered before a patient has contracted a disease to help increase future protection. : 124  The deployment of a combined DPT vaccine against diphtheria, pertussis (whooping cough), and tetanus in the 1950s was considered a major advancement for public health. The CDC aims to increase vaccination rate among 2-year-olds from 80.4% to 90.0%

Combination vaccines with acellular pertussis
DTaP and Tdap are both combination vaccines against diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis. Any individual who has experienced a life-threatening allergic reaction after receiving a previous dose of diphtheria, tetanus, or pertussis containing vaccine should not receive the Tdap vaccination.In pregnant women, research suggests that Tdap administration may be associated with an increased risk of chorioamnionitis, a placental infection. Infants should not receive pertussis vaccination younger than six weeks of age. In October 2022, Boostrix (Tetanus Toxoid, Reduced Diphtheria Toxoid and Acellular Pertussis Vaccine, Adsorbed [Tdap]) was approved for immunization during the third trimester of pregnancy to prevent pertussis, commonly known as whooping cough, in infants younger than two months of age.Pregnant women who have not previously vaccinated with Tdap (i.e., have never received DTP, DTaP, or DT as child or Td or TT as an adult) are recommended to receive a series of three Td vaccinations starting during pregnancy to ensure protection against maternal and neonatal tetanus. It is recommended for pregnant women who have never received the tetanus vaccine (i.e., neither DTP or DTaP, nor DT as a child or Td or TT as an adult) to receive a series of three Td vaccinations starting during pregnancy to ensure protection against maternal and neonatal tetanus. This is given as an alternative to infants who have conflicts with the DTaP vaccine. 
Does the use of laptops with active WLAN (wireless internet access) affect sperm quality in men? [SEP] Possible effect on fertilityA study by State University of New York researchers found that heat generated from laptops can increase the temperature of the lap of male users when balancing the computer on their lap, potentially putting sperm count at risk. The study, which included roughly two dozen men between the ages of 21 and 35, found that the sitting position required to balance a laptop can increase scrotum temperature by as much as 2.1 °C (4 °F). A later 2010 study of 29 males published in Fertility and Sterility found that men who kept their laptops on their laps experienced scrotal hyperthermia (overheating) in which their scrotal temperatures increased by up to 2.0 °C (4 °F). The resulting heat increase, which could not be offset by a laptop cushion, may increase male infertility. Possible effect on fertilityA study by State University of New York researchers found that heat generated from laptops can increase the temperature of the lap of male users when balancing the computer on their lap, potentially putting sperm count at risk. The study, which included roughly two dozen men between the ages of 21 and 35, found that the sitting position required to balance a laptop can increase scrotum temperature by as much as 2.1 °C (4 °F). A later 2010 study of 29 males published in Fertility and Sterility found that men who kept their laptops on their laps experienced scrotal hyperthermia (overheating) in which their scrotal temperatures increased by up to 2.0 °C (4 °F). The resulting heat increase, which could not be offset by a laptop cushion, may increase male infertility. 
Can phthalates cause diabetes? [SEP] The study paid particular attention to the relationship between urinary phthalate metabolites and risk factors for diabetes in individuals with no previous diabetes diagnosis. Overall, the study concludes that phthalates may alter glucose homeostasis and insulin sensitivity, and that different populations may be more severely impacted. Higher levels of some phthalate metabolites were associated with elevated FBG, fasting insulin, and insulin resistance. Current studies indicate phthalates have negative effects on folliculogenesis and steroidogenesis.Early research also shows phthalate exposure may be associated with diabetes and insulin resistance, breast cancer, obesity, metabolic disorders, and immune function.There are possible (though not conclusive) associations between phthalate exposure and adverse child neurodevelopment, including the development of ADHD and autistic behaviors and lower cognitive and motor development. Most common associations found in medical reports link the phthalates exposure to hyperactivity, aggression, and other adverse behaviors. One controversial family of ingredient are phthalates, which are implicated as endocrine disruptors and linked to problems in the endocrine system and increased risk of diabetes. Exposure to phthalates can have varying effects in humans depending on maturity. In adults, phthalate exposure has been linked to conditions like asthma, metabolic disorders like type II diabetes and insulin resistance, allergies, and asthma. 
Does staining brain tumors with the dye aminolevulinic acid before surgery help patients survive longer? [SEP] In the diagnosis of brain tumor, MRAs are typically carried out before surgery to help surgeons get a better understanding of the tumor vasculature. Gliomas or malignant brain tumors have different spectra from normal brain tissue in that they have greater choline levels and lower N-acetyl aspartate (NAA) signals. For example, benign brain tumors or meningioma have increased alanine levels. Radiotherapy, including stereotactic approaches, is reserved for inoperable cases.Several current research studies aim to improve the surgical removal of brain tumors by labeling tumor cells with 5-aminolevulinic acid that causes them to fluoresce. The chances of near-complete initial removal of the tumor may be increased if the surgery is guided by a fluorescent dye known as 5-aminolevulinic acid. In the diagnosis of brain tumor, MRAs are typically carried out before surgery to help surgeons get a better understanding of the tumor vasculature. Gliomas or malignant brain tumors have different spectra from normal brain tissue in that they have greater choline levels and lower N-acetyl aspartate (NAA) signals. Radiotherapy, including stereotactic approaches, is reserved for inoperable cases.Several current research studies aim to improve the surgical removal of brain tumors by labeling tumor cells with 5-aminolevulinic acid that causes them to fluoresce. 
Can exercise prevent premature deaths from heart attacks, strokes, heart failure, and pre-diabetes as effectively as medication? [SEP] Prevention
There is a large crossover between the lifestyle and activity recommendations to prevent a myocardial infarction, and those that may be adopted as secondary prevention after an initial myocardial infarction, because of shared risk factors and an aim to reduce atherosclerosis affecting heart vessels. Primary prevention
Lifestyle
Physical activity can reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, and people at risk are advised to engage in 150 minutes of moderate or 75 minutes of vigorous-intensity aerobic exercise a week. Longer-term studies indicate that exercise-based cardiovascular rehabilitation programs may reduce cardiovascular mortality and myocardial infarction. With the prime causes of cardiac arrest being ischemic heart disease, efforts to promote a healthy diet, exercise, and smoking cessation are important. Exercise is an effective preventative measure for cardiac arrest in the general population but may be risky for those with pre-existing conditions. The risk of a transient catastrophic cardiac event increases in individuals with heart disease during and immediately after exercise. The lifetime and acute risks of cardiac arrest are decreased in people with heart disease who perform regular exercise, perhaps suggesting the benefits of exercise outweigh the risks. As a primary prevention, they are significantly effective on patients at reducing the mortality and other life-threatening aspects of CVD.Nutrition and exercise: Adjusting an individual's lifestyle through their diet choices and increased physical activity has shown to reduce the long-term negatives associated with most risk factors, including plaque buildup and weakening of the heart muscle. 
Can taking the enzyme diamino oxidase prevent alcohol-related hangover symptoms? [SEP] Heavy alcohol consumption also damages the nerves in arms and legs, i.e. The criteria include a clinical diagnosis of dementia at least 60 days after last exposure to alcohol, significant alcohol use (i.e. Oslin proposed the new and refined diagnostic criteria for alcohol-related dementia because he hoped that the redefined classification system would bring more awareness and clarity to the relationship between alcohol use and dementia.Oslin's proposed classification of ARD:

Definite alcohol-related dementiaAt the current time there are no acceptable criteria to definitively define alcohol-related dementia. Probable alcohol-related dementiaA. The diagnosis of alcohol-related dementia is supported by the presence of any of the following
Alcohol related hepatic, pancreatic, gastrointestinal, cardiovascular, or renal disease i.e. The onset and the severity of this type of dementia is directly correlated to the amount of alcohol that a person consumes over their lifetime.Sex appears to be a risk factor for cognitive impairment, with females being more susceptible despite lower alcohol intake.A French study, looking at other studies of thousands of subjects, found that moderate alcohol consumption (up to four glasses of wine per week) was associated with lower levels of dementia, and vice versa. There is insufficient evidence to assume that alcohol is protective against dementia at any level of intake; some studies found the opposite effect, and the quality of evidence from current epidemiological studies is poor overall (since observational studies assessing health effects of alcohol intake cannot adequately control for confounding factors). Studies and theories of alcohol abuse suggest, among others, that use of alcohol likely reduces the offender's perception and awareness of consequences of their actions. 
Can an anti-oxidant such as pseudocatalase stop or reverse hair graying? [SEP] Antioxidants in cosmetic products prevent oxidation of active ingredients and lipid content. In some cases, gray hair may be caused by thyroid deficiencies, Waardenburg syndrome or a vitamin B12 deficiency. Several genes appear to be responsible for the process of graying. Graying of hair may be triggered by the accumulation of hydrogen peroxide and abnormally low levels of the enzyme catalase, which breaks down hydrogen peroxide and relieves oxidative stress in patients with vitiligo. It is known that the stress hormone cortisol accumulates in human hair over time, but whether this has any effect on hair color has not yet been resolved. In a preliminary 2013 study, researchers treated the buildup of hydrogen peroxide which causes this with a light-activated pseudo-catalase. This produced significant media coverage that further investigation may someday lead to a general non-dye treatment for gray hair.Malnutrition is also known to cause hair to become lighter, thinner, and more brittle. Much remains to be learned about the physiology of human graying.There are no special diets, nutritional supplements, vitamins, or proteins that have been proven to slow, stop, or in any way affect the graying process, although many have been marketed over the years. 
Can sexual activity relieve headaches? [SEP] Sexual headaches occur in the skull and neck during sexual activity, including masturbation, arousal or orgasm. This is a common problem and can result in chronic daily headache. There is tentative evidence that propofol may be useful if other measures are not effective.Occipital nerve stimulation, may be effective but has the downsides of being cost-expensive and has a significant amount of complications.There is modest evidence for the effectiveness of non-invasive neuromodulatory devices, behavioral therapies and acupuncture in the treatment of migraine headaches. Sexual activity, particularly orgasm, may provide relief for some migraineurs. The headaches (3 ed.). This reduction in cerebral pressure may be responsible for the remarkable efficacy in a group of headaches that is referred to as "indometacin-responsive headaches", such as idiopathic stabbing headache, chronic paroxysmal hemicranial, and exertional headaches. Indometacin inhibits the superior salivatory nucleus, thus relieving this type of headache.Prostaglandins also cause uterine contractions in pregnant women. Sexual headache is a distinct condition characterized by headaches that usually begin before or during orgasm. 
Does transcranial direct current stimulation help against severe depression? [SEP] Deep brain stimulation
The support for the use of deep brain stimulation in treatment-resistant depression comes from a handful of case studies, and this treatment is still in a very early investigational stage. Cranial electrotherapy stimulation
A 2014 Cochrane review found insufficient evidence to determine whether or not Cranial electrotherapy stimulation with alternating current is safe and effective for treating depression. Transcranial direct current stimulation
A 2016 meta-analysis of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) reported some efficacy of tDCS in the treatment of acute depressive disorder with moderate effect size, and low efficacy in treatment-resistant depression, and that use of 2 mA current strength over 20 min per day over a short time span can be considered safe. Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is another noninvasive method used to stimulate small regions of the brain with a weak electric current. Several meta-analyses have concluded that active tDCS was useful for treating depression.There is a small amount of evidence that sleep deprivation may improve depressive symptoms in some individuals, with the effects usually showing up within a day. Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation did not improve anxiety, depression, and fatigue. Even in cases such as depression following a stroke, ECT can be efficacious; however, the evidence is not as strong on its ability to treat vascular depression caused by long-term disease, versus an acute event like a stroke.Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is another example of neurostimulation used to treat depression, but ECT is considered to be the more effective modality. Transcranial direct-current stimulation (tDCS)
Dr. Ferini-Strambi and his colleagues in Milan, Italy, performed neurologic examinations by applying anodal tDCS by placing one electrode over the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, with the cathode over the contralateral orbit over 3 weeks period and found that seven of the eight participants (87.5%) reported improvement in their daytime sleepiness, including for up to two weeks after the end of the study. 
Is the success of conventional treatment of a herniated disc equivalent to that of disc surgery? [SEP] This pathology is one reason behind the development of artificial discs as a possible alternative to fusion surgery. This retained disc can re-herniate sometime after surgery. The clinical picture of a recurrent disc herniation usually involves a significant pain-free interval. Measurement of tissue density can be helpful.Even though the complications of laminectomy for disc herniation can be significant, a recent series of studies involving thousands of patients published under auspices of Dartmouth Medical School concluded at four-year follow-up that those who underwent surgery for a lumbar disc herniation achieved greater improvement than nonoperatively treated patients in all primary and secondary outcomes except work status. Patient selection
Patients who have sciatic pain (pain in the back, radiating down the buttock to the leg) and clear clinical findings of an identifiable radicular nerve loss caused by a herniated disc will have a better post operative course than those who simply have low back pain. It has not been yet demonstrated that fusion surgery and disc replacement are better options than the conservative treatment. This is a treatment for a herniated, bulging, or degenerated disc.The recovery period after a laminectomy depends on the specific operative technique, with minimally invasive procedures having significantly shorter recovery periods than open surgery. Performing a discogram during the surgery procedure provides additional confirmation of the patient's anatomy and the position of the disc prolapse but might increase the degenerative changes in the disc. .

Surgical procedure
To remove a herniated disc, the Tessys method uses a lateral, transforaminal, endoscopic access path via the intervertebral foramen. 
Does regular use of sleeping pills promote the risk of death or cancer? [SEP] A systemic disorder, sleep apnea is associated with a wide array of effects, including increased risk of car accidents, hypertension, cardiovascular disease, myocardial infarction, stroke, atrial fibrillation, insulin resistance, higher incidence of cancer, and neurodegeneration. Without treatment, sleep apnea may increase the risk of heart attack, stroke, diabetes, heart failure, irregular heartbeat, obesity, and motor vehicle collisions.Alzheimer's disease and severe obstructive sleep apnea are connected because there is an increase in the protein beta-amyloid as well as white-matter damage. Sleep-disordered breathing is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, stroke, high blood pressure, arrhythmias, diabetes, and sleep deprived driving accidents. At worst, central sleep apnea may cause sudden death. In an individual with either central, obstructive or mixed sleep apnea, these low doses may be enough to cause life-threatening irregularities in breathing or collapses in a patient's airways. Cancer
Benzodiazepine use is associated with an increased risk of developing cancer. The suppression of deep sleep stages by benzodiazepines may be especially problematic to the elderly as they naturally spend less time in the deep sleep stage. Benzodiazepines were a factor in all deaths related to drug addiction in this study of causes of deaths. 
Does increased time outdoors inhibit myopia in children? [SEP] For 3-4-year-old children: 180 minutes physical activity, 1 hour screen time, 10–13 hours of sleep time per day. UV exposure also has positive effects for endorphin levels, and possibly for protection against multiple sclerosis. However, significant daily exposure to bright light may be necessary for children to avoid myopia (nearsightedness).Short-term over-exposure can cause snow blindness, which is analogous to sunburn of the cornea, or can cause solar retinopathy, which is long-lasting retinal damage and vision impairment from sungazing.Frequent exposure to the sun can cause yellow non-cancerous bumps on the middle part of the sclera of the eye, called pingueculae. To decrease the risk of developing pingueculae, it may be wise to wear sunglasses when outdoors, even on overcast days. From recent studies in the United States and Australia there is some evidence that the amount of time school aged children spend outdoors, in natural light, may have some impact on whether they develop myopia. More prominent myopia (nearsightedness) and astigmatism are thought to be inherited. Children with this condition may need to wear glasses. This effect has been seen in research involving elderly subjects when compared to young controls, in glaucoma patients compared to age matched controls, cataract patients pre and post surgery, and even something as simple as wearing safety goggles. 
Do household cleaners and room fresheners in spray form cause damage to the heart? [SEP] An odor of paint or solvents on clothes, skin, and breath is sometimes a sign of inhalant abuse, and paint or solvent residues can sometimes emerge in sweat.According to NIH, even a single session of inhalant use "can disrupt heart rhythms and lower oxygen levels", which can lead to death. Solvents have many potential risks in common, including pneumonia, cardiac failure or arrest, and aspiration of vomit. The inhaling of some solvents can cause hearing loss, limb spasms, and damage to the central nervous system and brain. Persistent free radicals connected to airborne fine particles are linked to cardiopulmonary disease. Indoor pollution fatalities may be caused by using pesticides and other chemical sprays indoors without proper ventilation. Health effects
Even at levels lower than those considered safe by United States regulators, exposure to three components of air pollution, fine particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide and ozone, correlates with cardiac and respiratory illness. It ranges from minor upper respiratory irritation to chronic respiratory and heart disease, lung cancer, acute respiratory infections in children and chronic bronchitis in adults, aggravating pre-existing heart and lung disease, or asthmatic attacks. They can form deposits on the lining of arteries, constricting blood vessels and raising the likelihood of ... strokes and heart attacks. 
Can exercise improve mental performance impaired by alcohol consumption? [SEP] Evidence suggests that exercise may positively affect the quality of life in cancer survivors, including factors such as anxiety, self-esteem and emotional well-being. Exercise
In both human and animal studies, exercise has been shown to improve cognitive performance on encoding and retrieval tasks. Ongoing exercise interventions have been found to favourably impact memory processes in older adults and children.Exercise has been found to positively regulate hippocampal neurogenesis, which is considered an explanation for the positive influence of physical activities on memory performance. Data also suggests that BDNF availability at the beginning of cognitive testing is related to the overall acquisition of a new cognitive task and may be important in determining the strength of recall in memory tasks.A meta-analysis concluded that specifically resistance training, as compared to cardiovascular exercise, had no measurable effect on working memory.There is some evidence that also shows that the amount of effort put into exercising is positively correlated with the level of cognitive performance after working out both in the short term and long term. Smoking cannabis decreases exercise tolerance. Exercise therapy improves clinical treatment outcomes and may be used as an adjunct therapy with behavioral therapies for addiction. Exercise leads to better treatment outcomes when used as an adjunct treatment, particularly for psychostimulant addictions. In particular, aerobic exercise decreases psychostimulant self-administration, reduces the reinstatement (i.e., relapse) of drug-seeking, and induces increased dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2) density in the striatum. 
Can over-the-counter combination medications help with tension headache and migraine better than medications containing only single active ingredients? [SEP] Paracetamol may relieve pain in acute mild migraine but only slightly in episodic tension headache. The aspirin/paracetamol/caffeine combination also "has strong evidence of effectiveness and can be used as a first-line treatment for migraine". However, the aspirin/paracetamol/caffeine combination is superior to both paracetamol alone and placebo and offers meaningful relief of tension headache: 2 hours after administering the medication, 29% of those who took the combination were pain-free as compared with 21% on paracetamol and 18% on placebo. The German, Austrian, and Swiss headache societies and the German Society of Neurology recommend this combination as a "highlighted" one for self-medication of tension headache, with paracetamol/caffeine combination being a "remedy of first choice", and paracetamol a "remedy of second choice". The combinations of paracetamol and NSAIDs ibuprofen or diclofenac are promising, possibly offering better pain control than either paracetamol or the NSAID alone. As with other NSAIDs, combinations of aspirin and caffeine provide slightly greater pain relief than aspirin alone. Topical aspirin may be effective for treating some types of neuropathic pain.Aspirin, either by itself or in a combined formulation, effectively treats certain types of a headache, but its efficacy may be questionable for others. Aspirin or other over-the-counter analgesics are widely recognized as effective for the treatment of tension headaches. 
Does hyperthermia treatment support chemotherapy in fighting cancer? (anonymous request with link to the Standard article) [SEP] Research
Hyperthermia can also be deliberately induced using drugs or medical devices, and is being studied and applied in clinical routine as a treatment of some kinds of cancer. Research has shown that medically controlled hyperthermia can shrink tumours. Hyperthermia has also been researched to investigate whether it causes cancerous tumours to be more prone to radiation as a form of treatment; which as a result has allowed hyperthermia to be used to compliment other forms of cancer therapy. Various techniques of hyperthermia in the treatment of cancer include local or regional hyperthermia, as well as whole body techniques. References
External links
GeneReview/NIH/UW entry on Malignant Hyperthermia Susceptibility Hyperthermia therapy
Hyperthermia therapy is heat treatment for cancer that can be a powerful tool when used in combination with chemotherapy (thermochemotherapy) or radiation for the control of a variety of cancers. Hyperthermia has also been shown to help prevent or reverse "chemo-resistance." In regard to the potential benefit that drug-resistant cells can be recruited for effective therapy by combining chemotherapy with hyperthermia, it was important to show that chemoresistance against several anticancer drugs (e.g. 
Can stress promote dementia? [SEP] It is the cause of 60–70% of cases of dementia. Lifestyle
Certain lifestyle activities, such as physical and cognitive exercises, higher education and occupational attainment, cigarette smoking, stress, sleep, and the management of other comorbidities, including diabetes and hypertension, may affect the risk of developing Alzheimer's.Physical exercise is associated with a decreased rate of dementia, and is effective in reducing symptom severity in those with AD. The mechanism by which stress predisposes someone to development of Alzheimer's is unclear, but it is suggested that lifetime stressors may affect a person's epigenome, leading to an overexpression or under expression of specific genes. Although the relationship of stress and Alzheimer's is unclear, strategies to reduce stress and relax the mind may be helpful strategies in preventing the progression or Alzheimer's disease. History
The ancient Greek and Roman philosophers and physicians associated old age with increasing dementia. The greatest risk factor for developing dementia is aging, however dementia is not a normal part of aging. Steeper cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease. Stress, hypometabolism, and oxidative damage may decrease physiologic reserve in the elderly and can lead to a decrease in neuron energy production and an increase in neuron damage. 
Does the risk for the unborn child to develop asthma later on increase if the mother is exposed to high pollen concentrations during pregnancy? [SEP] "Maternal smoking in pregnancy, fetal development, and childhood asthma". Smoking during pregnancy and after delivery is associated with a greater risk of asthma-like symptoms. Maternal psychological stress during pregnancy is a risk factor for the child to develop asthma.Asthma is associated with exposure to indoor allergens. Certain viral respiratory infections, such as respiratory syncytial virus and rhinovirus, may increase the risk of developing asthma when acquired as young children. Exposure to bacterial endotoxin in early childhood may prevent the development of asthma, but exposure at an older age may provoke bronchoconstriction. Also, delivery via caesarean section is associated with an increased risk (estimated at 20–80%) of asthma – this increased risk is attributed to the lack of healthy bacterial colonization that the newborn would have acquired from passage through the birth canal. The strongest risk factor for developing asthma is a history of atopic disease; with asthma occurring at a much greater rate in those who have either eczema or hay fever. Use of acid suppressing medication (proton pump inhibitors and H2 blockers) during pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of asthma in the child. 
Are children conceived in May more likely to be born prematurely than children conceived in other months? [SEP] Maternal factors
Risk factors in the mother have been identified that are linked to a higher risk of a preterm birth. Many Black women have higher preterm birth rates due to multiple factors but the most common is high amounts of chronic stress, which can eventually lead to premature birth. An intra- and transgenerational increase in the risk of preterm delivery has been demonstrated. Certain medical conditions in the pregnant mother may also increase the risk of preterm birth. Babies with birth defects are at higher risk of being born preterm.Passive smoking and/or smoking before the pregnancy influences the probability of a preterm birth. Prenatal care
The absence of prenatal care has been associated with higher rates of preterm births. People born prematurely may be more susceptible to developing depression as teenagers. For instance, children born prematurely have an increased risk for developing chronic kidney disease. 
Does osteopathy work? [SEP] Osteopathy (from Ancient Greek  ὀστέον (ostéon) 'bone', and  πάθος (páthos) 'pain, suffering') is a type of pseudoscientific system of alternative medicine that emphasizes physical manipulation of the body's muscle tissue and bones. In 2011, a systematic review found no compelling evidence that osteopathic manipulation was effective for the treatment of musculoskeletal pain.A 2018 systematic review found that there is no evidence for the reliability or specific efficacy of the techniques used in visceral osteopathy.The New England Journal of Medicine's 4 November 1999 issue concluded that patients with chronic low back pain can be treated effectively with manipulation. The United Kingdom's National Health Service says there is "limited evidence" that osteopathy "may be effective for some types of neck, shoulder or lower limb pain and recovery after hip or knee operations", but that there is no evidence that osteopathy is effective as a treatment for health conditions unrelated to the bones and muscles. And if there is value in therapy that is uniquely osteopathic – that is, based on osteopathic manipulation or other techniques – why should its use be limited to osteopaths? An Osteopathic Approach to Diagnosis and Treatment (3rd ed.). Science in the Art of Osteopathy: Osteopathic Principles and Practice. Foundations for Osteopathic Medicine (2nd ed.). And if there is value in therapy that is uniquely osteopathic, why should its use be limited to osteopaths? 
Do creams with sterol compounds improve the appearance of cellulite skin? [SEP] Dual AAS and progestins such as trestolone and dimethandrolone undecanoate have also been studied as male contraceptives, with the latter under active investigation as of 2018.Topical androgens have been used and studied in the treatment of cellulite in women. Sterols are common components of human skin oils. Cellulite or gynoid lipodystrophy (GLD) is the herniation of subcutaneous fat within fibrous connective tissue that manifests as skin dimpling and nodularity, often on the pelvic region (specifically the buttocks), lower limbs, and abdomen. Hormonal factors
Hormones play a dominant role in the formation of cellulite. Estrogen is thought to be an important hormone in the development of cellulite, and it has been proposed that an imbalance of estrogen relative to progesterone may be associated with cellulite. Aside from 'topical' products (creams, ointments) and injectables (collagenase), treatments for cellulite include non-invasive therapy such as mechanical suction or mechanical massage. "Treatment of cellulite. "Treatment of cellulite. 
For women at high risk of breast cancer, does a precautionary mastectomy make more sense than regular participation in intensive screening? [SEP] Screening
Breast cancer screening refers to testing otherwise-healthy women for breast cancer in an attempt to achieve an earlier diagnosis under the assumption that early detection will improve outcomes. These task force reports point out that in addition to unnecessary surgery and anxiety, the risks of more frequent mammograms include a small but significant increase in breast cancer induced by radiation.The Cochrane collaboration (2013) states that the best quality evidence neither demonstrates a reduction in cancer specific, nor a reduction in all cause mortality from screening mammography. Pre-emptive surgery
Removal of both breasts before any cancer has been diagnosed or any suspicious lump or other lesion has appeared (a procedure known as "prophylactic bilateral mastectomy" or "risk reducing mastectomy") may be considered in women with BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations, which are associated with a substantially heightened risk for an eventual diagnosis of breast cancer. Screening mammography efficiently finds non-life-threatening, asymptomatic breast cancers and precancers, even while overlooking serious cancers. Screening
Breast cancer screening refers to testing otherwise-healthy women for breast cancer in an attempt to achieve an earlier diagnosis under the assumption that early detection will improve outcomes. Pre-emptive surgery
Removal of both breasts before any cancer has been diagnosed or any suspicious lump or other lesion has appeared (a procedure known as "prophylactic bilateral mastectomy" or "risk reducing mastectomy") may be considered in women with BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations, which are associated with a substantially heightened risk for an eventual diagnosis of breast cancer. Screening mammography efficiently finds non-life-threatening, asymptomatic breast cancers and precancers, even while overlooking serious cancers. The mainstream breast cancer culture has been criticized for focusing on detecting and curing existing breast cancer cases, rather than on preventing future cases.As a result, screening mammography is promoted by the breast cancer culture as the sole possible approach to public health for breast cancer. 
Does tocilizumab specifically help children with rheumatoid arthritis (juvenile idiopathic arthritis) ? [SEP] Medical uses
In the United States, tocilizumab is indicated for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, giant cell arteritis, systemic sclerosis-associated interstitial lung disease, polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis, systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis, cytokine release syndrome, and COVID‑19.In the European Union, tocilizumab is indicated for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, juvenile idiopathic polyarthritis, giant cell arteritis, cytokine release syndrome, and COVID‑19. Rheumatoid arthritis
Tocilizumab is used for the treatment of moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis, applied in combination with methotrexate, if other drugs like disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) and TNF alpha blockers have proven to be ineffective or were not tolerated. Systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis
The treatment of systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (SJIA) is similar to rheumatoid arthritis treatment: tocilizumab is combined with methotrexate unless the latter is not tolerated. In 2011, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved tocilizumab for the treatment of active systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis. In further studies, it was effective and generally well tolerated when administered either as monotherapy or in combination with conventional DMARDs in adult patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis.In June 2005, tocilizumab was approved in Japan for Castleman's disease. In New Zealand, tocilizumab was approved for distribution in July 2009, and Pharmac approved subsidising it with special authority restrictions on 1 July 2013 for systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis and 1 July 2014 for rheumatoid arthritis. The FDA approved tocilizumab for the treatment of systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis for children from two years of age in April 2011, and the EMA followed in August the same year. The first such is tocilizumab, which has been approved for rheumatoid arthritis, Castleman's disease and systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis. 
Does the Toxoplasma gondii parasite affect suicide rates? [SEP] Toxoplasma gondii () is a parasitic protozoan (specifically an apicomplexan) that causes toxoplasmosis. Another population-representative study with 7440 people in the United States found that Toxoplasma infection was 2.4 fold more common in people who had a history of manic and depression symptoms (bipolar disorder Type 1) compared to the general population.Research on the linkage between T. gondii infection and entrepreneurial behavior showed that students who tested positive for T. gondii exposure were 1.4 times more likely to major in business and 1.7 times more likely to have an emphasis in "management and entrepreneurship". Toxoplasmosis is a parasitic disease caused by Toxoplasma gondii, an apicomplexan. Toxoplasma gondii is considered the second leading cause of foodborne-related deaths and the fourth leading cause of foodborne-related hospitalizations in the United States.The protist responsible for toxoplasmosis is T. gondii. A 2016 study of 236 persons with high levels of toxoplasmosis antibodies found that "there was little evidence that T. gondii was related to increased risk of psychiatric disorder, poor impulse control, personality aberrations or neurocognitive impairment". Adaptation to a very different ancestral environment may be maladaptive in the current one.Infection by the parasite Toxoplasma gondii, more commonly known as toxoplasmosis, has been linked with suicide risk. Exposure to Toxoplasma gondii (seropositivity) without developing Toxoplasmosis has been proven to alter various characteristics of human behavior as well as being a causative factor in some cases of depression, in addition, studies have linked seropositivity with an increased rate of suicide
West Nile virus (WNV); which can cause encephalitis has been reported to be a causal factor in developing depression in 31% of those infected in a study conducted in Houston, Texas and reported to the Center for Disease Control (CDC). (io9)
Scientists identify the mechanism that allows Toxoplasma gondii – a single-celled parasite – to pass from the human gut to the brain, where it may cause suicidal thoughts and risk-taking. 
Is Exemestane better than other hormone-altering drugs for reducing the risk of breast cancer or treating it? [SEP] The medications tamoxifen or raloxifene may be used in an effort to prevent breast cancer in those who are at high risk of developing it. Breast cancer is promoted by estrogen. Medications
The selective estrogen receptor modulators reduce the risk of breast cancer but increase the risk of thromboembolism and endometrial cancer. Aromatase inhibitors (such as exemestane and anastrozole) may be more effective than selective estrogen receptor modulators (such as tamoxifen) at reducing breast cancer risk and they are not associated with an increased risk of endometrial cancer and thromboembolism. If hormone replacement is necessary after breast cancer, estrogen-only therapy or estrogen therapy with an intrauterine device with progestogen may be safer options than combined systemic therapy. EE is also used as menopausal hormone therapy. In addition, ethinylestradiol sulfonate (EES), an oral but parenteral-like long-lasting prodrug of EE, is used in the treatment of prostate cancer, and is said to have a considerably better profile of cardiovascular safety than EE.Because of its disproportionate effects on liver protein synthesis and associated cardiovascular risks, synthetic estrogens like EE and diethylstilbestrol are no longer used in menopausal hormone therapy. It has also been used to prevent breast cancer in those at high risk. 
Does a newly approved contraceptive pill with the active ingredient combination nomegestrol acetate and 17ß-estradiol have fewer undesirable side effects than other birth control pills? [SEP] Estradiol hemihydrate has also been shown to result in less systemic absorption as a vaginal tablet formulation relative to other topical estradiol formulations such as vaginal creams. Subsequently, estradiol valerate/dienogest (Natazia, Qlaira) was marketed as a birth control pill in 2008 and estradiol/nomegestrol acetate (Naemis, Zoely) was introduced in 2012. Minimal drug interactions (compared to other hormonal contraceptives). Moreover, sleep was improved to a significantly better extent than estrogen plus medroxyprogesterone acetate. In addition, progestogens can produce undesirable side effects, although bioidentical progesterone may be safer and better tolerated than synthetic progestogens like medroxyprogesterone acetate.Because some believe that progestogens are necessary for full breast development, progesterone is sometimes used in transgender women with the intention of enhancing breast development. Compared to the progestin medroxyprogesterone acetate, there are fewer reports of breast tenderness with progesterone. In addition, the magnitude and duration of vaginal bleeding with progesterone are reported to be lower than with medroxyprogesterone acetate. Noretynodrel and norethisterone did not show the problems associated with oral progesterone—in the studies, they fully inhibited ovulation and did not produce menstruation-related side effects. 
Does PrEP reduce the risk of HIV infection? [SEP] Consequently, people with HIV infection and resistance to emtricitabine will have fewer options for selecting HIV treatment medications.PrEP has been shown to be effective at reducing the risk of acquiring HIV in individuals at increased risk. The WHO noted that "international scientific consensus is emerging
that antiretroviral drugs, including PrEP, significantly reduce the risk of sexual acquisition and transmission of HIV regardless of population or setting. PrEP does not prevent the transmission of sexually transmitted infections other than HIV, and is not 100% effective. Possibility of increased risk-taking
While PrEP appears to be extremely successful in reducing HIV infection, there is mixed evidence that there might be a change in use of condoms in anal sex, raising risks of spreading sexually transmitted infections other than HIV. The USPSTF, in 2019, recommended PrEP in those who are at high risk.Universal precautions within the health care environment are believed to be effective in decreasing the risk of HIV. Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) provides HIV-negative individuals with medication—in conjunction with safer-sex education and regular HIV/STI screenings—in order to reduce the risk of acquiring HIV. One prevention method is PrEP which is an intervention taken orally or an injection that prevents HIV. PrEP (pre-exposure prophylaxis), on the other hand, is a drug that is used as a preventative measure against HIV for those who are at a higher risk of contracting the virus but does not cure someone who has HIV; furthermore, the medication should be taken regularly in order to have a higher protective chance against HIV and is not a one-time medication nor does it treat PLHIV.People cannot contract AIDS, rather they are infected with HIV which progresses into AIDS over time when left unchecked; if someone has HIV, it does not guarantee that they will develop AIDS. 
Does exercise, a restricted diet, or both together help prevent excessive weight gain during pregnancy? [SEP] This review along with reviews by Vartanian and Smyth (2013) and Puhl and Suh (2015) have also found that across several studies and in both adults and children, experiencing weight stigma is related to decreased exercise behavior overall, as well as decreased motivation to exercise, decreased exercise self-efficacy, and increased food craving and tendency to overeat. At home, parents can help prevent their children from becoming overweight by changing the way the family eats and exercises together. Both physical activity and diet can help to reduce the risk of obesity in children from 0 to 5 years old; meanwhile, exclusive physical activity can reduce the risk of obesity for children aged from 6 to 12 years old, and adolescents aged from 13 to 18 years old. Mothers with pre-pregnancy obesity, as defined by BMI ≥30 kg/m2, are known to have children that have higher growth rates and more likely to have obesity. A randomized trial showed that reducing TV viewing and computer use can decrease age-adjusted BMI; reduced calorie intake was thought to be the greatest contributor to the BMI decrease.Technological activities are not the only household influences of childhood obesity. Management
Obesity in children is treated with dietary changes and physical activity. Parents changing the diet and lifestyle of their offspring by offering appropriate food portions, increasing physical activity, and keeping sedentary behaviors at a minimum may also decrease the obesity levels in children.If children were more mobile and less sedentary, the rate of obesity would decrease. Research
A study of 1800 children aged 2 to 12 in Colac, Australia tested a program of restricted diet (no carbonated drinks or sweets) and increased exercise. 
Does taking antibiotics for acute sinusitis speed up the healing of the infection? [SEP] There is tentative evidence for nasal irrigation in acute sinusitis, for example during upper respiratory infections. Antibiotics
Most sinusitis cases are caused by viruses and resolve without antibiotics. Because of increasing resistance to amoxicillin the 2012 guideline of the Infectious Diseases Society of America recommends amoxicillin-clavulanate as the initial treatment of choice for bacterial sinusitis. The FDA recommends against the use of fluoroquinolones when other options are available due to higher risks of serious side effects.A short-course (3–7 days) of antibiotics seems to be just as effective as the typical longer-course (10–14 days) of antibiotics for those with clinically diagnosed acute bacterial sinusitis without any other severe disease or complicating factors. Corticosteroids
For unconfirmed acute sinusitis, nasal sprays using corticosteroids have not been found to be better than a placebo either alone or in combination with antibiotics. Systemic antibiotics are ineffective as a definitive solution, but may afford temporary relief of symptoms by improving sinus clearing, and may be appropriate for rapidly spreading infections, but debridement and disinfection of the root canal system at the same time is necessary. Treatment outlook
Sinusitis or sinus infections usually clear up if treated early and appropriately. 06 Nov. 2009Is a sinus infection contagious? 
Does colonoscopy reduce mortality from colorectal cancer? [SEP] Research shows that the risk of cancer is low for 10 years if a high-quality colonoscopy does not detect cancer, so tests for this purpose are indicated every ten years.Colonoscopy screening is associated with approximately two-thirds fewer deaths due to colorectal cancers on the left side of the colon, and is not associated with a significant reduction in deaths from right-sided disease. It is speculated that colonoscopy might reduce rates of death from colon cancer by detecting some colon polyps and cancers on the left side of the colon early enough that they may be treated, and a smaller number on the right side. Most of the potential benefits of colonoscopy have been extrapolated from randomized trials of the sigmoidoscopy.The large randomized pragmatic clinical trial NordICC was the first published trial on the use of colonoscopy as a screening test to prevent colorectal cancer, related death, and death from any cause. To prevent one case of colorectal cancer, 455 invitations to colonoscopy were required.The CONFIRM trial, a randomized trial on colonoscopy vs. Screening is effective for preventing and decreasing deaths from colorectal cancer. Endoscopic surveillance in this high-risk population may reduce the development of colorectal cancer through early diagnosis and may also reduce the chances of dying from colon cancer. Screening has the potential to reduce colorectal cancer deaths by 60%.The three main screening tests are colonoscopy, fecal occult blood testing, and flexible sigmoidoscopy. Bowel (colorectal) cancer
Screening for colorectal cancer, if done early enough, is preventive because almost all colorectal cancers originate from benign growths called polyps, which can be located and removed during a colonoscopy (see colonic polypectomy). 
Do nicotine replacement products like nicotine gum or nicotine patches help with long-term smoking cessation? [SEP] Medical uses
Nicotine replacement therapy, in the form of gum, patches, nasal spray, inhaler and lozenges all improve the ability of people trying to quit tobacco products. All forms of nicotine replacement therapy, including nicotine gum, patches, nasal spray, inhalers, and lozenges, have similar success rates in terms of helping people stop smoking. Using a few different nicotine replacement methods in combination may improve success rates in stopping tobacco use. Nicotine patches is an alternative. A 2018 Cochrane Collaboration review found high-quality evidence that all current forms of nicotine replacement therapy (gum, patch, lozenges, inhaler, and nasal spray) therapies increase the chances of successfully quitting smoking by 50–60%, regardless of setting.Combining nicotine patch use with a faster acting nicotine replacement, like gum or spray, improves the odds of treatment success. There is some evidence that the usage of electronic cigarettes with nicotine increases quit rates compared to electronic cigarettes without nicotine and compared to nicotine replacement therapy. Current guidelines state that nicotine products (such as patches, gum and mouth spray) can help. They are also advertised for use as nicotine replacement products. 
Is short, high-intensity training equally effective as longer, moderate-intensity training? [SEP] However, as muscles become adapted to the exercises, soreness tends to decrease.Weight training aims to build muscle by prompting two different types of hypertrophy: sarcoplasmic and myofibrillar. They give the body energy to deal with the rigors of training and recovery. Training at a high intensity too frequently also stimulates the central nervous system (CNS) and can result in a hyperadrenergic state that interferes with sleep patterns. To avoid overtraining, intense frequent training must be met with at least an equal amount of purposeful recovery. Sufferers feel as if they are never big enough or muscular enough, which forces them to overtrain in order to try to reach their goal physique.An article by Muscle & Fitness magazine, "Overtrain for Big Gains", claimed that overtraining for a brief period can be beneficial. Intensity refers to how much effort one puts into any challenge or situation. In other words, high levels of arousal can be beneficial if athletes experience such heightened levels of arousal during some consecutive training sessions. Other researchers noted the connection between exercise and depression, concluding a moderate amount of exercise was more helpful than no exercise in symptom improvement. 
Do behavioral therapy methods help with specific fears (phobias) such as fear of spiders? [SEP] Treatment
There are a variety of treatment options available for specific phobias, most of which focus on psychosocial interventions. CBT is effective in treating specific phobias primarily through exposure and cognitive strategies to overcome a person's anxiety. Other interventions have been successful for particular types of specific phobia, such as virtual reality exposure therapy (VRET) for spider, dental, and height phobias, applied muscle tension (AMT) for needle phobia, and psychoeducation with relaxation exercises for fear of childbirth. Treatments
There are various methods used to treat phobias. Research in the UK has suggested that for childhood phobias a single session of CBT can be effective.Evidence supports that eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR) is effective in treating some phobias. Psychological
Cognitive behavioral therapy has been successful in helping people overcome their fear. By confronting their fears in a safe manner a person can suppress the "fear-triggering memories" or stimuli.Exposure therapy has known to have helped up to 90% of people with specific phobias to significantly decrease their fear over time.Another psychological treatment is systematic desensitization, which is a type of behavior therapy used to completely remove the fear or produce a disgusted response to this fear and replace it. If a patient successfully combats their phobia in a virtual environment, does that guarantee success in real life too? 
Can honey accelerate the healing of second degree burns with pain, redness and blisters? [SEP] Treatment depends on the severity of the burn. Wound care
Early cooling (within 30 minutes of the burn) reduces burn depth and pain, but care must be taken as over-cooling can result in hypothermia. Second-degree burns should be re-evaluated after two days.In the management of first and second-degree burns, little quality evidence exists to determine which dressing type to use. Recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) in those with burns that involve more than 40% of their body appears to speed healing without affecting the risk of death. Alternative medicine
Honey has been used since ancient times to aid wound healing and may be beneficial in first- and second-degree burns. There is moderate evidence that honey helps heal partial thickness burns. There were only three randomized controlled trials for the use of plants for burns, two for aloe vera and one for oatmeal.There is little evidence that vitamin E helps with keloids or scarring. The earliest Egyptian records on treating burns describes dressings prepared with milk from mothers of baby boys, and the 1500 BCE Edwin Smith Papyrus describes treatments using honey and the salve of resin. 
Does honey heal small, fresh wounds faster than the usual wound treatment? [SEP] Some of the wounds that were allowed to be performed on were external injuries, such as skin lacerations caused by a sharp edge, such as by a sword, dagger and axe or through household tools such as knives. This was done by heating oil, water, or metal and touching it to the wound to seal off the blood vessels. Pare also believed in dressing wounds with clean bandages and ointments, including one he made himself composed of eggs, oil of roses, and turpentine. Freshwater also assists with sewage disposal, as well as wound care. Wound treatment
Arrow extraction
Treating a wound was and remains the most crucial part of any battlefield medicine, as this is what keeps soldiers alive. Physicians would then let the wound putrefy, thus making the tissue softer and easier for arrow extraction. Wounds were also taught to be covered to improve healing. To dress wounds all sorts of dressing were used such as grease, absorbent dressings, spider webs, honey, ground shellfish, clay and turpentine. 
Does honey work better than other wound treatments for chronic wounds (open leg, diabetic foot)? [SEP] There is evidence that maggot therapy may help with wound healing. Medical uses
Maggot therapy improves healing in chronic ulcers. In diabetic foot ulcers there is tentative evidence of benefit. A Cochrane review of methods for the debridement of venous leg ulcers found maggot therapy to be broadly as effective as most other methods, but the study also noted that the quality of data was poor.In 2004, the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) cleared maggots from common green bottle fly for use as a "medical device" in the US for the purpose of treatment of:
Non-healing necrotic skin and soft tissue wounds
Pressure ulcers
Venous stasis ulcers
Neuropathic foot ulcers
Non-healing traumatic or post-surgical wounds

Limitations
The wound must be of a type that can benefit from the application of maggot therapy. "Maggot Therapy for Treating Diabetic Foot Ulcers Unresponsive to Conventional Therapy". Wound Repair and Regeneration. "Maggot therapy for the treatment of intractable wounds". "Wound Microbiology and Associated Approaches to Wound Management". 
Does sitting for long periods despite compensatory exercise increasingly lead to type 2 diabetes? [SEP] Progressive idiopathic early-onset scoliosis can be a life-threatening condition with negative effects on pulmonary function. School children were during this period believed to develop poor posture as a result of working at their desks, and many were diagnosed with scoliosis. As the person aged, there would be increased wear and tear, early onset arthritis, disc degeneration, muscular stiffness, and acute pain. Specialized wheelchair seating has been identified as the most common prescription in the management of scoliosis in teenagers with muscular dystrophy.With comfortable wheelchair seating, teenagers are able to participate in classroom activities for longer periods with less fatigue. If an office worker with scoliosis can sit for longer periods, increased work output is likely to occur and could improve quality of life. For example, it might mean taking breaks throughout an exercise. As the person aged, there would be increased wear and tear, early-onset arthritis, disc degeneration, muscular stiffness, and pain with eventual reliance on painkillers, further surgery, inability to work full-time, and disability. On short rest". 
Do acupuncture or related smoking cessation methods help you stay smoke-free for at least 6 months? [SEP] Medications
The American Cancer Society notes that "Studies in medical journals have reported that about 25% of smokers who use medicines can stay smoke-free for over 6 months." According to the 2008 Guideline, based on two studies the training of clinicians in smoking cessation methods may increase abstinence rates;: 130  however, a Cochrane review found and measured that such training decreased smoking in patients. Acupuncture: Acupuncture has been explored as an adjunct treatment method for smoking cessation. : 149–150  A 2012 Cochrane review found that interventions beginning during a hospital stay and continuing for one month or more after discharge were effective in producing abstinence.Patients undergoing elective surgery may get benefits of preoperative smoking cessation interventions, when starting 4–8 weeks before surgery with weekly counseling intervention for behavioral support and use of nicotine replacement therapy. Smoking cessation can improve health status and quality of life at any age. Combining psychosocial and pharmacological treatments increases smoking cessation success rates. Acupuncture, hypnosis, inpatient treatment, and Nicotine Anonymous have not been shown effective thus far.In a controlled study 205 alcoholics, with heavy tobacco dependence (an average of 26.8 cigarettes per day) and three months or more of continuous abstinence from drugs and alcohol, were placed at random in one of three treatment groups: an American Lung Association Quit Program plus Nicotine Anonymous meetings group, a behavioral counseling plus physical exercise group, or a behavioral counseling plus nicotine gum group. See also
Addiction recovery groups
List of twelve-step groups
Nicotine
Smoking
Allen Carr
Joel Spitzer

References
External links
Nicotine Anonymous
How Acupuncture Can Help You Quit Smoking
Smokers Anonymous (not accessible) 
Do gastrointestinal surgeries (bariatric surgeries) improve symptoms of type 2 diabetes? [SEP] A meta-analysis in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes, respectively. Prior to the updated guidelines ASMBS/IFSO, international diabetes organizations had recommended considering bariatric surgery in people with a BMI over 30 who have type 2 diabetes and poorly controlled hyperglycemia. Reduced mortality and morbidity
A meta-analysis of 174,772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. Bariatric surgery has consistently been associated with postoperative decreases in depressive symptoms and reduced severity of symptoms. A meta-analysis of 174,772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. A meta-analysis of 174772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. This study was supported by Allergan Inc., which markets a gastric band system.A meta-analysis of 174772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. Surgery
Weight loss surgery in those with obesity and type 2 diabetes is often an effective measure. 
Is there a connection between ADHD and neurodermatitis? [SEP] ADHD is associated with other neurodevelopmental and mental disorders as well as some non-psychiatric disorders, which can cause additional impairment, especially in modern society. Comorbidities
Psychiatric
In children, ADHD occurs with other disorders about two-thirds of the time.Other neurodevelopmental conditions are common comorbidities. Individuals with ADHD are at increased risk of substance abuse. This could result in trauma-related disorders or ADHD being mis-identified as the other. ASD shows genetic overlap with ADHD at both common and rare levels of genetic variation. : 10  Some symptoms that are due to anxiety disorders, personality disorder, developmental disabilities or intellectual disability or the effects of substance abuse such as intoxication and withdrawal can overlap with ADHD. These disorders can also sometimes occur along with ADHD. Children with ADHD have a higher risk of unintentional injuries. 
Can injections with the enzyme collagenase straighten fingers bent by Dupuytren's disease without surgery? (Reader inquiry) [SEP] In a case of Dupuytren's contracture, collagen accumulates in the palmar fascia of the hands, so that the fingers cannot be straightened. Dupuytren's contracture (also called Dupuytren's disease, Morbus Dupuytren, Viking disease, palmar fibromatosis and Celtic hand) is a condition in which one or more fingers become permanently bent in a flexed position. In Dupuytren's contracture, the palmar fascia within the hand becomes abnormally thick, which can cause the fingers to curl and can impair finger function. Collagenase
The cords are weakened through the injection of small amounts of the enzyme collagenase, which breaks peptide bonds in collagen.Clostridial collagenase injections have been found to be more effective than placebo.In February 2010 the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved injectable collagenase extracted from Clostridium histolyticum for the treatment of Dupuytren's contracture in adults with a palpable Dupuytren's cord. Dupuytren's contracture (also called Dupuytren's disease, Morbus Dupuytren, Viking disease, palmar fibromatosis and Celtic hand) is a condition in which one or more fingers become permanently bent in a flexed position. In Dupuytren's contracture, the palmar fascia within the hand becomes abnormally thick, which can cause the fingers to curl and can impair finger function. Collagenase
The cords are weakened through the injection of small amounts of the enzyme collagenase, which breaks peptide bonds in collagen.Clostridial collagenase injections have been found to be more effective than placebo.In February 2010 the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved injectable collagenase extracted from Clostridium histolyticum for the treatment of Dupuytren's contracture in adults with a palpable Dupuytren's cord. A similar disease is Dupuytren's disease, which affects the hand and causes bent hand or fingers. 
Do mindfulness-based methods effect improvement in chronic pain? [SEP] The effectiveness of mindfulness-based pain management (MBPM) has been supported by a range of studies.Among older adults psychological interventions can help reduce pain and improve self-efficacy for pain management. Mindfulness meditation
A 2013 meta-analysis of studies that used techniques centered around the concept of mindfulness, concluded, "that MBIs [mindfulness-based interventions] decrease the intensity of pain for chronic pain patients." Recent studies have also demonstrated that mindfulness meditation significantly attenuates physical pain through multiple, unique mechanisms. Meditation also may allow one to modulate pain. Mindfulness was weakly recommended for improving pain and quality of life. Brain mechanisms
The analgesic effect of mindfulness meditation may involve multiple brain mechanisms, but there are too few studies to allow conclusions about its effects on chronic pain. Pain
Meditation has been show to reduce pain perception. An intervention known as mindfulness-based pain management (MBPM) has been subject to a range of studies demonstrating its effectiveness. 
Does high air pollution increase the risk for the unborn to develop autism later in life? [SEP] Previous studies have found correlations between exposure to vehicle pollutants and certain diseases such as asthma, lung and heart disease, and cancer among others. CO inhaled by pregnant women may threaten the unborn child's growth and mental development. Prematurity and Low Birth Weight caused by air pollution also affects fetal brain development. Long-term and short-term effects on babies
Exposure to vehicle air pollutants has been noted as primary cause for infant mortality and morbidity, and is also argued to be a cause of chronic diseases such as asthma in child and adulthood

Asthma
The number of children affected by asthma has increased in past decades the point where it is now the most chronic illness in children and the most common cause of children hospitalizations in the U.S. causing it to also be a number one contributor to school absences Excessive school absences ultimately affect the child's learning ability, and decrease their time to socialize with kids their age. Respiratory problems
Studies have found that children who are exposed to higher levels of car pollutants report higher respiratory problems including wheezing, ear and throat infections and have a higher incidence of physician-diagnosed asthma. Some claims exist that the incidence of autism is higher for babies whose mothers spend time in ‘high traffic pollution’ areas compared to mothers who spend their pregnancy in cleaner air. In a recent study conducted by UCLA, air pollutant levels were measured for mothers who had children with autism and then compared to air pollutant levels in environments for mothers who had children without autism. This study found that babies who were exposed to higher levels of pollutants while in the womb had a 10% higher risk of autism than babies who had low levels of exposure; another finding from this study is that fine particulates had the strongest association with autism

See also
Environmental impact of transport
List of most-polluted cities by particulate matter concentration

References
External links
Zero To Three - information on child brain development 
Is it harmful to health to eat apple cores with the apple? [SEP] Consequently, fruits account for a substantial fraction of the world's agricultural output, and some (such as the apple and the pomegranate) have acquired extensive cultural and symbolic meanings. Nutritional value
Various culinary fruits provide significant amounts of fiber and water, and many are generally high in vitamin C. An overview of numerous studies showed that fruits (e.g., whole apples or whole oranges) are satisfying (filling) by simply eating and chewing them.The dietary fiber consumed in eating fruit promotes satiety, and may help to control body weight and aid reduction of blood cholesterol, a risk factor for cardiovascular diseases. Fruit consumption is under preliminary research for the potential to improve nutrition and affect chronic diseases. Regular consumption of fruit is generally associated with reduced risks of several diseases and functional declines associated with aging. Food safety
For food safety, the CDC recommends proper fruit handling and preparation to reduce the risk of food contamination and foodborne illness. All fruits and vegetables should be rinsed before eating. Allergies
Fruit allergies make up about 10 percent of all food related allergies. In early Germanic languages the word apple and its cognates usually simply meant "fruit". 
Can taking selenium prevent cancer? [SEP] Studies in Jiangsu Province of China have indicated a reduction in the prevalence of these diseases by taking selenium supplements. Some specific foods are linked to specific cancers. Selenium supplementation has not been shown to reduce the risk of cancer. Dietary recommendations for cancer prevention typically include an emphasis on vegetables, fruit, whole grains, and fish, and an avoidance of processed and red meat (beef, pork, lamb), animal fats, and refined carbohydrates. A 2018 systematic review concluded that selenium has no beneficial effect in reducing the risk of cancer based on high quality evidence. A 2014 review of research concluded that there was evidence that consumption of citrus fruits and curcumin reduced risk of pancreatic cancer, while there was possibly a beneficial effect from whole grains, folate, selenium, and non-fried fish.In the general population, screening of large groups is not considered effective and may be harmful as of 2019, although newer techniques, and the screening of tightly targeted groups, are being evaluated. Compared with the placebo, men taking a daily multivitamin had a small but statistically significant reduction in their total incidence of cancer. Prevention
Neither selenium nor vitamin E have been found to be effective in preventing prostate cancer. 
Does mesotherapy help against pain? [SEP] Mesotherapy (from Greek mesos, "middle", and therapy from Greek therapeia) is a form of alternative medicine which involves intradermal or subcutaneous injections of pharmaceutical preparations, enzymes, hormones, plant extracts, vitamins, and/or other ingredients such as hyaluronic acid. The aim of mesotherapy is to provide the skin with essential nutrients, hydration, and other beneficial compounds to rejuvenate and revitalize its appearance. The effects of the treatment may vary depending on the individual.Pressurized mesotherapy is a needle-free method that uses an accelerated jet of air to insert the ingredients into the skin tissue. The French Académie Nationale de Médecine recognized mesotherapy as a specialty of medicine in 1987. Mesotherapy for the treatment of cosmetic conditions hasn't been the subject of standard clinical trials; however, the procedure has been studied for the pain relief for several ailments, such as tendonitis, tendon calcification, dental procedures, cancer, cervicobrachialgia, arthritis, lymphedema, and venous stasis.Despite the lack of clinical trials, there have been case studies and medical papers written on mesotherapy as a cosmetic treatment.Rod Rohrich, M.D., chairman of the Department of Plastic Surgery at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center is quoted as saying: "There is simply no data, no science and no information, to my knowledge, that mesotherapy works." Bandaging may also be helpful in reducing pain, by stimulating mechanoreceptors. Mesotherapy
Mesotherapy is the process of injecting medication intradermally, in multiple rows, along either side of the spine. It is used when other methods of treatment have failed to reduce pain. 
Do general health checkups lead to longer life? [SEP] This includes the maintenance and improvement of the health of the Canadian population, which is "among the healthiest in the world as measured by longevity, lifestyle and effective use of the public health care system. Preventive care and early detection are considered critical and yearly checkups are recommended for everyone. Another recent study re-assessed this relationship and found similar results that demonstrated that people with higher levels of education or income experience longer life expectancies and health-adjusted life expectancies. It is recommended that adults and children aim to visit their doctor for regular check-ups, even if they feel healthy, to perform disease screening, identify risk factors for disease, discuss tips for a healthy and balanced lifestyle, stay up to date with immunizations and boosters, and maintain a good relationship with a healthcare provider. Preventing disease and creating overall well-being prolongs life expectancy. Preventive care can lead to improved health outcomes and cost savings potential. Evaluating incremental benefits
Evaluating the incremental benefits of preventive care requires a longer period of time when compared to acutely ill patients. These include screenings for HIV and chlamydia, cancers of the colon, breast and cervix, vision screening, and screening for abdominal aortic aneurysms in men >60 in certain populations. 
Can dementia be prevented? [SEP] Several risk factors for dementia, such as smoking and obesity, are preventable by lifestyle changes. Although there is no cure for dementia, it is well established that modifiable risk factors influence both the likelihood of developing dementia and the age at which it is developed. Dementia can be prevented by reducing the risk factors for vascular disease such as diabetes, high blood pressure, obesity, smoking, physical inactivity and depression. A study concluded that more than a third of dementia cases are theoretically preventable. Thus, physical exercise, having good blood cholesterol, healthy body weight and blood pressure lowers the risk of developing dementia. Prevention
Early detection and accurate diagnosis are important, as vascular dementia is at least partially preventable. "Walking and Moderate Exercise Help Prevent Dementia". Prevention
There are no disease-modifying treatments available to cure Alzheimer's disease and because of this, AD research has focused on interventions to prevent the onset and progression. 
Does the plant pigment beta-carotene protect against cancer? [SEP] Carotene protects plant cells against the destructive effects of ultraviolet light so β-Carotene is an antioxidant. β-Carotene and physiology
β-Carotene and cancer
An article on the American Cancer Society says that The Cancer Research Campaign has called for warning labels on β-carotene supplements to caution smokers that such supplements may increase the risk of lung cancer.The New England Journal of Medicine published an article in 1994 about a trial which examined the relationship between daily supplementation of β-carotene and vitamin E (α-tocopherol) and the incidence of lung cancer. Carotenes also fulfil the function of melanin in absorbing the UV radiation and protecting the skin. "Chronic, high doses of synthetic β-carotene supplements have been associated with increased rate of lung cancer among those who smoke. The Beta-Carotene and Retinol Efficacy Trial (CARET) study of lung cancer patients found that smokers given supplements containing beta-carotene and vitamin A had increased rates of lung cancer. Beta-carotene may also increase lung cancer. β-carotene
β-carotene is a molecule which displays a red-orange pigment. Further investigations of β-carotene usage collected from Blakeslea trispora may lead to great improvements to human health in the treatment and prevention of certain chronic diseases such as cancer. 
Can vitamin supplements protect against life-threatening diseases such as cancer or cardiovascular disease? [SEP] or vitamins has not been shown to protect against cardiovascular disease and in some cases may possibly result in harm. A 2022 review found that some dietary supplements, including micronutrients, may reduce risk factors for cardiovascular disease. The benefit versus harm for 5-alpha-reductase inhibitor such as finasteride is not clear.Vitamin supplementation does not appear to be effective at preventing cancer. While low blood levels of vitamin D are correlated with increased cancer risk, whether this relationship is causal and vitamin D supplementation is protective is not determined. One 2014 review found that supplements had no significant effect on cancer risk. Another 2014 review concluded that vitamin D3 may decrease the risk of death from cancer (one fewer death in 150 people treated over 5 years), but concerns with the quality of the data were noted.Beta-Carotene supplementation increases lung cancer rates in those who are high risk. However, diseases such as cancer, cardiovascular diseases etc. In foods exposed to air, unsaturated fatty acids are vulnerable to oxidation and rancidity.There is no high-quality evidence that dietary supplementation with omega−3 fatty acids reduces the risk of cancer or cardiovascular disease. 
Is it true that lowering cholesterol does not reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] It can aid in the promotion of atherosclerosis by the deposition of cholesterol, cholesterol esters and calcium within the subendothelial layer of vessel walls. "Smoking also tends to increase blood cholesterol levels. Atherosclerosis also occurs more often and advances more rapidly than in the general population.Steroids are sometimes prescribed as an anti-inflammatory treatment for lupus; however, they can increase one's risk for heart disease, high cholesterol, and atherosclerosis. To reduce the potential for cardiovascular issues, high blood pressure and high cholesterol should be prevented or treated aggressively. Prevention
The risk of aneurysm enlargement may be diminished with attention to the patient's blood pressure, smoking and cholesterol levels. In short, raising HDL cholesterol is beneficial because it induces programmed cell death. These fatty deposits known as atherosclerotic plaques narrow the coronary arteries, and if severe may reduce blood flow to the heart. Obesity, high blood pressure, uncontrolled diabetes, smoking and high cholesterol can all increase the risk of developing atherosclerosis and coronary artery disease. 
Do static magnets help against pain? [SEP] A 2013 systematic review found that although there is insufficient evidence that thoracic SM is more effective than other treatments, it is a suitable intervention to treat some patients with non-specific neck pain. A 2011 systematic review found that thoracic SM may offer short-term improvement for the treatment of acute or subacute mechanical neck pain; although the body of literature is still weak. "Do Manual Therapies Help Low Back Pain? Most clinical magnets are superconducting magnets, which require liquid helium to keep them at low temperatures. Lower field strengths can be achieved with permanent magnets, which are often used in "open" MRI scanners for claustrophobic patients. Health bracelets and various healing jewelry such as ionized bracelets, hologram bracelets and magnetic jewelry, are purported to improve the health, heal, or improve the chi of the wearer. Magnet therapy – practice of using magnetic fields to positively influence health. While there are legitimate medical uses for magnets and magnetic fields, the field strength used in magnetic therapy is too low to effect any biological change and the methods used have no scientific validity.The above is not to be confused with current health treatments involving electromagnetism on human tissue, such as pulsed electromagnetic field therapy (see: Electromagnetic therapy).A medical intuitive is an alternative medicine practitioner who claims to use their self-described intuitive abilities to find the cause of a physical or emotional condition through the use of insight rather than modern medicine. 
Does hypnosis help with chronic bowel problems? [SEP] Hypnosis-based therapies for the management of irritable bowel syndrome and menopause are supported by evidence. Irritable bowel syndrome
Hypnotherapy has been studied for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome. Hypnosis for IBS has received moderate support in the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence guidance published for UK health services. Irritable bowel syndrome
The use of hypnotherapy in treating the symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome is supported by research, including randomized controlled trials. A 2015 audit of 1000 patients undertaking gut-focused hypnotherapy in normal clinical practice found that hypnotherapy was an effective intervention for refractory IBS. Gut-directed hypnotherapy is recommended in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome by the American College of Gastroenterology clinical guideline for the management of IBS. Hypnosis has also been used to enhance recovery from non-psychological conditions such as after surgical procedures, in breast cancer care and even with gastro-intestinal problems. A 2014 meta-analysis that focused on hypnotherapy's efficacy on irritable bowel syndrome found that it was beneficial for short term abdominal pain and other gastrointestinal issues. 
Does taking vitamin D supplements during pregnancy increase the risk of food allergy for the unborn child? [SEP] Nutrition during pregnancy is important to ensure healthy growth of the fetus. Also, pregnancy can be a trigger for the development of celiac disease in genetically susceptible women who are consuming gluten. In addition to medications and substances, some dietary supplements are important for a healthy pregnancy, however, others may cause harm to the unborn child.The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the United States reports that there are six million pregnancies with at least 50% of the women taking at least one medication. Currently, there is a lack of association between prenatal antihistamine exposure and birth defects.Antihistamines during pregnancy have not been linked to birth defects; however, further research is necessary for some antihistamine medications to determine safety during pregnancy. Dietary supplements
Dietary supplements such as folic acid and iron are important for a healthy pregnancy. Some dietary supplements can cause side effects and harm to the mother or unborn child. Pregnant women should discuss all dietary supplements with their health care professional to determine the appropriate dosage and which supplements are safe during pregnancy.Caution should be taken before consuming dietary supplements while pregnant as dietary supplements are considered "foods" rather than medications and are not regulated for safety and efficacy by the FDA. There may be an increased risk of hepatitis in pregnancy and during the puerperium. 
Is combined hormone therapy with estrogen and progestin safe for women in late menopause (after the last menstrual period)? [SEP] Hormone replacement therapy (HRT), also known as menopausal hormone therapy or postmenopausal hormone therapy, is a form of hormone therapy used to treat symptoms associated with female menopause. The North American Menopause Society (NAMS) 2016 annual meeting mentioned that HRT may have more benefits than risks in women before the age of 60.A consensus expert opinion published by The Endocrine Society stated that when taken during perimenopause or the initial years of menopause, HRT carries fewer risks than previously published, and reduces all cause mortality in most scenarios. Endometrial cancer
In postmenopausal women, continuous combined estrogen plus progestin decreases endometrial cancer incidence. The relative risk of breast cancer also varies depending on the interval between menopause and HRT and route of synthetic progestin administration.The most recent follow up of the Women's Health Initiative participants demonstrated a lower incidence of breast cancer in post-hysterectomy participants taking equine estrogen alone, though the relative risk was increased if estrogen was taken with medroxy-progesterone. If HRT is necessary after breast cancer, estrogen-only therapy or estrogen therapy with a progestogen may be safer options than combined systemic therapy. The authors of the study recommended that women with non-surgical menopause take the lowest feasible dose of hormones for the shortest time to minimize risk.The data published by the WHI suggested supplemental estrogen increased risk of venous thromboembolism and breast cancer but was protective against osteoporosis and colorectal cancer, while the impact on cardiovascular disease was mixed. Estrogens and progestogens are the two most often used in menopause. MPA is also used in combination with an estrogen in menopausal hormone therapy in postmenopausal women to treat and prevent menopausal symptoms such as hot flashes, vaginal atrophy, and osteoporosis. 
Can negative expectancy reduce the effect of pain medications? [SEP] If I have matters right, the consequences of pain will include direct physical distress, unemployment, financial difficulties, marital disharmony, and difficulties in concentration and attention…

On subsequent negative emotion
Although pain is considered to be aversive and unpleasant and is therefore usually avoided, a meta-analysis which summarized and evaluated numerous studies from various psychological disciplines, found a reduction in negative affect. Some health care professionals may underestimate pain severity. A nocebo effect is said to occur when negative expectations of the patient regarding a treatment cause the treatment to have a more negative effect than it otherwise would have. The complementary concept, the placebo effect, is said to occur when positive expectations improve an outcome. For example, an expectation of pain may induce anxiety, which in turn causes the release of cholecystokinin, which facilitates pain transmission. Adverse expectations can also cause the analgesic effects of anesthetic medications to disappear.The worsening of the subject's symptoms or reduction of beneficial effects is a direct consequence of their exposure to the placebo, but those symptoms have not been chemically generated by the placebo. See also
Notes
References
External links

Nocebo and nocebo effect
The nocebo response
The Nocebo Effect: Placebo's Evil Twin
What modifies a healing response
The science of voodoo: When mind attacks body, New Scientist
The Effect of Treatment Expectation on Drug Efficacy: Imaging the Analgesic Benefit of the Opioid Remifentanil
This Video Will Hurt (The Nocebo Effect), via YouTube
BBC Discovery program on the nocebo effect
What is the Nocebo effect? They, however, may work less well than usual doses of NSAIDS. 
Is sex as good an endurance workout as running? [SEP] Sprinting - Running short distances as fast as possible, training for muscle explosiveness. This type of activity also builds speed and endurance. Middle distance running: Athletes require both speed and endurance to gain benefit out of this training. There is some weak evidence that high-intensity interval training may improve a person's VO2 max slightly more than lower intensity endurance training. Moderate exercise has been associated with a 29% decreased incidence of upper respiratory tract infections (URTI), but studies of marathon runners found that their prolonged high-intensity exercise was associated with an increased risk of infection occurrence. Respiratory system
People who participate in physical exercise experience increased cardiovascular fitness. According to one of the researchers: "Regular exercise reduces cardiovascular risk by a factor of two or three in the long run, but while we're doing vigorous exercise such as marathon running, our cardiac risk increases by seven." Jenner commented, "I was a lot more badass runner than I was a driver. 
Can electrical brain stimulation reduce the amount of food eaten? [SEP] The brain can distinguish between the chemical qualities of the food. Normally carbohydrates in food are converted into glucose, which is then transported around the body and is important in fueling brain function. Around half of children and young people with epilepsy who have tried some form of this diet saw the number of seizures drop by at least half, and the effect persists after discontinuing the diet. Some evidence shows that adults with epilepsy may benefit from the diet and that a less strict regimen, such as a modified Atkins diet, is similarly effective. Twenty epilepsy patients of all ages were "detoxified" by consuming a low-calorie vegetarian diet, combined with periods of fasting and purging. A number of studies in rats have shown that increasing the dynorphin levels stimulates eating. studied the levels of dynorphin during periods of food restriction. The group found that while food did not alter the expression of dynorphin B, it increases dynorphin A levels in several rat brain regions (hypothalamus, nucleus accumbens, and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis). 
Are plastic kitchen boards more hygienic than wooden ones? [SEP] The modern built-in kitchens of today use particle boards or MDF, decorated with a variety of materials and finishes including wood veneers, lacquer, glass, melamine, laminate, ceramic and eco gloss. Until the 1950s, steel kitchens were used by architects, but this material was displaced by the cheaper particle board panels sometimes decorated with a steel surface. As of 2017, restaurant kitchens usually have tiled walls and floors and use stainless steel for other surfaces (workbench, but also door and drawer fronts) because these materials are durable and easy to clean. Wood is considered to be the most eco-friendly option when it comes to choosing a kitchen countertop as wood is a renewable resource. Wood countertops must be thoroughly cleaned and disinfected after contact with foods such as raw meat. Although the use of wooden work surfaces is prohibited in commercial food production areas in the EU, and the US Department of Agriculture advises against the use of wooden chopping boards, research by the Food Research Institute at the University of Wisconsin has shown that wooden work surfaces are no more dangerous, and in some cases safer than plastic alternatives. High-pressure laminates
Post-formed plastic laminate
"Post-formed" (or literally "formed after being laminated" to the substrate) high pressure laminate countertop, often referred to as "plastic laminate countertop" is a material made more of wood product than plastic. Many household chemicals are using in cleaning, scrubbing, and washing surfaces in the kitchen and bathroom. 
Does excessive beer or alcohol consumption lead to obesity? [SEP] Body composition
Alcohol affects the nutritional state of the chronic drinkers. Alcohol consumption
A study has shown that alcohol consumption is directly associated with waist circumference and with a higher risk of abdominal obesity in men, but not in women. Further research is needed to determine whether a significant relationship between alcohol consumption and abdominal obesity exists among women who consume higher amounts of alcohol.A systemic review and meta-analysis failed to find data pointing towards a dose-dependent relationship between beer intake and general obesity or abdominal obesity at low or moderate intake levels (under ~500 mL/day). However, high beer intake (above ~4 L/wk) appeared to be associated with a higher degree of abdominal obesity specifically, particularly among men. However, there is little scientific evidence that beer drinkers are more prone to central obesity, despite its being known colloquially as "beer belly", "beer gut", or "beer pot". One of the few studies conducted on the subject did not find that beer drinkers are more prone to central obesity than nondrinkers or drinkers of wine or spirits. Others gain weight from drinking alcohol due to the high caloric content of some alcoholic beverages. Drinking alcohol also increases the body fat percentage. 
Do omega-3 fatty acids or a diet rich in fish help with rheumatoid arthritis? [SEP] Consumption of omega−3 fatty acids from marine sources lowers blood markers of inflammation such as C-reactive protein, interleukin 6, and TNF alpha.For rheumatoid arthritis, one systematic review found consistent but modest evidence for the effect of marine n−3 PUFAs on symptoms such as "joint swelling and pain, duration of morning stiffness, global assessments of pain and disease activity" as well as the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. The National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health has concluded that "supplements containing omega−3 fatty acids ... may help relieve rheumatoid arthritis symptoms" but warns that such supplements "may interact with drugs that affect blood clotting". Dietary supplements
Fatty acids
There has been a growing interest in the role of long-chain omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids to reduce inflammation and alleviate the symptoms of RA. A review examined the effect of marine oil omega-3 fatty acids on pro-inflammatory eicosanoid concentrations; leukotriene4 (LTB4) was lowered in people with rheumatoid arthritis but not in those with non-autoimmune chronic diseases. Collectively, the current evidence is not strong enough to determine that supplementation with omega-3 fatty acids or regular consumption of fish are effective treatments for rheumatoid arthritis. This diet is rich in oils, seafood, vegetables, and rice which improve symptoms of RA. There is beneficial effect in using a Mediterranean diet and Dong diet for a reduction in the number of tender joints, stiffness, and pain.Vitamins
Adequate Vitamin concentrations may provide an important defence against the increased oxidant stress in patients with RA. Food containing high source of vitamin E to help treat Rheumatoid Arthritis include almonds, avocados, spinach, sunflower seeds and peanut butter. 
Does unprocessed red meat increase the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] Health effects
Overall, diets high in red and processed meats are associated with an increased risk of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, cancer (particularly colorectal cancer), and all-cause mortality. Cardiovascular disease and stroke
Red meat consumption is associated with an increased risk of coronary heart disease, high blood pressure and stroke, but it is unclear whether the effect is causal. Factors associated with increased stroke risk from consuming red meat include saturated fats that increase levels of blood cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, triglycerides, and heme iron, which may precipitate atherogenesis in cerebral arteries, leading to stroke. Another review found that eating red meat does not worsen biomarkers of glycemic control or inflammation in adults at risk for cardiometabolic disease.However, 2017 prospective studies showed that daily consumption of 85 grams of red meat and 35 grams of processed red meat products by European and American consumers increased their risk of type 2 diabetes by 18–36%, while a diet of abstinence of red meat consuming whole grains, vegetables, fruits, and dairy was associated with an 81% reduced risk of diabetes. High consumption of processed meats is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, possibly in part due to increased dietary salt intake. Heart disease
A 2012 review found that processed red meat increases risk of coronary heart disease, whilst unprocessed red meat has a smaller increase or no risk. The review concluded that that neither unprocessed red nor processed meat consumption is beneficial for cardiometabolic health.A 2021 review concluded that, except for poultry, at 50 g/day unprocessed red and processed meat appear to be risk factors for ischemic heart disease, increasing the risk by about 9 and 18% respectively.A 2022 review found that high consumption of red meat was associated with a 15 % increased risk of cardiovascular disease. [...] With regard to meat, new evidence differentiates processed and red meat—both associated with increased CVD risk—from poultry, showing a neutral relationship with CVD for moderate intakes. 
Does processed red meat (sausages, ham, bacon) increase the risk of cardiovascular disease??? [SEP] Health effects
Overall, diets high in red and processed meats are associated with an increased risk of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, cancer (particularly colorectal cancer), and all-cause mortality. Cardiovascular disease and stroke
Red meat consumption is associated with an increased risk of coronary heart disease, high blood pressure and stroke, but it is unclear whether the effect is causal. Another review found that eating red meat does not worsen biomarkers of glycemic control or inflammation in adults at risk for cardiometabolic disease.However, 2017 prospective studies showed that daily consumption of 85 grams of red meat and 35 grams of processed red meat products by European and American consumers increased their risk of type 2 diabetes by 18–36%, while a diet of abstinence of red meat consuming whole grains, vegetables, fruits, and dairy was associated with an 81% reduced risk of diabetes. Diabetes
A 2022 review found that consumption of 100 g/day of red meat and 50 g/day of processed meat were associated with an increased risk of diabetes.Diabetes UK advises people to limit their intake of red and processed meat. Heart disease
A 2012 review found that processed red meat increases risk of coronary heart disease, whilst unprocessed red meat has a smaller increase or no risk. The review concluded that that neither unprocessed red nor processed meat consumption is beneficial for cardiometabolic health.A 2021 review concluded that, except for poultry, at 50 g/day unprocessed red and processed meat appear to be risk factors for ischemic heart disease, increasing the risk by about 9 and 18% respectively.A 2022 review found that high consumption of red meat was associated with a 15 % increased risk of cardiovascular disease. Health concerns
Studies have consistently found the consumption of processed meat to be linked to increased mortality, and to an increased risk of developing a number of serious health conditions including cancer, cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes. Health concerns
Numerous studies have showed a connection between processed meats and an increased risk of serious health conditions such as type 2 diabetes, various cancers, and cardiovascular disease.A study in 2007 conducted by the World Cancer Research Fund found that there was "convincing evidence" of a link between processed meats and an increased chance of cancer. 
Does hawthorn extract help patients with heart muscle weakness (heart failure)? [SEP] This is an alphabetical list of plants used in herbalism. Some modern prescription drugs are based on plant extracts rather than whole plants. "PLANT - A bibliographic database about medicinal plants". "Dr. Duke's Phytochemical and Ethnobotanical Databases". Hawthorn or Hawthorns may refer to:

Plants
Crataegus (hawthorn), a large genus of shrubs and trees in the family Rosaceae
Rhaphiolepis (hawthorn), a genus of about 15 species of evergreen shrubs and small trees in the family Rosaceae
Hawthorn maple, Acer crataegifolium, a tree variously classified in families Sapindaceae or Aceraceae
Crataegus monogyna the  common hawthorn, the species after which the above are named

Places
Hawthorn, Pennsylvania, a city in the United States
Hawthorn, Victoria, a suburb of Melbourne, Australia
Hawthorn railway station, Melbourne in the above suburb
Electoral district of Hawthorn, a Victorian Legislative Assembly seat based on and named after the above suburb
Hawthorn, South Australia, a suburb of Adelaide, Australia
Mount Hawthorn, Western Australia, a suburb of Perth, Australia
The Hawthorns, the stadium for the West Bromwich Albion F.C. Despite this, Hawthorn still failed to make the finals, but the acquisition of the powerful Mornington Peninsula recruiting zone gave the club a huge boost in its quest for success and permitted the club a much more powerful list than ever before. Support
Hawthorn boasts a huge support base throughout Australia, particularly in Victoria and Tasmania. The aromatic principles of many spices, nuts, herbs, fruits, etc., and some flowers, are marketed as extracts, among the best known of true extracts being almond, cinnamon, cloves, ginger, lemon, nutmeg, orange, peppermint, pistachio, rose, spearmint, vanilla, violet, rum, and wintergreen. 
Is glyphosate carcinogenic? [SEP] damaging to DNA) or to pose a carcinogenic threat to humans", later clarifying that while carcinogenic glyphosate-containing formulations may exist, studies "that look solely at the active substance glyphosate do not show this effect." The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has classified glyphosate as "not likely to be carcinogenic to humans." In 2015, the EPA initiated a review of glyphosate's toxicity and in 2016 reported that glyphosate is likely not carcinogenic. The final assessment of the Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority in 2017 was that "glyphosate does not pose a carcinogenic risk to humans". Carcinogenicity of active ingredient
There is limited evidence human cancer risk might increase as a result of occupational exposure to large amounts of glyphosate, such as agricultural work, but no good evidence of such a risk from home use, such as in domestic gardening. The final assessment of the Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority in 2017 was that "glyphosate does not pose a carcinogenic risk to humans". The final assessment of the Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority in 2017 was that "glyphosate does not pose a carcinogenic risk to humans". Organizations such as the World Health Organization (WHO), the Food and Agriculture Organization, European Commission, Canadian Pest Management Regulatory Agency, and the German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment have concluded that there is no evidence that glyphosate poses a carcinogenic or genotoxic risk to humans. 
Does psychotherapy help with burnout? [SEP] While burnout may influence health and can be a reason for people contacting health services, it is not itself classified by the WHO as a medical condition or mental disorder. Burnout prevention programs have traditionally focused on cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT), cognitive restructuring, didactic stress management, and relaxation. CBT, relaxation techniques (including physical techniques and mental techniques), and schedule changes are the best-supported techniques for reducing or preventing burnout in a health-care setting. Mindfulness therapy has been shown to be an effective preventative for occupational burnout in medical practitioners. Another trial with medical interns found a ten-week mindfulness program reduced the incidence of burnout.In addition to interventions that can address and improve conditions on the work side of work-life balance, the ways in which people spend their non-work time can help to prevent burnout and improve health and well-being. They say the use of anxiolytics and sedatives to treat burnout related stress is effective, but does nothing to change the sources of stress. Burnout and vicarious trauma can co-exist. Findings revealed that art therapy reduces levels of stress and burnout related to patients' professions. 
Is electrical muscle stimulation (EMS) in combination with ordinary fitness training more efficient than fitness training alone? [SEP] Electrical muscle stimulation (EMS), also known as neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) or electromyostimulation, is the elicitation of muscle contraction using electric impulses. EMS has been proven to be more beneficial prior to exercise and activity due to the early muscle activation. Recent studies have found that electrostimulation has been proven to be ineffective during post exercise recovery and can even lead to an increase in Delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS).The impulses are generated by the device and are delivered through electrodes on the skin near to the muscles being stimulated. The use of EMS has been cited by sports scientists as a complementary technique for sports training, and published research is available on the results obtained. The same study also indicates that EMS may lead to increased muscle mass. Low certainty evidence indicates that adding EMS to an existing exercise programme may help people who are unwell spend fewer days confined to their beds.During EMS training, a set of complementary muscle groups (e.g., biceps and triceps) are often targeted in alternating fashion, for specific training goals, such as improving the ability to reach for an item. EMS devices cause a calorie burning that is marginal at best: calories are burnt in significant amount only when most of the body is involved in physical exercise: several muscles, the heart and the respiratory system are all engaged at once. However, some authors imply that EMS can lead to exercise, since people toning their muscles with electrical stimulation are more likely afterwards
to participate in sporting activities as the body becomes ready, fit, willing and able to take on physical activity. 
Can vitamin and nutrient supplements prevent the eye disease age-related macular degeneration? [SEP] However, dietary supplements may slow the progression in those who already have the disease.Age-related macular degeneration is a main cause of central blindness among the working-aged population worldwide. Dietary supplements
The age related eye disease studies 1 and 2 (AREDS) showed that those with bilateral early or intermediate AMD, or intermediate AMD in one eye and advanced AMD in the other eye may benefit from specific vitamin and mineral supplementation. These specific micronutrient supplementations were associated with a lower risk of progression to more severe forms of AMD and greater visual acuity at 5 years. It has been shown that daily supplementation of vitamin B12, B6 and folate over a period of seven years can reduce the risk of age-related macular degeneration by 34% in women with increased risk of vascular disease (n=5,204). A 2014 meta-analysis reported that there was "sufficient evidence to support the role of dietary multivitamin/mineral supplements for the decreasing the risk of age-related cataracts." However, the report noted that multivitamins have beneficial effects for certain sub-populations, such as people with poor nutritional status, that vitamin D and calcium can help prevent fractures in older people, and that zinc and antioxidants can help prevent age-related macular degeneration in high-risk individuals. A 2017 Cochrane Systematic Review found that multivitamins including vitamin E or beta carotene will not delay the onset of macular degeneration or prevent the disease, however, some people with macular degeneration may benefit from multivitamin supplementation as there is evidence that it may delay the progression of the disease. Macular degeneration
In 2013, findings of the Age-Related Eye Disease Study (AREDS2) showed that a dietary supplement formulation containing lutein reduced progression of age-related macular degeneration (AMD) by 25 percent. 
Can they delay the progression of eye disease? [SEP] In the wet form, anti-VEGF medication injected into the eye or, less commonly, laser coagulation or photodynamic therapy may slow worsening. However, dietary supplements may slow the progression in those who already have the disease.Age-related macular degeneration is a main cause of central blindness among the working-aged population worldwide. Dietary supplements
The age related eye disease studies 1 and 2 (AREDS) showed that those with bilateral early or intermediate AMD, or intermediate AMD in one eye and advanced AMD in the other eye may benefit from specific vitamin and mineral supplementation. These specific micronutrient supplementations were associated with a lower risk of progression to more severe forms of AMD and greater visual acuity at 5 years. Cataract surgery could improve visual outcomes for people with AMD, though there have been concerns about surgery increasing the progression of AMD. However, ophthalmologists recommend measures that could slow the rate of progression. On the other hand, the consumption of oily fish, in a diet similar to that which doctors recommend for age related macular degeneration, can be used to slow the progression of the disease.Advances in technology have brought devices that help Stargardt patients who are losing their vision maintain their independence. This therapy has the potential stop disease progression and in the long term improve vision. 
Do milk or dairy products promote colon cancer and rectal cancer? [SEP] Cancer
The American Institute for Cancer Research (AICR), World Cancer Research Fund International (WCRF), Cancer Council Australia (CCA) and Cancer Research UK have stated that there is strong evidence that consumption of dairy products decreases risk of colorectal cancer. The AICR, WCRF, CCA and Prostate Cancer UK have stated that there is limited but suggestive evidence that dairy products increase risk of prostate cancer. The American Cancer Society (ACS) have stated that because dairy products "may lower the risk of some cancers and possibly increase the risk of others, the ACS does not make specific recommendations on dairy food consumption for cancer prevention. "It has been suggested that consumption of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) in dairy products could increase cancer risk, particularly prostate cancer. A 2021 umbrella review found strong evidence that consumption of dairy products decreases risk of colorectal cancer. Fermented dairy is associated with significantly decreased bladder cancer and colorectal cancer risk.A 2023 review found no association between consumption of dairy products and breast cancer. It has been suggested that the presence of antibodies to Streptococcus bovis/gallolyticus antigens or the antigens themselves in the bloodstream may act as markers for the carcinogenesis in the colon.Pathogenic Escherichia coli may increase the risk of colorectal cancer by producing the genotoxic metabolite, colibactin. "According to the World Cancer Research Fund, consuming alcohol drinks and consuming processed meat both increase the risk of colorectal cancer.The 2014 World Health Organization cancer report noted that it has been hypothesized that dietary fiber might help prevent colorectal cancer, but most studies have not borne this out, and status of the science remained unclear as of 2014. 
Does yoga change the genetic makeup? [SEP] "Former Institute of General Semantics executive director Steve Stockdale has compared GS to yoga. You can sort of compare general semantics to yoga in that respect... knowing about yoga is okay, but to benefit from yoga you have to do yoga." It may lead to significant gene flow, and significant genetic changes in the population. Indo-European migrations
Genetic impact of Indo-Aryan migrations
Bamshad et al. Agrawal (pdf)GeneticsTony Joseph (16 June 2017), How genetics is settling the Aryan migration debate, The Hindu
Tony Joseph (2018), How We, The Indians, Came to Be summary of Narasimhan (2018)
Scroll.in, "Aryan migration: Everything you need to know about the new study on Indian genetics". General genetic heterozygosity has been demonstrated to be related to attractiveness in that people with mixed genetic backgrounds (i.e., mixed race people) as seen as more attractive than people with a more similar genetic parents. With these findings, the study reasoned that if a woman were to reproduce with a man with a more masculine face, then her daughters would also inherit a more masculine face, making the daughters less attractive. Yoga encompasses a range of techniques used in pursuit of this goal. 
Which of the three most common laser eye surgeries produces the best results and has the fewest side effects? [SEP] Both the depth of the corneal incisions and the degree of central corneal flattening correlated with the laser energy applied. This project examined patient-reported outcomes with LASIK (PROWL). – Food and Drug Administration
Laser Eye Surgery – United States National Library of Medicine Risk
Statistically, cataract surgery and IOL implantation are procedures with the safest and highest success rates in eye care. Surgery
Both laser and conventional surgeries are performed to treat glaucoma. Laser-assisted nonpenetrating deep sclerectomy
The most common surgical approach currently used for the treatment of glaucoma is trabeculectomy, in which the sclera is punctured to alleviate intraocular pressure. At the same time eye pressure was lower in people who underwent surgery and in the long-run surgery is more cost-effective.The LiGHT trial compared the effectiveness of eye drops and selective laser trabeculoplasty for open angle glaucoma. Laser trabeculoplasty was also shown to be more cost-effective. 
Can electromagnetic fields with a specific pattern (pulsed electromagnetic fields, PEMF) heal injuries? [SEP] Besides providing a sound mathematical basis for the relationships between electricity and magnetism that scientists had been exploring for centuries, Maxwell's equations also predicted the existence of self-sustaining electromagnetic waves. Electromagnetic waves of different frequency are called by different names since they have different sources and effects on matter. Infrared, microwaves and radio waves are known to damage molecules and biological tissue only by bulk heating, not excitation from single photons of the radiation. Biological effects
Bioelectromagnetics is the study of the interactions and effects of EM radiation on living organisms. The effects of electromagnetic radiation upon living cells, including those in humans, depends upon the radiation's power and frequency. It is widely accepted that low frequency fields that are too weak to cause significant heating could not possibly have any biological effect.Some research suggests that weaker non-thermal electromagnetic fields (including weak ELF magnetic fields, although the latter does not strictly qualify as EM radiation) and modulated RF and microwave fields can have biological effects, though the significance of this is unclear.The World Health Organization has classified radio frequency electromagnetic radiation as Group 2B – possibly carcinogenic. Pulsed power is the science and technology of accumulating energy over a relatively long period of time and releasing it instantly, thus increasing the instantaneous power. Usage
Railgun is one of the example usage of pulsed power and it is still at research stage due to its complexity. 
Does the drug fingolimod reduce the progression of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis similarly or better than previous drugs? [SEP] Alemtuzumab, natalizumab, and fingolimod may be more effective than other drugs in reducing relapses over the short term in people with RRMS. According to a 2021 Cochrane review, ocrelizumab may reduce worsening of symptoms for primary progressive MS and probably increases unwanted effects but makes little or no difference to the number of serious unwanted effects.In 2019, siponimod and cladribine were approved in the United States for the treatment of secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (SPMS). Around 20% of MS patients with PML die, while most of the remaining are importantly disabled.During clinical trials fingolimod gave rise to side effects such as hypertension and bradycardia, macular edema, elevated liver enzymes or reduction in lymphocyte levels. Alemtuzumab, natalizumab, and fingolimod may be more effective than other drugs in reducing relapses over the short term in people with RRMS. With the completion of a robust two-year study, it is shown that the PEGylated interferon beta-1a has greater efficacy in decreasing relapse rate and disability progression compared to placebo for MS patients.Preliminary data have suggested that mycophenolate mofetil, an anti-rejection immunosuppressant medication, might have benefits in people with multiple sclerosis. "Progressive multiple sclerosis: latest therapeutic developments and future directions". Peginterferon beta-1a was approved for use in the United States in August 2014.Preliminary data have suggested that mycophenolate mofetil, an anti-rejection immunosuppressant medication, might have benefits in people with multiple sclerosis. Currently the only approved treatment for pediatric MS is fingolimod. 
Can cancer be successfully fought with intentionally induced fever? [SEP] Rather than let Marra, their son Ely, and the rest of the families burn to death, Honeycutt used SAL to breach the flames and override the safety protocols. Early anti-infective research: Salvarsan, Prontosil, Penicillin and vaccines
The development of drugs for the treatment of infectious diseases was a major focus of early research and development efforts; in 1900, pneumonia, tuberculosis, and diarrhea were the three leading causes of death in the United States and mortality in the first year of life exceeded 10%.In 1911 arsphenamine, the first synthetic anti-infective drug, was developed by Paul Ehrlich and chemist Alfred Bertheim of the Institute of Experimental Therapy in Berlin. Ehrlich, noting both the general toxicity of arsenic and the selective absorption of certain dyes by bacteria, hypothesized that an arsenic-containing dye with similar selective absorption properties could be used to treat bacterial infections. Arsphenamine proved to be the first effective treatment for syphilis, a disease which prior to that time was incurable and led inexorably to severe skin ulceration, neurological damage, and death.Ehrlich's approach of systematically varying the chemical structure of synthetic compounds and measuring the effects of these changes on biological activity was pursued broadly by industrial scientists, including Bayer scientists Josef Klarer, Fritz Mietzsch, and Gerhard Domagk. In the United States, increased regulation of vaccines and other biological drugs was spurred by tetanus outbreaks and deaths caused by the distribution of contaminated smallpox vaccine and diphtheria antitoxin. The study further examined mortality rates for eight common diseases for which antibiotics offered effective therapy (syphilis, tuberculosis, dysentery, scarlet fever, whooping cough, meningococcal infections, and pneumonia), and found a 56% decline over the same period. In 1960 Maurice Hilleman of Merck Sharp & Dohme identified the SV40 virus, which was later shown to cause tumors in many mammalian species. In 2004 the United States Cancer Institute announced that it had concluded that SV40 is not associated with cancer in people.Other notable new vaccines of the period include those for measles (1962, John Franklin Enders of Children's Medical Center Boston, later refined by Maurice Hilleman at Merck), Rubella (1969, Hilleman, Merck) and mumps (1967, Hilleman, Merck)  The United States incidences of rubella, congenital rubella syndrome, measles, and mumps all fell by >95% in the immediate aftermath of widespread vaccination. 
Can some forms of headache be successfully treated with heat? [SEP] The treatments for chronic headache are vast and varied. Suggested treatments for chronic headaches include medication, physical therapy, acupuncture, relaxation training, and biofeedback. In addition, dietary alteration and behavioral therapy or psychological therapy are other possible treatments for chronic headaches. The previously mentioned medicines can improve headaches, but physicians recommend multiple forms of treatments. Non-medicinal
Physical therapy
In addition to medicines, physical therapy is a treatment to help improve chronic headaches. Relaxation training
Relaxation training is another form of non-pharmacological treatment for chronic headache. Behavioral therapy and psychological therapy
Also, behavioral therapy and psychological therapy are suggested treatments to reduce chronic headaches. Migraine
Sargent, Green, and Walters (1972, 1973) demonstrated that hand-warming could abort migraines and that autogenic biofeedback training could reduce headache activity. 
Does electro-acupuncture on the ear help against pain? [SEP] People report reduced pain, increased well-being, improvement, or even total alleviation of symptoms. Contact healing
A 2001 randomised clinical trial randomly assigned 120 patients with chronic pain to either healers or "simulated healers", but could not demonstrate efficacy for either distance or face-to-face healing. Some scholarly reviews conclude that acupuncture's effects are mainly attributable to the placebo effect and others find likelihood of efficacy for particular conditions. Acupressure is an alternative medicine technique similar in principle to acupuncture. Auriculotherapy (also auricular therapy, ear acupuncture, and auriculoacupuncture) is a form of alternative medicine based on the idea that the ear is a micro-system which reflects the entire body, represented on the auricle, the outer portion of the ear. Ear candling also called ear coning or thermal-auricular therapy, is a pseudoscientific alternative medicine practice claimed to improve general health and well-being by lighting one end of a hollow candle and placing the other end in the ear canal. Earthing therapy or grounding is a therapy that is claimed to ease pain, provide a better night's sleep, and assist with symptoms of inflammation by being in direct physical contact with the ground or a device connected to electrical ground. Simpson, Brian A., Electrical Stimulation and the Relief of Pain, Elsevier Health Sciences, 2003 ISBN 0-444-51258-6. 
Does treatment with the new drug erenumab reduce the number of migraine days per month? [SEP] Erenumab, sold under the brand name Aimovig, is a medication which targets the calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor (CGRPR) for the prevention of migraine. Medical uses
Erenumab is indicated for the prevention of migraine in adults. At baseline the patients experienced between 4 and 14 migraine days per month with an average of 8.3. The medication significantly reduced the number of migraine days per month by 3.2 in the 70-mg group and 3.7 in the 140-mg group, versus 1.8 in the placebo (0-mg) group. Frovatriptan is effective for prevention of menstrual migraine.The antidepressants amitriptyline and venlafaxine are probably also effective. Angiotensin inhibition by either an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor or angiotensin II receptor antagonist may reduce attacks.Medications in the anti-calcitonin gene-related peptide, including eptinezumab, erenumab, fremanezumab, and galcanezumab, appear to decrease the frequency of migraines by one to two per month. There is also tentative evidence for transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation decreases the frequency of migraines. The anti-CGRP monoclonal antibody erenumab was found in one study to decrease chronic migraines by 2.4 days more than placebo. 
Is screening by optical coherence tomography superior to conventional examinations for the early detection of diabetic macular edema? [SEP] Optical coherence tomography is frequently used to assess macular edema.Fluorescein angiography is used by retina specialists to further assess diabetic retinopathy severity and to determine sites of macular damage. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is used to determine the severity of edema and treatment response.Because fundoscopic images are the main sources for diagnosis of diabetic retinopathy, manually analyzing those images can be time-consuming and unreliable, as the ability of detecting abnormalities varies by years of experience. "New Insights in Resistant Diabetic Macular Edema". "Screening for diabetic retinopathy: new perspectives and challenges". Diabetic Retinopathy Screening: A Short Guide (PDF). Commercially available optical coherence tomography systems are employed in diverse applications, including art conservation and diagnostic medicine, notably in ophthalmology and optometry where it can be used to obtain detailed images from within the retina. A relatively recent implementation of optical coherence tomography, frequency-domain optical coherence tomography, provides advantages in the signal-to-noise ratio provided, thus permitting faster signal acquisition. Owing to OCT's capability to show cross-sections of tissue layers with micrometer resolution, OCT provides a straightforward method of assessing cellular organization, photoreceptor integrity, and axonal thickness in glaucoma, macular degeneration, diabetic macular edema, multiple sclerosis, optic neuritis, and other eye diseases or systemic pathologies which have ocular signs. 
Does the treatment of diabetes-related retinal diseases by injection of VEGF inhibitors provide an advantage compared to conventional laser treatment? [SEP] Management
There are four common treatments for diabetic retinopathy: anti-VEGF injections, steroid injections, panretinal laser photocoagulation, and vitrectomy. Injection of anti-VEGF drugs or steroids can reduce diabetic retinopathy progression in around half of eyes treated; however, whether this results in improved vision long term is not yet known. Diabetic macular edema
Those at highest risk of vision loss – that is, with edema near the center of the macula – benefit most from eye injections of anti-VEGF therapies aflibercept, bevacizumab, or ranibizumab. Those whose eyes don't improve with anti-VEGF therapy may instead receive laser photocoagulation, typically in the form of short laser pulses. Laser photocoagulation
Laser photocoagulation can be used in two scenarios for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy. There are different types of lasers and there is evidence available on their benefits to treat proliferative diabetic retinopathy. Intravitreal anti-VEGF
A 2017 systematic review update found moderate evidence that aflibercept may have advantages in improving visual outcomes over bevacizumab and ranibizumab, after one year. In cases with vitreous hemorrhage, however, anti-VEGF injections proved to be less effective in restoring visual acuity than vitrectomy combined with panretinal laser-photocoagulation. 
Do saw palmetto preparations help with benign prostate enlargement? [SEP] It can also reduce DHT levels in the prostate by 97 to 99% in men with prostate cancer. This is to help suppress testosterone levels. CPA is the only steroidal antiandrogen that continues to be used in the treatment of prostate cancer.Dose-ranging studies of CPA for prostate cancer were not performed, and the optimal dosage of CPA for the treatment of the condition has not been established. When used by intramuscular injection to treat prostate cancer, CPA is used at a dosage of 300 mg once a week.The combination of CPA with an estrogen such as ethinylestradiol sulfonate or low-dose diethylstilbestrol has been used as a form of combined androgen blockade and as an alternative to the combination of CPA with surgical or medical castration. Research
CPA has been studied and used in combination with low-dose diethylstilbestrol in the treatment of prostate cancer. CPA has been studied as a form of androgen deprivation therapy for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (enlarged prostate). Enlarged prostate
Flutamide has been studied in the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH; enlarged prostate) in men in several clinical studies. It has been found to reduce prostate volume by about 25%, which is comparable to the reduction achieved with the 5α-reductase inhibitor finasteride. 
Do plant extracts of African plum tree, beta-sitosterol or ryegrass pollen extract (Cernilton) help benign prostate enlargement? [SEP] The aromatic principles of many spices, nuts, herbs, fruits, etc., and some flowers, are marketed as extracts, among the best known of true extracts being almond, cinnamon, cloves, ginger, lemon, nutmeg, orange, peppermint, pistachio, rose, spearmint, vanilla, violet, rum, and wintergreen. A plum is a fruit of some species in Prunus subg. Plum juice can be fermented into plum wine. In Romania, 80% of the plum production is used to create a similar brandy, called țuică.As with many other members of the rose family, plum kernels contain cyanogenic glycosides, including amygdalin. β-sitosterol (beta-sitosterol) is one of several phytosterols (plant sterols) with chemical structures similar to that of cholesterol. Natural occurrences and food
β-sitosterol is widely distributed in the plant kingdom. Human research
β-sitosterol is being studied for its potential to reduce benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) and blood cholesterol levels. Consumption of just one Brazil nut per day over 8 weeks was sufficient to restore selenium blood levels and increase HDL cholesterol in obese women. 
Does not wearing bras provide medical benefits? [SEP] Benefits of bralessness
Researchers and physicians have found health benefits for going braless. One researcher found that women who did not wear a bra experienced less shoulder and neck pain. Improved breast shape
Obstetrician Lucky Sekhon stated that women with breasts of all sizes can benefit from bralessness. It is possible to alleviate this problem by going braless. A girl developing breasts has no physical need for support, so training bras serve only social and psychological purposes. alternative when an outfit would otherwise prevent a bra being worn. Studies have actually documented that, after an initial period of adjustment, women experienced a significant increase in comfort and breast firmness from going without bras. For concealment of breasts or breast development. 
