Do mitochondria play a role in remodelling lace plant leaves during programmed cell death? [SEP] In addition to supplying cellular energy, mitochondria are involved in other tasks, such as signaling, cellular differentiation, and cell death, as well as maintaining control of the cell cycle and cell growth. Cellular proliferation regulation
The relationship between cellular proliferation and mitochondria has been investigated. Plastids
Plants and various groups of algae have plastids as well as mitochondria. It's characterized by the intracellular formation of vacuoles and swelling of mitochondria.Pyroptosis, an inflammatory type of cell death, is uniquely mediated by caspase 1, an enzyme not involved in apoptosis, in response to infection by certain microorganisms.Plant cells undergo particular processes of PCD similar to autophagic cell death. Specific types of plant cells carry out unique cell-death programs. Results of this research suggest that mitochondria play the same key role in vascular plant PCD as in other eukaryotic cells. to cells (such as feedback from neighbors, stress or DNA damage), mitochondria release caspase activators that trigger the cell-death-inducing biochemical cascade. Plant cells undergo particular processes of PCD similar to autophagic cell death. 
Landolt C and snellen e acuity: differences in strabismus amblyopia? [SEP] Expression
Visual acuity is often measured according to the size of letters viewed on a Snellen chart or the size of other symbols, such as Landolt Cs or the E Chart. The Landolt C is the standard optotype for acuity measurement in most European countries. See also
Edmund Landolt
Visual acuity
E chart
Golovin–Sivtsev table


== References == Snellen’s success within his charts was because they differed from past models that measured visual acuity. With the Snellen chart, the visual acuity is recorded as a fraction with 20 in the numerator (top number) and values ranging from 10 to 600 in the denominator (bottom number). A Snellen chart is an eye chart that can be used to measure visual acuity. Snellen fraction
Visual acuity is the distance at which test is made / distance at which the smallest optotype identified subtends an angle of five arcminutes and the critical distinguishing features of the optotype subtend an angle of one arcminute. Expression
Visual acuity is often measured according to the size of letters viewed on a Snellen chart or the size of other symbols, such as Landolt Cs or the E Chart. 
Syncope during bathing in infants, a pediatric form of water-induced urticaria? [SEP] Situational syncope is often triggered by urination, swallowing, or coughing. Reflex syncope affects at least 1 in 1,000 people per year. Recurrent syncope with complex associated symptoms. It is relatively uncommon.Syncope has been linked with psychological triggers. Situational syncope
Syncope may be caused by specific behaviors including coughing, urination, defecation, vomiting, swallowing (deglutition), and following exercise. Especially in people with hypersensitive carotid sinus syndrome this response can cause syncope or presyncope. Syncope and presyncope are common in young athletes. Bathing infants too often has been linked to the development of asthma or severe eczema according to some researchers, including Michael Welch, chair of the American Academy of Pediatrics' section on allergy and immunology. 
Are the long-term results of the transanal pull-through equal to those of the transabdominal pull-through? [SEP] Transanal evisceration
When a portion of the intestinal tract is forcefully pulled from or expelled from the body through the anus, it is referred to as transanal evisceration. Transanal hemorrhoidal dearterialization (THD) is a minimally invasive surgical procedure for the treatment of internal hemorrhoids. further refined this technique, introducing transanal hemorrhoidal dearterialization (THD). A pull-through procedure is the definitive operation for Hirschsprung disease, involving the removal of the abnormal segment of bowel that has no nerves, pulling through the normal bowel and connecting it to the anus. Several types of pull-through procedures exist including the Soave, Swenson and Duhamel. Aim
A pull-through procedure is the definitive treatment for Hirschsprung's disease, with the aim of removing the abnormal part of the bowel and joining the normal part of the intestine with the anus. Soave pull-through
The Soave procedure involves resecting the mucosa and submucosa of the rectum and pulling through the normal ganglionic bowel through the aganglionic muscular cuff of the rectum. Transanal pull-through procedures do not require an intra-abdominal dissection. 
Can tailored interventions increase mammography use among HMO women? [SEP] Benefits
Mammography can detect cancer early when it’s most treatable and can be treated less invasively (thereby helping to preserve quality of life). A recent study in the British Medical Journal shows that early detection of breast cancer – as with mammography – significantly improves breast cancer survival.The benefits of mammography screening at decreasing breast cancer mortality in randomized trials are not found in observational studies performed long after implementation of breast cancer screening programs (for instance, Bleyer et al.) Screening mammography shows greatest benefit—a 39.6 percent mortality reduction—from annual screening of women 40–84 years old. Mortality
The Cochrane Collaboration states that the best quality evidence does not demonstrate a reduction in mortality or a reduction in mortality from all types of cancer from screening mammography.The Canadian Task Force found that for women ages 50 to 69, screening 720 women once every 2 to 3 years for 11 years would prevent one death from breast cancer. There are few proven interventions to reduce pain in mammography, but evidence suggests that giving women information about the mammography procedure prior to it taking place may reduce the pain and discomfort experienced. Effectiveness
On balance, screening mammography in older women increases medical treatment and saves a small number of lives. Health programs
United States
In 2005, about 68% of all U.S. women age 40–64 had a mammogram in the past two years (75% of women with private health insurance, 56% of women with Medicaid insurance, 38% of currently uninsured women, and 33% of women uninsured for more than 12 months). Some researchers worry that if women correctly understood that screening programs offer a small, but statistically significant benefit, more women would refuse to participate.The contribution of mammography to the early diagnosis of cancer is controversial, and for those found with benign lesions, mammography can create a high psychological and financial cost. 
Double balloon enteroscopy: is it efficacious and safe in a community setting? [SEP] Double-balloon enteroscopy, also known as push-and-pull enteroscopy, is an endoscopic technique for visualization of the small bowel. The process is then continued until the entire small bowel is visualized.The double-balloon enteroscope can also be passed in retrograde fashion, through the colon and into the ileum to visualize the end of the small bowel. Indications
Double-balloon enteroscopy has found a niche application in the following settings:

Bleeding from the gastrointestinal tract of obscure cause
Iron deficiency anemia with normal colonoscopy and gastroscopy
Visualization and therapeutic intervention on abnormalities seen on traditional small bowel imaging
Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) in post-surgical patients with long afferent limbs

Advantages
Double-balloon enteroscopy offers a number of advantages to other small bowel image techniques, including barium imaging, wireless capsule endoscopy and push enteroscopy:

It allows for visualization of the entire small bowel to the terminal ileum. Disadvantages
The key disadvantage of double-balloon enteroscopy is the time required to visualize the small bowel; this can exceed three hours, and may require that patients be admitted to hospital for the procedure. Enteroscopy is the procedure of using an endoscope for the direct visualization of the small bowel. Various types of enteroscopy exist, as follows:
Video chip enteroscopy
Double-balloon enteroscopy
Single-balloon enteroscopy
Spiral enteroscopy
Wireless endoscopy
Capsule endoscopyAs the small bowel can often be a source of pathology, endoscopy of the small bowel can be a useful diagnostic and therapeutic technique. With the advent of the newer forms of enteroscopy, such as the double-balloon type, visualizing the entire tract is finally a practical reality in at least some cases, although it is still technically demanding. This technique is referred to as push enteroscopy. 
30-Day and 1-year mortality in emergency general surgery laparotomies: an area of concern and need for improvement? [SEP] Data would suggest that the longer the abdomen is left open from initial laparotomy the higher the rate of complications. Cotton and colleagues found that the use of a permissive hypotension resuscitation strategy resulted in better outcomes (increased 30-day survival) in those undergoing damage control laparotomy. Outcomes
The data that have been published regarding definitive laparotomy versus damage control surgery demonstrate a decrease in mortality when performed in the critically ill patient. "Abbreviated laparotomy and planned reoperation for critically injured patients". Postoperative complications
Laparoscopic bariatric surgery requires a hospital stay of only one or two days. Laparoscopic surgery requires general anesthesia, and it can last up to two hours. Laparoscopic appendectomy has several advantages over open appendectomy, including a shorter post-operative recovery, less post-operative pain, and lower superficial surgical site infection rate. In terms of the financial impact on the patients, the lack of adequate surgical and anesthesia care has resulted in 33 million individuals every year facing catastrophic health expenditure – the out-of-pocket healthcare cost exceeding 40% of a given household's income.In alignment with the LCoGS call for action, the World Health Assembly adopted the resolution WHA68.15 in 2015 that stated, "Strengthening emergency and essential surgical care and anesthesia as a component of universal health coverage." 
Is adjustment for reporting heterogeneity necessary in sleep disorders? [SEP] Sleep disorders are linked with positive symptoms such as disorganized thinking and can adversely affect cortical plasticity and cognition. The consolidation of memories is disrupted in sleep disorders. Classification
The newest version of the International Classification of Sleep Disorders (ICSD, 3rd. These questionnaires include a detailed analyses of the clinical history and contain questions to:

Rule out sleep deprivation
Rule out effects of intoxication or withdrawal
Rule out sleep disorders causing sleep instability
Rule out medical disorders or treatments associated with sleep instability
Confirm presence of NREM parasomnias in other family members and during the patient's childhood
Determine the timing of the events
Determine the morphology of the events.Furthermore, a sleep diary is helpful to exclude that sleep deprivation could be a precipitating factor. Video polysomnographic documentation is necessary only in REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD), since it is an essential diagnostic criteria in the ICSD to demonstrate the absence of muscle atonia and to exclude comorbid sleep disorders. For most of the other parasomnias, polysomnographic monitoring is a costly, but still supportive tool in the clinical diagnosis.The use of actigraphy can be promising in the diagnostical assessment of NREM-related parasomnias, for example to rule out sleep deprivation or other sleep disorders, like circadian sleep-wake rhythm disorder which often develops among shift workers. Insights from studying human sleep disorders. Journal of Clinical Sleep Medicine 2010; 6(4):398-401.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmedhealth/PMH0001811/

Notes
Further reading
Siegel, Ronald (1992). 
Do mutations causing low HDL-C promote increased carotid intima-media thickness? [SEP] The lipids carried include cholesterol, phospholipids, and triglycerides, amounts of each are variable.Increasing concentrations of HDL particles are associated with decreasing accumulation of atherosclerosis within the walls of arteries, reducing the risk of sudden plaque ruptures, cardiovascular disease, stroke and other vascular diseases. Those with higher levels of HDL-C tend to have fewer problems with cardiovascular diseases, while those with low HDL-C cholesterol levels (especially less than 40 mg/dL or about 1 mmol/L) have increased rates for heart disease. Recent studies confirm the fact that HDL has a buffering role in balancing the effects of the hypercoagulable state in type 2 diabetics and decreases the high risk of cardiovascular complications in these patients. Also, the results obtained in this study revealed that there was a significant negative correlation between HDL and activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT).Epidemiological studies have shown that high concentrations of HDL (over 60 mg/dL) have protective value against cardiovascular diseases such as ischemic stroke and myocardial infarction. Low concentrations of HDL (below 40 mg/dL for men, below 50 mg/dL for women) increase the risk for atherosclerotic diseases.Data from the landmark Framingham Heart Study showed that, for a given level of LDL, the risk of heart disease increases 10-fold as the HDL varies from high to low. On the converse, however, for a fixed level of HDL, the risk increases 3-fold as LDL varies from low to high.Even people with very low LDL levels under statins treatment are exposed to increased risk if their HDL levels are not high enough. High LDL with low HDL level is an additional risk factor for cardiovascular disease. As of 2017, numerous lifestyle changes and drugs to increase HDL levels were under study.HDL lipoprotein particles that bear apolipoprotein C3 are associated with increased, rather than decreased, risk for coronary heart disease. 
A short stay or 23-hour ward in a general and academic children's hospital: are they effective? [SEP] Other common variations include 'emergency ward', 'emergency centre' or 'emergency unit'. Very large clinics may operate as "free-standing emergency centres", which are open 24 hours and can manage a very large number of conditions. In October 2002, the Department of Health introduced a four-hour target in emergency departments that required departments in England to assess and treat patients within four hours of arrival, with referral and assessment by other departments if deemed necessary. Emergency department waiting times
Emergency department (ED) waiting times have a serious impact on patient mortality, morbidity with readmission in less than 30 days, length of stay, and patient satisfaction. To help prevent inappropriate emergency department use and return visits, some hospitals offer care coordination and support services such as at-home and in-shelter transitional primary care for frequent flyers and short-term housing for homeless patients recovering after discharge. Twenty-four-hour security and a workshop on violence prevention strategies were felt to be the most useful potential interventions. Hospital stay
A study performed nationwide in the Netherlands found that general ward patients staying at the hospital experienced shorter total sleep (83 min. Conditions
On non-school days, maximum security inmates are locked in their cells for 23 hours a day. 
Did Chile's traffic law reform push police enforcement? [SEP] Chile
In recent years, Chile's police force Carabineros de Chile has been under investigation because of various cases of power abuse and police brutality, particularly towards students participating in riots for better education and the indigenous Mapuche people; countless cases of violence were enacted on this group for allegedly committing crimes; it was later discovered that some Carabineros officers were responsible for these crimes and blamed Mapuches. The policeman was later discharged and prosecuted.During the 2019–20 Chilean protests, Carabineros de Chile has caused hundreds of eye mutilations on protesters and random civilians with hardened rubber bullets and tear gas canisters. Chile had joined the stand as one of the high-income countries in South America by 1870.The 1891 Chilean Civil War brought about a redistribution of power between the President and Congress, and Chile established a parliamentary style democracy. In June 2005, Chile completed a nationwide overhaul of its criminal justice system. With the military coup of 1973, Chile became isolated politically as a result of widespread human rights abuses.Since its return to democracy in 1990, Chile has been an active participant in the international political arena. Gen. Gustavo González Jure is the head of the national police force of 40,964 men and women who are responsible for law enforcement, traffic management, narcotics suppression, border control, and counter-terrorism throughout Chile.In 2017, Chile signed the UN treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. Chile ratified it in 2008. The government intercepted a record 126 tons of cocaine in 2020.On September 8, 2021 National Prosecutor Jorge Abbott declared that Mexican cartels were attempting to establish themselves in Chile. 
Therapeutic anticoagulation in the trauma patient: is it safe? [SEP] Treatment
Anticoagulant therapy is the mainstay of treatment. Anticoagulation
Anticoagulant therapy is the mainstay of treatment. No VTE:  Anticoagulation therapy is not possible (high risk of bleeding)
Transient risk of VTE:  Trauma, surgical procedures or medical conditions

Other indications
Bariatric patients:  Undergoing surgery for weight control, only if BMI greater than 55, previous history of DVT/PE, hypercoagulable state, chronic venous insufficiency, truncal obesity or contraindication to anticoagulation therapy. Surgery
Evidence supports the use of heparin in people following surgery who have a high risk of thrombosis to reduce the risk of DVTs; however, the effect on PEs or overall mortality is not known. Data on the effectiveness of compression stockings among hospitalized non-surgical patients without stroke is scarce.The American College of Physicians (ACP) gave three strong recommendations with moderate quality evidence on VTE prevention in non-surgical patients:

that hospitalized patients be assessed for their risk of thromboembolism and bleeding before prophylaxis (prevention);
that heparin or a related drug is used if potential benefits are thought to outweigh potential harms;
and that graduated compression stockings not be used.In adults who have had their lower leg casted, braced, or otherwise immobilized for more than a week, LMWH may decrease the risk and severity of deep vein thrombosis, but does not have any effect on the incidence of pulmonary embolism. Anticoagulation is, however, recommended in those who do have risk factors. Therapeutic advances in thrombosis. The most widely used anticoagulant to prevent thromboembolic stroke in people with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation is the oral agent warfarin while a number of newer agents including dabigatran are alternatives which do not require prothrombin time monitoring.Anticoagulants, when used following stroke, should not be stopped for dental procedures.If studies show carotid artery stenosis, and the person has a degree of residual function on the affected side, carotid endarterectomy (surgical removal of the stenosis) may decrease the risk of recurrence if performed rapidly after stroke. 
Differentiation of nonalcoholic from alcoholic steatohepatitis: are routine laboratory markers useful? [SEP] Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
Non-alcoholic hepatitis is within the spectrum of non-alcoholic liver disease (NALD), which ranges in severity and reversibility from non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) to cirrhosis to liver cancer, similar to the spectrum of alcoholic liver disease.Non-alcoholic liver disease occurs in people with little or no history of alcohol use, and is instead strongly associated with metabolic syndrome, obesity, insulin resistance and diabetes, and hypertriglyceridemia. Over time, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease can progress to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, which additionally involves liver cell death, liver inflammation and possible fibrosis. Steatohepatitis
Steatohepatitis is seen in both alcoholic and non-alcoholic liver disease and is the culmination of a cascade of events that began with injury. levels in the hundreds vs. in the thousands), the predominance for AST vs. ALT elevation, and the ratio between AST and ALT are informative of the diagnosis.Ultrasound, CT, and MRI can all identify steatosis (fatty changes) of the liver tissue and nodularity of the liver surface suggestive of cirrhosis. Alcoholic versus non-alcoholic
The most apparent distinguishing factor between alcoholic steatohepatitis (ASH) and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is a history of excessive alcohol use. Thus, in patients who have no or negligible alcohol use, the diagnosis is unlikely to be alcoholic hepatitis. In those who drink alcohol, the diagnosis may just as likely be alcoholic or nonalcoholic hepatitis especially if there is concurrent obesity, diabetes, and metabolic syndrome. In this case, alcoholic and nonalcoholic hepatitis can be distinguished by the pattern of liver enzyme abnormalities; specifically, in alcoholic steatohepatitis AST>ALT with ratio of AST:ALT>2:1 while in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis ALT>AST with ratio of ALT:AST>1.5:1.Liver biopsies show identical findings in patients with ASH and NASH, specifically, the presence of polymorphonuclear infiltration, hepatocyte necrosis and apoptosis in the form of ballooning degeneration, Mallory bodies, and fibrosis around veins and sinuses. 
Prompting Primary Care Providers about Increased Patient Risk As a Result of Family History: Does It Work? [SEP] Healthcare providers have an obligation to disclose any adverse event to their patients because of ethical and professional guidelines. The disclosure of adverse events is important in maintaining trust in the relationship between healthcare provider and patient. Voluntary disclosure
In public surveys, a significant majority of those surveyed believe that health care providers should be required to report all serious medical errors publicly. Research has also highlighted that higher rates of chronic illness seen in LGBT persons is associated with discrimination, minority stress, avoidance of healthcare providers, and irregular access to healthcare services.Another important consideration in addressing the quality of care received by the LGBT community is patient-physician communication. Many health risks LGBT persons face come as a result of avoidance and/or dissatisfaction of healthcare services; this is in part due to assumptions made by the patient's healthcare providers, such as assuming the sexuality of the patient and predicting their sexual behaviours. Multiple factors contribute to this health decline, including: racialization and discrimination, stress of immigration, barriers accessing healthcare practitioners and others.The most prevalent barriers faced by immigrants with regard to accessing primary care services are related to geography and geographic distribution, language, and culture. The added responsibilities women hold as primary caregivers in households not only creates additional stress, but also indirectly increases the difficulty of the scheduling and meeting of medical appointments; these implications explain women's poorer self-rated health status in comparison to men, as well as their report of their unmet healthcare needs. Early detection is key to providing effective support systems to victims in the armed forces and reducing potential negative health consequences that are associated with such violence.Barriers to disclosure of IPV to providers in the VHA include lack of universal routine screening, patients not being comfortable about disclosure, and individual concerns over potential negative consequences on benefits or personal items, depending on how info is shared or used. 
Do emergency ultrasound fellowship programs impact emergency medicine residents' ultrasound education? [SEP] It further encompasses an understanding of the development of pre-hospital and in-hospital emergency medical systems and the skills necessary for this development.The field of emergency medicine encompasses care involving the acute care of internal medical and surgical conditions. The emergency physician workforce also includes many competent physicians who have medical skills from other specialities.Physicians specializing in emergency medicine can enter fellowships to receive credentials in subspecialties such as palliative care, critical care medicine, medical toxicology, wilderness medicine, pediatric emergency medicine, sports medicine, disaster medicine, tactical medicine, ultrasound, pain medicine, pre-hospital emergency medicine, or undersea and hyperbaric medicine. A one-year emergency medicine enhanced skills program following a two-year family medicine residency leading to the designation of CCFP(EM) through the College of Family Physicians of Canada (Advanced Competency Certification). Service as an emergency physician in an ambulance service is part of the specialization training of anaesthesiology. The BCEM is under the authority of the American Board of Physician Specialties.Several ABMS fellowships are available for emergency medicine graduates, including pre-hospital medicine (emergency medical services), international medicine, advanced resuscitation, hospice and palliative care, research, undersea and hyperbaric medicine, sports medicine, pain medicine, ultrasound, pediatric emergency medicine, disaster medicine, wilderness medicine, toxicology, and critical care medicine.In recent years, workforce data has led to a recognition of the need for additional training for primary care physicians who provide emergency care. It has led to several supplemental training programs in first-hour emergency care and a few fellowships for family physicians in emergency medicine., and few fellowships for family physicians in emergency medicine. Studies have shown that attending emergency physician supervision of residents correlates to higher quality and more cost-effective practice, primarily when an emergency medicine residency exists." "Bedside ultrasound curriculum for medical students: report of a blended learning curriculum implementation and validation". 
Patient-Controlled Therapy of Breathlessness in Palliative Care: A New Therapeutic Concept for Opioid Administration? [SEP] Shortness of breath
Opioids may help with shortness of breath particularly in advanced diseases such as cancer and COPD among others. However, findings from two recent systematic reviews of the literature found that opioids were not necessarily more effective in treating shortness of breath in patients who have advanced cancer.Hyperalgesia

Opioid-induced hyperalgesia (OIH) has been evident in patients after chronic opioid exposure. CX717) can all reduce respiratory depression caused by opioids without affecting analgesia, but most of these drugs are only moderately effective or have side effects which preclude use in humans. Opioid antagonists remain the standard treatment for respiratory depression following opioid overdose, with naloxone being by far the most commonly used, although the longer acting antagonist nalmefene may be used for treating overdoses of long-acting opioids such as methadone, and diprenorphine is used for reversing the effects of extremely potent opioids used in veterinary medicine such as etorphine and carfentanil. Palliative medicine
Systemic immediate release opioids are beneficial in emergently reducing the symptom severity of shortness of breath due to both cancer and non cancer causes; long-acting/sustained-release opioids are also used to prevent/continue treatment of dyspnea in palliative setting. Pharmacological treatment
For people with severe, chronic, or uncontrollable breathlessness, non-pharmacological approaches to treating breathlessness may be combined with medication. For people who have cancer that is causing the breathlessness, medications that have been suggested include opioids, benzodiazepines, oxygen, and steroids. The nurse will need to explain to the patient and family that a pain-free death is possible, and scheduled opioid pain medications are appropriate in this case. 
Is there still a need for living-related liver transplantation in children? [SEP] Liver transplantation is a treatment option for end-stage liver disease and acute liver failure, although availability of donor organs is a major limitation. Living donor liver transplantation for pediatric recipients involves removal of approximately 20% of the liver (Couinaud segments 2 and 3). Pediatric transplantation
In children, living liver donor transplantation has become very accepted. "Live donor liver transplantation in adults". "Current trends in live liver donation". "Liver transplantation from non-heart-beating donors: current status and future prospects". "Living-donor liver transplantation: an overview". "The current status of living donor liver transplantation". 
Do patterns of knowledge and attitudes exist among unvaccinated seniors? [SEP] Public health
Vaccine beliefs
In US states where nonmedical vaccine exemption is legal, 2015 reports showed Waldorf schools as having a high rate of vaccine exemption within their student populations, however, recent research has shown that in US state schools, child immunization rates often fall below the 95-percent threshold that the Centers for Disease Control say is necessary to provide herd immunity for a community. After such vaccinations became widespread in Europe, Steiner opposed their use in several contexts, writing that vaccination could "impede spiritual development" and lead to a loss of "any urge for a spiritual life". Steiner also thought that these effects would carry over into subsequent reincarnations of the vaccinated person.The Association of Waldorf Schools of North America released the following in a statement in 2019:
The Association of Waldorf Schools of North America wishes to state unequivocally that our educational objectives do not include avoidance of, or resistance to, childhood immunization. Folk epidemiology persists because people seek, receive, and preferentially believe information that is consistent with their existing views; misjudge the reliability of their sources of information, and are misled by anecdotal evidence; and tend not to revise their opinions even when their original sources of information are shown to be wrong. Disease outbreaks
After the controversy began, the MMR vaccination compliance dropped sharply in the United Kingdom, from 92% in 1996 to 84% in 2002. The age group affected was too old to have received the routine MMR immunisations around the time the paper by Wakefield et al. Therefore, as immunisation rates declined following the controversy and the disease re-emerged, they were susceptible to infection. Only 87.2% of five-year-olds had received both MMR vaccines.With the onset of a large number of measles outbreaks in the United States in 2019, there is fear that parents who have not had their children vaccinated will help to spread infectious diseases in schools and universities where there are already other outbreaks. 
Is there a model to teach and practice retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomy? [SEP] Abstract or conceptual models are central to philosophy of science, as almost every scientific theory effectively embeds some kind of model of the physical or human sphere. Instrumented physical models are an effective way of investigating fluid flows for engineering design. Instrumented physical models can also examine internal flows, for the design of ductwork systems, pollution control equipment, food processing machines, and mixing vessels. a guinea pig starved of vitamin C to study scurvy, an experiment that would be immoral to conduct on a person
Model (mimicry), a species that is mimicked by another species

Conceptual model
A conceptual model is a theoretical representation of a system, e.g. Conceptual models may be a representation of a system. It consists of concepts used to help people know, understand, or simulate a subject the model represents. Examples
Conceptual model (computer science), a representation of entities and their relationships
Mathematical model, a description of a system using mathematical concepts and language
Economic model, a theoretical construct representing economic processes
Statistical model, a mathematical model that usually specifies the relationship between one or more random variables and other non-random variables
Model (CGI), a mathematical representation of any surface of an object in three dimensions via specialized software
Model (logic), a set along with a collection of finitary operations, and relations that are defined on it, satisfying a given collection of axioms
Model (MVC), the central component of the model–view–controller software design pattern
Standard model (disambiguation)
Medical model, a proposed "set of procedures in which all doctors are trained"
Model act, a law drafted centrally to be disseminated and proposed for enactment in multiple independent legislatures

See also
References
External links
 Media related to Physical models at Wikimedia Commons By this time Teach had placed his lieutenant Richards in command of Bonnet's Revenge. 
Cardiovascular risk in a rural adult West African population: is resting heart rate also relevant? [SEP] Previous studies had shown that African American patients with congestive heart failure generally respond less effectively to traditional treatments than white patients with similar conditions.After two trials, BiDil was licensed exclusively for use in African American patients. The salt sensitivity hypothesis is an example of implementing biocultural approaches in order to understand cardiovascular health disparities among African American populations. This theory, founded by Wilson and Grim, stems from the disproportional rates of salt sensitive high blood pressure seen between U.S. African American and White populations and between U.S. African American and West Africans as well. A large section of the population, particularly those living in rural poverty, are at risk of infection and mortality by communicable diseases, malnutrition and other health-related events. Despite a decrease in Ischemic Heart Disease mortality in developed countries, substantial increases have been experienced in developing countries like Nepal. As it is highly preventable and many risk factor are related to our lifestyle like; smoking, obesity, unhealthy diet, etc. The prevalence of heart disease was found higher in urban areas than rural areas where hypertension claims the major portion. Since the percentage of geriatric health disorders contributing to GBD is higher in low-income countries like Nepal, there is a dire need to address the health issues of elderly to enhance and maintain their health and well-being as they are an integral part of the nation. 
Israeli hospital preparedness for terrorism-related multiple casualty incidents: can the surge capacity and injury severity distribution be better predicted? [SEP] The first is concerned with the discharge of patients from hospital often to prepare for an incoming mass casualty. Such improvised facilities are generally developed in cooperation with the local hospital, which sees them as a strategy for creating surge capacity. National Guard units have medical responders specifically trained in mass casualty triage who may be called in to respond to a disaster-related incident. They will have preparations in place to receive a massive number of casualties, like calling in more staff, pulling extra and spare equipment out of storage, and clearing non-acute patients out of the hospital. Trauma centers
Trauma centers play a crucial role in the mass casualty incident timeline. This is critical, as a mass casualty incident can get out of hand quickly. "Activating A Mass Casualty Response". "Trauma Center Levels Explained". 
Acute respiratory distress syndrome in children with malignancy--can we predict outcome? [SEP] Stage II: Mild symptoms, which may include minor mucocutaneous manifestations and recurrent upper respiratory tract infections. The chance of survival depends on the type of cancer and extent of disease at the start of treatment. In 2012, about 165,000 children under 15 years of age were diagnosed with cancer. Multiple national medical guidelines recommend early palliative care for patients whose cancer has produced distressing symptoms or who need help coping with their illness. Also, when chemotherapy is given after birth, many of the drugs appear in breast milk, which could harm the baby. The deceased had been recently using an e-cigarette and was hospitalized with serious respiratory problems. A 2013 review found metallic and nanoparticles are associated with respiratory distress and disease. Vaping is potentially harmful, especially to the critically ill, such as people with oncologic, lung, or cardiac diseases. 
Secondhand smoke risk in infants discharged from an NICU: potential for significant health disparities? [SEP] Exposure to secondhand tobacco smoke causes disease, disability, and death. Children exposed to secondhand smoke show reduced vocabulary and reasoning skills when compared with non-exposed children as well as more general cognitive and intellectual deficits. Mental health: Exposure to secondhand smoke is associated with an increased risk of depressive symptoms. During pregnancy:
Miscarriage: a 2014 meta-analysis found that maternal secondhand smoke exposure increased the risk of miscarriage by 11%. Stillbirth and congenital malformations in children
Recent studies comparing females exposed to secondhand smoke and non-exposed females, demonstrate that females exposed while pregnant have higher risks of delivering a child with congenital abnormalities, longer lengths, smaller head circumferences, and neural tube defects. Secondhand smoke exposure is also associated with an almost doubled risk of hospitalization for asthma exacerbation among children with asthma. In the United States, it is estimated that secondhand smoke has been associated with between 150,000 and 300,000 lower respiratory tract infections in infants and children under 18 months of age, resulting in between 7,500 and 15,000 hospitalizations each year. Evidence
Epidemiological studies show that non-smokers exposed to secondhand smoke are at risk for many of the health problems associated with direct smoking. 
Do nomograms designed to predict biochemical recurrence (BCR) do a better job of predicting more clinically relevant prostate cancer outcomes than BCR? [SEP] Biochemical recurrence is a rise in the blood level of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) in prostate cancer patients after treatment with surgery or radiation. References
Further reading
Guidelines:Prostate cancer/Management/Locally advanced and metastatic/Biochemical relapse alternative causes, and implications for treatment
Defining Biochemical Recurrence of Prostate Cancer After Radical Prostatectomy: A Proposal for a Standardized Definition 10 definitions compared. Most prostate cancers are slow growing. The PREDICT Prostate algorithm is a multivariable prognostic model that provides individualised cancer-specific and overall long-term survival estimates in early stage non-metastatic PCa patients. Predict Prostate is endorsed for use as a decision aid for prostate cancer by the UK National Institute for Health and Care Excellence No evidence shows that either surgery or beam radiation has an advantage over the other in this regard. The Kattan nomograms predict recurrence after surgery and/or radiation therapy, based on data available at the time of diagnosis or after surgery. The UCSF Cancer of the Prostate Risk Assessment (CAPRA) score predicts both pathologic status and recurrence after surgery. More recently, it has been shown to predict metastasis and mortality following prostatectomy, radiation therapy, watchful waiting, or androgen deprivation therapy. 
Are reports of mechanical dysfunction in chronic oro-facial pain related to somatisation? [SEP] Orofacial pain is a general term covering any pain which is felt in the mouth, jaws and the face. Orofacial pain is a common symptom, and there are many causes.Orofacial Pain (OFP) is the specialty of dentistry that encompasses the diagnosis, management and treatment of pain disorders of the jaw, mouth, face and associated regions. These disorders as they relate to orofacial pain include but are not limited to temporomandibular muscle and joint (TMJ) disorders, jaw movement disorders, neuropathic and neurovascular pain disorders, headache, and sleep disorders. It includes chronic secondary headaches and orofacial pain. The Research Diagnostic Criteria for Temporomandibular Disorders (see TMD).It has also been suggested that the most basic etiologic classification of orofacial pain is into the following 3 groups:
Primarily somatic, arising from musculoskeletal (e.g. Dental related
Pulpal
Dentinal hypersensitivity resulting from
Caries
Toothwear
Pulp disease (reversible and irreversible pulpitis) resulting from
Caries
Trauma
Periapical pathology and periapical acute abscess
Periodontal
Periodontal abscess
Pericoronitis and pericoronal abscess
Cracked tooth syndrome

Non-dental related
Musculoskeletal including Temporomandibular diseases (TMD)
Neuralgias and neuropathies
Trigeminal neuralgia
Glossopharyngeal neuralgia
Sphenopalatine Ganglion neuralgia
Sluder's Neuralgia
Mental nerve neuralgia
Post-injury
Burning mouth syndrome
Postherpetic neuralgia
Persistent idiopathic facial pain (atypical facial pain)
Atypical odontalgia
Mucosal
Traumatic, immunologic, infective, erosive, ulcerative and vesiculobullous lesions e.g. Psychosomatic
Sinonasal
Rhinosinusitis
Headaches
Cluster
Migraine
Tension-type
Neoplastic
Aneurysm
Salivary gland disease
Sialadenitis
Sialoithiasis
Cardiac toothache
Eagle syndrome

Management
A multi-disciplinary approach is needed for orofacial pain disorders involving both non-pharmacological and pharmacological approaches which can be applied to the specific type of disorder. Somatization is a tendency to experience and communicate psychological distress as bodily and organic symptoms and to seek medical help for them. 
Amblyopia: is visual loss permanent? [SEP] Any visual deprivation, that is, anything interfering with such input over a prolonged period of time, such as a cataract, severe eye turn or strabismus, anisometropia (unequal refractive error between the two eyes), or covering or patching the eye during medical treatment, will usually result in a severe and permanent decrease in visual acuity and pattern recognition in the affected eye if not treated early in life, a condition known as amblyopia. Other
Amblyopia: is a category of vision loss or visual impairment that is caused by factors unrelated to refractive errors or coexisting ocular diseases. Amblyopia is the condition when a child's visual systems fail to mature normally because the child either has been born premature, measles, congenital rubella syndrome, vitamin A deficiency, or meningitis. If left untreated during childhood, amblyopia is currently incurable in adulthood because surgical treatment effectiveness changes as a child matures. Consequently, amblyopia is the world's leading cause of child monocular vision loss, which is the damage or loss of vision in one eye. If present during a large part of childhood, it may result in amblyopia, or lazy eyes, and loss of depth perception. Amblyopia is the failure of one or both eyes to achieve normal visual acuity despite normal structural health. Amblyopia has long been considered to remain permanent if not treated within a critical period, namely before the age of about seven years; however, recent discoveries give reason to challenge this view and to adapt the earlier notion of a critical period to account for stereopsis recovery in adults. 
Implementation of epidural analgesia for labor: is the standard of effective analgesia reachable in all women? [SEP] Epidural analgesia is a generally safe and effective method of relieving pain in labour, but has been associated with longer labour, more operative intervention (particularly instrument delivery), and increases in cost. Medication became more acceptable in 1852, when Queen Victoria used chloroform as pain relief during labour. They may contribute to the care of a woman in labour by performing an epidural or by providing anaesthesia (often spinal anaesthesia) for Cesarean section or forceps delivery. Background
Neuraxial labor analgesia is commonly available in high-income countries. These techniques have been shown to be safe and effective for alleviating labor pain. Neuraxial analgesia is associated with improved maternal and neonatal outcomes and has been recommended by American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA)  and The Society for Obstetric Anesthesia and Perinatology (SOAP) as a proactive approach for high-risk parturient safety during labor., In contrast, a 2007 study reported that neuraxial labor analgesia was used by <1% of parturients in China. Initiation
NPLD-GHI was established and designed to educate Chinese women and their health care providers about the safe and effective use of labor analgesia, was developed at the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine. Multidisciplinary incentives for labor analgesia. 
Does HER2 immunoreactivity provide prognostic information in locally advanced urothelial carcinoma patients receiving adjuvant M-VEC chemotherapy? [SEP] It is strongly associated with increased disease recurrence and a poor prognosis; however, drug agents targeting HER2 in breast cancer have significantly positively altered the otherwise poor-prognosis natural history of HER2-positive breast cancer. HER2 proteins have been shown to form clusters in cell membranes that may play a role in tumorigenesis.Evidence has also implicated HER2 signaling in resistance to the EGFR-targeted cancer drug cetuximab.The high expression of HER2 correlates with better survival in esophageal adenocarcinoma.The high amplification of HER2 copy number positively contributes to the survival time of gastric cardia adenocarcinoma patients. Trastuzumab is effective only in cancers where HER2 is over-expressed. Diagnostics
HER2 testing is performed on breast biopsy of breast cancer patients to assess prognosis and to determine suitability for trastuzumab therapy. For HER2-positive tumors, the benefits of trastuzumab clearly outweigh the risks. Results so far have suggested that changes in serum HER2 concentrations may be useful in predicting response to trastuzumab therapy. It is surprising that although trastuzumab has great affinity for HER2 and high doses can be administered (because of its low toxicity), 70% of HER2+ patients do not respond to treatment. Predicting response
Trastuzumab inhibits the effects of overexpression of HER2. 
Is halofantrine ototoxic? [SEP] No evidence found. 
Visceral adipose tissue area measurement at a single level: can it represent visceral adipose tissue volume? [SEP] Abdominal obesity has been strongly linked to cardiovascular disease, Alzheimer's disease, and other metabolic and vascular diseases.Visceral and central abdominal fat and waist circumference show a strong association with type 2 diabetes.Visceral fat, also known as organ fat or intra-abdominal fat, is located inside the peritoneal cavity, packed in between internal organs and torso, as opposed to subcutaneous fat, which is found underneath the skin, and intramuscular fat, which is found interspersed in skeletal muscle. Visceral fat is composed of several adipose depots including mesenteric, epididymal white adipose tissue (EWAT), and perirenal fat. Techniques such as computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging made it possible to categorize mass of adipose tissue located at the abdominal level into intra-abdominal fat and subcutaneous fat.Abdominal obesity is linked with higher cardiovascular events among South Asian ethnic population. It is now generally believed that intra-abdominal fat is the depot that conveys the biggest health risk.Recent validation has concluded that total and regional body volume estimates correlate positively and significantly with biomarkers of cardiovascular risk and BVI calculations correlate significantly with all biomarkers of cardio-vascular risk. Diagnosis
There are various ways of measuring abdominal obesity including:

Absolute waist circumference (>102 cm (40 in) in men and >88 cm (35 in) in women)
Waist–hip ratio (the circumference of the waist divided by that of the hips of >0.9 for men and >0.85 for women)
Waist-stature ratio (waist circumference divided by their height, >0.5 for adults under 40 and >0.6 for adults over 50)
Sagittal Abdominal Diameter
In those with a body mass index (BMI) under 35, intra-abdominal body fat is related to negative health outcomes independent of total body fat. Adipose tissue. In biology, adipose tissue (/ˈædəˌpoʊs/), or body fat or fat depot or just fat, is loose connective tissue composed of adipocytes. Far from hormonally inert, adipose tissue has in recent years been recognized as a major endocrine organ[1], as it produces hormones such as leptin, resistin, and the cytokine TNFα. 
Necrotizing fasciitis: an indication for hyperbaric oxygenation therapy? [SEP] Scope
Hyperbaric medicine includes hyperbaric oxygen treatment, which is the medical use of oxygen at greater than atmospheric pressure to increase the availability of oxygen in the body; and therapeutic recompression, which involves increasing the ambient pressure on a person, usually a diver, to treat decompression sickness or an air embolism by eliminating bubbles that have formed within the body. The following indications are approved (for reimbursement) uses of hyperbaric oxygen therapy as defined by the UHMS Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy Committee:
Air or gas embolism;
Carbon monoxide poisoning;Carbon monoxide poisoning complicated by cyanide poisoning;
Central retinal artery occlusion;
Clostridal myositis and myonecrosis (gas gangrene);
Crush injury, compartment syndrome, and other acute traumatic ischemias;
Decompression sickness;
Enhancement of healing in selected problem wounds;.Diabetically derived illness, such as short-term relief of diabetic foot, diabetic retinopathy, diabetic nephropathy;
Exceptional blood loss (anemia);
Idiopathic sudden sensorineural hearing loss;
Intracranial abscess;
Mucormycosis, especially rhinocerebral disease in the setting of diabetes mellitus;
Necrotizing soft tissue infections (necrotizing fasciitis);
Osteomyelitis (refractory);
Delayed radiation injury (soft tissue and bony necrosis);
Skin grafts and flaps (compromised);
Thermal burns.There is no reliable evidence to support its use in autism, cancer, diabetes, HIV/AIDS, Alzheimer's disease, asthma, Bell's palsy, cerebral palsy, depression, heart disease, migraines, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, spinal cord injury, sports injuries, or stroke. and its risk management is discussed by Christian R. Mortensen, in light of the fact that most hyperbaric facilities are managed by departments of anaesthesiology and some of their patients are critically ill.An absolute contraindication to hyperbaric oxygen therapy is untreated pneumothorax. published on the use of hyperbaric oxygen in the treatment of clostridial gas gangrene.In 1962 Smith and Sharp reported successful treatment of carbon monoxide poisoning with hyperbaric oxygen.The Undersea Medical Society (now Undersea and Hyperbaric Medical Society) formed a Committee on Hyperbaric Oxygenation which has become recognized as the authority on indications for hyperbaric oxygen treatment. South Pacific Underwater Medicine Society – Publisher for diving and hyperbaric medicine and physiology
Decompression chamber – Hyperbaric pressure vessel for human occupation used in diving operations to decompress divers
Hyperbaric treatment schedules – Diving decompression treatment
Transdermal continuous oxygen therapy – Wound closure technique using external oxygen exposure

References
Further reading
External links
Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy from eMedicine
Duke University Medical Center Archives contains collections of multiple individuals who worked with hyperbaric medicine
Dunning, Brian (November 19, 2019). Recompression in a hyperbaric chamber with 100% oxygen is the standard treatment for decompression illness. In regard to anaerobic infections, cases of necrotizing fasciitis have been observed to require fewer debridement operations and have improvement in regard to mortality in patients treated with hyperbaric oxygen therapy. Chronic infections, often caused by diabetes or decubitus ulcers in bedridden patients, are common causes of infections that lead to gangrene, which would then necessitate amputation.There are two key challenges: first, many patients have impaired circulation in their extremities, and second, they have difficulty curing infections in limbs with poor blood circulation.Crush injuries where there is extensive tissue damage and poor circulation also benefit from hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT). 
Is the Hawkins sign able to predict necrosis in fractures of the neck of the astragalus? [SEP] Late radiographic signs also include a radiolucency area following the collapse of subchondral bone (crescent sign) and ringed regions of radiodensity resulting from saponification and calcification of marrow fat following medullary infarcts. A bone fracture  (abbreviated FRX or Fx, Fx, or #) is a medical condition in which there is a partial or complete break in the continuity of any bone in the body. Early complications – occurring in the initial few days after the fracture. Late complications – occurring a long time after the fracture. e.g., fractures caused by a fall, road traffic accident, fight, etc. e.g., a fracture through a bone weakened by metastasis. Spinal fracture
Cervical fracture
Fracture of C1, including Jefferson fracture
Fracture of C2, including Hangman's fracture
Flexion teardrop fracture – a fracture of the anteroinferior aspect of a cervical vertebral
Clay-shoveler fracture – fracture through the spinous process of a vertebra occurring at any of the lower cervical or upper thoracic vertebrae
Burst fracture – in which a vertebra breaks from a high-energy axial load
Compression fracture – a collapse of a vertebra, often in the form of wedge fractures due to larger compression anteriorly
Chance fracture – compression injury to the anterior portion of a vertebral body with concomitant distraction injury to posterior elements
Holdsworth fracture – an unstable fracture dislocation of the thoraco lumbar junction of the spine
Rib fracture
Sternal fracture
Shoulder fracture
Clavicle fracture
Scapular fracture
Arm fracture
Humerus fracture (fracture of upper arm)
Supracondylar fracture
Holstein-Lewis fracture – a fracture of the distal third of the humerus resulting in entrapment of the radial nerve
Forearm fracture
Ulnar fracture
Monteggia fracture – a fracture of the proximal third of the ulna with the dislocation of the head of the radius
Hume fracture – a fracture of the olecranon with an associated anterior dislocation of the radial head
Radius fracture
Essex-Lopresti fracture – a fracture of the radial head with concomitant dislocation of the distal radio-ulnar joint with disruption of the interosseous membrane
Distal radius fracture
Galeazzi fracture – a fracture of the radius with dislocation of the distal radioulnar joint
Colles' fracture – a distal fracture of the radius with dorsal (posterior) displacement of the wrist and hand
Smith's fracture – a distal fracture of the radius with volar (ventral) displacement of the wrist and hand
Barton's fracture – an intra-articular fracture of the distal radius with dislocation of the radiocarpal joint
Hand fracture
Scaphoid fracture
Rolando fracture – a comminuted intra-articular fracture through the base of the first metacarpal bone
Bennett's fracture – a fracture of the base of the first metacarpal bone which extends into the carpometacarpal (CMC) joint 
Boxer's fracture – a fracture at the neck of a metacarpal
Broken finger – a fracture of the carpal phalanges
Pelvic fracture
Fracture of the hip bone
Duverney fracture – an isolated pelvic fracture involving only the iliac wing
Femoral fracture
Hip fracture (anatomically a fracture of the femur bone and not the hip bone)
Patella fracture
Crus fracture
Tibia fracture
Pilon fracture
Tibial plateau fracture
Bumper fracture – a fracture of the lateral tibial plateau caused by a forced valgus applied to the knee
Segond fracture – an avulsion fracture of the lateral tibial condyle
Gosselin fracture – a fractures of the tibial plafond into anterior and posterior fragments 
Toddler's fracture – an undisplaced and spiral fracture of the distal third to distal half of the tibia 
Fibular fracture
Maisonneuve fracture – a spiral fracture of the proximal third of the fibula associated with a tear of the distal tibiofibular syndesmosis and the interosseous membrane
Le Fort fracture of ankle – a vertical fracture of the antero-medial part of the distal fibula with avulsion of the anterior tibiofibular ligament
Bosworth fracture – a fracture with an associated fixed posterior dislocation of the distal fibular fragment that becomes trapped behind the posterior tibial tubercle; the injury is caused by severe external rotation of the ankle 
Combined tibia and fibula fracture
Trimalleolar fracture – involving the lateral malleolus, medial malleolus, and the distal posterior aspect of the tibia
Bimalleolar fracture – involving the lateral malleolus and the medial malleolus
Pott's fracture
Foot fracture
Lisfranc fracture – in which one or all of the metatarsals are displaced from the tarsus
Jones fracture – a fracture of the proximal end of the fifth metatarsal
March fracture – a fracture of the distal third of one of the metatarsals occurring because of recurrent stress
Cuneiform fracture – a fracture of one of the three cuneiform bones typically due to direct blow, axial load, or avulsion 
Calcaneal fracture – a fracture of the calcaneus (heel bone)
Broken toe – a fracture of the pedal phalanges

OTA/AO classification
The Orthopaedic Trauma Association Committee for Coding and Classification published its classification system  in 1996, adopting a similar system to the 1987 AO Foundation system. "Denis classification" for spinal fractures 
"Frykman classification" for forearm fractures (fractures of radius and ulna)
"Gustilo open fracture classification" 
"Letournel and Judet Classification" for Acetabular fractures 
"Neer classification" for humerus fractures 
Seinsheimer classification, Evans-Jensen classification, Pipkin classification, and Garden classification for hip fractures

Prevention
Both high- and low-force trauma can cause bone fracture injuries. 
Is a mandatory general surgery rotation necessary in the surgical clerkship? [SEP] Interns are required to complete three core terms in medicine, surgery and emergency care and other (non-core) rotations make up the balance of the intern year providing opportunities to explore additional areas of medicine and surgery, anaesthesia, psychiatry, paediatrics and less acute care such as rehabilitation medicine, palliative care, geriatrics and general practice.Internships are positions facilitated and funded by both State Governments and the Commonwealth (federal) Government. Subsequent clinical rotations usually include internal medicine, general surgery, pediatrics, psychiatry, and obstetrics and gynecology, among others. There are also surgery and medicine rotations during the year. The remainder of medical school is spent in clerkship. Rotating internship offers a schedule that rotates through all major specialties—including three months of internal medicine (1 month may be substituted for geriatrics), two months of pediatrics (1 month may be substituted for a pediatric subspecialty), two months of surgery (1 month may be substituted for a surgical subspecialty), one month of emergency medicine, one month of anesthesiology and intensive care, and two elective months.After completing their internship, graduates may practice general medicine or go into a specialty program. In their fourth year, students rotate in the various hospital departments, spending up to two months each in the fields of internal medicine, surgery, obstetrics and gynecology, and pediatrics, and several weeks in the other specialties. The remaining 3 years are composed of rotations at various departments, such as Internal Medicine, Neurology, Radiology, Dermatology, Psychiatry, Surgery, Pediatrics, Gynecology and Obstetrics, Anesthesiology, and others. Students are required to spend three four-month clerkships, two of them in a hospital (internal medicine and surgery) as well as one elective, which can be one of the other clinical subjects (e. g. family medicine, anesthesiology, neurology, pediatrics, radiology etc.). 
Is Acupuncture Efficacious for Treating Phonotraumatic Vocal Pathologies? [SEP] Acupuncture is most often used to attempt pain relief, though acupuncturists say that it can also be used for a wide range of other conditions. Efficacy
As of 2021 many thousands of papers had been published on the efficacy of acupuncture for the treatment of various adult health conditions, but there was no robust evidence it was beneficial for anything, except shoulder pain and fibromyalgia. Acupuncture is not better than mainstream treatment in the long term.The use of acupuncture has been criticized owing to there being little scientific evidence for explicit effects, or the mechanisms for its supposed effectiveness, for any condition that is discernible from placebo. "Acupuncture". "Acupuncture". Treatment of vocal fold nodules usually involves behavioural intervention therapy administered by a speech–language pathologist. While behavioural treatments methods vary greatly, they are generally effective at improving vocal quality and decreasing size of vocal fold nodules. telehealth) have all shown effectiveness in treating vocal fold nodules.Assessment of outcomes of behavioural treatments also varies greatly. 
Is aneurysm repair justified for the patients aged 80 or older after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage? [SEP] Microsurgery was applied to aneurysm treatment in 1972 in order to further improve outcomes. If symptoms occur, or enlargement of the aneurysm, then endovascular or open repair should be considered. Most aneurysms develop after the age of 40. An intervention is often recommended if the aneurysm grows more than 1 cm per year or it is bigger than 5.5 cm. Repair is also indicated for symptomatic aneurysms. Open repair
Open repair is indicated in young patients as an elective procedure, or in growing or large, symptomatic or ruptured aneurysms. Patients with aneurysms require elective repair of their aneurysm when it reaches a diameter large enough (typically greater than 5.5 cm) such that the risk of rupture is greater than the risk of surgery. Repair is also warranted for aneurysms that rapidly enlarge or those that have been the source of emboli (debris from the aneurysm that dislodges and travel into other arteries). 
Do general practice characteristics influence uptake of an information technology (IT) innovation in primary care? [SEP] The mHealth field has emerged as a sub-segment of eHealth, the use of information and communication technology (ICT), such as computers, mobile phones, communications satellite, patient monitors, etc., for health services and information. The field broadly encompasses the use of mobile telecommunication and multimedia technologies in health care delivery. Specific mobile applications might also support adherence to taking medications.In conclusion, the use of mobile phone  technology (in combination with a web-based interface) in health care results in an increase in convenience and efficiency of data collection, transfer, storage and analysis management of data as compared with paper-based systems. Another widespread concern relates to privacy and data protection, for example in the context of electronic health records.Studies looking into the perceptions and experiences of primary healthcare professionals using mheath have found that most health care professionals appreciated being connected to their colleagues, however some prefer face to face communication. In the US and EU many patients and consumers use their cell phones and tablets to access health information and look for healthcare services. Although far from ubiquitous, the spread of smartphone technologies opens up doors for mHealth projects such as technology-based diagnosis support, remote diagnostics and telemedicine, preprogrammed daily self-assessment prompts, video or audio clips, web browsing, GPS navigation, access to web-based patient information, post-visit patient surveillance, and decentralized health management information systems (HMIS). Information and communication technologies (ICTs) are shaping many aspects of the world's economies, governments and societies. The World Bank Group's Information and Communication Technology (ICT) sector strategy, which was adopted in 2012, intends to help developing countries make use of the potential of ICTs to improve the delivery of public services; drive innovations and productivity gains; and improve competitiveness. 
Prognosis of well differentiated small hepatocellular carcinoma--is well differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma clinically early cancer? [SEP] Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common type of primary liver cancer in adults and is currently the most common cause of death in people with cirrhosis. However, due to the unique nature of the carcinoma to fully encompass all the features that affect the categorization of the HCC, a classification system should incorporate tumor size and number, presence of vascular invasion and extrahepatic spread, liver function (levels of serum bilirubin and albumin, presence of ascites, and portal hypertension) and general health status of the patient (defined by the ECOG classification and the presence of symptoms).Of all the staging classification systems available, the Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer staging classification encompasses all of the above characteristics. Treatment
Treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma varies by the stage of disease, a person's likelihood to tolerate surgery, and availability of liver transplant:

Curative intention: for limited disease, when the cancer is limited to one or more areas of within the liver, surgically removing the malignant cells may be curative. As of 2005, multiple trials show objective tumor responses and slowed tumor progression, but questionable survival benefit compared to supportive care; greatest benefit is seen in people with preserved liver function, absence of vascular invasion, and smallest tumors. The latter is an FDA-approved treatment for primary liver cancer (HCC) which has been shown in clinical trials to increase the survival rate of low-risk patients. Prognosis
The usual outcome is poor because only 10–20% of hepatocellular carcinomas can be removed completely using surgery. Finally, the pathologist classifies the tumor semi-quantitatively into one of three or four grades, including:

Grade 1, or well differentiated: there is a close, or very close, resemblance to the normal parent tissue, and the tumor cells are easily identified and classified as a particular malignant histological entity;
Grade 2, or moderately differentiated: there is considerable resemblance to the parent cells and tissues, but abnormalities can commonly be seen and the more complex features are not particularly well-formed;
Grade 3, or poorly differentiated: there is very little resemblance between the malignant tissue and the normal parent tissue, abnormalities are evident, and the more complex architectural features are usually rudimentary or primitive;
Grade 4, or undifferentiated carcinoma: these carcinomas bear no significant resemblance to the corresponding parent cells and tissues, with no visible formation of glands, ducts, bridges, stratified layers, keratin pearls, or other notable characteristics consistent with a more highly differentiated neoplasm.Although there is definite and convincing statistical correlation between carcinoma grade and tumor prognosis for some tumor types and sites of origin, the strength of this association can be highly variable. Incidental lesions were significantly lower stage than those that cause symptoms, since 62.1% patients with incidental renal cell carcinoma were observed with Stage I lesions, against 23% were found with symptomatic renal cell carcinoma.If it has metastasized to the lymph nodes, the five-year survival is around 5% to 15%. 
Do follow-up recommendations for abnormal Papanicolaou smears influence patient adherence? [SEP] Adherence to follow-up after abnormal Pap tests varies across minority groups. They found 56% of these patients did not follow-up with a recommended cervical examination, and 27.7% of this group received no follow-up examination whatsoever. Socioeconomic and institutional barriers
Receiving a recommendation by one's physician is strongly correlated with patients seeking out to be screened by a Pap smear. Across different racial and ethnic groups, having a regular doctor increases the likelihood of a patient undergoing regular Pap smearing. Papanicolaou stain (also Papanicolaou's stain and Pap stain) is a multichromatic (multicolored) cytological staining technique developed by George Papanicolaou in 1942. The Papanicolaou stain is one of the most widely used stains in cytology, where it is used to aid pathologists in making a diagnosis. Ultrafast Papanicolaou stain
Ultrafast Papanicolaou stain is an alternative for the fine needle aspiration samples, developed to achieve comparable visual clarity in significantly shorter time. Examples of Papanicolaou stain
Papers by George N. Papanicolaou describing his stain
Papanicolaou, George N. "A new procedure for staining vaginal smears." 
Biomolecular identification of allergenic pollen: a new perspective for aerobiological monitoring? [SEP] Oral allergy syndrome (OAS) or pollen-food allergy is a type of food allergy classified by a cluster of allergic reactions in the mouth and throat in response to eating certain (usually fresh) fruits, nuts, and vegetables. The body's immune system produces IgE antibodies against pollen; in OAS, these antibodies also bind to (or cross-react with) other structurally similar proteins found in botanically related plants. Development, causes
A person with an allergic disposition is sensitized to allergenic pollen proteins through the respiratory route can develop an allergy to heat labile food proteins (for example profilins) in certain fruits and vegetables, which cross-react with pollen proteins. Cross reactions
Allergies to a specific pollen are usually associated with OAS reactions to other certain foods. Correct diagnosis of the allergen types involved is critical. Aerobiologists have traditionally been involved in the measurement and reporting of airborne pollen and fungal spores as a service to those with allergies. Symptoms are usually worse during pollination periods, when there is significantly more pollen aerosolized in the air. However, studies have shown that there are still significant levels of pollen indoors. 
Does diabetes mellitus influence the efficacy of FDG-PET in the diagnosis of cervical cancer? [SEP] Individuals with cancer may be at a higher risk of mortality if they also have diabetes. Oncology
PET scanning with the tracer 18F-FDG is widely used in clinical oncology. Metabolic trapping of the radioactive glucose molecule allows the PET scan to be utilized. As a result, FDG-PET can be used for diagnosis, staging, and monitoring treatment of cancers, particularly in Hodgkin lymphoma, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, and lung cancer.A 2020 review of research on the use of PET for Hodgkin lymphoma found evidence that negative findings in interim PET scans are linked to higher overall survival and progression-free survival; however, the certainty of the available evidence was moderate for survival, and very low for progression-free survival.A few other isotopes and radiotracers are slowly being introduced into oncology for specific purposes. Standard 18F-FDG PET of the brain measures regional glucose use and can be used in neuropathological diagnosis. Clinically, PET has been widely used to image bacterial infections using fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) to identify the infection-associated inflammatory response. Besides its established role as a diagnostic technique, PET has an expanding role as a method to assess the response to therapy, in particular, cancer therapy, where the risk to the patient from lack of knowledge about disease progress is much greater than the risk from the test radiation. "How We Read Oncologic FDG PET/CT". 
Biomechanical and wound healing characteristics of corneas after excimer laser keratorefractive surgery: is there a difference between advanced surface ablation and sub-Bowman's keratomileusis? [SEP] Keratitis – inflammation of the cornea. In many of the techniques used today, reshaping of the cornea is performed by photoablation using the excimer laser. "Structural transformation of collagen fibrils in corneal stroma during drying. Keratoplasty simply means surgery to the cornea. Since the cornea has no blood vessels (it takes its nutrients from the aqueous humor) it heals much more slowly than a cut on the skin. Phototherapeutic keratectomy
Diseases that only affect the surface of the cornea can be treated with an operation called phototherapeutic keratectomy (PTK). These improved incisions allow the cornea to heal more quickly and the sutures to be removed sooner. The cornea heals more strongly than with standard blade operations. 
Does radiotherapy of the primary rectal cancer affect prognosis after pelvic exenteration for recurrent rectal cancer? [SEP] Radiation therapy does not improve survival in people with well-differentiated tumors.In stage 1c and 2 cancers, radiation therapy is used after surgery if there is the possibility of residual disease in the pelvis but the abdomen is cancer-free. Intestinal discomfort
The lower bowel may be treated directly with radiation (treatment of rectal or anal cancer) or be exposed by radiation therapy to other pelvic structures (prostate, bladder, female genital tract). Studies in people having pelvic radiotherapy as part of anticancer treatment for a primary pelvic cancer found that changes in dietary fat, fibre and lactose during radiotherapy reduced diarrhoea at the end of treatment. Radiation enteropathy
The gastrointestinal tract can be damaged following abdominal and pelvic radiotherapy. Radiation therapy
While a combination of radiation and chemotherapy may be useful for rectal cancer, for some people requiring treatment, chemoradiotherapy can increase acute treatment-related toxicity, and has not been shown to improve survival rates compared to radiotherapy alone, although it is associated with less local recurrence. As with chemotherapy, radiotherapy can be used as a neoadjuvant for clinical stages T3 and T4 for rectal cancer. A 2015 article reports that pelvic exenteration can provide long-term survival for patients with locally advanced primary rectal carcinoma. Factors shown to influence the survival rate following a pelvic exenteration procedure include age, the  presence of metastatic disease, lymph node status, circumferential resection margin, local recurrence of disease, and the need for neoadjuvant therapy. 
Can a practicing surgeon detect early lymphedema reliably? [SEP] Lymph nodes are often included in the scope of breast tumor removal. Prior to a lumpectomy, a needle-localization of the lesion with placement of a guidewire may be performed, sometimes by an interventional radiologist if the area being removed was detected by mammography or ultrasound, and sometimes by the surgeon if the lesion can be directly palpated. The sentinel lymph node is the first node that drains the tumor, and subsequent SLN mapping can save 65–70% of patients with breast cancer from having a complete lymph node dissection for what could turn out to be a negative nodal basin. Advances in SLN mapping over the past decade have increased the accuracy of detecting Sentinel Lymph Node from 80% using blue dye alone to between 92% and 98% using combined modalities. Treatment with axillary lymph node dissection has been found to give an increased risk of lymphoedema, pain, reduced arm movement and numbness when compared to those treated with sentinel lymph node dissection or no axillary surgery. Lymphedema
Some patients develop lymphedema, as a result of axillary node dissection or of radiation treatment to the lymph nodes. Although traditional recommendations limited exercise, a new study shows that participating in a safe, structured weight-lifting routine can help women with lymphedema take control of their symptoms and reap the many rewards that resistance training has on their overall health as they begin life as a cancer survivor. In response to women's concerns over lymphedema after routine removal of lymph nodes during mastectomy, the more limited approach of sentinel node biopsy was developed. 
Colorectal cancer with synchronous liver metastases: does global management at the same centre improve results? [SEP] Signs and symptoms
The signs and symptoms of colorectal cancer depend on the location of the tumor in the bowel, and whether it has spread elsewhere in the body (metastasis). Treatment
The treatment of colorectal cancer can be aimed at cure or palliation. When colorectal cancer is caught early, surgery can be curative. Surgery
At an early stage, colorectal cancer may be removed during a colonoscopy using one of several techniques, including endoscopic mucosal resection or endoscopic submucosal dissection. Stage IV colorectal cancer due to peritoneal carcinomatosis can be treated using HIPEC combined with cytoreductive surgery, in some people. Presence of synchronous or metachronous colorectal or other Lynch syndrome associated cancers (e.g. Colorectal cancer diagnosed in a person with one or more first-degree relative with colorectal cancer or Lynch syndrome associated tumour diagnosed under age 50
5. They can be single (often liver metastases from colonic
neoplasm) or multiple. 
Is motion perception deficit in schizophrenia a consequence of eye-tracking abnormality? [SEP] Schizophrenia
Individuals diagnosed with schizophrenia can show deficits in theory of mind. This meta-analysis showed significant and stable deficit of theory of mind in people with schizophrenia. Schizophrenia patients with negative symptoms, such as lack of emotion, motivation, or speech, have the most impairment in theory of mind and are unable to represent the mental states of themselves and of others. Paranoid schizophrenic patients also perform poorly because they have difficulty accurately interpreting others' intentions. A subsequent study, using the incongruent/congruent gaze-shift paradigm described above, found that in high-functioning adults with autism, posterior STS (pSTS) activation was undifferentiated while they watched a human shift gaze toward a target and then toward adjacent empty space. Both explanations involve an impairment or deficit in the ability to link eye gaze shifts with intentional explanations. Performance of sequential and simultaneous movement is impaired. Schizophrenia is characterized by continuous or relapsing episodes of psychosis. 
Transgastric endoscopic splenectomy: is it possible? [SEP] Surgery
To minimize scarring, the navel is a recommended site of incision for various surgeries, including transgastric appendicectomy, gall bladder surgery, and the umbilicoplasty procedure itself. "Transumbilical Laparoscopic Cholecystectomy Utilizes No Incisions Outside the Umbilicus". Journal of Laparoendoscopic & Advanced Surgical Techniques. For example, if the patient has esophageal varices, esophageal stricture, Barrett's esophagus, or other esophageal or stomach problems then this can increase the risk of a TEE significantly. Surgical Endoscopy: The official monthly journal of SAGES. As of 2016, the following guidelines are active:

Clinical Practice
Guidelines for Laparoscopic Ventral Hernia Repair (August 2014)
Guidelines for Laparoscopic Peritoneal Dialysis Access Surgery (June 2014)
Guidelines for the Management of Hiatal Hernia (May 2013)
Guidelines for the Minimally Invasive Treatment of Adrenal Pathology (February 2013)
Guidelines for Laparoscopic Resection of Curable Colon and Rectal Cancer (February 2012)
Guidelines for the Surgical Treatment of Esophageal Achalasia (May 2011)
Guidelines for Diagnosis, Treatment, and Use of Laparoscopy for Surgical Problems during Pregnancy (April 2011)
Guidelines for Surgical Treatment of Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) (February 2010)
Guidelines for the Clinical Application of Laparoscopic Biliary Tract Surgery (January 2010)
Guidelines for Laparoscopic Appendectomy (April 2009)
Guidelines for the Use of Laparoscopic Ultrasound (March 2009)
Guidelines For Office Endoscopic Services (November 2008)
Guidelines for Clinical Application of Laparoscopic Bariatric Surgery (June 2008)
Guidelines for Diagnostic Laparoscopy (November 2007)
Guidelines for Deep Venous Thrombosis Prophylaxis During Laparoscopic Surgery (October 2006)
Guidelines for the Surgical Practice of Telemedicine (March 2004)

Position Papers/Statements
Ethical Considerations Regarding the Implementation of New Technologies and Techniques in Surgery (October 2014)
Educational Mission Statement (April 2011)
Position Statement on Advanced Laparoscopic Training (October 2010)
Statement on the Relationship Between Professional Medical Associations and Industry (February 2010)
Position Statement on Endolumenal Therapies for Gastrointestinal Diseases (November 2009)
Integrating Advanced Laparoscopy into Surgical Residency Training — A SAGES Position Paper (April 2009)
A Consensus Document on Robotic Surgery (November 2007)
Laparoscopic Colectomy for Curable Cancer (June 2004)

Privileging Guidelines
Joint Task Force Recommendations for Credentialing of Bariatric Surgeons (April 2015)
Guidelines for Granting of Ultrasonography Privileges for Surgeons (April 2011)
Guidelines for Institutions Granting Privileges Utilizing Laparoscopic and/or Thoracoscopic Techniques (July 2010)
Guidelines for Institutions Granting Bariatric Privileges Utilizing Laparoscopic Techniques (July 2009)
Granting of Privileges for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (September 2007)

Training Guidelines and Outlines for Surgical Education
Guidelines for Training in Diagnostic and Therapeutic Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) (July 2010)
Framework for Post-Residency Surgical Education & Training (July 2010)
Curriculum Outline for Resident Education (April 2009)
ASCRS/SAGES Guidelines for Laparoscopic Colectomy Course (November 2005)

Patient Information
SAGES seeks to improve the overall value of patient care through promoting the adoption of and access to minimally invasive surgical techniques. Splenectomy is the surgical removal of the spleen. Autosplenectomy is where certain diseases destroy the spleen's function. 
It's Fournier's gangrene still dangerous? [SEP] During this time, Ruiz Belvis became ill. He still traveled to Valparaíso, Chile, to raise funds for the planned revolution.Ruiz Belvis died in Valparaiso of Fournier's gangrene on 3 November 1867. Keyser's solution of mercury mixed with acetic acid was intended to reduce the side-effects of mercury treatments, but still proved quite dangerous. A trial of four women at Bicêtre Hospital caused colic, diarrhea, fevers, nausea and vomiting, and mouth ulcers to the level of gangrene. English physician John Pringe cautioned biographer James Boswell against taking the pills, as well as Kennedy's Lisbon Diet Drink, for his venereal disease. It is the most common treatment for type 2 decompression illness.U.S. Unacceptable fire or explosion hazard. There may also be a backup communications system.Firefighting equipment is necessary as a chamber fire is extremely dangerous to the occupants. 
Is it appropriate to implant kidneys from elderly donors in young recipients? [SEP] The recipient's liver can then be transplanted into an older person for whom the effects of the disease will not necessarily contribute significantly to mortality.This term also refers to a series of living donor transplants in which one donor donates to the highest recipient on the waiting list and the transplant center utilizes that donation to facilitate multiple transplants. ABO-incompatible transplants
Because very young children (generally under 12 months, but often as old as 24 months) do not have a well-developed immune system, it is possible for them to receive organs from otherwise incompatible donors. 1965: Australia's first successful (living) kidney transplant (Queen Elizabeth Hospital, SA, Australia)
1966: First successful pancreas transplant by Richard C. Lillehei and William Kelly (Minnesota, US)
1967: First successful liver transplant by Thomas Starzl (Denver, US)
1967: First successful heart transplant by Christian Barnard (Cape Town, South Africa)
1978 Use of ciclosporin in clinical renal transplants
1981 Use of monoclonal antibodies to lymphocytes in organ grafting
1981: First successful heart/lung transplant by Bruce Reitz (Stanford, US)
1983: First successful lung lobe transplant by Joel Cooper at the Toronto General Hospital (Toronto, Canada)
1984: First successful double organ transplant by Thomas Starzl and Henry T. Bahnson (Pittsburgh, US)
1986: First successful double-lung transplant (Ann Harrison) by Joel Cooper at the Toronto General Hospital (Toronto, Canada)
1990: First successful adult segmental living-related liver transplant by Mehmet Haberal (Ankara, Turkey)
1992: First successful combined liver-kidney transplantation from a living-related donor by Mehmet Haberal (Ankara, Turkey)
1995: First successful laparoscopic live-donor nephrectomy by Lloyd Ratner and Louis Kavoussi (Baltimore, US)
1997: First successful allogeneic vascularized transplantation of a fresh and perfused human knee joint by Gunther O. Hofmann
1997: Illinois' first living donor kidney-pancreas transplant and first robotic living donor pancreatectomy in the US. The Transplant Ethics Committee must approve living donor kidney transplants. Ethical concerns
The existence and distribution of organ transplantation procedures in developing countries, while almost always beneficial to those receiving them, raise many ethical concerns. Scientists at the Mayo Clinic report the first successful use of senolytics, a new class of drug with potential anti-aging benefits, to remove senescent cells from human patients with a kidney disease. The generation of such cells may lead to cellular therapies for adult renal disease. Embryonic kidney organoids placed into adult rat kidneys can undergo onward development and vascular development. 
Do provider service networks result in lower expenditures compared with HMOs or primary care case management in Florida's Medicaid program? [SEP] The U.S. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services in Baltimore, Maryland provides federal oversight.Research shows that existence of the Medicaid program improves health outcomes, health insurance coverage, access to health care, and recipients' financial security and provides economic benefits to states and health providers. As of 2014, 26 states have contracts with managed care organizations (MCOs) to deliver long-term care for the elderly and individuals with disabilities. In some states Medicaid is subcontracted to private health insurance companies, while other states pay providers (i.e., doctors, clinics and hospitals) directly. In general, Medicaid plans pay providers significantly less than commercial insurers or Medicare would pay for the same care, paying around 67% as much as Medicare would for primary care and 78% as much for other services. This disparity has been linked to lower provider rates of participation in Medicaid programs vs Medicare or commercial insurance, and thus decreased access to care for Medicaid patients. Medicaid covers a wider range of health care services than Medicare. After the passing of the Affordable Care Act, many dental practices began using dental service organizations to provide business management and support, allowing practices to minimize costs and pass the saving on to patients currently without adequate dental care. Importantly, issues with cost-related unmet medical needs, skipped medications, paying medical bills, and annual out-of-pocket spending have been significantly reduced among low-income adults in Medicaid expansion states compared to non-expansion states.As well, expanded Medicaid has led to a 6.6% increase in physician visits by low-income adults, as well as increased usage of preventative care such as dental visits and cancer screenings among childless, low-income adults. 
Assessment of carotid artery stenosis before coronary artery bypass surgery. Is it always necessary? [SEP] Angiography is more accurate and allows for treatment at the same time; however, it is associated with greater risks.It is unclear if screening for peripheral artery disease in people without symptoms is useful as it has not been properly studied. This includes screening with the ankle-brachial index (ABI), although a systematic review of the literature did not support the use of routine ABI screening in asymptomatic patients.Testing for coronary artery disease or carotid artery disease is of unclear benefit. The following are commonly used techniques:

an ultrasound/doppler study of the carotid arteries (to detect carotid stenosis) or dissection of the precerebral arteries;
an electrocardiogram (ECG) and echocardiogram (to identify arrhythmias and resultant clots in the heart which may spread to the brain vessels through the bloodstream);
a Holter monitor study to identify intermittent abnormal heart rhythms;
an angiogram of the cerebral vasculature (if a bleed is thought to have originated from an aneurysm or arteriovenous malformation);
blood tests to determine if blood cholesterol is high, if there is an abnormal tendency to bleed, and if some rarer processes such as homocystinuria might be involved.For hemorrhagic strokes, a CT or MRI scan with intravascular contrast may be able to identify abnormalities in the brain arteries (such as aneurysms) or other sources of bleeding, and structural MRI if this shows no cause. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends against screening for carotid artery stenosis in those without symptoms. Carotid artery stenting has not been shown to be equally useful. The number of procedures needed to cure one person was 5 for early surgery (within two weeks after the initial stroke), but 125 if delayed longer than 12 weeks.Screening for carotid artery narrowing has not been shown to be a useful test in the general population. Studies of surgical intervention for carotid artery stenosis without symptoms have shown only a small decrease in the risk of stroke. Cardiac CT utilizes special protocols to image heart structure and function with particular emphasis on coronary arteries. 
Should direct mesocolon invasion be included in T4 for the staging of gastric cancer? [SEP] As with most other forms of cancer, tumor staging is based on the TNM system which considers how much the initial tumor has spread and the presence of metastases in lymph nodes and more distant organs. The decision to add chemotherapy in management of colon and rectal cancer depends on the stage of the disease.In Stage I colon cancer, no chemotherapy is offered, and surgery is the definitive treatment. The role of chemotherapy in Stage II colon cancer is debatable, and is usually not offered unless risk factors such as T4 tumor, undifferentiated tumor, vascular and perineural invasion or inadequate lymph node sampling is identified. For stage III and Stage IV colon cancer, chemotherapy is an integral part of treatment.If cancer has spread to the lymph nodes or distant organs, which is the case with stage III and stage IV colon cancer respectively, adding chemotherapy agents fluorouracil, capecitabine or oxaliplatin increases life expectancy. People with a tumor that has not breached the muscularis mucosa (TNM stage Tis, N0, M0) have a five-year survival rate of 100%, while those with invasive cancer of T1 (within the submucosal layer) or T2 (within the muscular layer) have an average five-year survival rate of approximately 90%. Those with a more invasive tumor yet without node involvement (T3-4, N0, M0) have an average five-year survival rate of approximately 70%. A sigmoidoscopy allows an examination of the distal portion (about 600 mm) of the colon, which may be sufficient because benefits to cancer survival of colonoscopy have been limited to the detection of lesions in the distal portion of the colon.A sigmoidoscopy is often used as a screening procedure for a full colonoscopy, often done in conjunction with a stool-based test such as a fecal occult blood test (FOBT), fecal immunochemical test (FIT), or multi-target stool DNA test (Cologuard) or blood-based test, SEPT9 DNA methylation test (Epi proColon). Lymphadenectomy is usually performed through excision of the fatty tissue adjacent to these vessels (mesocolon), in operations for colon cancer. 
Do Surrogates of Injury Severity Influence the Occurrence of Heterotopic Ossification in Fractures of the Acetabulum? [SEP] Major trauma is a severe traumatic injury that has the potential to cause disability or death. Unlike contusions and strains, lacerations are uncommon in sports injuries.Traumatic injury may cause various bone fractures depending on the amount of force, direction of the force, and width of the area affected. Pathologic fractures occur when a previous condition weakens the bone until it can be easily fractured. Stress fractures occur when the bone is overused or suffers under excessive or traumatic pressure, often during athletic activity. Hematomas occur immediately following a bone fracture, and the healing process often takes from six weeks to three months to complete, though continued use of the fractured bone will prevent healing. Serious injuries sometimes require trauma surgery. It is used to define the term major trauma. A major trauma (or polytrauma) is defined as the Injury Severity Score being greater than 15. 
Does pretreatment with statins improve clinical outcome after stroke? [SEP] On average, statins can lower LDL cholesterol by 1.8 mmol/L (70 mg/dL), which translates into an estimated 60% decrease in the number of cardiac events (heart attack, sudden cardiac death) and a 17% reduced risk of stroke after long-term treatment. They have less effect than the fibrates or niacin in reducing triglycerides and raising HDL-cholesterol ("good cholesterol").No studies have examined the effect of statins on cognition in patients with prior stroke. Mortality and adverse cardiovascular events were reduced in statin groups.Older adults who receive statin therapy at time of discharge from the hospital after an inpatient stay have been studied. Over 5 years of treatment statins result in 75 cases of diabetes, 7.5 cases of bleeding stroke, and 5 cases of muscle damage per 10,000 people treated. Because of this, many people stop taking statins, which have been proven in numerous large-scale RCTs to reduce heart attacks, stroke, and deaths – as long as people continue to take them. Myocardial infarction and stroke prevention in people with type 2 diabetesA 2014 meta-analysis showed high-dose statin therapy was significantly superior compared to moderate or low-intensity statin therapy in reducing plaque volume in patients with acute coronary syndrome. Hemodialysis: Although there has been moderate-to-high quality of evidence to show the lack of clear and significant clinical benefits of statins (including atorvastatin at a dose of 20mg)  minimizing non-fatal myocardial infarction, stroke, and cardiovascular mortality in adult patients on haemodialysis (including those with diabetes and/or pre-existing cardiovascular diseases) despite the clinically relevant reduction in total/LDL cholesterol levels,  there is evidence that haemodialysis patients who received moderate intensity statin therapy had a lower risk of all-cause mortality. However, the benefits of statin therapy in preventing fatal and non-fatal stroke, fatal coronary heart disease, and non-fatal myocardial infarction are significant. 
Processing fluency effects: can the content and presentation of participant information sheets influence recruitment and participation for an antenatal intervention? [SEP] Processing fluency is the ease with which information is processed. Research
Research in cognitive neuroscience and psychology has shown that processing fluency influences different kinds of judgments. Repeating the presentation of a stimulus, also known as priming, is one method for enhancing fluency. It was found that the brief flash of stimulus boosted the fluency of the target item. The notion that processing fluency is inherently positive led to the processing fluency theory of aesthetic pleasure, and it has been used to explain people's negative reactions towards migrants, who appear to be more difficult to process than non-migrants.Research relating to processing fluency and product design has shown that when the form of a product is highly unusual, it becomes difficult to process and is viewed less favourably than fluent counterparts. Indeed, people process information more shallowly when processing fluency is high and employ an analytical thinking style when processing fluency is low.A 2010 study demonstrated that the long-known effect of illegible handwriting in an essay on grading is mediated by a lack of processing fluency (and not, for example, negative stereotypes related to illegible writing). Applications
Basic research on processing fluency has been applied to marketing, to business names, and to finance. A presentation conveys information from a speaker to an audience. 
Sternal fracture in growing children : A rare and often overlooked fracture? [SEP] Frances is moderately injured in the blast, but her unborn child remains safe. Nick Andros
A 22-year-old deaf-mute drifter, originally from Caslin, Nebraska, Nick Andros is beaten and robbed outside of (fictional) Shoyo, Arkansas by some local thugs, shortly after the start of the epidemic. In the 1990 revised–expanded edition the injuries occur under different circumstances: Ray Booth, Andros' fourth attacker who escaped arrest but is slowly succumbing to the plague, attacks Andros a second time and nearly blinds him in one eye; panicking, Andros accidentally fires his service weapon before unholstering it and the bullet grazes his leg, causing the limb to become infected. While running from the Powtanville fires, he vaults over a railing and breaks his right wrist; the fracture does not set properly and the injury eventually causes his hand to point away from his body at an almost ninety-degree angle. A series for preschoolers, Little Bill, created by Cosby as a semi-biographical representation of his childhood growing up in Philadelphia, made its debut on Nickelodeon in 1999. As reported in The Washington Times, Cosby "told reporters during a special session of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation's 34th annual legislative conference [that] parenting needs to come to the forefront. Cosby's daughter Ensa died of renal disease on February 23, 2018, while awaiting a kidney transplant. The Cosbys have three grandchildren. 
Is there a correlation between androgens and sexual desire in women? [SEP] In keeping with the correlation between sexual desire and arousal, sexual desire is mediated by gonadal estrogens and androgens.Enhanced focus, concern and attention toward the desired other has not only been associated with increased arousal by means of testosterone, but also with elevated concentrations of central dopamine and norepinephrine, and decreased levels of central serotonin. Androgens, dopamine, oxytocin and centrally acting noradrenaline all influence spontaneous desire by motivating the pursuit of sexual stimuli and promoting increased arousability. Research suggests androgens, such as testosterone, are not sufficient by themselves to prompt sexual motivation in females. However, some research with nonhuman primates suggests a role for androgens in female sexual behaviour. Later studies revealed this diminished sexual receptivity was specific to the elimination of androgens that can be converted to estrogen.It is also suggested that levels of testosterone are related to the type of relationship in which one is involved. In particular, estrogens have been shown to correlate positively with increases in female sexual motivation, and progesterone has been associated with decreases in female sexual motivation. The decline of estrogen and androgen levels is believed to account for the lowered levels of sexual desire and motivation in postmenopausal women, although the direct relationship is not well understood. There is little support for the notion that physiological levels of testosterone are important for sexual desire in women, although supraphysiological levels of testosterone can increase sexual desire in women similarly to the high levels in men. 
Does immediate breast reconstruction compromise the delivery of adjuvant chemotherapy? [SEP] Breast reconstruction may take place at the time of surgery or at a later date. Also, when chemotherapy is being given after birth, many of the drugs pass through breast milk to the baby, which could harm the baby.Regarding future pregnancy among breast cancer survivors, there is often fear of cancer recurrence. Advances in the understanding of the natural course of breast cancer as well as the development of systemic therapies allowed for the use of breast-conserving surgeries, however, the nomenclature of viewing non-surgical management from the viewpoint of the definitive surgery lends to two adjectives connected with treatment timelines: adjuvant (after surgery) and neoadjuvant (before surgery). Radiation therapy
Radiation therapy is an adjuvant treatment for most women who have undergone lumpectomy and for some women who have mastectomy surgery. The use of adjuvant radiation has significant potential effects if the patient has to later undergo breast reconstruction surgery. Traditionally most patients are advised to defer immediate breast reconstruction when adjuvant radiation is planned and are most often recommended surgery involving autologous tissue reconstruction rather than breast implants. This work validated the effectiveness of breast conservation as an equivalent to mastectomy with regard to distant disease and local control and substantiated the need for radiation therapy and complete excision of the primary and established the acceptance of breast conservation therapy for breast cancer.Elderly women with breast cancer were reviewed and, although it was standard of care to perform mastectomy, Rosenberg's work, along with others at Jefferson University Hospital, confirmed that elderly women could be effectively treated with breast conservation and should be offered all surgical options, as the new standard of care.Introduction of neo-adjuvant chemotherapy also changes the standard of care for a more advanced stage, but localized breast cancers as 80% of women had a response to chemotherapy. This work changed the delivery of breast radiation by showing the complications from excessive boost radiation and also the reduced tumor recurrence when radiation was used. 
Human papillomavirus and pterygium. Is the virus a risk factor? [SEP] Human papillomavirus infection (HPV infection) is caused by a DNA virus from the Papillomaviridae family. Penile cancer
HPV is associated with approximately 50% of penile cancers. This was higher than previous estimates; 15.2% were infected with one or more of the high-risk types that can cause cancer.The prevalence for high-risk and low-risk types is roughly similar over time.Human papillomavirus is not included among the diseases that are typically reportable to the CDC as of 2011. History
In 1972, the association of the human papillomaviruses with skin cancer in epidermodysplasia verruciformis was proposed by Stefania Jabłońska in Poland. In 1976 Harald zur Hausen published the hypothesis that human papilloma virus plays an important role in the cause of cervical cancer. "Chapter 18a: Human papillomavirus (HPV)". "Chapter 11: Human Papillomavirus". In advanced cases the pterygium can affect vision as it invades the cornea with the potential of obscuring the optical center of the cornea and inducing astigmatism and corneal scarring. 
Can PRISM predict length of PICU stay? [SEP] PRISM is a code name for a program under which the United States National Security Agency (NSA) collects internet communications from various U.S. internet companies. Programs sharing the name PRISM
Besides the information collection program started in 2007, there are two other programs sharing the name PRISM:
The Planning tool for Resource Integration, Synchronization and Management (PRISM), a web tool used by US military intelligence to send tasks and instructions to data collection platforms deployed to military operations. "PRISM-Proof Security Considerations". "Everything you need to know about PRISM (press compilation)". Source of PRISM logo. Psychiatric Intensive Care Units or PICUs are specialist twenty-four hour inpatient wards that provide intensive assessment and comprehensive treatment to individuals during the most acute phase of a serious mental illness. 2014 guidance says that the maximum length of stay should be 8 weeks. PICUs are locked and more secure wards, and have a low patient capacity when compared to open psychiatric wards. 
Can predilatation in transcatheter aortic valve implantation be omitted? [SEP] Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR), also known as transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI), percutaneous aortic valve implantation (PAVI) or percutaneous aortic valve replacement (PAVR), is the replacement of the aortic valve of the heart through the blood vessels (as opposed to valve replacement by open heart surgery, surgical aortic valve replacement, SAVR). Implantation
The devices are implanted without open heart surgery. A larger incision in the groin may be required in some circumstances.The transapical approach sees the catheter and valve inserted through the tip of the heart and into the left ventricle. The puncture in the heart is then sutured shut.The transaortic approach sees the catheter and valve inserted through the top of the right chest. Once the wire is across, a large tube is used to place the transcatheter heart valve through the femoral vein and inferior vena cava into the aorta and from there the heart. "2017 ACC Expert Consensus Decision Pathway for Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement in the Management of Adults with Aortic Stenosis". "Percutaneous valve implantation: back to the future?". Traditionally, this has been a surgical procedure (surgical AVR or SAVR) but a non-surgical option called transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) or TAVI transcatheter aortic valve implantation delivers a prosthetic valve through a catheter. 
Autoerotic asphyxiation: secret pleasure--lethal outcome? [SEP] Erotic asphyxiation can lead to accidental death due to asphyxia. History
Historically, the practice of autoerotic asphyxiation has been documented since the early 17th century. Sergey Sheleg, Edwin Ehrlich: Autoerotic Asphyxiation: Forensic, Medical, and Social Aspects, Wheatmark (15 August 2006), trade paperback, 208 pages ISBN 1587366045 ISBN 978-1587366048
John Money, Gordon Wainwright and David Hingsburger: The Breathless Orgasm: A Lovemap Biography of Asphyxiophilia. "An Objective Overview of Autoerotic Fatalities"
The Medical Realities of Breath Control Play By Jay Wiseman
Is there a safe way to perform autoerotic asphyxiation? Erotic asphyxiation can lead to accidental death due to asphyxia. History
Historically, the practice of autoerotic asphyxiation has been documented since the early 17th century. Sergey Sheleg, Edwin Ehrlich: Autoerotic Asphyxiation: Forensic, Medical, and Social Aspects, Wheatmark (15 August 2006), trade paperback, 208 pages ISBN 1587366045 ISBN 978-1587366048
John Money, Gordon Wainwright and David Hingsburger: The Breathless Orgasm: A Lovemap Biography of Asphyxiophilia. "An Objective Overview of Autoerotic Fatalities"
The Medical Realities of Breath Control Play By Jay Wiseman
Is there a safe way to perform autoerotic asphyxiation? 
Major depression and alcohol use disorder in adolescence: Does comorbidity lead to poorer outcomes of depression? [SEP] Alcoholism can have adverse effects on mental health, contributing to psychiatric disorders and increasing the risk of suicide. A depressed mood is a common symptom of heavy alcohol drinkers. Psychiatric
Long-term misuse of alcohol can cause a wide range of mental health problems. Psychiatric disorders are common in people with alcohol use disorders, with as many as 25% also having severe psychiatric disturbances. Panic disorder can develop or worsen as a direct result of long-term alcohol misuse.The co-occurrence of major depressive disorder and alcoholism is well documented. Women who have alcohol-use disorders often have a co-occurring psychiatric diagnosis such as major depression, anxiety, panic disorder, bulimia, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), or borderline personality disorder. Alcohol's primary effect is the increase in stimulation of the GABAA receptor, promoting central nervous system depression. These genetic and epigenetic results are regarded as consistent with large longitudinal population studies finding that the younger the age of drinking onset, the greater the prevalence of lifetime alcohol dependence.Severe childhood trauma is also associated with a general increase in the risk of drug dependency. 
Cold preparation use in young children after FDA warnings: do concerns still exist? [SEP] In 2009, the FDA advised consumers to stop using three discontinued cold remedy Zicam products because it could cause permanent damage to users' sense of smell. In 2016 the FDA issued a safety alert to consumers warning against the use of homeopathic teething gels and tablets following reports of adverse events after their use. Accidental exposures in pediatric patients include ingesting e-liquids and inhaling e-cigarette vapors. The FDA intends to develop product standards around concerns about children's exposure to liquid nicotine. The nicotine in e-liquid can be hazardous to infants. They recommend for children old enough to understand, explain to them that these products can be dangerous and should not be touched. The FDA states to tell kids that adults are the only people who should handle these products.As part of ongoing efforts to protect youth from the dangers of nicotine and tobacco products, the US FDA and the Federal Trade Commission announced on May 1, 2018, they issued 13 warning letters to manufacturers, distributors, and retailers for selling e-liquids used in e-cigarettes with labeling and/or advertising that cause them to resemble kid-friendly food products, such as juice boxes, candy or cookies, some of them with cartoon-like imagery. It is safe to administer vaccines to well-appearing children who are mildly ill with the common cold. 
Does a 4 diagram manual enable laypersons to operate the Laryngeal Mask Supreme®? [SEP] Diagrams may also be classified according to use or purpose, for example, explanatory and/or how to diagrams. Digital diagrams. The book comes with a 3-page foldout of a seven-bit cylindrical Venn diagram.) Manual may refer to:

Instructions
User guide
Owner's manual
Instruction manual (gaming)
Online help

Other uses
Manual (music), a keyboard, as for an organ
Manual (band)
Manual transmission
Manual, a bicycle technique similar to a wheelie, but without the use of pedal torque
Manual, balancing on two wheels in freestyle skateboarding tricks
The Manual (How to Have a Number One the Easy Way) is a 1988 book by Bill Drummond and Jimmy Cauty

See also
Instructions (disambiguation)
Tutorial Overview
A manual transmission requires the driver to operate the gear stick and clutch in order to change gears (unlike an automatic transmission or semi-automatic transmission, where one (typically the clutch) or both of these functions are automated). Professor of psychiatry Norman E. Rosenthal writes that during the training given by a certified TM teacher, "each student is assigned a specific mantra or sound, with instructions on its proper use". : 148–149 : p 134  Except for a requirement to refrain from using non-prescription drugs for 15 days before learning TM, all who want to learn are taught provided they can pay the course fee which as of 2023, ranges from $420 for students to $980 for members of households with incomes of $200,000 or more. According to the Maharishi his technique requires no preparation, is simple to do, and can be learned by anyone. 
Can we measure mesopic pupil size with the cobalt blue light slit-lamp biomicroscopy method? [SEP] Due to this deficiency, the CIE established a special technical committee (TC 1-58) for collecting the results of mesopic visual performance research.Two very similar measurement systems were created to bridge the scotopic and photopic luminous efficiency functions, creating a unified system of photometry. The binocular slit-lamp examination provides a stereoscopic magnified view of the eye structures in detail, enabling anatomical diagnoses to be made for a variety of eye conditions. Illuminations
Various methods of slitlamp illumination are required to obtain full advantage of slit-lamp biomicroscope. It is used to see endothelial outline of cornea. With the slit lamp, however, direct observation of the fundus is impossible due to the refractive power of the ocular media. Cobalt blue- after staining with fluorescein dye, for seeing corneal ulcers, contact lens fitting, Seidel's test

Cobalt blue light
Slit lamps produce light of the wavelength 450 to 500 nm, known as "cobalt blue". References
Further reading

Vivino MA, Chintalagiri S, Trus B, Dati.les M., "Development of a Scheimpflug slit lamp camera system for quantitative densitometric analysis", Computer Systems Laboratory, National Eye Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892. 109-128 Slit Lamp Biomicroscopy, SLACK Incorporated, ISBN 978-1-55642-755-8, published 2006. 
Should circumcision be performed in childhood? [SEP] Religious circumcision generally occurs shortly after birth, during childhood, or around puberty as part of a rite of passage. Jewish law states that circumcision is a mitzva aseh ("positive commandment" to perform an act) and is obligatory for Jewish-born males and for non-circumcised Jewish male converts. In many West African traditional societies circumcision has become medicalised and is simply performed in infancy without ado or any particular conscious cultural significance. Circumcision is generally electively performed, most commonly done as a form of preventive healthcare, as a religious obligation, or as a cultural practice. The American Academy of Pediatrics and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention stated that the benefits of circumcision outweigh the risks.Similarly, the World Health Organization in 2010 stated:
There are significant benefits in performing male circumcision in early infancy, and programmes that promote early infant male circumcision are likely to have lower morbidity rates and lower costs than programmes targeting adolescent boys and men. In some cultures, males are generally required to be circumcised shortly after birth, during childhood or around puberty as part of a rite of passage. For Muslims, circumcision is also a matter of cleanliness, purification and control over one's baser self (nafs).There is no agreement across the many Islamic communities about the age at which circumcision should be performed. The religious circumcision of minors is legal in every polity.No major medical organization recommends circumcising all males, and no major medical organization recommends banning the procedure. 
Does a colonoscopy after acute diverticulitis affect its management? [SEP] However, a complete colonoscopy with entry into the terminal ileum should be performed to rule out Crohn's disease, and assess extent and severity of disease. Acute severe ulcerative colitis requires hospitalisation, exclusion of infections, and corticosteroids.For acute stages of the disease, a low fiber diet may be recommended. Surgery is also indicated for people with severe colitis or toxic megacolon. Screening for colon cancer with colonoscopy is recommended for anyone who has had Crohn's colitis for at least eight years.Some studies suggest there is a role for chemoprotection in the prevention of colorectal cancer in Crohn's involving the colon; two agents have been suggested, folate and mesalamine preparations. A positive result should be followed by colonoscopy. A common disorder of the bowel is diverticulitis. Diverticula are small pouches that can form inside the bowel wall, which can become inflamed to give diverticulitis. This disease can have complications if an inflamed diverticulum bursts and infection sets in. 
Do instrumental activities of daily living predict dementia at 1- and 2-year follow-up? [SEP] Good nutrition, physical activity, and engaging socially are known to be of benefit generally in aging, and these may help in reducing the risk of cognitive decline and Alzheimer's; in 2019 clinical trials were underway to look at these possibilities. In probable Alzheimer's disease dementia there is steady impairment of cognition over time and a memory-related or non-memory-related cognitive dysfunction. Lifestyle
Certain lifestyle activities, such as physical and cognitive exercises, higher education and occupational attainment, cigarette smoking, stress, sleep, and the management of other comorbidities, including diabetes and hypertension, may affect the risk of developing Alzheimer's.Physical exercise is associated with a decreased rate of dementia, and is effective in reducing symptom severity in those with AD. Meeting the WHO recommendations for physical activity is associated with a lower risk of AD.Higher education and occupational attainment, and participation in leisure activities, contribute to a reduced risk of developing Alzheimer's, or of delaying the onset of symptoms. A definitive diagnosis is usually made once cognitive impairment compromises daily living activities, although the person may still be living independently. The symptoms will progress from mild cognitive problems, such as memory loss through increasing stages of cognitive and non-cognitive disturbances, eliminating any possibility of independent living, especially in the late stages of the disease.Life expectancy of people with Alzheimer's disease is reduced. Research directions
Additional research on the lifestyle effect may provide insight into neuroimaging biomarkers and better understanding of the mechanisms causing both Alzheimer's disease and early-onset AD. Dementia
A decrease in IQ has also been shown as an early predictor of late-onset Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia. 
Does the Simultaneous Use of a Neuroendoscope Influence the Incidence of Ventriculoperitoneal Shunt Infection? [SEP] Craniotomies are often critical operations, performed on patients who are suffering from brain lesions, such as tumors, blood clots, removal of foreign bodies such as bullets, or traumatic brain injury (TBI), and can also allow doctors to surgically implant devices, such as deep brain stimulators for the treatment of Parkinson's disease, epilepsy, and cerebellar tremor. Complications
Bacterial meningitis or viral meningitis occurs in about 0.8 to 1.5% of individuals undergoing craniotomy. According to the Journal of Neurosurgery, Infections in patients undergoing craniotomy: risk factors associated with post-craniotomy meningitis, their clinical studies indicated that "the risk for meningitis was independently associated with perioperative steroid use and ventricular drainage". At least 40% of patients became susceptible to at least one infection, creating more interconnected risk factors along the way. From the Infectious Diseases Clinic Erasme Hospital, there had been reports of infections initially beginning from either the time of surgery, skin intrusion, hematogenous seeding, or retrograde infections. Cerebrospinal fluid shunt (CSF) associates with the risk of meningitis due to the following factors: pre-shunt associated infections, post-operative CSF leakage, lack of experience from the neurosurgeon, premature birth/young age, advanced age, shunt revisions for dysfunction, and neuroendoscopes. The way shunts are operated on each patient relies heavily on the cleanliness of the site. Aside from scratching, decubitus ulcer and tissues near the shunt site are also leading pathways for infection susceptibility.It is also common to give patients seven days of anti-seizure medications post operatively. 
Body perception: do parents, their children, and their children's physicians perceive body image differently? [SEP] Due to social media’s expectations, a factor of why individuals have body dysmorphia can come from women comparing themselves with media images of ideal female attractiveness, a perceived discrepancy between their actual attractiveness and the media’s standard of attractiveness is likely to result. Furthermore, it appears that Caucasian women show higher rates of body dissatisfaction than women of different ethnic backgrounds and societies.Socio-cultural models depict and emphasise the way thinness is valued, and beauty is obsessed over in Western culture, where advertising, marketing and social media play a large role in manicuring the ‘perfect’ body shape, size and look. Advertising also supports a specific ideal body image and creates a social capital in how individuals can acquire this ideal.However, personal attitudes towards the body do vary cross-culturally. This is evident in a comparative study of body image, body perception, body satisfaction, body-related self-esteem and overall self-esteem of German, Guatemalan Q’eqchi’ and Colombian women. Body image
There are many different factors that affect body image, "including sex, media, parental relationship, and puberty as well as weight and popularity". Body image is closely linked to psychological well-being during adolescence and can cause harmful effects when a child has body dissatisfaction. In the article "Body Image and Psychological Well-Being in Adolescents: The Relationship between Gender and School Type", Helen Winfield explains that an adolescent's high school experience is closely linked to their perceived body image. Due to these findings, it is shown that these body image issues are especially prevalent in girls but as boys enter puberty, expectations of height and muscle mass change as well. 
Is a specialised training of phonological awareness indicated in every preschool child? [SEP] However, these other phonological abilities are prerequisite to the development of phonological awareness. The acquisition of phonological awareness skills does not progress in a linear sequence; rather, children continue to refine skills they have acquired while they learn new skills.The development of phonological awareness is closely tied to overall language and speech development. Phonological awareness skills in the preschool and kindergarten years also strongly predict how well a child will read in the school years. Students in primary education sometimes learn phonological awareness in the context of literacy activities, particularly phonemic awareness. Phonological Awareness, Second Edition: From Research to Practice. It recommends that phonics be taught in a systematic and structured way and is preceded by training in phonological awareness. This supports current standard practice in the UK which includes developing children's phonemic awareness in preschool and teaching reading from age four. It recommends that phonics be taught in a systematic and structured way and is preceded by training in phonological awareness. 
Is there any relationship between streptococcal infection and multiple sclerosis? [SEP] Multiple sclerosis
Several studies have looked for an association between recombinant hepatitis B vaccine and multiple sclerosis (MS) in adults. Most studies do not support a causal relationship between hepatitis B vaccination and demyelinating diseases such as MS. A 2004 study reported a significant increase in risk within three years of vaccination. Microbes
Psoriasis has been described as occurring after strep throat, and may be worsened by skin or gut colonization with Staphylococcus aureus, Malassezia spp., and Candida albicans. Few studies have evaluated the association of multiple sclerosis with psoriasis, and the relationship has been questioned. Both OCD and tic disorders are hypothesized to arise in a subset of children as a result of a post-streptococcal autoimmune process. Following this determination, the vaccine court has routinely dismissed such suits, finding no causal effect between the MMR vaccine and autism.Many studies have failed to conclude that there is a causal link between autism spectrum disorders and vaccines, and the current scientific consensus is that routine childhood vaccines are not linked to the development of autism. Other rulings have allowed petitioners to gain awards for claims that the MMR vaccine causes fibromyalgia, that the Hib vaccine causes transverse myelitis, and that the hepatitis B vaccine causes Guillain–Barré syndrome, chronic demyelinating polyneuropathy, and multiple sclerosis. In the most extreme of these cases, a 2006 petitioner successfully claimed that a hepatitis B vaccine caused her multiple sclerosis despite several studies showing that the vaccine neither causes nor worsens the disease, and despite a conclusion by the Institute of Medicine that evidence favors rejection of a causal relationship.In 2008 the federal government settled a case brought to the vaccine court by the family of Hannah Poling, a girl who developed autistic-like symptoms after receiving a series of vaccines in a single day. 
Is the combination with 2-methoxyestradiol able to reduce the dosages of chemotherapeutices in the treatment of human ovarian cancer? [SEP] 2-Methoxyestradiol (2-ME2, 2-MeO-E2) is a natural metabolite of estradiol and 2-hydroxyestradiol (2-OHE2). It is specifically the 2-methyl ether of 2-hydroxyestradiol. 2-Methoxyestradiol prevents the formation of new blood vessels that tumors need in order to grow (angiogenesis), hence it is an angiogenesis inhibitor. 2-Methoxyestradiol is derived from estradiol, although it interacts poorly with the estrogen receptors (2,000-fold lower activational potency relative to estradiol). A phase II trial of 18 advanced ovarian cancer patients reported encouraging results in October 2007.Preclinical models also suggest that 2-methoxyestradiol could also be effective against inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis. Several studies have been conducted showing 2-methoxyestradiol is a microtubule inhibitor and is inhibitory against prostate cancer in rodents.As of 2015, all clinical development of 2-methoxyestradiol has been suspended or discontinued. Clinical effects
2-Methoxyestradiol was found to increase sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) levels in men by 2.5-fold at a dose of 400 mg/day and by 4-fold at a dose of 1,200 mg/day. Methoxyestradiol may refer to:

2-Methoxyestradiol
4-Methoxyestradiol
11β-Methoxyestradiol 
Assessing joint line positions by means of the contralateral knee: a new approach for planning knee revision surgery? [SEP] The anterior approach has been shown in studies to variably improve early functional recovery, with possible complications of femoral component loosening and early revision compared to other approaches. Configuration
Post-operative projectional radiography is routinely performed to ensure proper configuration of hip prostheses. In humans and other primates, the knee joins the thigh with the leg and consists of two joints: one between the femur and tibia (tibiofemoral joint), and one between the femur and patella (patellofemoral joint). The knee is a modified hinge joint, which permits flexion and extension as well as slight internal and external rotation. The knee is vulnerable to injury and to the development of osteoarthritis. Structure
The knee is a modified hinge joint, a type of synovial joint, which is composed of three functional compartments: the patellofemoral articulation, consisting of the patella, or "kneecap", and the patellar groove on the front of the femur through which it slides; and the medial and lateral tibiofemoral articulations linking the femur, or thigh bone, with the tibia, the main bone of the lower leg. The posterolateral corner of the knee is an area that has recently been the subject of renewed scrutiny and research.The knee is the largest joint and one of the most important joints in the body. The anterior approach has been shown in studies to variably improve early functional recovery, with possible complications of femoral component loosening and early revision compared to other approaches. 
Does the type of tibial component affect mechanical alignment in unicompartmental knee replacement? [SEP] Robotic-assisted knee replacements take into account both mechanical axis and soft-tissue balancing in order to assist the surgeon in placement of a knee replacement. A minority of people with osteoarthritis have wear primarily in one compartment, usually the medial, and may be candidates for unicompartmental knee replacement. Robotic-assisted knee replacements take into account both mechanical axis and soft-tissue balancing in order to assist the surgeon in placement of a knee replacement. A minority of people with osteoarthritis have wear primarily in one compartment, usually the medial, and may be candidates for unicompartmental knee replacement. As the tibia condyles articulate with the femur (thigh bone) to form knee joint, any incongruity in the articular surface is unacceptable as it leads to early arthritis. Robotic-assisted knee replacements take into account both mechanical axis and soft-tissue balancing in order to assist the surgeon in placement of a knee replacement. A minority of people with osteoarthritis have wear primarily in one compartment, usually the medial, and may be candidates for unicompartmental knee replacement. Finally, the surgeon will close the wound with sutures.The unicompartmental replacement is a minimally invasive option for people whose arthritis is isolated to either the medial or the lateral compartment. 
Is tumour expression of VEGF associated with venous invasion and survival in pT3 renal cell carcinoma? [SEP] Vasculature
80–90% of cancer are carcinomas, or cancers that form from epithelial tissue. Angiogenesis is upregulated to feed the cancer cells, and as a result the vasculature formed differs from that of normal tissue. CAFs perform several functions that support tumor growth, such as secreting vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), fibroblast growth factors (FGFs), platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), and other pro-angiogenic signals to induce angiogenesis. It can also provide passage for endothelial cells to complete angiogenesis to the tumor site. This is not the case with colorectal cancer; an increased frequency of Treg cells may suppress inflammation mediated by the gut flora, which promotes tumor growth.In ovarian cancer elevated VEGF levels and expression of the immune regulatory ligand B7H3 (CD276), or the endothelin B receptor (ETBR) on tumor vessels correlate with decreased T cell infiltration and worse clinical outcome. Anti-angiogenic inhibitors targeting VEGF and its receptor VEGFR2 (approved for treatment of multiple cancers) induce vascular normalization. VEGF impairs DC maturation, offering another means to enhance intratumoral immune responses. These drugs can also affect blood vessel growth, an essential process that tumours utilise in order to grow and metastasise.Vinca alkaloids are derived from the Madagascar periwinkle, Catharanthus roseus, formerly known as Vinca rosea. 
Injury and poisoning mortality among young men--are there any common factors amenable to prevention? [SEP] It is estimated that 150 to 200 deaths and 15 to 20 liver transplants occur as a result of poisoning each year in England and Wales. From the available data, carbon monoxide poisoning is the most common cause of injury and death due to poisoning worldwide. Alcohol is a major risk factor for self-harm. Some of the causes of deliberate self-poisoning in Sri Lankan adolescents included bereavement and harsh discipline by parents. In the US, pesticide poisoning is used in about 12 suicides per year.Method restriction has been an effective way to reduce suicide by poisoning in many countries. Traumatic injury is the leading cause of death in people under the age of 45.Blunt trauma injuries are caused by the forceful impact of an external object. Risk factors include being very young or old, a weakened immune system from conditions such as cancer or diabetes, major trauma, and burns. Common sepsis risk factors include age (especially the very young and old); conditions that weaken the immune system such as cancer, diabetes, or the absence of a spleen; and major trauma and burns.From 1979 to 2000, data from the United States National Hospital Discharge Survey showed that the incidence of sepsis increased fourfold, to 240 cases per 100,000 population, with a higher incidence in men when compared to women. 
Continuation of pregnancy after antenatal corticosteroid administration: opportunity for rescue? [SEP] Levels of progesterone and estrogens rise continually throughout pregnancy, suppressing the hypothalamic axis and therefore the menstrual cycle. Medication
Drugs used during pregnancy can have temporary or permanent effects on the fetus. If administered early in the pregnancy, methotrexate terminates the growth of the developing embryo; this may cause an abortion, or the developing embryo may then be either resorbed by the woman's body or pass with a menstrual period. Pharmacology
Corticosteroids act as agonists of the glucocorticoid receptor and/or the mineralocorticoid receptor. Adverse effects
Use of corticosteroids has numerous side-effects, some of which may be severe:

Severe amebic colitis: Fulminant amebic colitis is associated with high case fatality and can occur in patients infected with the parasite Entamoeba histolytica after exposure to corticosteroid medications. Pregnancy: Corticosteroids have a low but significant teratogenic effect, causing a few birth defects per 1,000 pregnant women treated. Corticosteroids are therefore contraindicated in pregnancy. Thus a corticosteroid is a "cortex steroid". 
Does either obesity or OSA severity influence the response of autotitrating CPAP machines in very obese subjects? [SEP] Evidence suggests that CPAP may improve sensitivity to insulin, blood pressure, and sleepiness. The recent epidemic increase of obesity prevalence has thus contributed to changes in the prevalence and in the characteristics of pediatric OSA, the severity of OSA being proportional to the degree of obesity.Obesity leads to the narrowing of upper airway structure due to fatty infiltration and fat deposits in the anterior neck region and cervical structures. Obese people show an increase in neck fat tissue which potentiate respiratory obstruction during sleep.However, people of all ages and sex with normal body mass indices (BMIs) can also demonstrate OSA – and these people do not have significant measures of subdermal or intra neck fat as shown on DEXA scans. CPAP therapy can lead to an improvement of some of the cardiovascular component of the metabolic syndrome while weight loss is also recommended for its positive effects on OSA consequences and metabolic dysfunctions. Automatic positive airway pressure, also known as "Auto CPAP", incorporates pressure sensors and monitors the person's breathing. A 5% reduction in weight among those with moderate to severe OSA may decrease symptoms similarly to CPAP.Encouraging people with moderate to severe OSA to use CPAP devices can be challenging as their use often requires a behavioural change in sleeping habits. Moreover, a higher BMI is also linked to a higher prevalence of OSA, where a 10% increase in body weight led to a 6-fold risk of OSA in obese men and women.However, OSA is underdiagnosed as it is not always accompanied by daytime sleepiness which can leave the sleep-disordered breathing unnoticed. CRP and interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels were significantly higher in patients with OSA compared to obese control subjects. 
Does the clinical presentation of a prior preterm birth predict risk in a subsequent pregnancy? [SEP] Maternal factors
Risk factors in the mother have been identified that are linked to a higher risk of a preterm birth. An intra- and transgenerational increase in the risk of preterm delivery has been demonstrated. Certain medical conditions in the pregnant mother may also increase the risk of preterm birth. Anxiety and depression have been linked as risk factors for preterm birth.The use of tobacco, cocaine, and excessive alcohol during pregnancy increases the chance of preterm delivery. Babies with birth defects are at higher risk of being born preterm.Passive smoking and/or smoking before the pregnancy influences the probability of a preterm birth. Genetics
There is believed to be a maternal genetic component in preterm birth. Prenatal care
The absence of prenatal care has been associated with higher rates of preterm births. Reducing existing risks
Women are identified to be at increased risk for preterm birth on the basis of their past obstetrical history or the presence of known risk factors. 
Is the Distance Worth It? [SEP] Close to three-fourths of the mileage was in the Dallas–Fort Worth area, running between Fort Worth and Dallas and to other area cities including Cleburne, Denison, Corsicana, and Waco. In 1953, Fort Worth transferred its commercial flights from Meacham Field to the new airport, which was 12 miles (19 km) from Dallas Love Field. This was formerly the distance for college basketball as well. The international distance, used in most countries outside the United States, as well as in FIBA and NCAA competition, is currently 6.6 m (21.65 ft) to 6.75 m (22.15 ft). The original distance of I-20 was 647 miles (1,041 km) from I-10 to the Louisiana border, reduced to the current distance of 636 miles (1,024 km) with the rerouting of I-20 in the 1980s and 1990s. Points with a large Cook's distance are considered to merit closer examination in the analysis. A £30,000 prize was offered to any competitor completing the distance. However,  Elkins claimed that video footage showed he had exceeded the distance. 
Aripiprazole: a new risk factor for pathological gambling? [SEP] Major depression
Aripiprazole is an effective add-on treatment for major depressive disorder; however, there is a greater rate of side effects such as weight gain and movement disorders. Depending on the dose, aripiprazole can increase impulse control issues in a small percentage of people. A high rate of adverse effects with aripiprazole such as weight gain, sedation, and headache was noted. Substance dependence
Aripiprazole has been studied for the treatment of amphetamine dependence and other substance use disorders, but more research is needed to support aripiprazole for these potential uses. As such, aripiprazole may not only be ineffective but potentially harmful for treatment of amphetamine dependence, and caution is warranted with regard to its use for such purposes. Pathological gambling
Pathological gambling is classified as a mental health disorder that has been linked to obsessive-compulsive spectrum disorder and behavioral addiction. The role between dopamine and pathological gambling may be a link between cerebrospinal fluid measures of dopamine and dopamine metabolites in pathological gambling. Molecular genetic study shows that pathological gambling is associated with the TaqA1 allele of the Dopamine Receptor D2 (DRD2) dopamine receptor. 
Immune suppression by lysosomotropic amines and cyclosporine on T-cell responses to minor and major histocompatibility antigens: does synergy exist? [SEP] Ciclosporin binds to the cytosolic protein cyclophilin (immunophilin) of lymphocytes, especially of T cells. Cytotoxic CD8+ T cells
Cytotoxic T cells (TC cells, CTLs, T-killer cells, killer T cells) destroy virus-infected cells and tumor cells, and are also implicated in transplant rejection. Cytotoxic T cells recognize their targets by binding to short peptides (8-11 amino acids in length) associated with MHC class I molecules, present on the surface of all nucleated cells. They trigger rapid immune responses, regardless of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) expression, unlike their conventional counterparts (CD4 T helper cells and CD8 cytotoxic T cells), which are dependent on the recognition of peptide antigens in the context of the MHC molecule. Histocompatibility, or tissue compatibility, is the property of having the same, or sufficiently similar, alleles of a set of genes called human leukocyte antigens (HLA), or major histocompatibility complex (MHC). Histocompatibility testing is most relevant for topics related to whole organ, tissue, or stem cell transplants, where the similarity or difference between the donor's HLA alleles and the recipient's triggers the immune system to reject the transplant. Histocompatibility has a measurable effect on whole organ transplantation, increasing life expectancy of both the patient and organ. Some transplanted tissue is not exposed to T cells that could detect foreign MHC molecules, such as corneas, and thus histocompatibility is not a factor in transplantation. 
Does induction chemotherapy have a role in the management of nasopharyngeal carcinoma? [SEP] Nasopharynx
Nasopharyngeal cancer arises in the nasopharynx, the region in which the nasal cavities and the Eustachian tubes connect with the upper part of the throat. Epstein–Barr virus
Epstein–Barr virus (EBV) infection is associated with nasopharyngeal cancer. Nasopharyngeal cancer has also been associated with consumption of salted fish, which may contain high levels of nitrites. More recently, as historical survival and control rates are recognized as less than satisfactory, there has been an emphasis on the use of various induction or concomitant chemotherapy regimens. Surgery
Surgery as a treatment is frequently used in most types of head and neck cancer. Research
Immunotherapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors is being investigated in head and neck cancers. Very often, this is combined with chemotherapy. In the treatment of nasopharyngeal, oropharyngeal and hypopharyngeal carcinomas VMAT provides equivalent or better protection of the organ at risk (OAR). 
Treatment of contralateral hydrocele in neonatal testicular torsion: Is less more? [SEP] Testicular torsion
Orchiopexy is performed in the event of testicular torsion, a urologic emergency presenting with intense pain and often without inciting injury.While neonatal torsion occurs with no anatomic defect to account for its occurrence (occurring in utero or shortly after birth), adult torsion results from a bilateral congenital anomaly often called a "bell-clapper deformity", where the testis is abnormally anchored in the scrotal sac, leading to increased mobility.Twisting of the spermatic cord results in obstruction of the testicular venous drainage. Secondary hydroceles
Secondary hydroceles due to testicular diseases can be the result of cancer, trauma (such as a hernia), or orchitis (inflammation of testis), and can also occur in infants undergoing peritoneal dialysis. Acute/chronic epididymo-orchitis
Torsion of testis
Testicular tumor
Hematocele
Filarial hydrocele
Post herniorrhaphy
Hydrocele of an hernial sac

Infantile hydroceles
It does not occur only in infants but it occurs in adults also, a hydrocele is usually an expression of a patent processus vaginalis (PPV). In young children a hydrocele is often associated with a complete congenital type of hernial sac. Hydroceles that persist after the first year or occur later in life require treatment only in selected cases, such as patients who are symptomatic with pain or a pressure sensation, or when the scrotal skin integrity is compromised from chronic irritation; the treatment of choice is surgery and the operation is conducted via an open access technique aiming to excise the hydrocele sac. A primary hydrocele testis causes a painless enlargement in the scrotum on the affected side and is thought to be due to the defective absorption of fluid secreted between the two layers of the tunica vaginalis (investing membrane). Indirect inguinal hernia indicates increased risk of hydrocele testis. Congenital hydrocele testis results when the processus vaginalis remains, allowing fluid from the peritoneum to accumulate in the scrotum. 
Are normally sighted, visually impaired, and blind pedestrians accurate and reliable at making street crossing decisions? [SEP] update in better distinguishing blind person vs. non-blind person so that the vehicle will take extra caution when approaching a blind person). The study found that, in the absence of someone in the driving seat, pedestrians trust certain visual prompts more than others when deciding whether to cross the road. For example, whether one should have reasonably foreseen that a road was not assuredly clear past 75–100 meters because of tractors or livestock which commonly emerge from encroaching blinding vegetation is on occasion dependent on societal experience within the locale. In certain urban environments, a straight, traffic-less, through-street may not necessarily be assuredly clear past the entrance of the nearest visually obstructed intersection as law. See Table of safe speed versus horizontal line-of-sight

ACDA: intersectional setback
This third case regards safe speed around un-signalized intersections where a driver on an uncontrolled through street has a duty to slow down in crossing an intersection and permit controlled drivers to be able pass through the intersection without danger of collision. Jurisdictional exceptions permitting one to legally take "assurance" that the distance will be clear beyond the proximate edge of clear visibility and choose such a speed accordingly, transfers classic common law liability from that driver for his or her "blind" actions. The ACDA minimum standard gives fair notice of what conduct is prohibited, and people of ordinary intelligence can apply their braking experience or the seconds of distance to stop rule to the distance they can see; once one is allowed to cruise-on without control beyond the edge of visibility, there is little consensus on what arbitrary speed is unsafe, or what to assume of the vague conditions there-past.To be able to guarantee "assurance" beyond proximate edge of clear visibility, in doing so exempting ACDA duty, a road must be designed and maintained such that there is not a chance of obstruction in one's lane beyond the proximate edge of clear visibility. "Application of "assured clear distance ahead" or "radius of lights" doctrine to accident involving pedestrian crossing the street or highway". 
Is it Crohn's disease? [SEP] Crohn's disease is a type of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) that may affect any segment of the gastrointestinal tract. While Crohn's is an immune-related disease, it does not appear to be an autoimmune disease (the immune system is not triggered by the body itself). Systemic
Like many other chronic, inflammatory diseases, Crohn's disease can cause a variety of systemic symptoms. Genetics
Crohn's has a genetic component. Classification
Crohn's disease is one type of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). External links
"Crohn's disease". Crohn's disease is a type of inflammatory bowel disease that may affect any part of the gastrointestinal tract from mouth to anus, causing a wide variety of symptoms. paratuberculosis, which may be a cause of Crohn's disease. 
Is Chaalia/Pan Masala harmful for health? [SEP] Potential issues
A number of health issues are common around the globe. These injuries, including bone fractures and burns, can reduce a person's quality of life or can cause fatalities including infections that resulted from the injury (or the severity injury in general).Lifestyle choices are contributing factors to poor health in many cases. Making healthy food choices can lower one's risk of heart disease and the risk of developing some types of cancer, and can help one maintain their weight within a healthy range.The Mediterranean diet is commonly associated with health-promoting effects. Additionally, in 2007, the International Agency for Research on Cancer, which is the cancer research agency for the World Health Organization, declared that "shiftwork that involves circadian disruption is probably carcinogenic to humans," speaking to the dangers of long-term nighttime work due to its intrusion on sleep. It is concerned with threats to the overall health of a community based on population health analysis. Occupational
In addition to safety risks, many jobs also present risks of disease, illness and other long-term health problems. Workers may also be vulnerable to skin diseases, including eczema, dermatitis, urticaria, sunburn, and skin cancer. Other occupational diseases of concern include carpal tunnel syndrome and lead poisoning. 
Does multi-modal cervical physical therapy improve tinnitus in patients with cervicogenic somatic tinnitus? [SEP] Psychological
The best-supported treatment for tinnitus is cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT). There are several approaches for tinnitus sound therapy. Neuromodulation
In 2020, information about clinical trials indicated that bimodal neuromodulation may reduce the symptoms of tinnitus. Tinnitus: A Multidisciplinary Approach (2nd ed.). Tinnitus: pathophysiology and treatment. Alternatives
Cognitive behavioral therapy
Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), the counselling part of TRT, as a generalized type of psychological and behavioral counselling, has also been used by itself in the management of tinnitus. Tinnitus Retraining Therapy: Clinical Guidelines. Tinnitus Retraining Therapy: Patient Counseling Guide. 
Detailed analysis of sputum and systemic inflammation in asthma phenotypes: are paucigranulocytic asthmatics really non-inflammatory? [SEP] Sputum is mucus that is coughed up from the lower airways (the trachea and bronchi). Sputum samples have been used to quantify the degree of airway inflammation in human diseases such as asthma. Specifically, this work has demonstrated that a subgroup of severe asthma patients has airway inflammation that is resistant to treatment with corticosteroids.When a sputum specimen is plated out in microbiology, it is best to get the portion of the sample that almost looks like yellow pus onto the swab. Asthma is a long-term inflammatory disease of the airways of the lungs. Signs and symptoms
Asthma is characterized by recurrent episodes of wheezing, shortness of breath, chest tightness, and coughing. Pathophysiology
Asthma is the result of chronic inflammation of the conducting zone of the airways (most especially the bronchi and bronchioles), which subsequently results in increased contractability of the surrounding smooth muscles. Notes
References
External links

Asthma at Curlie Asthma is a predisposition of the respiratory system in which the airways are predisposed to bronchoconstriction. 
Is HIV/STD control in Jamaica making a difference? [SEP] On the other hand, Uganda, Zambia, Senegal, and most recently Botswana have begun intervention and educational measures to slow the spread of HIV, and Uganda has succeeded in actually reducing its HIV infection rate.During COVID-19, some countries in South and East Africa were able to set up treatment sites that provided 1.8 million individuals with a larger supply of antiretroviral (ART) medication that could sustain them for longer than the typical 3 months. HIV transmission through injecting drug use remains rare, except in Bermuda and Puerto Rico.Within the Caribbean, the country with the highest prevalence of HIV/AIDS is the Bahamas with a rate of 3.2% of adults with the disease. Increased education and treatment drugs will help to decrease incidence levels even more.According to the UNAIDS Global AIDS Update 2022, there is a significant gap when it comes to children and adults alike receiving treatments which is playing a part in inhibiting the world from reaching its 2023 goal of 75% viral suppression among children. In these countries, HIV-infected men outnumber HIV-infected women by roughly 3:1.With HIV/AIDS incidence levels rising in Central America, education is the most important step in controlling the spread of this disease. To reduce the incidence levels of HIV/AIDS, education and drug access needs to improve.In a study of immigrants traveling to Europe, all asymptomatic persons were tested for a variety of infectious diseases. Yosha & Bolnick & Koyle (2012) states that the global incidence of circumcision has risen and seems likely to continue to do so during the "first half of the twenty-first century".Since 2010, both the World Health Organization and Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS have been promoting a higher rate of circumcision prevalence as a prophylaxis against HIV transmission and some STIs, specifically in areas with high HIV transmission and low circumcision rates. According to Nattrass, better access to antiretroviral drugs in South Africa could have prevented about 171,000 HIV infections and 343,000 deaths between 1999 and 2007. ), from which researchers concluded that providing reproductive health services to incarcerated women would be beneficial to the women, the community, and the criminal justice system.Within the American prison system, HIV became more prevalent among women than among men. 
Is Panton-Valentine leucocidin associated with the pathogenesis of Staphylococcus aureus bacteraemia in the UK? [SEP] Panton–Valentine leukocidin (PVL) is a cytotoxin—one of the β-pore-forming toxins. Epidemiology
Panton–Valentine leukocidin (PVL) is one of many toxins associated with S. aureus infection. References
External links
Panton-Valentine+leukocidin at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) The Panton-Valentine leucocidin S structure shows a highly related structure, but in its soluble monomeric state. The Panton-Valentine leucocidin S structure (PDB: 1T5R) shows a highly related structure, but in its soluble monomeric state. A deadly toxin with a romantic name: Panton-Valentine Leukocidin complex. The Panton–Valentine leukocidin (PVL) genes are of particular interest because they are a unique feature of CA-MRSA.In the United States, most cases of CA-MRSA are caused by a CC8 strain designated ST8:USA300, which carries SCCmec type IV, Panton–Valentine leukocidin, PSM-alpha and enterotoxins Q and K, and ST1:USA400. Moreover, the efficacy of vancomycin against MRSA is inferior to that of anti-staphylococcal beta-lactam antibiotics against methicillin-susceptible S. aureus (MSSA).Several newly discovered strains of MRSA show antibiotic resistance even to vancomycin and teicoplanin. 
Are even impaired fasting blood glucose levels preoperatively associated with increased mortality after CABG surgery? [SEP] Medical application
Fasting is almost always practiced prior to surgery or other procedures that require general anesthesia because of the risk of pulmonary aspiration of gastric contents after induction of anesthesia (i.e., vomiting and inhaling the vomit, causing life-threatening aspiration pneumonia). Smoking cessation before surgery is likely to reduce the risk of complications from surgery.In circumstances in which a person's doctor advises them to avoid drinking alcohol before and after the surgery, but in which the person seems likely to drink anyway, intense interventions which direct a person to quit using alcohol have been proven to be helpful in reducing complications from surgery. Preoperative fasting is the practice of a surgical patient abstaining from eating or drinking ("nothing by mouth") for some time before having an operation. The latest guidelines do not support preoperative fasting, as there is no difference in residual gastric fluid volume, pH or gastric emptying rate following semi-solid meals or drinks, whether in obese or lean individuals. Pulmonary aspiration
The main hypothesized benefit of preoperative fasting is to prevent pulmonary aspiration of stomach contents while under the effects of general anesthesia. Aspiration of as little as 30–40 mL can be a significant cause of suffering and death during an operation and therefore fasting is performed to reduce the volume of stomach contents as much as possible. Increased fasting times leads to decreased injury if aspiration occurs.The latest guidelines do not support preoperative fasting, as there is no difference in residual gastric fluid volume, pH or gastric emptying rate following semi-solid meals or drinks, whether in obese or lean individuals. poorly controlled diabetes mellitus), decreased gastric motility (e.g. 
Does positron emission tomography change management in primary rectal cancer? [SEP] The decision to add chemotherapy in management of colon and rectal cancer depends on the stage of the disease.In Stage I colon cancer, no chemotherapy is offered, and surgery is the definitive treatment. Stage IV rectal cancer is treated similar to stage IV colon cancer. Radiation therapy
While a combination of radiation and chemotherapy may be useful for rectal cancer, for some people requiring treatment, chemoradiotherapy can increase acute treatment-related toxicity, and has not been shown to improve survival rates compared to radiotherapy alone, although it is associated with less local recurrence. As with chemotherapy, radiotherapy can be used as a neoadjuvant for clinical stages T3 and T4 for rectal cancer. For locally advanced rectal cancer, neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy has become the standard treatment. After a median follow-up of 12 months (range, 6 to 25 months), all 12 patients had a complete clinical response with no evidence of tumor on MRI, 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose–positron-emission tomography, endoscopic evaluation, digital rectal examination, or biopsy. The goal of active surveillance is to postpone treatment, and avoid overtreatment and its side effects, given a slow-growing or self-limited tumor that in most people is unlikely to cause problems.Those who elect to have therapy typically receive radiation therapy or a prostatectomy (removal of the prostate). However, radiotherapy for localized disease has given 5-year disease-free and overall survival rates of 76% and 96%, respectively, in 16 of 19 reviewed cases and is suggested to be the preferred treatment for patients with Helicobactor pylori-positive primary rectal EMZL. 
Can you deliver accurate tidal volume by manual resuscitator? [SEP] Inability of professional providers to use manual resuscitators within established safety guidelines
Manual resuscitators have no built-in tidal volume control — the amount of air used to force-inflate the lungs during each breath depends entirely on how much the operator squeezes the bag. In response to the dangers associated with the use of manual resuscitators, specific guidelines from the American Heart Association and European Resuscitation Council were issued that specify recommended maximal tidal volumes (or breath sizes) and ventilation rates safe for patients. Another clinical study found "the tidal volume delivered by a manual resuscitator shows large variations", concluding that "the manual resuscitator is not a suitable device for accurate ventilation." With use of manual resuscitators, neither rate nor inflating volumes can be physically controlled through built-in safety adjustments within the device, and as highlighted above, studies show providers frequently exceed designated safety guidelines for both ventilation rate (10 breaths per minute) and volume (5–7 mL/kg body weight) as outlined by the American Heart Association and European Resuscitation Council. It was also found that when guideline-excessive tidal volumes were delivered, changes in blood flow were observed that were transient at low ventilation rates but sustained when both tidal volumes and rates were simultaneously excessive, suggesting that guideline-excessive tidal volume is the principal mechanism of side effects, with ventilation rate acting as a multiplier of these effects. doi:10.1016/j.resuscitation.2020.09.010. The volume-cycled ventilation includes the volume-control function and delivers a set tidal volume. Each inspiratory effort that is beyond the set sensitivity threshold will be accounted for and fixed to the delivery of the corresponding tidal volume. 
Can increases in the cigarette tax rate be linked to cigarette retail prices? [SEP] Higher prices for cigarettes discourage smoking. Every 10% increase in the price of cigarettes reduces youth smoking by about 7% and overall cigarette consumption by about 4%. Studies highlight that increased tobacco taxes do not dissuade consumers from smoking, rather, consumers turn to cheaper brands and illegal cigarettes. Increases in illicit cigarette seizures can follow increases in cigarette tax. Higher income countries levy higher taxes on tobacco products and these taxes account for a greater share of price, with both the absolute tax and share of price accounted for by tax falling as country incomes fall. Another study by a team of health economists finds the combined price paid by their families and society is about $41 per pack of cigarettes.Substantial scientific evidence shows that higher cigarette prices result in lower overall cigarette consumption. Most studies indicate that a 10% increase in price will reduce overall cigarette consumption by 3% to 5%. Sales taxes are also levied on tobacco products in most jurisdictions. 
Vertical lines in distal esophageal mucosa (VLEM): a true endoscopic manifestation of esophagitis in children? [SEP] The esophagus (American English) or oesophagus (British English, see spelling differences; both ), colloquially known also as the food pipe or gullet, is an organ in vertebrates through which food passes, aided by peristaltic contractions, from the pharynx to the stomach. Gastro-esophageal junction
The gastro-esophageal junction (also known as the esophagogastric junction) is the junction between the esophagus and the stomach, at the lower end of the esophagus. The pink color of the esophageal mucosa contrasts to the deeper red of the gastric mucosa, and the mucosal transition can be seen as an irregular zig-zag line, which is often called the z-line. Normally, the cardia of the stomach is immediately distal to the z-line and the z-line coincides with the upper limit of the gastric folds of the cardia; however, when the anatomy of the mucosa is distorted in Barrett's esophagus the true gastro-eshophageal junction can be identified by the upper limit of the gastric folds rather than the mucosal transition. Clinical significance
The main conditions affecting the esophagus are described here. Inflammation
Inflammation of the esophagus is known as esophagitis. Reflux of gastric acids from the stomach, infection, substances ingested (for example, corrosives), some medications (such as bisphosphonates), and food allergies can all lead to esophagitis. Varices
Esophageal varices are swollen twisted branches of the azygous vein in the lower third of the esophagus. 
Does hypoglycaemia increase the risk of cardiovascular events? [SEP] For myocardial infarction, there was a non-statistically significant increase in risk. "For patients with diabetes, the most serious consequences are heart disease and stroke, and the risk of suffering from them is significantly increased when diabetes is present. In April 2016, the U.S. FDA added a warning about increased risk of heart failure. Although saxagliptin improves glycemic control, other approaches are necessary to reduce cardiovascular risk in patients with diabetes." It increases the risk of hospitalization for heart failure by about 27%. Saxagliptin may increase the risk of heart failure. It is associated with an increased mortality, whether due to hyperkalaemia itself or as a marker of severe illness, especially in those without chronic kidney disease. Heart failure becomes a major consideration when this begins to occur. 
Does the radiographic transition zone correlate with the level of aganglionosis on the specimen in Hirschsprung's disease? [SEP] The name refers to the fluorescence he saw while looking at a glowing plate bombarded with X-rays.The technique provides moving projection radiographs. Initially, radiographs were known as roentgenograms, while skiagrapher (from the Ancient Greek words for "shadow" and "writer") was used until about 1918 to mean radiographer. This is due to an excessive vertical angulation of the X-ray tube whilst taking the radiograph. Elongation of the image refers to a lengthening effect on the structures of the X-ray which is due to a decreased vertical angulation of the X-ray tube
Sometimes due to a bend in the film can lead to an elongation effect on just a few teeth rather than the whole image
Overlapping of proximal surfaces is an error of improper horizontal angulation of the image receptor, either being too far forward or backward in respect the X-ray beam
Slanting of the occlusal plane is when the film In the patient's mouth has been improperly placed as the occlusal plane should parallel to the margin of the film
Apical region not visible
Blurred distorted – movement
Cone cut appearance which may occur when the X-ray beam is not positioned perpendicular over the film
Double exposure occurs when two images are taken on one radiograph
Reversible film
Crimp marks
Light image
Dark image
Image geometry: of which it compiles of the X-ray beam, object and image receptor all of which depend on a specific relationship to each other. Grade 2 is given when there is a diagnostically acceptable image where some error of patient preparation, exposure, positioning, processing and/or film handling. Grade 3 is given when there are significant errors in patient preparation, exposure, film handling, processing and/or positioning which renders the radiograph diagnostically unacceptableIn 2020, FGDP updated guidance on a simplified system for image quality rating and analysis. The new system has the following grades:

Diagnostically Acceptable (A) = no errors or minimal errors in either patient preparation, exposure, positioning, image processing, and is of sufficient image quality to answer the clinical question
Diagnostically Not Acceptable (N) = errors in either patient preparation, exposure, positioning, or image processing, which render the image diagnostically unacceptableThe targets for Grade A radiographs are no less than 95% for digital, and no less than 90% for film imaging. For many species of flowering plant, it is the transition point that characterizes the color that they produce. 
Is dexamethasone an effective alternative to oral prednisone in the treatment of pediatric asthma exacerbations? [SEP] In a moderate or severe exacerbation, corticosteroids by mouth are added to these treatments.People with asthma have higher rates of anxiety, psychological stress, and depression. For adults and children who are in the hospital due to acute asthma, systemic (IV) corticosteroids improve symptoms. A short course of corticosteroids after an acute asthma exacerbation may help prevent relapses and reduce hospitalizations. Continuous (daily) use of an inhaled corticosteroid, rather than its intermitted use, seems to provide better results in controlling asthma exacerbations. Evidence suggests that for children who have persistent asthma, a treatment regime that includes LABA added to inhaled corticosteroids may improve lung function but does not reduce the amount of serious exacerbations. Anticholinergic medications such as ipratropium bromide have not been shown to be beneficial for treating chronic asthma in children over 2 years old, but is not suggested for routine treatment of chronic asthma in adults. Corticosteroid by mouth are recommended with five days of prednisone being the same 2 days of dexamethasone. Steroids (such as dexamethasone) may be useful for severe pharyngitis. 
Mammographic screening in Sami speaking municipalities and a control group. Are early outcome measures influenced by ethnicity? [SEP] Northern Sámi Sápmi. Discrimination against the Sámi
The Sámi have for centuries, even today, been the subject of discrimination and abuse by the dominant cultures in the nations they have historically inhabited. About 90% of the population speaks Sámi. Other significant institutions include a Sámi Specialist Medical Centre, and the Sámi Health Research Institute. Demographics
In the geographical area of Sápmi, the Sámi are a small population. Sea Sámi (in Northern Sámi mearasapmelash). The Sami Peoples of the North: A Social and Cultural History, by Neil Kent. The Sámi People: Traditions in Transitions, by Veli-Pekka Lehtola. 
Do Electrochemiluminescence Assays Improve Prediction of Time to Type 1 Diabetes in Autoantibody-Positive TrialNet Subjects? [SEP] The White classification, named after Priscilla White, who pioneered research on the effect of diabetes types on perinatal outcome, is widely used to assess maternal and fetal risk. Hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) is not recommended for diagnosing gestational diabetes, as it's a less reliable marker of glycemia during pregnancy than oral glucose tolerance testing (OGTT). Self monitoring of blood glucose levels can guide therapy. Women requiring insulin to manage gestational diabetes have a 50% risk of developing diabetes within the next five years. In populations with a low risk for type 2 diabetes, in lean subjects and in women with auto-antibodies, there is a higher rate of women developing type 1 diabetes (LADA).Children of women with GDM have an increased risk for childhood and adult obesity and an increased risk of glucose intolerance and type 2 diabetes later in life. It is currently unclear how much genetic susceptibility and environmental factors contribute to this risk, and whether treatment of GDM can influence this outcome.Relative benefits and harms of different oral anti-diabetic medications are not yet well understood as of 2017.There are scarce statistical data on the risk of other conditions in women with GDM; in the Jerusalem Perinatal study, 410 out of 37,962 women were reported to have GDM, and there was a tendency towards more breast and pancreatic cancer, but more research is needed to confirm this finding.Research is being conducted to develop a web-based clinical decision support system for GDM prediction using machine learning techniques. Results so far demonstrated great potential in clinical practicality for automatic GDM prognosis. References
External links

IDF Diabetes Atlas
International Diabetes Federation
National Institute of Child Health and Human Development – Am I at Risk for Gestational Diabetes? 
Assessment of appropriate antimicrobial prescribing: do experts agree? [SEP] The Journal of the American Medical Association described the decision as an example of the "politicization of health policy" that went against the weight of scientific evidence and may have a chilling effect on future decisions by medical associations.The expert panel's review was published in 2010, with the independent doctors and scientists in the panel unanimously endorsing the guidelines, stating "No changes or revisions to the 2006 Lyme guidelines are necessary at this time", and concluding long-term antibiotic treatments are unproven and potentially dangerous. A consensus definition of the term probiotics, based on available information and scientific evidence, was adopted after the aforementioned joint expert consultation between the FAO of the United Nations and the WHO. Antibiotic-associated diarrhea
Antibiotics are a common treatment for children, with 11% to 40% of antibiotic-treated children developing diarrhea. Often, standard antibiotic treatment is used at the same time that probiotics are being tested. The American Academy of Dermatology stated: "The use of probiotics/prebiotics for the treatment of patients with established atopic dermatitis is not recommended due to inconsistent evidence". One meta-analysis indicated that probiotics reduce these risks by more than 50% compared with controls but that further, large, high-quality trials were needed to inform policy and practice. General research
Formulations
Supplements such as tablets, capsules, powders, and sachets containing bacteria have been studied. The 2002 FAO/WHO guidelines recommend that, though bacteria may be generally recognized as safe (GRAS), the safety of the potential probiotic be assessed by the minimum required tests: 
Assessment of certain metabolic activities (e.g. 
Is there a favorable subset of patients with prostate cancer who develop oligometastases? [SEP] Prostate Cancer
Tree AC, Ostler P, van der Voet H, Chu W, Loblaw A, Ford D, Tolan S, Jain S, Martin A, Staffurth J, Armstrong J, Camilleri P, Kancherla K, Frew J, Chan A, Dayes IS, Duffton A, Brand DH, Henderson D, Morrison K, Brown S, Pugh J, Burnett S, Mahmud M, Hinder V, Naismith O, Hall E, van As N; PACE Trial Investigators. Most prostate cancers are slow growing. Tumors limited to the prostate may be curable. Some genomic alterations are partiuclarly common in early prostate cancer, namely gene fusion between TMPRSS2 and the oncogene ERG (up to 60% of prostate tumors), mutations that disable SPOP (up to 15% of tumors), and mutations that hyperactivate FOXA1 (up to 5% of tumors).Metastatic prostate cancer tends to have more genetic mutations than localized disease. Screening
Prostate cancer screening searches for cancers in those without symptoms. Even for men with PSA above 3 ng/mL, just 30% will have prostate cancer, and just 10% a high-grade cancer that requires treatment. Localized disease
Men diagnosed with low-risk cases of prostate cancer often defer treatment and are instead monitored regularly for cancer progression by active surveillance. Around 80% of prostate cancer diagnoses are in men whose cancer is still confined to the prostate. 
Cycloplegic autorefraction in young adults: is it mandatory? [SEP] During a refraction, an autorefractor or retinoscope is used to give an initial objective assessment of the refractive status of each eye, then a phoropter is used to subjectively refine the patient's eyeglass prescription. Youth onset myopia occurs in early childhood or teenage, and the ocular power can keep varying until the age of 21, before which any form of corrective surgery is usually not recommended by ophthalmic specialists around the world. Late adult onset myopia occurs after age 40. In this study, 13% had at least +1.25 D hyperopia (farsightedness), and 28% had at least 1.00-D difference between the two principal meridians (cycloplegic autorefraction) of astigmatism. During a refraction, an autorefractor or retinoscope is used to give an initial objective assessment of the refractive status of each eye, then a phoropter is used to subjectively refine the patient's eyeglass prescription. Youth onset myopia occurs in early childhood or teenage, and the ocular power can keep varying until the age of 21, before which any form of corrective surgery is usually not recommended by ophthalmic specialists around the world. Late adult onset myopia occurs after age 40. In this study, 13% had at least +1.25 D hyperopia (farsightedness), and 28% had at least 1.00-D difference between the two principal meridians (cycloplegic autorefraction) of astigmatism. 
Does screening or surveillance for primary hepatocellular carcinoma with ultrasonography improve the prognosis of patients? [SEP] Since the vast majority of HCC cases occur in people with certain chronic liver diseases, especially those with cirrhosis, liver screening is commonly advocated in this population. In the United States, the most commonly observed guidelines are those published by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases(AASLD), which recommends ultrasound screenings every six months for people with cirrhosis, with or without measurement of blood levels of tumor marker alpha-fetoprotein (AFP). For example, while some data support decreased mortality related to screening people with hepatitis B infection, the AASLD notes, “There are no randomized trials [for screening] in Western populations with cirrhosis secondary to chronic hepatitis C or fatty liver disease, and thus there is some controversy surrounding whether surveillance truly leads to a reduction in mortality in this population of patients with cirrhosis.”

Higher risk people
In a person where a higher suspicion of HCC exists, such as a person with symptoms or abnormal blood tests (i.e. Imaging
Ultrasound, CT scan, and MRI may be used to evaluate the liver for HCC. Ultrasound
Ultrasonographic examination can be useful in evaluating questionable asymptomatic kidney tumours and cystic renal lesions if computed tomography imaging is inconclusive. Imaging
Ultrasound is routinely used in the evaluation of cirrhosis. Ultrasound may also screen for hepatocellular carcinoma and portal hypertension. Screening using an MRI scan can detect this cancer and is often carried out for early signs which has been shown to improve outcomes. 
"Would a man smell a rose then throw it away? [SEP] A retrospective analyses of people infected with the common cold found that doctors underrate the symptoms of men, and are more willing to attribute symptoms and illness to women than men. Perceptions of friendship involving men varies among cultures and time periods. ), Handbook of Studies on Men and Masculinities, Sage Publications 2004

External links
 The dictionary definition of man at Wiktionary
 Quotations related to Man at Wikiquote
 Media related to Men at Wikimedia Commons A man is an adult male of the modern human species, its individuals, and nearest extinct relatives. However, "he blithely ignores the chance to stop a fleeing thief, his indifference ironically catches up with him when the same criminal later robs and kills his Uncle Ben." According to the Ever Dream This Man? website, the first image of This Man was sketched in January 2006 by a "well-known psychiatrist in New York," based on the descriptions of a patient who claims he was a recurring subject in dreams, despite never knowing a man like him in real life. Vice explained that while This Man does not exist, he "properly looks like the kind of dude you might see in a dream", where "he pats you on the back and you feel warm and nostalgic. 
Department of Transportation vs self-reported data on motor vehicle collisions and driving convictions for stroke survivors: do they agree? [SEP] Vehicles are most commonly staffed by a driver. This policy helps to reduce accidents and save lives. Short-haul transport is dominated by the automobile and mass transit. Automotive transport can be seen as a tragedy of the commons, where the flexibility and comfort for the individual deteriorate the natural and urban environment for all. In recent years, data has been collected to show that the transport sector contributes to a quarter of the global greenhouse gas emissions, and therefore sustainable transport has been mainstreamed across several of the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals, especially those related to food, security, health, energy, economic growth, infrastructure, and cities and human settlements. Ways of the World: A History of the World's Roads and of the Vehicles that Used Them. Self-report studies have validity problems. Results of self-report studies have been confirmed by other methods. 
Neoadjuvant Imatinib in Locally Advanced Gastrointestinal stromal Tumours, Will Kit Mutation Analysis Be a Pathfinder? [SEP] KIT-p.D419del (exon 8) — A subset of gastrointestinal stromal tumors previously regarded as wild-type tumors carries somatic activating mutations in KIT exon 8 (p.D419del). "Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST): c-KIT mutations, CD117 expression, differential diagnosis and targeted cancer therapy with Imatinib" (PDF). "Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST): a model for molecule-based diagnosis and treatment of solid tumors". Cancer.Net: Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor KIT-p.D419del (exon 8) — A subset of gastrointestinal stromal tumors previously regarded as wild-type tumors carries somatic activating mutations in KIT exon 8 (p.D419del). "Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST): c-KIT mutations, CD117 expression, differential diagnosis and targeted cancer therapy with Imatinib" (PDF). "Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST): a model for molecule-based diagnosis and treatment of solid tumors". Cancer.Net: Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor 
Does the lipid-lowering peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors ligand bezafibrate prevent colon cancer in patients with coronary artery disease? [SEP] Interactions
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma has been shown to interact with:

Research
PPAR-gamma agonists have been used in the treatment of hyperlipidaemia and hyperglycemia.Many insulin sensitizing drugs (namely, the thiazolidinediones) used in the treatment of diabetes activate PPARG as a means to lower serum glucose without increasing pancreatic insulin secretion. Fibrates
The cholesterol lowering effect of fibrates is due to their ability to activate a nuclear receptor called peroxisome proliferator activated receptor alpha. In clinical studies, saroglitazar has demonstrated reduction of triglycerides (TG), LDL cholesterol, VLDL cholesterol, non-HDL cholesterol and an increase in HDL cholesterol a characteristic hallmark of atherogenic diabetic dyslipidemia (ADD). Endoscopic surveillance in this high-risk population may reduce the development of colorectal cancer through early diagnosis and may also reduce the chances of dying from colon cancer. The risk of colon cancer can be reduced by maintaining a normal body weight through a combination of sufficient exercise and eating a healthy diet.Current research consistently links eating more red meat and processed meat to a higher risk of the disease. High levels of physical activity reduce the risk of colon cancer by about 21%. Medication and supplements
Aspirin and celecoxib appear to decrease the risk of colorectal cancer in those at high risk. Vitamin D intake and blood levels are associated with a lower risk of colon cancer. 
Does self-efficacy mediate the relationship between transformational leadership behaviours and healthcare workers' sleep quality? [SEP] People who experience good opportunities for control in their own work and those who feel that they are treated fairly develop less symptoms of depression and exhaustion disorder than others. The intervention was associated with decreases in exhaustion over time but not cynicism or inefficacy, suggesting that a broader approach is required.Hätinen et al. They say the poor sleep often caused by burnout (and the subsequent fatigue) is best treated with hypnotics and CBT (within which they include "sleep hygiene, education, relaxation training, stimulus control, and cognitive therapy"). al in 2019 literature review found that CBT and workplace dialogue were effective, and that treating sleep and cognitive function issues were also important.Lindsäter et al. Research suggests that intervention actually may worsen the professional efficacy of a person who originally exhibited low professional efficacy.Employee rehabilitation is a tertiary preventive intervention which means the strategies used in rehabilitation are meant to alleviate burnout symptoms in individuals who are already affected without curing them. Developing our understanding of the relationship between job quality and health can make it easier to engage other development initiatives such as corporate responsibility and sustainable development to promote worker and community health. Researchers have found that participating in mindfulness meditation can aid insomnia patients by improving sleep quality and total wake time. General Mills offers the Mindful Leadership Program Series, a course which uses a combination of mindfulness meditation, yoga and dialogue with the intention of developing the mind's capacity to pay attention. 
Does microbial contamination influence the success of the hematopoietic cell transplantation outcomes? [SEP] The pathogens responsible for many infectious diseases are microbes and, as such, are the target of hygiene measures. If microorganisms can cause disease in a host they are known as pathogens and then they are sometimes referred to as microbes. However, only a small proportion of microorganisms are associated with disease or pathogenicity. These findings shifted the focus of the research community and the public on the role of microorganisms as disease-forming agents that needed to be eliminated.However, comprehensive research over the past century has shown only a small proportion of microorganisms are associated with disease or pathogenicity. The newly established science of environmental microbiology resulted in another paradigm shift: microorganisms are everywhere in natural environments, often associated with hosts and, for the first time, beneficial effects on their hosts were reported.Subsequently, the concept that microorganisms exist as single cells began to change as it became increasingly obvious that microbes occur within complex assemblages in which species interactions and communication are critical to population dynamics and functional activities. The coevolution between host and its associated microbiota may be accordingly described as antagonistic (based on negative interactions) or mutualistic (based on positive interactions).As of 2020, the emergence in publications about opportunistic pathogens and pathobionts has produced a shift towards a holistic approach in the coevolutions theory. Harmful interactions affect the plant growth through pathogenic activities of some microbiota members. In cases where the contaminant is a living microorganism, it can often multiply to dominate the sample and render it useless, as in contaminated cell culture lines. 
Very high serum CA 19-9 levels: a contraindication to pancreaticoduodenectomy? [SEP] Medical indications
Pancreaticoduodenectomy is most often performed as curative treatment for periampullary cancer, which include cancer of the bile duct, duodenum, ampulla or head of the pancreas. Other indications for pancreaticoduodenectomy include chronic pancreatitis, benign tumors of the pancreas, cancer metastatic to the pancreas, multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 and gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Pancreatic cancer
Pancreaticoduodenectomy is the only potentially curative intervention for malignant tumors of the pancreas. Intractable abdominal pain is the main surgical indication for surgical management of chronic pancreatitis. Removal of the head of the pancreas can relieve pancreatic duct obstruction associated with chronic pancreatitis. Pancreaticoduodenectomy has been performed when abdominal trauma has resulted in bleeding around the pancreas and duodenum, damage to the common bile duct, pancreatic leakage, or transection of the duodenum. Surgical considerations
Pylorus-sparing pancreaticoduodenectomy
Clinical trials have failed to demonstrate significant survival benefits of total pancreatectomy, mostly because patients who submit to this operation tend to develop a particularly severe form of diabetes mellitus called brittle diabetes. Morbidity and mortality
Pancreaticoduodenectomy is considered, by any standard, to be a major surgical procedure. 
Perioperative care in an animal model for training in abdominal surgery: is it necessary a preoperative fasting? [SEP] The perioperative period is the time period of a patient's surgical procedure. Perioperative may refer to the three phases of surgery: preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative, though it is a term most often used for the first and third of these only - a term which is often specifically utilized to imply 'around' the time of the surgery. The primary concern of perioperative care is to provide better conditions for patients before operation (sometimes construed as during operation) and after operation. Perioperative care
Perioperative care is the care that is given before and after surgery. This period is used to prepare the patient both physically and psychologically for the surgical procedure and after surgery. Phases
Preoperative
The preoperative phase is used to perform tests, attempt to limit preoperational anxiety and may include the preoperative fasting. Complications
Complications of abdominal surgery include, but are not limited to:

Adhesions (also called scar tissue): complications of postoperative adhesion formation are frequent, they have a large negative effect on patients’ health, and increase workload in clinical practice
Bleeding
Infection
Paralytic ileus: short-term paralysis of the bowel
Perioperative mortality, any death occurring within 30 days after surgery
ShockSterile technique, aseptic post-operative care, antibiotics, use of the WHO Surgical Safety Checklist, and vigilant post-operative monitoring greatly reduce the risk of these complications. See also

Abdominoplasty
ASA physical status classification system or perioperative physical fitness
Diabetes
General surgery
Laparotomy
Low-fiber/low-residue diet
Perioperative mortality


== References == 
Are physicians aware of the side effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors? [SEP] Subsequently, beta blockers, calcium channel blockers, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, and renin inhibitors were developed as antihypertensive agents. New-onset hypertension or exacerbation of hypertension may occur (NSAIDs may impair response to thiazide or loop diuretics), and may contribute to cardiovascular events; monitor blood pressure and use with caution in patients with hypertension. In February 2007, the American Heart Association warned that with respect to "patients with a prior history of or at high risk for cardiovascular disease... use of COX-2 inhibitors for pain relief should be limited to patients for whom there are no appropriate alternatives, and then, only in the lowest dose and for the shortest duration necessary. In a 2006 meta-analysis of randomized control studies, the cerebrovascular events associated with COX-2 inhibitors were examined, but no significant risks were found when compared to nonselective NSAIDs or placebos. The drug may increase the risk of kidney failure with angiotensin-converting enzyme-inhibitors, such as lisinopril, and diuretics, such as hydrochlorothiazide. The renin–angiotensin system was known to play an important role in blood pressure regulation, and angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors were developed through rational drug design. More recently angiotensin receptor blockers and renin inhibitors have also been introduced as antihypertensive agents. The effects achieved in stroke recurrence were mainly obtained through the ingestion of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or a diuretic. 
Residual fundus or neofundus after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy: is fundectomy safe and effective as revision surgery? [SEP] Sleeve gastrectomy or vertical sleeve gastrectomy, is a surgical weight-loss procedure, typically performed laparoscopically, in which approximately 75 - 85% of the stomach is removed, along the greater curvature, which leaves a cylindrical, or "sleeve"-shaped stomach the size of a banana. In many cases, sleeve gastrectomy is as effective as gastric bypass surgery, including improvements in glucose homeostasis before substantial weight loss has occurred. Complications
Sleeve gastrectomy may cause complications; some of them are listed below:
Sleeve leaking (occurs 1 in 200 patients)
Blood clots (happens 1% of the time)
Wound infections (occurs in about 10 to 15% of post-op patients)
Strictures (occurs in 3.5% of post-op patients)
Aversion to food, and nausea
Damage to the vagus nerve which will cause constant nausea
Gastroparesis, with a delay in moving food from the stomach to the small intestine
Vomiting
Internal bleeding
Esophageal spasm/pain
Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)
Depression after surgery

References
Further reading

Micsorare stomac/ gastric sleeve - info related 

 Media related to Sleeve gastrectomy at Wikimedia Commons ESG after surgical sleeve gastrectomy (Revisional ESG)
Weight regain after surgical sleeve gastrectomy has historically been managed with medications or a more invasive revisional surgery. Recent data suggested that an ESG can safely be performed after the surgical sleeve gastrectomy (sometimes referred to as a “revisional ESG”), with total body weight loss of approximately 16-18% at 12 months. Sleeve gastrectomy or vertical sleeve gastrectomy, is a surgical weight-loss procedure, typically performed laparoscopically, in which approximately 75 - 85% of the stomach is removed, along the greater curvature, which leaves a cylindrical, or "sleeve"-shaped stomach the size of a banana. In many cases, sleeve gastrectomy is as effective as gastric bypass surgery, including improvements in glucose homeostasis before substantial weight loss has occurred. Complications
Sleeve gastrectomy may cause complications; some of them are listed below:
Sleeve leaking (occurs 1 in 200 patients)
Blood clots (happens 1% of the time)
Wound infections (occurs in about 10 to 15% of post-op patients)
Strictures (occurs in 3.5% of post-op patients)
Aversion to food, and nausea
Damage to the vagus nerve which will cause constant nausea
Gastroparesis, with a delay in moving food from the stomach to the small intestine
Vomiting
Internal bleeding
Esophageal spasm/pain
Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)
Depression after surgery

References
Further reading

Micsorare stomac/ gastric sleeve - info related 

 Media related to Sleeve gastrectomy at Wikimedia Commons 
Are physician estimates of asthma severity less accurate in black than in white patients? [SEP] A longitudinal study over more than twenty years found that Black physicians had higher prevalence of cardiovascular disease, earlier onset of disease, twice the incidence of hypertension, and higher prevalence of diabetes compared to White physicians. As a result, black patients are more vulnerable to disease than white counterparts.Demographic changes can have broad effects on the health of ethnic groups. This bias caused the algorithm to find that black patients are generally healthier than white patients and a conclusion was created by the algorithm that black patients do not need extra care in such instances. Some White health care providers also maintain problematic, overt ideas about their Black patients, with being seen as less intelligent, less able to abide by treatment regimens, and more inclined to be subjects of risky behavior than their White counterparts. This results in Black and Latinx adult patients facing a disproportionate amount of health concerns, such as asthma, with treatment and management guidelines not developed with studies based on their populations and healthcare needs.Although individuals from different environmental, continental, socioeconomic, and racial groups etc. This discrepancy may be due to physicians' knowledge that, on average, African Americans are at lower risk for osteoporosis than Caucasians. Thus, equations derived from Black populations will yield a higher percentage of predicted lung function values than those derived from White populations, which may underestimate lung disease severity and delay detection. Research regarding the efficacy of race-based spirometry found that the race correction was only accurate for Black patients when their African ancestry was above the median between 81 and 100%. 
Does laparoscopic surgery decrease the risk of atrial fibrillation after foregut surgery? [SEP] Bariatric surgery may reduce the risk of new-onset atrial fibrillation in people with obesity without AF and may reduce the risk of a recurrence of AF after an ablation procedure in people with coexisting obesity and atrial fibrillation. People with AF often undergo cardiac surgery for other underlying reasons and are frequently offered concomitant AF surgery to reduce the frequency of short- and long-term AF. Concomitant AF surgery is more likely to lead to the person being free from atrial fibrillation and off medications long-term after surgery and Cox-Maze IV procedure is the gold standard treatment. There is a slightly increased risk of needing a pacemaker following the procedure.AF often occurs after cardiac surgery and is usually self-limiting. Postoperative pericardial effusion is also suspected to be the cause of atrial fibrillation. Some authors perform posterior pericardiotomy to reduce the incidence of postoperative AF. Left atrial appendage occlusion
There is growing evidence that left atrial appendage occlusion therapy may reduce the risk of stroke in people with non-valvular AF as much as warfarin. Atrial fibrillation often occurs (30% within 5 years) after catheter ablation for atrial flutter. 
The Main Gate Syndrome: a new format in mass-casualty victim "surge" management? [SEP] The emergency relief effort was led by U.S. The Last Card: Inside George W. Bush's Decision to Surge in Iraq (Cornell University Press, 2019), includes primary sources
Shipoli, Erdoan A. The most significant loss of life due to natural disasters came from the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake, which caused a tsunami that killed around one quarter-million people and displaced well over a million others. Millions of people were displaced from their homes during the conflict. Dozens of human casualties were reported or confirmed. Katrina caused over 1,200 deaths. May 3, 2008 – Cyclone Nargis had an extreme impact in Myanmar, causing nearly 140,000 deaths and $10 billion in damages. Stampedes
The 2005 Baghdad bridge stampede occurred on August 31, 2005, when 953 people died following a stampede on Al-Aaimmah bridge, which crosses the Tigris river in the Iraqi capital of Baghdad. 
Do communication disorders extend to musical messages? [SEP] What is the relationship between music and mind? The Cognitive Neuroscience of Music. Music is considered a "co-therapist" because of its importance. and non-musical functioning (social, physical/motor, emotional, etc.). This article concluded that music can help autistic patients hone their motor and attention skills as well as healthy neurodevelopment of socio-communication and interaction skills. Also, patients that underwent music therapy were able to regulate their emotions better and showed increased communication as a whole. He concluded that people with some type of frontal lobe damage often "produced not only severe difficulties with expressive language (aphasia) but a strange access of musicality with incessant whistling, singing and a passionate interest in music. On top of these areas of note, it was also discussed that the participants had a better understanding of each other – more so than they had simply by talking with each other.</ref name=a-m> It appears that music allows for context and meta messages to be more easily and successfully communicated between a group, an important point for therapists in any field, and also especially important when working with the bereaved. 
Do patients with rheumatoid arthritis established on methotrexate and folic acid 5 mg daily need to continue folic acid supplements long term? [SEP] The supplement of folinic acid in people undergoing methotrexate treatment is to give less rapidly dividing cells enough folate to maintain normal cell functions. Side effects such as nausea, vomiting or abdominal pain can be reduced by taking folic acid.A 2015 Cochrane review found rituximab with methotrexate to be effective in improving symptoms compared to methotrexate alone. Folate supplies are also decreased in RA patients who are taking Methotrexate, an anti-rheumatic drug. We see that folate supplementation can reduce the mucosal and gastrointestinal side effects of low dose Methotrexate in patients with RA. Discontinuation rates are as high as 16% due to adverse effects.Use of low doses of methotrexate together with NSAIDs such as aspirin or analgesics such as paracetamol is relatively safe in people being treated for rheumatoid arthritis, with appropriate monitoring. Methotrexate is also sometimes used in combination with other conventional DMARDs, such as sulfasalazine and hydroxychloroquine.Studies and reviews have found that most rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with methotrexate for up to one year had less pain, functioned better, had fewer swollen and tender joints, and had less disease activity overall as reported by themselves and their doctors. Measurements of creatinine are recommended at least every two months.Folic acid is commonly co-prescribed with methotrexate to minimise the risk of adverse effects. Different dosing protocols are used, but folinic acid should be redosed until the methotrexate level is less than 5 x 10−8 M.Additionally, folinic acid is sometimes used to reduce the side effects of methotrexate in rheumatoid arthritis patients. 
Can infundibular height predict the clearance of lower pole calyceal stone after extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy? [SEP] Extracorporeal shockwave therapy (ESWT)  is a non-invasive, out-patient alternative to surgery for those with many joint and tendon disorders. Medical uses
The most common use of extracorporeal shockwave therapy (ESWT) is for lithotripsy to treat kidney stones (urinary calculosis) and biliary calculi (stones in the gallbladder or in the liver) using an acoustic pulse. Two 2017 reviews had similar findings, with moderate level evidence at best.Extracorporeal shockwave therapy is used as a second line measure to treat tennis elbow,   shoulder rotator cuff pain, achilles tendinitis, plantar fasciitis, and greater trochanteric pain syndrome.ESWT is also used to promote bone healing and treat bone necrosis. Procedure
The lithotriptor attempts to break up the stone with minimal collateral damage by using an externally applied, focused, high-intensity acoustic pulse. See also
Laser lithotripsy


== References == Extracorporeal devices are useful in hemodialysis and cardiac surgery. Other procedures
Extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy (ESWL), which is unrelated to other extracorporeal therapies, in that the device used to break up the kidney stones is held completely outside the body, whilst the lithotripsy itself occurs inside the body. Extracorporeal radiotherapy, where a large bone with a tumour is removed and given a dose far exceeding what would otherwise be safe to give to a patient. 
Does lung ischemia and reperfusion have an impact on coronary flow? [SEP] Reperfusion therapy is a medical treatment to restore blood flow, either through or around, blocked arteries, typically after a heart attack (myocardial infarction (MI)). Reperfusion therapy includes drugs and surgery. When performed rapidly, an angioplasty restores flow in the blocked artery in more than 95% of patients compared with the reperfusion rate of about 65% achieved by thrombolysis. Circulatory hypoxia, also known as ischemic hypoxia or stagnant hypoxia is caused by abnormally low blood flow to the lungs, which can occur during shock, cardiac arrest, severe congestive heart failure, or abdominal compartment syndrome, where the main dysfunction is in the cardiovascular system, causing a major reduction in perfusion. This is known as hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction, or "HPV", and has the effect of redirecting blood away from poorly ventilated regions, which helps match perfusion to ventilation, giving a more even oxygenation of blood from different parts of the lungs. Although it is the only way to save the tissue, reperfusion also produces reactive oxygen species and inflammatory cell infiltration, which induces further cell death. Arterial flow must be restored to return to aerobic metabolism and prevent necrosis of the affected muscle cells, but this also causes further damage by reperfusion injury. The ventilation part of the test looks at the ability of air to reach all parts of the lungs, while the perfusion part evaluates how well blood circulates within the lungs. 
Is a patient's self-reported health-related quality of life a prognostic factor for survival in non-small-cell lung cancer patients? [SEP] As the cancer progresses, most people experience unspecific respiratory problems: coughing, shortness of breath, and/or chest pain. Around half of those diagnosed with lung cancer experience shortness of breath, while 25–50% experience a dull, persistent chest pain that remains in the same location over time. All lung cancer treatment regimens are combined with lifestyle changes and palliative care to improve quality of life. Palliative care
Integrating palliative care (medical care focused on improving symptoms and lessening discomfort) into lung cancer treatment from the time of diagnosis improves the survival time and quality of life of those with lung cancer. Prognosis
Around 19% of people diagnosed with lung cancer survive five years from diagnosis, though prognosis varies based on the stage of the disease at diagnosis and the type of lung cancer. Even after lung cancer diagnosis, smoking cessation improves treatment outcomes, reducing cancer treatment toxicity and failure rates, and lengthening survival time. Consequently, health-related quality of life is now usually assessed using patient questionnaires. People who report a higher quality of life tend to survive longer. 
Transient tachypnea of the newborn (TTN): a role for polymorphisms in the beta-adrenergic receptor (ADRB) encoding genes? [SEP] Transient tachypnea of the newborn is a respiratory problem that can be seen in the newborn shortly after delivery. Signs and symptoms
Symptoms of transient tachypnea of the newborn include respiratory distress and rapid breathing (tachypnea). Pathophysiology
Due to the higher incidence of transient tachypnea of the newborn in infants delivered by caesarean section, it has been postulated that it could result from a delayed absorption of fetal lung fluid from the pulmonary lymphatic system. Diagnosis
Transient tachypnea of the newborn is a diagnosis of exclusion as it is a benign condition that can have symptoms and signs similar to more serious conditions, such as respiratory distress syndrome. Evidence from clinical trials investigating the use of postnatal corticosteroids for transient tachypnea of the newborn is inconclusive. Epinephrine or salbutamol (albuterol) have been suggested as a treatment option for transient tachypnea, as a result of evidence that  β-agonists increase the speed of alveolar fluid clearance in the lung of newborns. Prognosis
Transient tachypnea of the newborn is usually self limiting, however, it may be associated with wheezing syndromes as the child grows older. Epidemiology
Transient tachypnea of the newborn occurs in approximately 1 in 100 preterm infants and 3.6-5.7 per 1000 term infants. 
Is duration of psychological treatment for depression related to return into treatment? [SEP] Of note, although Mindfulness-based cognitive therapy for depression prevented relapse of future depressive episodes, there is no research on whether it can cause the remission of a current depressive episode.Interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT) focuses on the social and interpersonal triggers that may cause depression. IPT combined with pharmacotherapy was more effective in preventing relapse than pharmacotherapy alone, number needed to treat = 7.63.Psychoanalysis, a school of thought founded by Sigmund Freud that emphasizes the resolution of unconscious mental conflicts, is used by its practitioners to treat clients presenting with major depression. Successful psychotherapy appears to prevent the recurrence of depression even after it has been terminated or replaced by occasional "booster" sessions. Treatment resistance
The risk factors  for treatment resistant depression are: the duration of the episode of depression, severity of the episode, if bipolar, lack of improvement in symptoms within the first couple of treatment weeks, anxious or avoidant and borderline comorbidity and old age. There is moderate-quality evidence that psychological therapies are a useful addition to standard antidepressant treatment of treatment-resistant depression in the short term. Successful psychotherapy appears to reduce the recurrence of depression even after it has been stopped or replaced by occasional booster sessions. Antidepressant medication treatment is usually continued for 16 to 20 weeks after remission, to minimize the chance of recurrence, and even up to one year of continuation is recommended. According to a 2013 review, 23% of untreated adults with mild to moderate depression will remit within 3 months, 32% within 6 months and 53% within 12 months. 
Does shaving the incision site increase the infection rate after spinal surgery? [SEP] Smaller incision, which reduces pain and shortens recovery time, as well as resulting in less post-operative scarring. There are three main time periods where complications typically occur:

During surgery
Patient positioning on operating table
Blood loss
Damage to nerves and surrounding structures during procedure
Insertion of spinal hardware
Harvesting of bone graft (if autograft is used)

Within a few days
Moderate to severe postoperative pain
Wound infections - risk factors include old age, obesity, diabetes, smoking, prior surgery
Deep vein thrombosis (DVT)
Pulmonary embolism (PE)
Urinary retention
Malnutrition
Neurologic deficit

Weeks to years following surgery
Infection – sources of bacterial bioburden that infiltrate the wound site are several, but the latest research highlights repeated reprocessing of implants before surgery and exposure of implants (such as pedicle screws) to bacterial contaminants in the "sterile-field" during surgery as major risk factors. Chapter 7: The Postoperative Spine. The use of topical antibiotics on surgical wounds to reduce infection rates has been questioned. A systematic review published by Cochrane (organisation) in 2016, though, concluded that topical antibiotics applied over certain types of surgical wounds reduce the risk of surgical site infections, when compared to no treatment or use of antiseptics. It causes less pain and scarring, speeds recovery, and reduces the incidence of post-surgical complications, such as adhesions and wound rupture. Technique
Antibiotic prophylaxis is used before an incision. Taking antibiotics before skin incision rather than after cord clamping reduces the risk for the mother, without increasing adverse effects for the baby. 
The influence of atmospheric pressure on aortic aneurysm rupture--is the diameter of the aneurysm important? [SEP] Among those with an aneurysm between 5.5 and 7 cm, the risk is about 10%, while for those with an aneurysm greater than 7 cm the risk is about 33%. An aneurysm is usually defined as an outer aortic diameter over 3 cm (normal diameter of the aorta is around 2 cm), or more than 50% of normal diameter. Surveillance until an aneurysm has reached a diameter of 5.5 cm has not been shown to have a higher risk as compared to early intervention. that if the maximum diameter criterion were followed for the 473 subjects, only 7% (34/473) of cases would have died from rupture prior to surgical intervention as the diameter was less than 5 cm, with 25% (116/473) of cases possibly undergoing unnecessary surgery since these AAAs may never have ruptured.Alternative methods of rupture assessment have been recently reported. An aortic aneurysm is an enlargement (dilatation) of the aorta to greater than 1.5 times normal size. Aortic aneurysms result from a weakness in the wall of the aorta and increase the risk of aortic rupture. The risk of rupture of an AAA is related to its diameter; once the aneurysm reaches about 5 cm, the yearly risk of rupture may exceed the risks of surgical repair for an average-risk patient. Surgery
Decisions about repairing an aortic aneurysm are based on the balance between the risk of aneurysm rupture without treatment versus the risks of the treatment itself. 
Do French lay people and health professionals find it acceptable to breach confidentiality to protect a patient's wife from a sexually transmitted disease? [SEP] The physician is bound under the ethical principles of beneficence (promoting well-being) and non-maleficence ("first, do no harm"), and so is charged with the responsibility to promote the best interests of the patient while minimizing unnecessary harms. The Royal Dutch Medical Association questions why the ethics regarding male genital alterations should be viewed any differently from female genital alterations.The procedure's relationship to other prophylactic procedures, along with the concepts of group rights, consent, and religious freedom, have been discussed in academic literature. Where circumcision is the chosen intervention, the physician has an ethical responsibility to ensure the procedure is performed competently and safely to minimize potential harms. Confidentiality - A registered medical practitioner may only reveal the details of a woman whose pregnancy has been terminated to a person authorized by law. The manual aims to enhance skills of doctors for providing respectful, confidential and high quality CAC services to women. Due to the stringent implementation of the PC&PNDT Act, many doctors are fear or are reluctant to provide MTP services due to the possibility of undergoing inspection and facing legal issues, thus creating great hindrance for accessing safe abortion services.By conflating the two, confusion is being created in the minds of the public against a basic right of women. International Perspectives on Sexual and Reproductive Health, 2020, Vol. Sexual and Reproductive Health Matters. 
Do somatic complaints predict subsequent symptoms of depression? [SEP] People who have had previous episodes with psychotic symptoms are more likely to have them with future episodes.A depressed person may report multiple physical symptoms such as fatigue, headaches, or digestive problems; physical complaints are the most common presenting problem in developing countries, according to the World Health Organization's criteria for depression. Subjective cognitive complaints appear in older depressed people, but they can also be indicative of the onset of a dementing disorder, such as Alzheimer's disease. They include depressions due to physical illness, medications, and substance use disorders. Affective disorders such as depression have some symptoms that can mimic those of PCS and lead to a wrongful diagnosis of the latter; these include problems with concentration, emotional lability, anxiety, and sleep problems. Depression, which is highly common in persistent PCS, can worsen other PCS symptoms, such as headaches and problems with concentration, memory, and sleep. ... We have a package here of five symptoms—mild depression, some anxiety, fatigue, somatic pains, and obsessive thinking. There is a deeper illness that drives depression and the symptoms of mood. Somatoform disorders may be diagnosed when there are problems that appear to originate in the body that are thought to be manifestations of a mental disorder. 
Are women with major depression in pregnancy identifiable in population health data? [SEP] The diagnosis of major depressive disorder is based on the person's reported experiences, behavior reported by relatives or friends, and a mental status examination. Major depressive disorder is classified as a mood disorder in the DSM-5. "Depression with peri-partum onset" refers to the intense, sustained and sometimes disabling depression experienced by women after giving birth or while a woman is pregnant. The DSM-V mandates that to qualify as depression with peripartum onset, onset occurs during pregnancy or within one month of delivery. The risk of major depression is increased with neurological conditions such as stroke, Parkinson's disease, or multiple sclerosis, and during the first year after childbirth. Comorbidity
Major depression frequently co-occurs with other psychiatric problems. Women trying to conceive often have depression rates similar to women who have heart disease or cancer. Those with a history of mental health issues, such as major depressive disorder and bipolar disorder, are the most vulnerable to developing PDD after childbirth. 
Remote ischemic postconditioning: does it protect against ischemic damage in percutaneous coronary revascularization? [SEP] If their condition remains (hemodynamically) stable, they can be offered either late coronary angiography with subsequent restoration of blood flow (revascularization), or non-invasive stress testing to determine if there is significant ischemia that would benefit from revascularization. Remote ischemic conditioning (RIC) is an experimental medical procedure that aims to reduce the severity of ischaemic injury to an organ such as the heart or the brain, most commonly in the situation of a heart attack or a stroke, or during procedures such as heart surgery when the heart may temporary suffer ischaemia during the operation, by triggering the body's natural protection against tissue injury. History
The phenomenon of ischemic preconditioning (IPC) was discovered in 1986 by C. E. Murry and colleagues, who observed that repeated, temporary cross-clamping of the left anterior descending artery (LAD) in dogs protected the LAD territory of the heart against a subsequent prolonged ischemic event, reducing infarct size by 75%. This was thought to be a local effect and was termed local ischemic preconditioning. Other researchers confirmed this remote effect and found that performing the preconditioning protocol on kidney or gastrointestinal tissue also provided protection to the heart.In 2002, Raj Kharbanda and Andrew Redington, working at the Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto, showed that non-invasively stopping and starting blood flow in the arm provided the same protection as invasive preconditioning of the heart. Heart attacks
In multiple randomized controlled trials, remote ischemic conditioning reduced infarct size in ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) patients when used in the ambulance or emergency department as an adjunct therapy to primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), or when used with thrombolytic drugs. Percutaneous coronary intervention
Remote ischemic conditioning significantly reduced heart damage (as measured by troponin elevations) in four randomized controlled trials involving 816 elective (non-emergency) PCI patients. Studies have examined the effects of RIC applied at different times:
Pre-conditioning: RIC is applied within the hour prior to an intervention (e.g., elective cardiothoracic and surgical procedures)
Per-conditioning: RIC is applied at the time of the ischemic event (e.g., evolving heart attack, acute stroke, or trauma)
Chronic conditioning: RIC is applied daily for a period of time after an ischemic event (e.g., after a heart attack or stroke, or in chronic conditions such as peripheral vascular disease or ulcerative colitis)The term "post-conditioning" is used to describe short, intermittent inflations of an intra-coronary balloon at the time of reperfusion, and does not refer to RIC on a limb. 
Does combining antiretroviral agents in a single dosage form enhance quality of life of HIV/AIDS patients? [SEP] A Cochrane review, published in 2016, found moderate quality evidence that "there is probably little or no difference in fixed-dose combination drugs compared to single-drug formulations". With rare exceptions, no individual antiretroviral drug has been demonstrated to suppress an HIV infection for long; these agents must be taken in combinations in order to have a lasting effect. As a result, the standard of care is to use combinations of antiretroviral drugs. In recent years, drug companies have worked together to combine these complex regimens into single-pill fixed-dose combinations. Adjunct treatment
Although antiretroviral therapy has helped to improve the quality of life of people living with HIV, there is still a need to explore other ways to further address the disease burden. One such potential strategy that was investigated was to add interleukin 2 as an adjunct to antiretroviral therapy for adults with HIV. illustrating the substantial benefit of combining two NRTIs with a new class of antiretrovirals, protease inhibitors, namely indinavir. In a systematic review, Cochrane researchers assessed whether giving antidepressants to adults living with both HIV and depression may improve depression. 
The inverse equity hypothesis: does it apply to coverage of cancer screening in middle-income countries? [SEP] Some scholars have noted that unequal income distribution itself can be a cause of poorer health for a society as a result of "underinvestment in social goods, such as public education and health care; disruption of social cohesion and the erosion of social capital".The role of socioeconomic status in health equity extends beyond simple monetary restrictions on an individual's purchasing power. There is also evidence for a correlation between socioeconomic status and health literacy; one study showed that wealthier Tanzanian families were more likely to recognize disease in their children than those that were coming from lower income backgrounds.Social inequities are a key barrier to accessing health-related educational resources. In the UK, Public Health England, a universal service free at the point of use, which forms part of the NHS, offers regular screening to any member of the population considered to be in an at-risk group (such as individuals over 45) for major disease (such as colon cancer, or diabetic-retinopathy). Evidence Based Medicine (EBM) shows promise in reducing healthcare provider bias in turn promoting health equity. A lack of health equity is also evident in the developing world, where the importance of equitable access to healthcare has been cited as crucial to achieving many of the Millennium Development Goals. Health equity is needed in order to live a healthier and more sufficient life within society. "Cervical cancer screening in Switzerland: cross-sectional trends (1992–2012) in social inequalities". "Analysing Social Inequality: A Critique of Two Recent Contributions from Economics and Epidemiology". 
Identification of racial disparities in breast cancer mortality: does scale matter? [SEP] Although the bulk of the research tend to focus on the interactions between interpersonal discrimination and health, researchers studying discrimination and health in the United States have proposed that institutional discrimination and cultural racism also give rise to conditions that contribute to persisting racial and economic health disparities.A stress and coping framework is often applied to investigate how discrimination influences health outcomes in racial, gender, and sexual minorities, as well as on immigrants and indigenous populations. Several scales have been developed to capture different types of discrimination, with over 90% of scales designed by researchers in the U.S. Racism, for example, is most often measured using the Perceived Racism Scale, the Schedule of Racists Events, the Index of Race Related Stress, and the Racism and Life Experiences Scale.Across all studies, we find the strongest and most consistent evidence for the negative impact of discrimination on mental health and health-related behaviors, but a meta-analysis of 134 samples also shows evidence of an inverse link between discrimination and physical health. In the U.S., connections between institutional racism and health have been investigated through epidemiological studies that examine the link between institutional racism– in the form of residential segregation and environmental racism– and health-related outcomes. As such, segregation is a critical determinant of socioeconomic status, which in turn is a strong predictor of health outcomes.Multiple review papers and meta-analyses reveal that segregation is associated with poorer overall health. More specifically, residents of segregated neighborhoods have been found to be at increased risk for tuberculosis, intentional harm, and later-stage breast and lung cancer diagnosis. Black women are four times more likely to die in pregnancy, labour and up to a year postpartum than whites.Asian women are twice as likely as whites to die in pregnancy. Racism in health care and environmental racism
Institutional racism impacts health care accessibility within non-white minority communities by creating health disparities among racial groups. Likewise, a study held from 1997 to 2003 found that racism led to higher rates of breast cancer. 
Does the leukocyte count correlate with the severity of injury? [SEP] Severity of disease
In addition to the extent of involvement, UC is also characterized by severity of disease. Inflammation may affect the sacroiliac joint (sacroiliitis). Human leukocyte antigen associations may even be at work. microthrombocytes) and ~30% also have elevated eosinophil  counts (i.e. Interleukins like IL-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and interferon-gamma, that cause cell injury, are released. In early infection (i.e. It is also expressed by monocytes and macrophages. An increased platelet count occurs when inflammation is Uncontrolled. 
Can transcranial direct current stimulation be useful in differentiating unresponsive wakefulness syndrome from minimally conscious state patients? [SEP] In several paradigms, such as the technique of response priming, the behavior of subjects is clearly influenced by stimuli for which they report no awareness, and suitable experimental manipulations can lead to increasing priming effects despite decreasing prime identification (double dissociation).Verbal report is widely considered to be the most reliable indicator of consciousness, but it raises a number of issues. Rodolfo Llinás, for example, proposed that consciousness results from recurrent thalamo-cortical resonance where the specific thalamocortical systems (content) and the non-specific (centromedial thalamus) thalamocortical systems (context) interact in the gamma band frequency via synchronous oscillations.A number of studies have shown that activity in primary sensory areas of the brain is not sufficient to produce consciousness:  it is possible for subjects to report a lack of awareness even when areas such as the primary visual cortex (V1) show clear electrical responses to a stimulus. This measure was shown to be higher in individuals that are awake, in REM sleep or in a locked-in state than in those who are in deep sleep or in a vegetative state, making it potentially useful as a quantitative assessment of consciousness states. A small region of the rostral dorsolateral pontine tegmentum in the brainstem was suggested to drive consciousness through functional connectivity with two cortical regions, the left ventral anterior insular cortex, and the pregenual anterior cingulate cortex. Altered states
There are some brain states in which consciousness seems to be absent, including dreamless sleep or coma. During ordinary non-dream sleep, people who are awakened report only vague and sketchy thoughts, and their experiences do not cohere into a continuous narrative. Patients may have disorders of consciousness or may need to be anesthetized for a surgical procedure. Transcranial direct current stimulation
While neuroenhancement drugs are a potential method for cognitive performance enhancement, transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) over the motor cortex (MC) is being seen as another potential method. 
Aromatase inhibitor-related musculoskeletal symptoms: is preventing osteoporosis the key to eliminating these symptoms? [SEP] Acute and chronic pain in the elderly is often attributed to fractures from osteoporosis and can lead to further disability and early mortality. Nonmodifiable
The most important risk factors for osteoporosis are advanced age (in both men and women) and female sex; estrogen deficiency following menopause or surgical removal of the ovaries is correlated with a rapid reduction in bone mineral density, while in men, a decrease in testosterone levels has a comparable (but less pronounced) effect. Hormone therapy
Reduced oestrogen levels increase the risk of osteoporosis, so hormone replacement therapy when women reach the menopause may reduce the incidence of osteoporosis. Postmenopausal women have decreased estrogen which contributes to their higher rates of osteoporosis. Bone Health and Osteoporosis: A Report of the Surgeon General. Breast cancer
Hormone receptor positive breast cancer patients have a significant increased risk of complications such as osteopenia and osteoporosis. Due to hypoestrogenism, the risk of osteoporosis increases during menopause. Prevention or treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women. 
Could different follow-up modalities play a role in the diagnosis of asymptomatic endometrial cancer relapses? [SEP] Follow-up may refer to:

Kepler Follow-up Program, a program to follow up possible observations of planets by the Kepler spacecraft
Followup-To, a kind of internet crossposting
Follow-up, a patient's revisit in ambulatory care
Follow-up, a stage in software inspection

See also
Fagan inspection#Follow-up
Follow-Up and Arrangement Committee, a former alliance of Iraqi opposition groups
Lost to follow-up
Sequel
Spin-off (media) Such elucidation can be useful to optimize treatment, further specify the prognosis or prevent recurrence of the disease or condition in the future. Unless the provider is certain of the condition present, further medical tests, such as medical imaging, are performed or scheduled in part to confirm or disprove the diagnosis but also to document the patient's status and keep the patient's medical history up to date. After the initial diagnostic impression, the clinician obtains follow up tests and procedures to get more data to support or reject the original diagnosis and will attempt to narrow it down to a more specific level. Once a diagnostic opinion has been reached, the provider is able to propose a management plan, which will include treatment as well as plans for follow-up. A treatment plan is proposed which may include therapy and follow-up consultations and tests to monitor the condition and the progress of the treatment, if needed, usually according to the medical guidelines provided by the medical field on the treatment of the particular illness. For example, a definitive diagnosis of cancer is made via tissue examination by a pathologist. For some conditions, treatment during the asymptomatic phase is vital. 
Locoregional opening of the rodent blood-brain barrier for paclitaxel using Nd:YAG laser-induced thermo therapy: a new concept of adjuvant glioma therapy? [SEP] The blood–brain barrier (BBB) is a highly selective semipermeable border of endothelial cells that prevents solutes in the circulating blood from non-selectively crossing into the extracellular fluid of the central nervous system where neurons reside. Function
The blood–brain barrier acts effectively to protect brain tissue from circulating pathogens and other potentially toxic substances. Specialized permeable zones
The border zones between brain tissue "behind" the blood–brain barrier and zones "open" to blood signals in certain CVOs contain specialized hybrid capillaries that are leakier than typical brain capillaries, but not as permeable as CVO capillaries. Therapeutic research
As a drug target
The blood–brain barrier is formed by the brain capillary endothelium and excludes from the brain 100% of large-molecule neurotherapeutics and more than 98% of all small-molecule drugs. In its neuroprotective role, the blood–brain barrier functions to hinder the delivery of many potentially important diagnostic and therapeutic agents to the brain. Modalities for drug delivery to the brain in unit doses through the BBB entail its disruption by osmotic means, or biochemically by the use of vasoactive substances, such as bradykinin, or even by localized exposure to high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU).Other methods used to get through the BBB may entail the use of endogenous transport systems, including carrier-mediated transporters, such as glucose and amino acid carriers, receptor-mediated transcytosis for insulin or transferrin, and the blocking of active efflux transporters such as p-glycoprotein. Other factors, such as astrocytes, may contribute to the resistance of brain tumors to therapy using nanoparticles. For a number of substances, the BCSFB is the primary site of entry into brain tissue.The blood–cerebrospinal fluid barrier has also been shown to modulate the entry of leukocytes from the blood to the central nervous system. 
Preoperative tracheobronchoscopy in newborns with esophageal atresia: does it matter? [SEP] Esophageal atresia is a congenital medical condition (birth defect) that affects the alimentary tract. On antenatal USG, the finding of an absent or small stomach in the setting of polyhydramnios was considered a potential symptom of esophageal atresia. The upper neck pouch sign is another sign that helps in the antenatal diagnosis of esophageal atresia and it may be detected soon after birth as the affected infant will be unable to swallow its own saliva.On plain X-ray, a feeding tube will not be seen pass through the esophagus and remain coiled in the upper oesophageal pouch. A variety of treatments for tracheomalacia associated with esophageal atresia are available. However, epithelial cell proliferation and potential incorporation of the stent into the trachea can make subsequent removal dangerous.The incidence of asthma, bronchitis, bronchial hyperresponsiveness, and recurrent infections in adolescent and adult esophageal atresia survivors far exceeds that of their healthy peers. Epidemiology
It occurs in approximately 1 in 3000 live births.Congenital esophageal atresia (EA) represents a failure of the esophagus to develop as a continuous passage. References
Further reading
External links
GenReview/NIH/UW entry on Esophageal Atresia/Tracheoesophageal Fistula Overview Esophageal atresia, which affects the alimentary tract and causes the esophagus to end before connecting normally to the stomach. 
Is horizontal semicircular canal ocular reflex influenced by otolith organs input? [SEP] The perception of head movement involves the body sensing linear acceleration or the force of gravity through the otoliths, and angular acceleration through the semicircular canals. See: cat righting reflex

Overview
Vestibular system
The vestibular system is composed of inner ear organs forming the "labyrinth": the semicircular canals, the otoliths, and the cochlea. The semicircular canals have a superior, posterior, and horizontal component. The semicircular canals encode head velocity signals, or angular acceleration, while the otoconia encode linear acceleration signals and gravitational signals. Input from the vestibular system is received by sensory receptors in the hair cells of the semicircular canals and the otoliths, which are processed in the vestibular nuclei. During the VOR, the semicircular canals send information to the brain and correct eye movements in the direction opposite head movement by sending excitatory signals to motor neurons on the side opposite to the head rotation. Neurons in the otoliths control not only these signals for control of eye movements, but also signals for head movement correction through the neck muscles. The vestibular imbalance theory is also tied to the different roles of the otoliths and canals in autonomic arousal (otolith output more sympathetic). 
Is perforation of the appendix a risk factor for tubal infertility and ectopic pregnancy? [SEP] Research performed at Winthrop–University Hospital showed that individuals without an appendix were four times as likely to have a recurrence of Clostridium difficile colitis. Untreated, the appendix may rupture, leading to peritonitis, followed by shock, and, if still untreated, death. Tubal factor infertility (TFI) is female infertility caused by diseases, obstructions, damage, scarring, congenital malformations or other factors which impede the descent of a fertilized or unfertilized ovum into the uterus through the Fallopian tubes and prevents a normal pregnancy and full term birth. Tubal factors cause 25-30% of infertility cases. Tubal factor is one complication of Chlamydia trachomatis infection in women.Sexually transmitted Chlamydia and genital mycoplasma infections are preventable causes of infertility and negative pregnancy outcomes. Infertility can have multiple possible causes and may not be recognized for years after a gonorrhea, Chlamydia or Mycoplasma infection has caused tubal damage, as the affected woman may not have attempted to become pregnant until years later. Cause
Tubal factor infertility can be due to Chlamydia infection and testing for Chlamydia antibodies is one diagnostic tool. Women have difficulty getting pregnant or carrying a baby to term due to the buildup of scar tissue in the Fallopian tubes causing damage to the cilia on the epithelial cells. 
Serovar specific immunity to Neisseria gonorrhoeae: does it exist? [SEP] Rectal or mouth swabs are required to diagnose infections in those areas.Prevention is by not having sex, the use of condoms, or having sex with only one other person, who is not infected. Gonorrhea, syphilis, and HIV should be tested for in those who have been infected. Signs and symptoms
Genital disease
Women
Chlamydial infection of the cervix (neck of the womb) is a sexually transmitted infection which has no symptoms for  around 70% of women infected. The infection can be passed through vaginal, anal, or oral sex. NAAT has been estimated to have a sensitivity of approximately 90% and a specificity of approximately 99%, regardless of sampling from a cervical swab or by urine specimen. In women seeking an sexually transmitted infection (STI) clinic and a urine test is negative, a subsequent cervical swab has been estimated to be positive in approximately 2% of the time.At present, the NAATs have regulatory approval only for testing urogenital specimens, although rapidly evolving research indicates that they may give reliable results on rectal specimens. Agents recommended during pregnancy include erythromycin or amoxicillin.An option for treating sexual partners of those with chlamydia or gonorrhea includes patient-delivered partner therapy (PDT or PDPT), which is the practice of treating the sex partners of index cases by providing prescriptions or medications to the patient to take to his/her partner without the health care provider first examining the partner.Following treatment people should be tested again after three months to check for reinfection. enterica serovar Typhi associated with a large outbreak and a carrier at the genome level provides new insight into the pathogenesis of the pathogen.In industrialized nations, water sanitation and food handling improvements have reduced the number of typhoid cases. 
May student examiners be reasonable substitute examiners for faculty in an undergraduate OSCE on medical emergencies? [SEP] Common evidence-based techniques include the Objective structured clinical examination (commonly known as the 'OSCE)  to assess clinical skills, and reliable checklist-based assessments to determine the development of soft skills such as professionalism. In order to maintain accreditation, medical schools are required to ensure that students meet a certain set of standards and competencies, defined by the accreditation committees. Eventually students should be able to perform each activity independently, only requiring assistance in situations of unique or uncommon complexity.The list of topics that EPAs address include:

History and physical exam skills
Differential diagnosis
Diagnostic/screening tests
Orders and prescriptions
Patient encounter documentation
Oral presentations of patient encounters
Clinical questioning/using evidence
Patient handovers/transitions of care
Teamwork
Urgent/Emergency care
Informed consent
Procedures
Safety and improvement

Postgraduate education
Following completion of entry-level training, newly graduated doctors are often required to undertake a period of supervised practice before full registration is granted; this is most often of one-year duration and may be referred to as an "internship" or "provisional registration" or "residency". In the USA, accreditation is overseen by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME). Students are assessed based on professionalism, communication, medical history gathering, physical exam, and ability to make shared decisions with the patient actor. The objective structured clinical examinations (OSCEs) are widely utilized as a way to assess health science students' clinical abilities in a controlled setting. Practical exams are solely based on an objective structured clinical examination (OSCE) type of standardized exams. In the final year, the school of medicine invites external examiners (from the United States, Britain, among others) to participate in student evaluations and to benefit from the experience of others. 
Are endothelial cell patterns of astrocytomas indicative of grade? [SEP] Glioma grading
The glioma grading system distinguishes four grades for astrocytomas and two grades for oligoastrocytomas. Glioblastoma is a specific grade IV astrocytoma, showing vascular endothelial proliferation necrosis and very high cell density and atypias. Astrocytomas are a type of brain tumor. After glioblastomas, astrocytomas are the second most common glioma and can occur in most parts of the brain and occasionally in the spinal cord.Within the astrocytomas, two broad classes are recognized in literature, those with:

Narrow zones of infiltration (mostly noninvasive tumors; e.g., pilocytic astrocytoma, subependymal giant cell astrocytoma, pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma), that often are clearly outlined on diagnostic images
Diffuse zones of infiltration (e.g., high-grade astrocytoma), that share various features, including the ability to arise at any location in the central nervous system, but with a preference for the cerebral hemispheres; they occur usually in adults, and have an intrinsic tendency to progress to more advanced grades.People can develop astrocytomas at any age. Established in 1993 in an effort to eliminate confusion regarding diagnoses, the WHO system established a four-tiered histologic grading guideline for astrocytomas that assigns a grade from 1 to 4, with 1 being the least aggressive and 4 being the most aggressive.The WHO grading scheme is based on the appearance of certain characteristics: atypia, mitosis, endothelial proliferation, and necrosis. Various types of astrocytomas are given these WHO grades:

According to the WHO data, the lowest grade astrocytomas (grade I) make up only 2% of recorded astrocytomas, grade II 8%, and the higher grade anaplastic astrocytomas (grade III) 20%. Pathology
Anaplastic astrocytomas fall under the category of high grade gliomas (WHO grade III-IV), which are pathologically undifferentiated gliomas that carry a poor clinical prognosis. Unlike glioblastomas (WHO grade IV), anaplastic astrocytomas lack vascular proliferation and necrosis on pathologic evaluation. 
Do healthier lifestyles lead to less utilization of healthcare resources? [SEP] Economics of lifestyle-based prevention
With lifestyle factors such as diet and exercise rising to the top of preventable death statistics, the economics of healthy lifestyle is a growing concern. Americans spend over three trillion a year on health care but have a higher rate of infant mortality, shorter life expectancies, and a higher rate of diabetes than other high-income nations because of negative lifestyle choices. In an effort to encourage healthy lifestyle choices, as of 2010 workplace wellness programs were on the rise but the economics and effectiveness data were continuing to evolve and develop.Health insurance coverage impacts lifestyle choices, even intermittent loss of coverage had negative effects on healthy choices in the U.S. Despite the potential for decreasing healthcare spending, utilization of healthcare resources in the United States still remains low, especially among Latinos and African-Americans. Preventive health behaviors such as healthful diet, regular exercise, access to and use of well-care, avoiding tobacco, and limiting alcohol can be viewed as health inputs that result in both a healthier workforce and substantial cost savings. The underutilization of preventative measures, rates of preventable illness and prevalence of chronic disease suggest that the US healthcare system does not sufficiently promote wellness. Without access to a regular source of care, patients have greater difficulty obtaining care, fewer doctor visits, and more difficulty obtaining prescription drugs. Participation does not imply just consumption of health care services. 
Antral follicle assessment as a tool for predicting outcome in IVF--is it a better predictor than age and FSH? [SEP] Several studies show that an AFC test is more accurate than basal FSH testing for older women (< 44 years of age) in predicting IVF outcome. On the other hand, the number of smaller antral follicles (2–5 mm) is highly correlated with the total number of antral follicles (2–10 mm), and therefore it is suggested that counting all identifiable antral follicles of 2–10 mm in diameter would provide the most practical method for assessment of AFC in clinical practice.Three-dimensional (3D) automated follicular tracking is a developing technique that can substantially decrease both
intra- and inter-observer variability in estimating the AFC. The cut-offs used to predict poor responders versus normal versus hyper-responders upon vaginal ultrasonography vary in the literature, with that of likely poor response varying between an AFC under 3 and under 12, largely resulting from various definitions of the size follicles to be called antral ones.The following table defines antral follicles as those about 2–8 mm in diameter:
The incidence of poor ovarian response in IVF ranges from 10 to 20%. Clinical usage
General fertility assessment
Comparison of an individual's AMH level with respect to average levels is useful in fertility assessment, as it provides a guide to ovarian reserve and identifies women that may need to consider either egg freezing or trying for a pregnancy sooner rather than later if their long-term future fertility is poor. Measurement of AMH supports clinical decisions, but alone it is not a suitable predictor of IVF success. Several studies show this test to be more accurate than basal FSH testing for older women (< 44 years of age) in predicting IVF outcome. One study has shown AMH to be a better marker than basal FSH for women with proven (prior) fertility in measuring age related decline in ovarian reserve. High levels however can be present in women with Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome which compromises female fertility and therefore a combination of AMH and a transvaginal ultrasound to count the number of antral follicles is probably the best way to assess ovarian reserve and future fertility. 
Do all ethnic groups in New Zealand exhibit socio-economic mortality gradients? [SEP] Socioeconomic status
Socioeconomic status is both a strong predictor of health, and a key factor underlying health inequities across populations. As members of indigenous communities adjust to western lifestyles, they have become more susceptible to developing certain chronic illnesses.There are also considerable racial disparities in access to insurance coverage, with ethnic minorities generally having less insurance coverage than non-ethnic minorities. In France, an older study noted significant differences in access to healthcare between native French populations, and non-French/migrant populations based upon health expenditure; however this was not fully independent of poorer economic and working conditions experienced by these populations.A 1996 study of race-based health inequity in Australia revealed that Aborigines experienced higher rates of mortality than non-Aborigine populations. Aborigine populations experienced 10 times greater mortality in the 30–40 age range; 2.5 times greater infant mortality rate, and 3 times greater age standardized mortality rate. At this point in time, the parities in life expectancy at birth between indigenous and non-indigenous peoples were highest in Australia, when compared to the US, Canada and New Zealand. Marmot described his findings as illustrating a "social gradient in health": the life expectancy for the poorest is seven years shorter than for the most wealthy, and the poor are more likely to have a disability. : Figure 13.2  This is also true of the difference between mortality across all occupational classes in highly equal Sweden as compared to less-equal England. European Portal for Action on Health Inequalities
Center for Managing Chronic Disease
Cultural Diversity in Health Care Speaker Series videos presentations from expert lecturers, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health
Cultural Diversity in Health Care Research Symposium video presentations from expert lecturers, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health
National Center on Minority Health and Health Disparities
Journal of Health Care for the Poor and Underserved
Understanding Health Disparities
Initiative to Eliminate Racial and Ethnic Disparities in Health United States government minority health initiative
Health Disparities Collaborative
EuroHealthNet's European Partnership for Improving Health, Equity and Wellbeing
Massachusetts General Hospital seeks to bridge healthcare's racial gap
Diversity Health Institute Clearinghouse
Case Center for Reducing Health Disparities
FIU Health Disparity Research Group
"Kaiser Health Disparities Report: A Weekly Look at Race, Ethnicity and Health", News summary report from kaisernetwork.org
Health inequality in New Zealand
BBC News article regarding health inequalities
EXPORT Project webpage atTuskegee University
VIDEO: Health Status Disparities in the US, April 4, 2007, featuring Paula Braveman, Gregg Bloche, George Kaplan, Thomas Ricketts, Mary Lou deLeon Siantz, and David Williams
UK National Health Service Specialist Library for Ethnicity & Health [1]
National Rural Health Association
The National Partnership for Action to End Health Disparities
The National Partnership for Action Toolkit for Community Action 
Can normal knee kinematics be restored with unicompartmental knee replacement? [SEP] Partial knee replacement
Unicompartmental arthroplasty (UKA), also called partial knee replacement, is an option for some people. A minority of people with osteoarthritis have wear primarily in one compartment, usually the medial, and may be candidates for unicompartmental knee replacement. Loss of motion
The knee at times may not recover its normal range of motion (0–135 degrees usually) after total knee replacement. After about ten months, the patient should be able to return to normal daily activities, although the operated leg may be significantly weaker than the non-operated leg.For post-operative knee replacement patients, immobility is a factor precipitated by pain and other complications. Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (UKA) is a surgical procedure used to relieve arthritis in one of the knee compartments in which the damaged parts of the knee are replaced. Finally, the surgeon will close the wound with sutures.The unicompartmental replacement is a minimally invasive option for people whose arthritis is isolated to either the medial or the lateral compartment. Replacing the badly damaged or deficient meniscus with a meniscus transplant from a human donor restores normal knee structure and helps protect the remaining joint surfaces. "Hands-on robotic unicompartmental knee replacement: a prospective, randomised controlled study of the acrobot system". 
Are serum leptin levels a prognostic factor in advanced lung cancer? [SEP] High levels of blood cholesterol are also associated with increased prostate cancer risk; consequently, those who take the cholesterol-lowering drugs, statins, have a reduced risk of advanced prostate cancer.Regular vigorous exercise may reduce one's chance of developing advanced prostate cancer, as can several dietary interventions. Those with metastases in distant body sites (around 5% of diagnoses) have relatively poor prognoses, with five-year survival rates of 30–40%.In patients who undergo treatment, the most important clinical prognostic indicators of disease outcome are the stage, pretherapy PSA level, and Gleason score. More recently, it has been shown to predict metastasis and mortality following prostatectomy, radiation therapy, watchful waiting, or androgen deprivation therapy. Blood tests for tumor markers, such as carcinoembryonic antigen and carbohydrate antigen may be ordered, as their levels correlate to extent of metastasis, especially to the liver, and the cure rate.Staging may not be complete until after surgery. Here biomarkers can be useful in determining the aggressiveness of an identified cancer as well as its likelihood of responding to a given treatment. Examples of such prognostic biomarkers include elevated levels of metallopeptidase inhibitor 1 (TIMP1), a marker associated with more aggressive forms of multiple myeloma, elevated estrogen receptor (ER) and/or progesterone receptor (PR) expression, markers associated with better overall survival in patients with breast cancer; HER2/neu gene amplification, a marker indicating a breast cancer will likely respond to trastuzumab treatment; a mutation in exon 11 of the proto-oncogene c-KIT, a marker indicating a gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) will likely respond to imatinib treatment; and mutations in the tyrosine kinase domain of EGFR1, a marker indicating a patient's non-small-cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) will likely respond to gefitinib or erlotinib treatment. Obesity may be associated with a higher incidence of thyroid cancer, but this relationship remains the subject of much debate.Thyroid cancer accounts for less than 1% of cancer cases and deaths in the UK. Simple blood tests are also available for dose optimization of methotrexate, 5-FU, paclitaxel, and docetaxel.The serum albumin level immediately prior to chemotherapy administration is an independent prognostic predictor of survival in various cancer types. 
Is fetal gender associated with emergency department visits for asthma during pregnancy? [SEP] If their medical system is able to provide them, mothers can also undergo more invasive diagnostic tests such as an amniocentesis, or chorionic villous sampling to detect abnormalities with greater accuracy.In the case of a healthy vaginal birth, mothers and babies typically are recommended to stay at the hospital for 24 hours before departing. ADHD is diagnosed approximately three times more often in boys than in girls. Black women have higher maternity mortalilty rates than white women regardless of socioeconomic status and pre-existing health conditions.According to the American Journal of Preventive Medicine, a data analysis was performed using The Behavioral Risk Factor System survey to examining the perceptions of racial privilege in healthcare among different races. "There’s a lot of research that suggests that who gets taken seriously in hospitals and doctors’ offices is related to race and gender," Thornton said. Asthma – is a common long-term inflammatory disease of the airways of the lungs. On average the nose of a male is larger than that of a female. Females suffered more compared to male in general. Thirty-seven percent of patients are female. 
Stretch-sensitive KCNQ1 mutation A link between genetic and environmental factors in the pathogenesis of atrial fibrillation? [SEP] Kv7.1 (KvLQT1) is a potassium channel protein whose primary subunit in humans is encoded by the KCNQ1 gene. In the cardiac cells, Kv7.1 mediates the IKs (or slow delayed rectifying K+) current that contributes to the repolarization of the cell, terminating the cardiac action potential and thereby the heart's contraction. It is a member of the KCNQ family of potassium channels. Clinical significance
Mutations in the gene can lead to a defective protein and several forms of inherited arrhythmias as Long QT syndrome which is a prolongation of the QT interval of heart repolarization, Short QT syndrome, and Familial Atrial Fibrillation. Ligands
ML277: potent and selective channel activator

Interactions
KvLQT1 has been shown to interact with PRKACA, PPP1CA and AKAP9.KvLQT1 can also associate with any of the five members of the KCNE family of proteins, but interactions with KCNE1, KCNE2, KCNE3 are the only interactions within this protein family that affect the human heart. General mutations in KvLQT1 have been known to cause a decrease in this slow delayed potassium rectifier current, longer cardiac action potentials, and a tendency to have tachyarrhythmias. Mutations in either the alpha subunit of this complex, KvLQT1 or the beta subunit, KCNE1, can lead to Long QT Syndrome or other cardiac rhythmic deformities. KCQN genes encode family members of the Kv7 potassium channel family. 
Are adult body circumferences associated with height? [SEP] According to the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH), waist circumference in excess of 1,020 mm (40 in) for men and 880 mm (35 in) for (non-pregnant) women is considered to imply a high risk for type 2 diabetes, dyslipidemia, hypertension, and cardiovascular disease CVD. Waist circumference can be a better indicator of obesity-related disease risk than BMI. The term anthropometric refers to measurements made of various parameters of the human body, such as circumferences of various body parts or thicknesses of skinfolds. The formula for children is different; the relationship between BMI and BF% in children was found to differ from that in adults due to the height-related increase in BMI in children aged 15 years and younger. Height will also affect the appearance of the figure. A person's waist-to-height ratio (WHtR), occasionally written WtHR or  called waist-to-stature ratio (WSR), is defined as their waist circumference divided by their height, both measured in the same units. In people with a BMI over 35, measurement of waist circumference however adds little to the predictive power of BMI as most individuals with this BMI have abnormal waist circumferences. Human body volumes and body volume ratios and their links to body compositions have been researched for several years. 
Would corrected QT dispersion predict left ventricular hypertrophy in hypertensive patients? [SEP] Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) is thickening of the heart muscle of the left ventricle of the heart, that is, left-sided ventricular hypertrophy and resulting increased left ventricular mass. Although left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) is more common, right ventricular hypertrophy (RVH), as well as concurrent hypertrophy of both ventricles can also occur. Ventricular hypertrophy can result from a variety of conditions, both adaptive and maladaptive. For example, in tetralogy of Fallot, the right ventricle is exposed to the high pressures of the left heart due to a defect in the septum; as a result the right ventricle undergoes hypertrophy to compensate for these increased pressures. Similarly, in systemic hypertension, the left ventricle must work harder to overcome the higher pressures of the vascular system and responds by thickening to deal with increased wall stress.Concentric hypertrophy is characterized by an addition of sarcomeres (the contractile units of cardiac cells) in parallel. Important considerations in echocardiography of the hypertrophied heart include lateral and septal wall thickness, degree of outflow tract obstruction, and systolic anterior wall motion (SAM) of the mitral valve, which can exacerbate outflow obstruction.It is not uncommon to undergo cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET), which measures the heart's response to exercise, to assess the functional impairment caused by hypertrophy, and to prognosticate outcomes. It may also show whether there is thickening of the heart muscle (left ventricular hypertrophy) or whether the heart has experienced a prior minor disturbance such as a silent heart attack. Hypertension increases the risk of heart failure by two or three-fold  and probably accounts for about 25% of all cases of heart failure. 
Traumatic aortic injury: does the anatomy of the aortic arch influence aortic trauma severity? [SEP] Location of rupture
By far the most common site for tearing in traumatic aortic rupture is the proximal descending aorta, near where the left subclavian artery branches off from the aorta. The tethering of the aorta by the ligamentum arteriosum makes the site prone to shearing forces during sudden deceleration.A study of people who died after traumatic aortic rupture found that in 55–65% of cases the damage was at the aortic isthmus and in 10–14% it was in the ascending aorta or aortic arch. However, if surgery is performed in time, it can offer a chance of survival.Though there is a concern that a small, stable tear in the aorta could enlarge and cause complete rupture of the aorta and heavy bleeding, this may be less common than previously believed as long as the blood pressure does not get too high.There have been five rare cases of a traumatic aortic rupture going undiagnosed of more than a year, and presenting with chest and back pain. Prognosis
An aortic rupture is a catastrophic medical emergency. The aortic arch, arch of the aorta, or transverse aortic arch (English:  ) is the part of the aorta between the ascending and descending aorta. Arch of aorta continues as  the descending aorta after T4 vertebral body. : 214 The aortic arch has three main branches on its superior aspect. Development
The aortic arch is the connection between the ascending and descending aorta, and its central part is formed by the left 4th aortic arch during early development.The ductus arteriosus connects to the lower part of the arch in foetal life. 
Inpatient versus outpatient management of neutropenic fever in gynecologic oncology patients: is risk stratification useful? [SEP] Diagnosis
MASCC and CISNE risk indexes
The Multinational Association for Supportive Care in Cancer (MASCC) risk index can be used to identify low-risk patients (score ≥21 points) for serious complications of febrile neutropenia (including death, intensive care unit admission, confusion, cardiac complications, respiratory failure, kidney failure, low blood pressure, bleeding, and other serious medical complications). A prospective trial demonstrated that a modified MASCC score can identify patients with febrile neutropenia at low risk of complications, as well.In contrast, the Clinical Index of Stable Febrile Neutropenia (CISNE) score is specific of patients with solid tumors and seemingly stable episodes. Periodic monitoring should be done to see if the empiric treatment is working, or if a more target therapy should be initiated.In people with cancer who have febrile neutropenia (excluding patients with acute leukaemia), oral treatment is an acceptable alternative to intravenous antibiotic treatment if they are hemodynamically stable, without organ failure, without pneumonia and with no infection of a central line or severe soft-tissue infection. Furthermore, outpatient treatment for low‐risk febrile neutropenia in people with cancer probably makes little or no difference to treatment failure and mortality compared with the standard hospital (inpatient) treatment and may reduce time that patients need to be treated in hospital. Mortality increases during cancer treatments if neutropenia is also present. Three general guidelines are used to classify the severity of neutropenia based on the ANC (expressed below in cells/µl):
Mild neutropenia (1000 <= ANC < 1500): minimal risk of infection
Moderate neutropenia (500 <= ANC < 1000): moderate risk of infection
Severe neutropenia (ANC < 500): severe risk of infection.Each of these are either derived from laboratory tests or via the formula below:
ANC = 
  
    
      
        
          (
          %
          n
          e
          u
          t
          r
          o
          p
          h
          i
          l
          s
          +
          %
          b
          a
          n
          d
          s
          )
          ×
          (
          W
          B
          C
          )
        
        
          (
          100
          )
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle (\%neutrophils+\%bands)\times (WBC) \over (100)}

Treatment
A fever, when combined with profound neutropenia (febrile neutropenia), is considered a medical emergency and requires broad spectrum antibiotics. An absolute neutrophil count less than 200 is also considered a medical emergency and almost always requires hospital admission and initiation of broad spectrum antibiotics with selection of specific antibiotics based on local resistance patterns.Precautions to avoid opportunistic infections in those with chronic neutropenia include maintaining proper soap and water hand hygiene, good dental hygiene and avoiding highly contaminated sources that may contain a large fungal reservoirs such as mulch, construction sites and bird or other animal waste.Neutropenia can be treated with the hematopoietic growth factor granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF). Neutropenic fever in individuals treated for cancer has a mortality of 4–30%. 
Should chest wall irradiation be included after mastectomy and negative node breast cancer? [SEP] Conventionally radiotherapy is given after the operation for breast cancer. Radiation can also be given at the time of operation on the breast cancer. Radiation can reduce the risk of recurrence by 50–66% (1/2 – 2/3 reduction of risk) when delivered in the correct dose and is considered essential when breast cancer is treated by removing only the lump (Lumpectomy or Wide local excision). A review has found that follow-up programs involving regular physical examinations and yearly mammography alone are as effective as more intensive programs consisting of laboratory tests in terms of early detection of recurrence, overall survival and quality of life.Multidisciplinary rehabilitation programmes, often including exercise, education and psychological help, may produce short-term improvements in functional ability, psychosocial adjustment and social participation in people with breast cancer.Upper limb problems such as shoulder and arm pain, weakness and restricted movement are a common side effect after radiotherapy or breast cancer surgery. In general recommendations would include radiation:

As part of breast conserving therapy. A meta-analysis of randomised trials of partial breast irradiation (PBI) vs. whole breast irradiation (WBI) as part of breast conserving therapy demonstrated a reduction in non-breast-cancer and overall mortality.In breast brachytherapy, the radiation source is placed inside the breast, treating the cavity from the inside out. A study is currently underway by the National Surgical Breast and Bowel Project (NSABP) to determine whether limiting radiation therapy to only the tumor site following lumpectomy is as effective as radiating the whole breast. "Twenty-year follow-up of a randomized trial comparing total mastectomy, lumpectomy, and lumpectomy plus irradiation for the treatment of invasive breast cancer”, by Bernard Fisher, Stewart Anderson, John Bryant, Richard G. Margolese, Melvin Deutsch, Edwin R. Fisher, Jong-Hyeon Jeong and Norman Wolmark, The New England Journal of Medicine, vol. 
Can bisphosphonate treatment be stopped in a growing child with skeletal fragility? [SEP] Medical research also supports the use of medications of the bisphosphonate class, such as pamidronate, to increase bone density. Bisphosphonates are especially effective in children, however it is unclear if they either increase quality of life or decrease the rate of fracture incidence.OI affects only about one in 15,000 to 20,000 people, making it a rare genetic disease. : 424

Medications
Bisphosphonates
In 1998, an initial observational trial demonstrated the effectiveness of intravenous pamidronate, a bisphosphonate which had previously been used in adults to treat osteoporosis. A Cochrane review in 2016 concluded that though bisphosphonates seem to improve bone mineral density, it is uncertain whether this leads either to a reduction in bone fractures or improvement in the quality of life of individuals with osteogenesis imperfecta. Even in trials with as many as 125 children, no causal link has been found between bisphosphonates and decreased fracture rates; placebo controlled trials were also unable to prove that they brought about increased strength, motor control or lower pain levels.Bisphosphonates are not as effective at increasing the bone mineral density of adults. Children with OI should go for a dental check-up as soon as their teeth erupt; this may minimize tooth structure loss as a result of abnormal dentine, and they should be monitored regularly to preserve their teeth and oral health.Many people with OI are treated with bisphosphonates, and there are several possible related complications with dental procedures, for example, medication-related osteonecrosis of the jaw (MRONJ). Intravenous bisphosphonates may be helpful for treatment of bone pain, but there is no clear evidence that they strengthen bone lesions or prevent fractures. Osteoporosis is common in children with cerebral palsy, and non-oral bisphosphonates have been used to treat children with a very low bone mass density and a medical history of fragility fracture.Oral baclofen or diazepam is used to reduce spasticity which results in pain, muscle spasms or functional disability. 
Regional anesthesia as compared with general anesthesia for surgery in geriatric patients with hip fracture: does it decrease morbidity, mortality, and health care costs? [SEP] In many situations, such as cesarean section, it is safer and therefore superior to general anesthesia.The following terms are often used interchangeably:

Local anesthesia, in a strict sense, is anesthesia of a small part of the body such as a tooth or an area of skin. Regional anesthesia is aimed at anesthetizing a larger part of the body such as a leg or arm. Unlike other forms of anesthesia, a local can be used for a minor procedure in a surgeon's office as it does not put you into a state of unconsciousness. A review from 2018 examined perioperative anesthesia interventions and their impact on anesthesia-related mortality. Depending on the kind of operation, anesthesia may be provided locally or as general anesthesia. Surgical
Geriatric orthopaedics or orthogeriatrics (close cooperation with orthopedic surgery and a focus on osteoporosis and rehabilitation). Other geriatrics subspecialties
Geriatric anesthesia (focuses on anesthesia & perioperative care of elderly). Geriatric pain management. 
Does blood pressure change in treated hypertensive patients depending on whether it is measured by a physician or a nurse? [SEP] Hospitalized patients often have elevated levels for multiple reasons. Overall, anticoagulation therapy is complex and many circumstances can affect how these therapies are managed. Field of medicine
Patients with a history of DVT might be managed by primary care, general internal medicine, hematology, cardiology, vascular surgery, or vascular medicine. Even people older than 80 years and those with isolated systolic hypertension benefit from antihypertensive therapy. Women
A number of specific recommendations have been made for women including taking aspirin after the 11th week of pregnancy if there is a history of previous chronic high blood pressure and taking blood pressure medications during pregnancy if the blood pressure is greater than 150 mmHg systolic or greater than 100 mmHg diastolic. Hemorrhagic stroke
People with intracerebral hemorrhage require supportive care, including blood pressure control if required. Nursing care is fundamental in maintaining skin care, feeding, hydration, positioning, and monitoring vital signs such as temperature, pulse, and blood pressure. If someone has another medical condition that requires anticoagulation (e.g. 
Treadmill testing of children who have spina bifida and are ambulatory: does peak oxygen uptake reflect maximum oxygen uptake? [SEP] Cardiopulmonary exercise test
While also measuring breathing gases (e.g. The test is also common in sport science for measuring athlete's VO2 max. Medical treadmills are also active measuring devices. This is the mildest form of spina bifida. Further, children with spina bifida may have poor cognitive flexibility. Attention deficits may be evident at a very early age, as infants with spina bifida lag behind their peers in orienting to faces. Children and adults with spina bifida have stronger abilities in reading accuracy than in reading comprehension. Screening
Open spina bifida can usually be detected during pregnancy by fetal ultrasound. 
Is the probability of prenatal diagnosis or termination of pregnancy different for fetuses with congenital anomalies conceived following assisted reproductive techniques? [SEP] By pregnancy stage
Pre-conception
Prior to conception, couples may elect to have genetic testing done to determine the odds of conceiving a child with a known genetic anomaly. Two alternative approaches have been developed for the detection of fetal aneuploidy. These procedures are not associated with pregnancy loss during the second trimester but they are associated with miscarriages and birth defects in the first trimester. There are significantly higher odds of preterm birth (odds ratio 1.3) and congenital anomalies (odds ratio 1.3) among births having from embryos cultured until the blastocyst stage compared with cleavage stage. Birth defects
A review in 2013 came to the result that infants resulting from IVF (with or without ICSI) have a relative risk of birth defects of 1.32 (95% confidence interval 1.24–1.42) compared to naturally conceived infants. In 2008, an analysis of the data of the National Birth Defects Study in the US found that certain birth defects were significantly more common in infants conceived through IVF, notably septal heart defects, cleft lip with or without cleft palate, esophageal atresia, and anorectal atresia; the mechanism of causality is unclear. The authors of the Danish national registry study speculate: "our results suggest that the reported increased prevalence of congenital malformations seen in singletons born after assisted reproductive technology is partly due to the underlying infertility or its determinants." Increases in embryo manipulation during IVF result in more deviant fetal growth curves, but birth weight does not seem to be a reliable marker of fetal stress.IVF, including ICSI, is associated with an increased risk of imprinting disorders (including Prader-Willi syndrome and Angelman syndrome), with an odds ratio of 3.7 (95% confidence interval 1.4 to 9.7).An IVF-associated incidence of cerebral palsy and neurodevelopmental delay are believed to be related to the confounders of prematurity and low birthweight. 
Is there a relationship between complex fractionated atrial electrograms recorded during atrial fibrillation and sinus rhythm fractionation? [SEP] Atrial fibrillation (AF or A-fib) is an abnormal heart rhythm (arrhythmia) characterized by rapid and irregular beating of the atrial chambers of the heart. Prolonged episodes of atrial fibrillation have been shown to correlate with prolongation of the sinus node recovery time; this suggests that dysfunction of the SA node is progressive with prolonged episodes of atrial fibrillation. Along with fibrosis, alterations in the atria that predispose to atrial fibrillation affect their electrical properties, as well as their responsiveness to the autonomic nervous system. Increased expression of inward-rectifier potassium ion channels can cause a reduced atrial refractory period and wavelength. Electrocardiogram
Atrial fibrillation is diagnosed on an electrocardiogram (ECG), an investigation performed routinely whenever an irregular heartbeat is suspected. At very fast heart rates, atrial fibrillation may look more regular, which may make it more difficult to separate from other supraventricular tachycardias or ventricular tachycardia.QRS complexes should be narrow, signifying that they are initiated by normal conduction of atrial electrical activity through the intraventricular conduction system. More than 90% of cases of thrombi associated with non-valvular atrial fibrillation evolve in the left atrial appendage. Other inherited heart conditions associated with the development of atrial fibrillation in children include Brugada syndrome, short QT syndrome, Wolff Parkinson White syndrome, and other forms of supraventricular tachycardia (e.g., AV nodal reentrant tachycardia). 
Does rural or urban residence make a difference to neonatal outcome in premature birth? [SEP] 1977 Dec 24-31:2(26-27):855-8
Kitchen, WH (1983).Provision of perinatal services and survival of extremely low birthweight infants in Victoria. Arch Dis Child 1999;80:488-492 (May)
Abdel-Latif, M. (2006).Does rural or urban residence make a difference to neonatal outcome in premature birth? Fetal Neonatal Ed. 2006; 91: F251-F256
Broughton, SJ (2004).An illness severity score and neonatal mortality in retrieved neonates. (2006).Improved Outcomes of Extremely Premature Outborn Infants: Effects of Strategic Changes in Perinatal and Retrieval Services Pediatrics 118:5 2076-2083 For example, many families in the cities accepted the policy more readily based on the lack of space, money, and resources that often occurs in the cities. In the case of pregnant women, exposure can result in premature births. Increased rates of a full range of adverse birth outcomes result from high exposure to pesticides in a study of 500,000 births among farm workers in California's San Joaquin Valley.Economic, social, racial, and political barriers make passing policy and creating protective measures less likely to occur; in the context of their jobs, migrant seasonal farm workers are structurally vulnerable to exploitation and working conditions that are Occupational Factors not up to health standards if they are unable to find the necessary physical and social resources to protect themselves. 
Is the use of cyanoacrylate in intestinal anastomosis a good and reliable alternative? [SEP] Uses
Medical and veterinary
Cyanoacrylate glue is widely used in human and veterinary medicine. A cyanoacrylate spray was used in the Vietnam War to reduce bleeding in wounded soldiers until they could be taken to a hospital. n-Butyl cyanoacrylate has been used medically since the 1970s. A 1986 independent study suggests that cyanoacrylate can be safer and more functional for wound closure than traditional suturing (stitches). Although cyanoacrylates are widely used for sutureless wound repair, "existing adhesives still lack sufficient adhesion strength to completely replace sutures and staples." These risks can be minimized by using cyanoacrylate in well-ventilated areas. The United Kingdom's Health and Safety Executive and the United States National Toxicology Program have concluded that the use of ethyl cyanoacrylate is safe and that additional study is unnecessary. Due to the toxicity issues of ethyl cyanoacrylate, the use of 2-octyl cyanoacrylate for sutures is preferred. 
Is trabecular bone related to primary stability of miniscrews? [SEP] To understand the role of trabecular bone in age-related bone structure and in the design for bone-implant systems, it is important to study the mechanical properties of trabecular bone as a function of variables such as anatomic site, bone density, and age related issues. Thus, the micro structure of trabecular bone is typically oriented and ''grain'' of porosity is aligned in a direction at which mechanical stiffness and strength are greatest. To understand structure-anisotropy and material property relations, one must correlate the measured mechanical properties of anisotropic trabecular specimens with the stereological descriptions of their architecture.The compressive strength of trabecular bone is also very important because it is believed that the inside failure of trabecular bone arise from compressive stress. The effects of aging and small cracking of trabecular bone on its mechanical properties are a source of further study. Trabecular bone increases stiffness by increasing the amount of bone per unit volume or by altering the geometry and arrangement of individual trabeculae as body size and bone loading increases. Trabecular bone scales allometrically, reorganizing the bones’ internal structure to increase the ability of the skeleton to sustain loads experienced by the trabeculae. This shows that trabecular bone geometry is related to ‘prevailing mechanical conditions’, so the differences in trabecular geometry in the femoral head and condyle could be attributed to different loading environments of coxofemoral and femorotibial joints. The trabecular bone score is a measure of bone texture correlated with bone microarchitecture and a marker for the risk of osteoporosis. 
Is there any evidence of a "July effect" in patients undergoing major cancer surgery? [SEP] Chemotherapy may be given after surgery (adjuvant, i.e. According to the Canadian Cancer Society, "there is no evidence to support any of these claims." According to the American Cancer Society, "available scientific evidence does not support claims that imagery can influence the development or progress of cancer". Although it may cause a temporary reduction in tumor size for some patients, there is no evidence that it improves survival time or any other main outcomes. Chemotherapy may be used before surgery to shrink the cancer before attempting to remove it. Survivors with tumors that expressed p27 and performed greater and equal to 18 MET hours per week were found to have reduced colorectal cancer mortality survival compared to those with less than 18 MET hours per week. References
Further reading
External links

Cancer at Curlie
"On telling cancer patients to have a positive attitude" at The Atlantic Chemotherapy or other types of therapy prior to surgery are called neoadjuvant therapy. 
Is it necessary to insert a nasobiliary drainage tube routinely after endoscopic clearance of the common bile duct in patients with choledocholithiasis-induced cholangitis? [SEP] Treatment
Fluids and antibiotics
Cholangitis requires admission to hospital. Endoscopy
The definitive treatment for cholangitis is relief of the underlying biliary obstruction. Rarely, surgical exploration of the common bile duct (termed choledochotomy), which can be performed with laparoscopy, is required to remove the stone.Narrowed areas may be bridged by a stent, a hollow tube that keeps the duct open. A nasobiliary drain may be left behind; this is a plastic tube that passes from the bile duct through the stomach and the nose and allows continuous drainage of bile into a receptible. Treatment
Fluids and antibiotics
Cholangitis requires admission to hospital. Endoscopy
The definitive treatment for cholangitis is relief of the underlying biliary obstruction. Rarely, surgical exploration of the common bile duct (termed choledochotomy), which can be performed with laparoscopy, is required to remove the stone.Narrowed areas may be bridged by a stent, a hollow tube that keeps the duct open. A nasobiliary drain may be left behind; this is a plastic tube that passes from the bile duct through the stomach and the nose and allows continuous drainage of bile into a receptible. 
Storage of vaccines in the community: weak link in the cold chain? [SEP] Distribution and storage is a logistical challenge because the vaccine needs to be stored at extremely low temperatures.In August 2022, a bivalent version of the vaccine (Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine, Bivalent) was authorized for use as a booster dose in individuals twelve years of age and older in the United States. The vaccine is used to reduce morbidity and mortality from COVID-19.The vaccine is supplied in a multidose vial as "a white to off-white, sterile, preservative-free, frozen suspension for intramuscular injection". Logistics
The vaccine is delivered in vials that, once diluted, contain 2.25 mL of vaccine, comprising 0.45 mL frozen and 1.8 mL diluent. In the United States, vials will be counted as five doses when accompanied by regular syringes and as six doses when accompanied by low dead space syringes.The vaccine can be stored at 2 to 8 °C (36 to 46 °F) for thirty days before use and at 25 °C (77 °F) or 30 °C (86 °F)  for up to two hours before use. During distribution the vaccine is stored in special containers that maintain temperatures between −80 and −60 °C (−112 and −76 °F).Low-income countries have limited cold chain capacity for ultracold transport and storage of a vaccine. The head of Indonesia's Bio Farma Honesti Basyir said purchasing the vaccine is out of the question for the world's fourth-most populous country, given that it did not have the necessary cold chain capability. CoronaVac does not need to be frozen, and both the final product and the raw material for formulating CoronaVac can be transported refrigerated at 2–8 °C (36–46 °F), temperatures at which flu vaccines are kept.A real-world study of tens of millions of Chileans who received CoronaVac found it 66% effective against symptomatic COVID-19, 88% effective against hospitalization, 90% effective against ICU admissions, and 86% effective against deaths. CoronaVac could remain stable for up to three years in storage, which might offer some advantage in vaccine distribution to regions where cold chains are not developed.In November 2020, Brazil's Instituto Butantan began building a facility to manufacture 100 million doses of CoronaVac a year, with a target completion date in September 2021. 
Is the clinically positive axilla in breast cancer really a contraindication to sentinel lymph node biopsy? [SEP] In a patient with a positive sentinel lymph node biopsy, generally only the superficial nodes are removed, unless Cloquet's node (the most superior of the deep nodes) is clinically positive. Lymphogenic spread of breast cancer
Breast cancer typically spreads via lymphatic vessels to the lymph nodes found in the axilla. A 2013 Cochrane review found that it was unclear if mammographic screening does more harm than good, in that a large proportion of women who test positive turn out not to have the disease. Lumps found in lymph nodes located in the armpits may also indicate breast cancer. Screening
Breast cancer screening refers to testing otherwise-healthy women for breast cancer in an attempt to achieve an earlier diagnosis under the assumption that early detection will improve outcomes. Cochrane states that, due to recent improvements in breast cancer treatment, and the risks of false positives from breast cancer screening leading to unnecessary treatment, "it therefore no longer seems beneficial to attend for breast cancer screening" at any age. Screening mammography efficiently finds non-life-threatening, asymptomatic breast cancers and precancers, even while overlooking serious cancers. In response to women's concerns over lymphedema after routine removal of lymph nodes during mastectomy, the more limited approach of sentinel node biopsy was developed. 
Convulsions and retinal haemorrhage: should we look further? [SEP] Eclampsia is the onset of seizures (convulsions) in a woman with pre-eclampsia. Typically the woman develops hypertension before the onset of a convulsion (seizure). Other cerebral signs that may precede the convulsion include nausea, vomiting, headaches, and cortical blindness. These may be signs that the brain is swelling (cerebral edema) or bleeding (intracerebral hemorrhage). Other vasodilators, including prostacyclin, thromboxane A2, nitric oxide, and endothelins, are reduced in eclampsia and may lead to vasoconstriction.Eclampsia is associated with hypertensive encephalopathy in which cerebral vascular resistance is reduced, leading to increased blood flow to the brain, cerebral edema and resultant convulsions. An eclamptic convulsion usually does not cause chronic brain damage unless intracranial haemorrhage occurs. To determine if proteinuria is present, the urine can be collected and tested for protein; if there is 0.3 grams of protein or more in the urine of a pregnant woman collected over 24 hours, this is one of the diagnostic criteria for pre-eclampsia and raises the suspicion that a seizure is due to eclampsia.In cases of severe eclampsia or pre-eclampsia, the woman can have low levels of platelets in the blood, a condition termed thrombocytopenia. Differential diagnosis
Convulsions during pregnancy that are unrelated to pre-eclampsia need to be distinguished from eclampsia. 
Are patients willing participants in the new wave of community-based medical education in regional and rural Australia? [SEP] Hunt stated that about 815,000 Australians between ages 50 and 59 had already received a first dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine, with Pfizer now available to the approximately 2.1 million remaining Australians in that age group.In a survey conducted in June 2021, about 15 percent of respondents not yet vaccinated identified wanting a different vaccine "to what was available to them" as a factor holding them back from getting vaccinated. Queensland's Chief Health Officer John Gerrard stated that spreading COVID-19 was "necessary" in order to transition from the "pandemic stage to an endemic stage", noting that measures in place were intended to reduce strain on hospitals and buy time for booster shots.Western Australia delayed its transition from COVID-zero on January 20 2022 citing the risk from the Omicron variant. Chris Moy, Vice President of the Australian Medical Association (AMA) said medicine shortages in Australia were a "pre-existing problem" before COVID-19. See also
Timeline of the COVID-19 pandemic in Australia
COVID-19 vaccination in Australia
COVID-19 protests in Australia
COVID-19 clusters in Australia
Chart of COVID-19 cases in Australia (template)
COVID-19 pandemic by country
COVID-19 pandemic in Oceania
COVID-19 pandemic in New Zealand
Biosecurity in Australia
National Cabinet of Australia
National COVID-19 Coordination Commission
National Security Committee (Australia)
Coronavirus Australia
Xenophobia and racism related to the COVID-19 pandemic#Australia

State and territory articles
COVID-19 pandemic in the Australian Capital Territory
COVID-19 pandemic in New South Wales
COVID-19 pandemic in the Northern Territory
COVID-19 pandemic in Queensland
COVID-19 pandemic in South Australia
COVID-19 pandemic in Tasmania
COVID-19 pandemic in Victoria
COVID-19 pandemic in Western Australia

Notes
References
Further reading
Press Conference by the Prime Minister of Australia on 27 February 2020 Archived 9 March 2020 at the Wayback Machine Transcript of the Press Conference held on 27 February 2020 by The Hon Scott Morrison MP, the Prime Minister of Australia, from Australian Parliament House alongside Dr Paul Kelly, Deputy Chief Medical Officer and The Hon. Catholic Health Australia is the largest non-government provider grouping of health, community and aged care services, representing about 10% of the health sector. One study showed that once people had heard of the Ebola virus disease, hand washing with soap and water improved, though socio-demographic factors influenced hygiene.A number of organisations enrolled local people to conduct public awareness campaigns among the communities in Western Africa. For those being treated at home, the WHO advised informing the local public health authority and acquiring appropriate training and equipment. Community-based programs in Malaysia and Sri Lanka that used well-trained midwives as front-line health workers also produced rapid declines in maternal mortality. 
Can Flexible Instruments Create Adequate Femoral Tunnel Lengths at 90° of Knee Flexion in Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction? [SEP] Flexible may refer to:

Science and technology
Power cord, a flexible electrical cable. A flexible shaft, often referred to as a flex shaft, is a device for transmitting rotary motion between two objects which are not fixed relative to one another. Flexible shafts are commonly used in plumber's snakes. Flexible shaft tools are used frequently in the dental and jewelry industry, as well as other industrial applications. It extends from the apex of the femoral triangle to the adductor hiatus. Structure
The adductor canal extends from the apex of the femoral triangle to the adductor hiatus. The angle at which this line appears on the radiograph can be used to determine the position of the patella or diagnose an ACL injury. Clinical Use
On a normal radiograph, the line intersects the inferior pole of the patella, and so can be useful in diagnosing a broken femur as well as a patellar tendon rupture. 
Quality of life in lung cancer patients: does socioeconomic status matter? [SEP] These communities bear a disproportionate burden of environmental pollution and are more likely to face health risks such as cancer or asthma.Studies show that patterns in race and income disparities not only indicate a higher exposure to pollution but also higher risk of adverse health outcomes. As with most cultural models, people who conform to the model are given social status, in this case as cancer survivors. Risk factors such as socioeconomic status, late-stage, or breast cancer at diagnosis, genetic differences in tumour subtypes, differences in health care access all contribute to these disparities. Socioeconomic determinants affecting the disparity in breast cancer illness include poverty, culture, as well as social injustice. The quality of health and how health is distributed among economic and social status in a society can provide insight into the level of development within that society. Socioeconomic status
Socioeconomic status is both a strong predictor of health, and a key factor underlying health inequities across populations. For example, LGBT people report poorer cancer care experiences. Social class attainment is important because it can predict health across the lifespan, where people from lower social class have higher morbidity and mortality. 
Are Biochemical Markers of Bone Turnover Representative of Bone Histomorphometry in 370 Postmenopausal Women? [SEP] Bone remodeling (or bone metabolism) is a lifelong process where mature bone tissue is removed from the skeleton (a process called bone resorption) and new bone tissue is formed (a process called ossification or new bone formation). In adults, remodeling proceeds at about 10% per year.An imbalance in the regulation of bone remodeling's two sub-processes, bone resorption and bone formation, results in many metabolic bone diseases, such as osteoporosis. Physiology
Bone homeostasis involves multiple but coordinated cellular and molecular events. Two main types of cells are responsible for bone metabolism: osteoblasts (which secrete new bone), and osteoclasts (which break bone down). Bone metabolism relies on complex signaling pathways and control mechanisms to achieve proper rates of growth and differentiation. The term "renal osteodystrophy" was coined in 1943, 60 years after an association was identified between bone disease and kidney failure.The traditional types of renal osteodystrophy have been defined on the basis of turnover and mineralization as follows: 1) mild, slight increase in turnover and normal mineralization; 2) osteitis fibrosa, increased turnover and abnormal mineralization; 3) osteomalacia, decreased turnover and abnormal mineralization; 4) adynamic, decreased turnover and acellularity; and, 5) mixed, increased turnover with abnormal mineralization. A Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes report has suggested that bone biopsies in patients with CKD should be characterized by determining bone turnover, mineralization, and volume (TMV system).On the other hand, CKD-MBD is defined as a systemic disorder of mineral and bone metabolism due to CKD manifested by either one or a combination of the following: 1) abnormalities of calcium, phosphorus, PTH, or vitamin D metabolism; 2) abnormalities in bone turnover, mineralization, volume, linear growth, or strength (renal osteodystrophy); and 3) vascular or other soft-tissue calcification. However, in other situations, the initial increase in parathyroid hormone and bone remodeling may be slowed excessively by a multitude of factors, including age, ethnic origin, sex, and treatments such as vitamin D, calcium salts, calcimimetics, steroids, and so forth, leading to low bone turnover or adynamic bone disease.Both high and low bone turnover diseases are currently observed equally in CKD patients treated by dialysis, and all types of renal osteodystrophy are associated with an increased risk of skeletal fractures, reduced quality of life, and poor clinical outcomes. 
Should early extubation be the goal for children after congenital cardiac surgery? [SEP] Newborn infants may also require endotracheal intubation during surgery while under general anaesthesia. Newborn infants
Endotrachael suctioning is often used during intubation in newborn infants to reduce the risk of a blocked tube due to secretions, a collapsed lung, and to reduce pain. Newborn infants may also require endotracheal intubation during surgery while under general anaesthesia. Newborn infants
Endotrachael suctioning is often used during intubation in newborn infants to reduce the risk of a blocked tube due to secretions, a collapsed lung, and to reduce pain. An unplanned extubation occurs when a patient is on mechanical ventilation and their endotracheal tube is removed when it was not supposed to be. Estimates of the incidence of unplanned extubation among patients in intensive care units range from 3.4% to 22.5%. Unplanned extubation can increase the amount of time a patient must remain on mechanical ventilation, the duration of the patient's hospital stay, and the patient's medical costs. It is also estimated that 60% of patients who experience an unplanned extubation require re-intubation, which may increase the risk of ventilator-associated pneumonia. 
Does delivery mode affect women's postpartum quality of life in rural China? [SEP] Public health efforts can also intervene during pregnancy to improve maternal outcomes. Women living in rural areas experience higher maternal mortality than women living in urban and sub-urban centers because those living in wealthier households, having higher education, or living in urban areas, have higher use of healthcare services than their poorer, less-educated, or rural counterparts. In Tajikistan, since the nation gained its independence, the likelihood of giving birth at home has increased rapidly among women with lower educational status. Further, many women in rural areas of the country did not have adequate access to healthcare resources, resulting in poor maternal and neonatal care. These rural women were, for instance, far more likely to give birth in their homes without medical oversight. The highest risk of dying during childbirth is 1 in 6 in Afghanistan and Sierra Leone, compared to nearly 1 in 30,000 in Sweden—a disparity that is much greater than that for neonatal or child mortality.While women in the United States tend to live longer than men, they generally are of lower socioeconomic status (SES) and therefore have more barriers to accessing healthcare. Millions of individuals living in rural areas in the United States are more at risk of having decreased access to maternal health care facilities if the community is low-income. These women are more at risk of experiencing adverse maternal outcomes like a higher risk of having postpartum depression, having an out-of-hospital birth, and on the extreme end, maternal morbidity and mortality.In addition, women's pain tends to be treated less seriously and initially ignored by clinicians when compared to their treatment of men's pain complaints. 
Menopausal hormone therapy and irregular endometrial bleeding: a potential role for uterine natural killer cells? [SEP] Dysfunctional uterine bleeding is often experienced by women approaching menopause due to the hormonal changes that accompany the menopause transition. The European Menopause and Andropause Society has released guidelines for assessment of the endometrium, which is usually the main source of spotting or bleeding.In post-menopausal women, however, any unscheduled vaginal bleeding is of concern and requires an appropriate investigation to rule out the possibility of malignant diseases. The extensive use of high-dose estrogens for birth control in the 1970s is thought to have resulted in a significant increase in the incidence of type 1 endometrial cancer.Paradoxically, progestogens do promote the growth of uterine fibroids, and a pelvic ultrasound can be performed before beginning HRT to make sure there are no underlying uterine or endometrial lesions.Androgens do not stimulate endometrial proliferation in post menopausal women, and appear to inhibit the proliferation induced by estrogen to a certain extent.There is insufficient high‐quality evidence to inform women considering hormone replacement therapy after treatment for endometrial cancer. Dysfunctional uterine bleeding is often experienced by women approaching menopause due to the hormonal changes that accompany the menopause transition. The European Menopause and Andropause Society has released guidelines for assessment of the endometrium, which is usually the main source of spotting or bleeding.In post-menopausal women, however, any unscheduled vaginal bleeding is of concern and requires an appropriate investigation to rule out the possibility of malignant diseases. Origin
In humans, the Uterine natural killer cell population is low during the proliferative phase of the menstrual cycle. The origin of Uterine natural killer cells has been suggested to occur in two phases dependent on the stage of uterine tissue remodelling. Studies in mice have shown that uterine natural killer cells have a key role in this remodelling. 
Percutaneous ethanol injection for benign cystic thyroid nodules: is aspiration of ethanol-mixed fluid advantageous? [SEP] Percutaneous ethanol injection is a possible treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma.Also used for thyroid and parathyroid disease.Instead of removing unwanted tissue surgically it is killed with alcohol.It is similar in mechanism to Alcohol septal ablation for heart problems. Thyroid nodules are nodules (raised areas of tissue or fluid) which commonly arise within an otherwise normal thyroid gland. When they are large, they can sometimes be seen as a lump in the front of the neck.Sometimes a thyroid nodule presents as a fluid-filled cavity called a thyroid cyst. Fine needle biopsy for cytopathology is also used.Thyroid nodules are extremely common in young adults and children. Workup of incidental nodules
The American College of Radiology recommends the following workup for thyroid nodules as incidental imaging findings on CT, MRI or PET-CT:

Ultrasound
Ultrasound imaging is useful as the first-line, non-invasive investigation in determining the size, texture, position, and vascularity of a nodule, accessing lymph nodes metastasis in the neck, and for guiding fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) or biopsy. Surgery
Surgery (thyroidectomy) may be indicated in the following instances:

Reaccumulation of the nodule despite 3–4 repeated FNACs
Size in excess of 4 cm in some cases
Compressive symptoms
Signs of malignancy (vocal cord dysfunction, lymphadenopathy)
Cytopathology that does not exclude thyroid cancer

Minimally-invasive procedures
Non-surgical, minimally invasive ultrasound-guided techniques are now being used for the treatment of large, symptomatic nodules. They include percutaneous ethanol injection, laser thermal ablation, radiofrequency ablation, high intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU), and percutaneous microwave ablation.HIFU has recently proved its effectiveness in treating benign thyroid nodules. According to a 1993 article, such nodules need to be treated only if they become toxic; surgical excision (thyroidectomy), radioiodine therapy, or both may be used. 
Can the growth rate of a gallbladder polyp predict a neoplastic polyp? [SEP] During colonoscopy, small polyps may be removed if found. If a large polyp or tumor is found, a biopsy may be performed to check if it is cancerous. The polyp to cancer sequence describes the phases of transition from benign tumours into colorectal cancer over many years. Screening
As more than 80% of colorectal cancers arise from adenomatous polyps, screening for this cancer is effective for both early detection and for prevention. Any polyps that are detected can be removed, usually by colonoscopy or sigmoidoscopy, and thus prevent them from turning into cancer. Primary gallbladder
Primary gallbladder EMZL (i.e. Given these similarities as well as similarities in the laboratory, medical ultrasound, and X-ray findings of primary gallbladder EMZL compared to other gallbladder cancers which account for >99% of bladder cancers, the diagnosis of primary gallbladder EMZL has not yet been made pre-operatively. A number of clinical and histopathologic features are associated with varying degrees of increased risk of malignant transformation, although other sources argue that there are no universally accepted and validated factors which can reliably predict malignant change. 
Are performance measurement systems useful? [SEP] This way the performance can be

Compared relative to other systems or the same system before/after changes
In absolute terms, e.g. Measure the performance of the system before modification. Audio system measurements are a means of quantifying system performance. Many types of organization use performance management systems (PMS) to evaluate their business according to their targets, objectives, and goals to achieve the vision of their organization. Benefits of performance management
n the public sector, the effects of performance management systems have differed from positive to negative, suggesting that differences in the characteristics of performance management systems and the contexts into which they are implemented play an important role to the success or failure of performance management. Normally, the goal of managing performance is to allow individual employees to find out how well they had performed relative to performance targets or key performance indicators (KPIs) during a specific performance period from their supervisors and managers. Are these the best metrics, and why? Are the metrics standardized so that they can be benchmarked against performance in other organizations? 
Does para-cervical block offer additional advantages in abortion induction with gemeprost in the 2nd trimester? [SEP] The procedure is performed to induce abortion, as a treatment for incomplete spontaneous abortion (otherwise commonly known as miscarriage) or retained fetal and placental tissue, or to obtain a sample of uterine lining (endometrial biopsy). It is now known to be one of the safest obstetric procedures, and has saved countless lives.In Canada, the method was pioneered and improved on by Henry Morgentaler, achieving a complication rate of 0.48% and no deaths in over 5,000 cases. The cervix is cleansed, then a local anesthetic (usually lidocaine) is injected in the form of a para-cervical block or intra-cervical injection into the cervix. It is the most effective form of emergency contraception available. It works by preventing fertilization or implantation but does not affect already implanted embryos. The use of intrauterine lidocaine (paracervical block) is underutilized in the United States as an effective method to reduce pain associated with insertion.IUD insertion can occur at multiple timepoints in a woman's reproductive lifespan:

interval insertion, the most common, occurs remote from pregnancy;
post-abortion or post-miscarriage insertion occurs following an abortion or miscarriage when the uterus is known to be empty;
postpartum insertion occurs after a woman gives birth either immediately, while the woman is still in the hospital, or delayed, up to 6-weeks following delivery, following either vaginal delivery or cesarean delivery. Clinical use
It is used as a treatment for obstetric bleeding.It is used with mifepristone to terminate pregnancy up to 24 weeks gestation. For medical abortion, mifepristone is combined with a prostaglandin (e.g., gemeprost). 
Does insulin resistance drive the association between hyperglycemia and cardiovascular risk? [SEP] Obesity is very common in type 2 diabetes and contributes greatly to insulin resistance. While there is no clear evidence that controlling hyperglycemia reduces diabetic macrovascular and cardiovascular disease, there are indications that intensive efforts to normalize blood glucose levels may worsen cardiovascular and cause diabetic mortality. Hyperinsulinemia is associated with hypertension, obesity, dyslipidemia, insulin resistance, and glucose intolerance. This close association between hyperinsulinemia and conditions of metabolic syndrome suggest related or common mechanisms of pathogenicity. Hyperinsulinemia has been shown to "play a role in obese hypertension by increasing renal sodium retention".In type 2 diabetes, the cells of the body become resistant to the effects of insulin as the receptors which bind to the hormone become less sensitive to insulin concentrations resulting in hyperinsulinemia and disturbances in insulin release. Studies have shown that the high levels of insulin resulting from insulin resistance might enhance insulin resistance.Studies on mice with genetically reduced circulating insulin suggest that hyperinsulinemia plays a causal role in high fat diet-induced obesity. Belly fat is a strong predictor of high insulin levels. As of 2017 the association of systemic inflammation with insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes, and with atherosclerosis was under preliminary research, although rigorous clinical trials had not been conducted to confirm such relationships.C-reactive protein (CRP) is generated at a higher level in obese people, and may increase the risk for cardiovascular diseases. 
Are there risk factors that increase the rate of staple line leakage in patients undergoing primary sleeve gastrectomy for morbid obesity? [SEP] Patients who are extremely obese, who have had previous abdominal surgery, or have complicating medical problems may require the open approach. Comparison with other bariatric surgeries
Unlike more open forms of weight loss surgery (e.g. However, with greater experience and longer patient follow up, several studies have found suboptimal weight loss and high complication rates for the gastric band.A systematic review concluded "LAGB has been shown to produce a significant loss of excess weight while maintaining low rates of short-term complications and reducing obesity-related comorbidities. This study was supported by Allergan Inc., which markets a gastric band system.A meta-analysis of 174772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. This meta-analysis also found that median life-expectancy was 9.3 years longer for obese adults with diabetes who received bariatric surgery as compared to routine (non-surgical) care, whereas the life expectancy gain was 5.1 years longer for obese adults without diabetes. People with obesity are at increased risk of atherosclerosis of the coronary arteries. In observational studies of people with severe obesity, weight loss following bariatric surgery is associated with a 46% reduction in cardiovascular risk. Staplers are also used in vertical banded gastroplasty surgery (popularly known as "stomach stapling"). 
Chronic functional somatic symptoms: a single syndrome? [SEP] The term functional somatic syndrome (FSS) refers to a group of chronic diagnoses with no identifiable organic cause. The currently identified class of functional somatic syndromes present as a complex enigma within the medical community; they are highly prevalent, but little is known about the etiology of these conditions. A majority of patients presenting with persistent, widespread somatic complaints have no identifiable organic cause. Signs and symptoms
Functional somatic syndromes are characterized by ambiguous, non-specific symptoms that appear in otherwise-healthy people. Some have proposed to group symptoms into clusters or into one general functional somatic disorder given the finding of correlations between symptoms and underlying etiologies. Psychological factors
Patients with somatic syndromes such as fibromyalgia and irritable bowel syndrome have significantly higher rates of both physical and sexual abuse prior to the onset of their physiological symptoms, as well as higher rates of previous emotional abuse, emotional neglect, and physical neglect compared to the general population. Functional Somatic Syndromes are thought to be a result of conditioned hyperarousal following a trauma; victims are conditioned to respond more sensitively to the somatic symptoms following a trauma by their attention to and reinforcement of the symptom existence. Treatment
Due to the underlying psychological component of functional somatic syndromes, therapeutic approaches such as cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) are common treatments. 
Actinobaculum schaalii, a cause of urinary tract infections in children? [SEP] Actinotignum schaalii is a bacterium first isolated from human blood cultures. "Actinobaculum schaalii, a common uropathogen in elderly patients, Denmark." "Actinobaculum schaalii - invasive pathogen or innocent bystander? External links
LPSN
"Actinotignum schaalii" at the Encyclopedia of Life Actinobaculum is a bacterial genus in the family Actinomycetaceae. Cause
Uropathogenic E. coli from the gut is the cause of 80–85% of community-acquired urinary tract infections, with Staphylococcus saprophyticus being the cause in 5–10%. Signs and symptoms are similar to a bladder infection. Epidemiology
Urinary tract infections are the most frequent bacterial infection in women. 
Prevalence of chronic conditions among Medicare Part A beneficiaries in 2008 and 2010: are Medicare beneficiaries getting sicker? [SEP] Medicare is a government national health insurance program in the United States, begun in 1965 under the Social Security Administration (SSA) and now administered by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Costs and funding challenges
Over the long-term, Medicare faces significant financial challenges because of rising overall health care costs, increasing enrollment as the population ages, and a decreasing ratio of workers to enrollees. Fraud and waste
The Government Accountability Office lists Medicare as a "high-risk" government program in need of reform, in part because of its vulnerability to fraud and partly because of its long-term financial problems. Forgone medical care due to extensive cost sharing may ultimately increase costs due to downstream medical issues; this dynamic may play a part in US's international ranking as having the highest healthcare expenditures despite significant patient cost-sharing.Those who are insured may be underinsured such that they cannot afford adequate medical care. Before the ACA passed in 2014, 39% of below-average income Americans reported forgoing seeing a doctor for a medical issue (whereas 7% of low-income Canadians and 1% of low-income British citizens reported the same). According to a study paid for by America's Health Insurance Plans (a Washington lobbyist for the health insurance industry) and carried out by PriceWaterhouseCoopers, increased utilization is the primary driver of rising healthcare costs in the US The study cites numerous causes of increased utilization, including rising consumer demand, new treatments, more intensive diagnostic testing, lifestyle factors, the movement to broader-access plans, and higher-priced technologies. While chronic disease and multiple comorbidities became increasingly common among a population of elderly Americans who were living longer, the public health system has also found itself fending off a rise of chronically ill younger generation. Prior to this period, access to healthcare and insurance coverage trends were worsening on a national level. 
Does successful completion of the Perinatal Education Programme result in improved obstetric practice? [SEP] There is increasing evidence to show that the participation of the child's father in the birth leads to a better birth and also post-birth outcomes, providing the father does not exhibit excessive anxiety.Continuous labour support may help women to give birth spontaneously, that is, without caesarean or vacuum or forceps, with slightly shorter labours, and to have more positive feelings regarding their experience of giving birth. Studies have found that continuous support during labour and delivery reduce the need for medication and a caesarean or operative vaginal delivery, and result in an improved Apgar score for the infant. Women experienced less severe perineal trauma, less posterior perineal trauma, less suturing and fewer healing complications at seven days with no difference in occurrence of pain, urinary incontinence, painful sex or severe vaginal/perineal trauma after birth. To support the upgrading of midwifery skills the WHO established a midwife training program, Action for Safe Motherhood.The rising maternal death rate in the US is of concern. "Childbirth educators" are instructors who aim to teach pregnant women and their partners about the nature of pregnancy, labour signs and stages, techniques for giving birth, breastfeeding and newborn baby care. Better health outcomes including lower maternal mortality rates were observed where COs had completed further specialised training particularly in anaesthesia. Research has shown the most effective programmes are those focussing on patient and community education, prenatal care, emergency obstetrics (including access to cesarean sections) and transportation. Obstetrics & Gynecology. 
Do patients with localized prostate cancer treatment really want more aggressive treatment? [SEP] The choice of therapy depends upon the location and grade of the tumor and the stage of the disease, as well as the general state of the patient (performance status). Targeted therapies
Targeted therapy, which first became available in the late 1990s, has had a significant impact in the treatment of some types of cancer, and is currently a very active research area. Improved antiemetics such as ondansetron and analogues, as well as aprepitant have made aggressive treatments much more feasible in cancer patients. Cancer pain can be associated with continuing tissue damage due to the disease process, or the treatment (i.e. The typical strategy for cancer pain management is to get the patient as comfortable as possible using the least amount of medications possible, even if that means using opioids, surgery, and physical measures. As most cancer treatments involve significant unpleasant side effects, a patient with little realistic hope of a cure or prolonged life may choose to seek comfort care only. Supportive Care in Cancer. Writing in the New York Times, David Leonhardt described how the cost of treating the most common form of early-stage, slow-growing prostate cancer ranges from an average of $2,400 (watchful waiting to see if the condition deteriorates) to as high as $100,000 (radiation beam therapy):According to economist Peter A. Diamond and research cited by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), the cost of healthcare per person in the U.S. also varies significantly by geography and medical center, with little or no statistical difference in outcome.Comparative effectiveness research has shown that significant cost reductions are possible. 
Does music influence stress in mechanically ventilated patients? [SEP] What is the relationship between music and mind? What is the connection between music and emotions? More specifically, it is the branch of science studying the psychological and physiological responses associated with sound (including speech and music). Therapy
Music therapy is an interpersonal process in which a trained therapist uses music and all of its facets—physical, emotional, mental, social, aesthetic, and spiritual—to help clients to improve or maintain their health. Music has long been used to help people deal with their emotions. In the Ottoman Empire, mental illnesses were treated with music. "Is Music an Evolutionary Adaptation?". Stress may refer to:

Science and medicine
Stress (biology), an organism's response to a stressor such as an environmental condition
Stress (linguistics), relative emphasis or prominence given to a syllable in a word, or to a word in a phrase or sentence
Stress (mechanics), the internal forces that neighboring particles of a continuous material exert on each other
Occupational stress, stress related to one's job
Psychological stress, a feeling of strain and pressure
Surgical stress, systemic response to surgical injury

Arts, entertainment, and media
Music
Groups and musicians
Stress (Brazilian band), a Brazilian heavy metal band
Stress (British band), a British rock band
Stress (pop rock band), an early 1980s melodic rock band from San Diego
Stress (musician) (born 1977), hip hop singer from Switzerland
Stress (record producer) (born 1979), artistic name of Can Canatan, Swedish musician and record producer

Albums
Stress (Anonymus album), 1997
Stress (Daddy Freddy album), 1991
Stress (Stress album), self-titled album by Brazilian band Stress
Stress: The Extinction Agenda, 1994 album by Organized Konfusion

Songs
"Stress" (Justice song), 2007 song by Justice
"Stress" (Odd Børre song), 1968 song by Odd Børre
"Stress", a song by Godsmack from Godsmack
"Stress", a 2000 song by Jim's Big Ego
"The Stress", a 1989 song by Chisato Moritaka

Other music
Stress (music), a type of emphasis placed on a particular note or set of notes

Other arts, entertainment, and media
Stress (card game), a card game
Stress (journal), a medical journal
"Stress" (The Unit), an episode of the television series The Unit

Other uses
Stress (font), varying stroke widths of a font

See also
All pages with titles containing Stress
Emphasis (disambiguation)
Stress cracking (disambiguation)
Stress intensity (disambiguation)
Stress tensor (disambiguation)
Stress test (disambiguation)
Tension (disambiguation) 
Does reducing spasticity translate into functional benefit? [SEP] Spastic
Spastic cerebral palsy is the type of cerebral palsy characterized by spasticity or high muscle tone often resulting in stiff, jerky movements. Botulinum toxin is effective in decreasing spasticity. however, the main benefit derived from botulinum toxin A comes from its ability to reduce muscle tone and spasticity and thus prevent or delay the development of fixed muscle contractures. The term "spastic" denotes the attribute of spasticity in types of spastic CP. The term "spastics" was used by the charity as a term for people with CP. Range of motion and stretching exercises can help prevent painful spasticity and shortening (contracture) of muscles. Cold in the form of ice wraps or ice packs have been proven to briefly reduce spasticity by temporarily dampening neural firing rates. Although there is no firm conclusion on the efficacy in reducing spasticity, PT interventions can be a safe and beneficial option for patients with multiple sclerosis. 
Is the holmium:YAG laser the best intracorporeal lithotripter for the ureter? [SEP] Holmium:YAG lasers were developed more recently and produce smaller fragments. Laser lithotripsy is a surgical procedure to remove stones from urinary tract, i.e., kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra. Comparison
Laser lithotripsy (LL) has been evaluated against Extracorporeal Shock Wave lithotripsy (ESWL), finding both to be safe and effective. A 2013 meta-analysis found LL can treat larger stones (> 2 cm) with good stone-free and complication rates.Holmium laser lithotripsy had superior initial success and re-treatment rate compared to extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) in a 2013 trial.The experimental thulium fiber laser (TFL) is being studied as a potential alternative to the holmium:YAG (Ho:YAG) laser for the treatment of kidney stones. The TFL has several potential advantages compared to Ho:YAG laser for lithotripsy, including a four times lower ablation threshold, a near single-mode beam profile, and higher pulse rates, resulting in up to four times as fast ablation rates and faster procedural times. Lasers
Pulsed dye lasers have been used with fiber diameters of 200–550 microns for lithotripsy of biliary and urinary stones.Ho:YAG lasers have wavelength of 2100 nm (infrared) and are used for medical procedures in urology and other areas. Holmium-doped YAG crystals emit at 2097 nm and form an efficient laser operating at infrared wavelengths strongly absorbed by water-bearing tissues. The Ho-YAG is usually operated in a pulsed mode and passed through optical fiber surgical devices to resurface joints, remove rot from teeth, vaporize cancers, and pulverize kidney and gall stones. 
Metered-dose inhalers. Do health care providers know what to teach? [SEP] The 1985 course provided advanced knowledge and mainly three "advanced interventions" (at that time); IVs, MAST trouser application and use of the esophageal obturator airway. The EMT-I/85 typically administered the same medications as an EMT-B (oxygen, oral glucose, activated charcoal, epinephrine auto-injectors (EpiPens), nitroglycerin, and metered-dose inhalers such as albuterol). The new scope consists of all EMT level skills, basic airway management and the insertion of supraglottic airways, suctioning of an already intubated patient, usage of a CPAP device, initiation of peripheral intravenous therapy, pediatric and adult intraosseous placement and several pharmacological interventions beyond the EMT level. albuterol and ipratropium) for respiratory emergencies caused by asthma, COPD, etc.Other states may use different names for the above and often have a scope of practice beyond the minimal national standards. EMT-IVs are trained to the NREMT-B standard in accordance with DOT regulations, as well as receive additional training in advanced airway management, administration of epinephrine 1:1000 in anaphylaxis, administration of nebulized and aerosolized beta-2 agonists such as Xopenex and albuterol, administration of D50W and D25W, IV therapy and access, and trauma life support including the use of MAST trousers. The Washington EMT-B can set up and maintain an IV that is non-medicated, but EMT-I certification is required to start the IV.WA Office of Emergency Medical and Trauma System (May 2009) Some county protocols (such as Jefferson) accept an EMT/ILS tech which, in addition to all EMT-I and EMT-B skills, can administer D50W, naloxone, albuterol, and can now draw up epinephrine in addition to using an EpiPen. Uses
Intramuscular injection is commonly used for medication administration. Until this delegation became virtually universal, there were no uniform procedures or education for nurses in proper administration of intramuscular injections, and complications from improper injection were common.Intramuscular injections began to be used for administration of vaccines for diphtheria in 1923, whooping cough in 1926, and tetanus in 1927. 
Does the bracket-ligature combination affect the amount of orthodontic space closure over three months? [SEP] Now, however, no extra ligature is needed due to either twin brackets or single brackets that have added wings touching underneath the wire (Lewis or Lang brackets). On average, however, once the braces are put on, they usually remain in place for one to three years. The Canadian Dental Association expects orthodontists to complete at least two years of post-doctoral, specialty training in orthodontics in an accredited program, after graduating from their dental degree. This can aid in predicting growth changes, allowing dentists, especially orthodontists, to develop a suitable treatment plan. Orthodontic space closure
Orthodontic space closure is a way of using orthodontics in order to close spaces in the mouth where the teeth are missing. There have been several studies which showed the advantages of orthodontic space closure without prosthodontic space replacements. Orthodontic space opening prior to prosthodontic treatment
The need for orthodontic space opening prior to prosthodontic management depends on the amount of edentulous space available in relation to adjacent teeth, occlusion and aesthetic concerns. However, the alteration in appearance during orthodontic treatment (e.g. 
Health habits and vaccination status of Lebanese residents: are future doctors applying the rules of prevention? [SEP] Factors speculated to explain this include the government response, a milder strain of the virus, cultural habits such as bowing etiquette and wearing face masks, hand washing with sanitizing equipment, a protective genetic trait, and a relative immunity conferred by the mandatory BCG tuberculosis vaccine. Medical representatives claimed that such a panic would strain medical resources and risk exposing those uninfected patients to the disease.On 17 February 2020, the Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare released national guidelines for COVID-19 testing to each of the municipal and prefectural governments and their public health centers. During the meeting, the medical establishment presented its policy recommendations in the form of a views report (新型コロナウイルス感染症対策の基本方針の具体化に向けた見解), concluding that the most important objective must be the prevention of large-scale disease clusters and a decrease in outbreaks and deaths. The policy also recommended that people at a higher risk of infection – including the elderly and patients with pre-existing conditions – avoid hospital visits for non-treatment purposes, such as by ordering prescriptions over the telephone instead of in person.Second, the new policies allowed general medical facilities in areas of a rapid COVID-19 outbreak to accept patients suspected of infection. The panel of medical experts concluded that there was a "high probability of an expansion of infections" within the country due to an increase in the number of infected patients returning from Europe and the United States between 11 March 2020 and 23 March 2020. Vaccinated nurses were less fatigued than others. In couples where one party chose to get vaccinated while the other did not, tensions arose over the anger felt towards the partner for depriving them of their chance to enjoy life again. The Act made vaccination of children compulsory for the first time. 
Does vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia have the same evolution as cervical intraepithelial neoplasia? [SEP] Uses
Vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia
Total or partial vaginectomy along with other procedures like laser vaporization can be used in the treatment of vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia. Cervical cancer
Nearly all cases of cervical cancer are associated with HPV infection, with two types, HPV16 and HPV18, present in 70% of cases. HPV is necessary for cervical cancer to occur. Persistent HPV infection increases the risk for developing cervical carcinoma. Anal cancer
Studies show a link between HPV infection and anal cancers. Sexually transmitted HPVs are found in a large percentage of anal cancers. Penile cancer
HPV is associated with approximately 50% of penile cancers. Overall rates of HPV-associated invasive cancers may be increasing. 
Should general practitioners call patients by their first names? [SEP] For example, according to a Scottish study, patients want to be addressed by their first name more often than is currently the case. In this study, most of the patients either liked (223) or did not mind (175) being called by their first names. On the other hand, most patients do not want to call the doctor by his or her first name.Some familiarity with the doctor generally makes it easier for patients to talk about intimate issues such as sexual subjects, but for some patients, a very high degree of familiarity may make the patient reluctant to reveal such intimate issues. It is often referred to as general practice and a practitioner as a general practitioner. and those to other people holding doctorates "Dr. (full name)", although both were "Dr." in the salutation and only physicians were explicitly said to include their title on their visiting card. Baldrige saw this usage as acceptable, while in contrast, Miss Manners wrote that "only people of the medical profession correctly use the title of doctor socially," but supports those who wish to use it in social contexts in the spirit of addressing people according to their wishes. Trainee doctors are permitted to use the title Doctor once they have started their post-graduation "Foundation Programme".Debrett's states that medical doctors (except surgeons) should be addressed on envelopes as "Dr (full name), (medical qualifications)", e.g. This is limited to when the person is being addressed by their job title and so is only used for medical doctors. 
Transesophageal echocardiographic assessment of left ventricular function in brain-dead patients: are marginally acceptable hearts suitable for transplantation? [SEP] Transesophageal echocardiogram
A transesophageal echocardiogram is an alternative way to perform an echocardiogram. This may be diagnosed with transoesophageal echocardiography. In certain countries, patients classified as brain-dead may legally have their organs surgically removed for organ donation. The Australia and New Zealand Intensive Care Society (ANZICS) states that the "determination of brain death requires that there is unresponsive coma, the absence of brain-stem reflexes and the absence of respiratory centre function, in the clinical setting in which these findings are irreversible. A brain-dead individual has no clinical evidence of brain function upon physical examination. Organ donation
While the diagnosis of brain death has become accepted as a basis for the certification of death for legal purposes, it is a very different state from biological death – the state universally recognized and understood as death. The continuing function of vital organs in the bodies of those diagnosed brain dead, if mechanical ventilation and other life-support measures are continued, provides optimal opportunities for their transplantation. Without an advance directive stating that the woman wishes to be kept alive to save her unborn child, prolonging life is unethical.Finally, some ethicists have argued that there are no ethical dilemmas inherent in the case of a pregnant woman who is declared brain dead. 
Attenuation of ischemia/reperfusion-induced ovarian damage in rats: does edaravone offer protection? [SEP] Mechanisms
Reperfusion of ischemic tissues is often associated with microvascular injury, particularly due to increased permeability of capillaries and arterioles that lead to an increase of diffusion and fluid filtration across the tissues. Tissue damage due to the general energy deficit during ischemia is followed by reperfusion (increase of oxygen level) when the injury is enhanced. Recent researches have shown significant therapeutic effects on pre-clinical models of reperfusion injury after ischemic stroke. Metformin
A series of 2009 studies published in the Journal of Cardiovascular Pharmacology suggest that Metformin may prevent cardiac reperfusion injury by inhibition of Mitochondrial Complex I and the opening of MPT pore and  in rats. Riboflavin
In neonatal in vivo model of brain ischemia/reperfusion, tissue  injury can be alleviated by the administration of FMN precursor, riboflavin that prevents inactivation of mitochondrial complex I.

Cannabinoids
A study published in 2012 show that the synthetic analogue of the phytocannabinoid Tetrahydrocannabivarin (THCV), Δ8-Tetrahydrocannabivarin (Δ8-THCV) and its metabolite 11-OH-Δ8-THCV, prevent hepatic ischaemia/reperfusion injury by decreasing oxidative stress and inflammatory responses through cannabinoid CB2 receptors and thereby decrease tissue injury and inflammation with a protective effect against liver damage. Pretreatment with a CB2 receptor antagonist attenuated the protective effects of Δ8-THCV, while a CB1 antagonist tended to enhance it.An earlier study published in 2011 found, that Cannabidiol (CBD) also protects against hepatic ischemia/reperfusion injury by attenuating inflammatory signaling and response of oxidative and nitrative stress, and thereby cell death and tissue injury, but independent from classical CB1 and CB2 receptors. Protective factors
Suppression of ovulation, which would otherwise cause damage to the ovarian epithelium and, consequently, inflammation, is generally protective. Other angiogenesis inhibitors are also being investigated as potential ovarian cancer treatments. 
Does the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale favor left hemisphere strokes? [SEP] The National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale, or NIH Stroke Scale (NIHSS), is a tool used by healthcare providers to objectively quantify the impairment caused by a stroke and aid planning post-acute care disposition, though was intended to assess differences in interventions in clinical trials. This is designed to assess motor ability to gaze towards the hemisphere opposite of injury. CED is more common in right hemispheric strokes and typically in lesions affecting the basal ganglia and temporoparietal cortex. Notes

Default coma score: 2
Patient with severe vision loss that correctly identifies all other stimulations scores a 0

Usage
The NIHSS was designed to be a standardized and repeatable assessment of stroke patients utilized by large multi-center clinical trials. This rapid assessment of stroke severity is targeted to reduce delay of tPA treatment. Accuracy
The National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale has been repeatedly validated as a tool for assessing stroke severity and as an excellent predictor for patient outcomes. Approximately 98% of humans have verbal processing take place in the left hemisphere, indicating that the NIHSS places more value on deficits in the left hemisphere. Due to this emphasis, the NIHSS is a better predictor of lesion volume in the strokes occurring within the left cerebral hemisphere. 
Can a Novel Surgical Approach to the Temporomandibular Joint Improve Access and Reduce Complications? [SEP] Orthognathic surgery (), also known as corrective jaw surgery or simply, jaw surgery, is surgery designed to correct conditions of the jaw and lower face related to structure, growth, airway issues including sleep apnea, TMJ disorders, malocclusion problems primarily arising from skeletal disharmonies, and other orthodontic dental bite problems that cannot be treated easily with braces, as well as the broad range of facial imbalances, disharmonies, asymmetries, and malproportions where correction may be considered to improve facial aesthetics  and self esteem. It is only recently, and especially with the evolution of oral and maxillofacial surgery in establishing itself as a primary medical specialty – as opposed to its long term status as a dental speciality – that orthognathic surgery has increasingly emerged as a primary treatment for obstructive sleep apnoea, as well as for primary facial proportionality or symmetry correction. Orthognathic surgery can be used to correct:

Gross jaw discrepancies (anteroposterior, vertical, or transverse discrepancies)
Skeletofacial discrepancies associated with documented sleep apnea, airway defects, and soft tissue discrepancies
Skeletofacial discrepancies associated with documented temporomandibular joint pathologyA disproportionately grown upper or lower jaw causes dentofacial deformities. Mandible osteotomies, or corrective jaw surgeries, benefit individuals who have difficulty chewing, swallowing, TMJ pains, excessive wear of the teeth, open bites, overbites, underbites, or a receding chin. Patient reported aesthetic outcomes of orthognathic surgery for cleft lip and palate appear to be of overall satisfaction, despite complications that may arise. In 1985, mandible and maxilla osteotomies were effectively used to correct more extreme deformities like receding chins, and to relieve pain from temporomandibular joint disorder (TMJ). Advancements allow surgeons to expand the use of an osteotomy on more parts of the jaws with faster recovery time, less pain, and no hospitalization, making the surgery more effective with respect to time and recovery. the range of motion of the jaw (the temporomandibular joint): three of the subject's fingers should be able to fit between the upper and lower incisors. 
Young-Burgess classification of pelvic ring fractures: does it predict mortality, transfusion requirements, and non-orthopaedic injuries? [SEP] The Young–Burgess classification is a system of categorizing pelvic fractures based on fracture pattern, allowing judgment on the stability of the pelvic ring. A pelvic fracture is a break of the bony structure of the pelvis. Because of the forces involved, pelvic fractures frequently involve injury to organs contained within the bony pelvis. Pelvic fractures are often associated with severe hemorrhage due to the extensive blood supply to the region. Classification
Pelvic fractures are most commonly described using one of two classification systems. Certain precautions are crucial in order to lower the risk of getting pelvic fractures. Falling is one of the most common causes of pelvic fracture. Surgery
Surgery is often required for pelvic fractures. 
Is vitamin D deficiency a feature of pediatric celiac disease? [SEP] Coeliac disease (British English) or celiac disease (American English) is a long-term autoimmune disorder, primarily affecting the small intestine, where individuals develop intolerance to gluten, present in foods such as wheat, rye and barley. Copper and zinc deficiencies have also been associated with coeliac disease. Miscellaneous
Coeliac disease has been linked with many conditions. Thyroid function tests may be requested during blood tests to identify hypothyroidism, which is more common in people with coeliac disease.Osteopenia and osteoporosis, mildly and severely reduced bone mineral density, are often present in people with coeliac disease, and investigations to measure bone density may be performed at diagnosis, such as dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scanning, to identify the risk of fracture and need for bone protection medication. References
External links

Coeliac disease at Curlie Gluten-related disorders: untreated celiac disease and non-celiac gluten sensitivity. Anemia can be the only manifestation of celiac disease, in absence of gastrointestinal or any other symptoms. Diet may also be a factor that is responsible for this difference, as vitamin D, calcium, magnesium, and folate are all linked to bone mineral density.There is also an association between Celiac Disease and increased risk of osteoporosis. 
Is unsafe sexual behaviour increasing among HIV-infected individuals? [SEP] Study participants who reported amphetamine or heavy alcohol use before sex were more likely to have HIV or other sexually transmitted infections.A Kaiser Family Foundation study indicated that fewer Americans view HIV as a top health priority today compared to ten years ago. The percentage of 18- to 29-year-olds that were personally concerned about contracting the virus dropped from 28% in 1995 to 17% in 2009  A study conducted in 6 major U.S. cities found that only one in 4 teenage men who have sex with men believed they were personally at risk for contracting the HIV virus. The increasing rates of sexually transmitted diseases in major cities in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom led to reports in the gay and mainstream media of condom fatigue and "AIDS optimism" as causes of the new "laxness" in safe sex practices. HIV infection rates in the U.S. The latter includes practices such as multiple sexual partners and unprotected sex, high-risk cultural patterns that have been implicated in the much greater spread of HIV in the subcontinent. This has been attributed to changing local behavioral patterns, with more respondents reporting greater use of contraceptives and a two-year delay in first sexual activity as well as fewer people reporting casual sexual encounters and multiple partners.The number of newly infected people per year, however, has increased by over 50 percent, from 99,000 in 2001 to 150,000 in 2011. According to the World Health Organization, over 40 million people are currently infected with HIV/AIDS, and 95% of these cases are in the developing world.Over 340 million treatable sexually transmitted diseases infect people around the world each year, which presents a great risk to individuals as they become more susceptible to HIV and more likely to spread the virus.Studies have also shown that individuals who engage in long-term relationships, as opposed to hypersexual and promiscuous behavior are less likely to fall victim to domestic violence. Sexual behavior and prostitution also play a part in the increased rate of transmission of HIV/AIDS in Africa. 
Cholestasis associated with small bowel atresia: do we always need to investigate? [SEP] Cholestasis is a condition where bile cannot flow from the liver to the duodenum. Many patients may experience jaundice as a result of cholestasis. Patients with cholestasis may also experience pale stool and dark urine. Sepsis
A variety of factors associated with sepsis may cause cholestasis. Ischemic liver injury resulting from sepsis can also cause cholestasis. However, this does not indicate cholestasis alone. Due to this, obstructive cholestasis can only be diagnosed after finding additional diagnostic signs that are specific to obstructive changes to the bile ducts or portal tracts. However, there may be a small amount of apoptosis and enlarged hepatocytes.In non-obstructive cholestasis, changes to the portal tracts are unlikely. 
Are financial incentives cost-effective to support smoking cessation during pregnancy? [SEP] The US Task Force on Community Preventive Services found "strong scientific evidence" that this is effective in increasing tobacco use cessation : 28–30  It is estimated that an increase in price of 10% will increase smoking cessation rates by 3–5%. Competitions and incentives
Financial or material incentives to entice people to quit smoking improve smoking cessation while the motivation is in place. Evidence shows that incentive programs may be effective for pregnant mothers who smoke. Workplace incentives
A 2008 Cochrane review of smoking cessation activities in work-places concluded that "interventions directed towards individual smokers increase the likelihood of quitting smoking". A 2010 systematic review determined that worksite incentives and competitions needed to be combined with additional interventions to produce significant increases in smoking cessation rates. Reducing or eliminating the costs of cessation therapies for smokers increased quit rates in three meta-analyses. A systematic review showed that psychosocial interventions help women to stop smoking in late pregnancy and can reduce the incidence of low birth weight infants.It is a myth that a female smoker can cause harm to a fetus by quitting immediately upon discovering she is pregnant. If a pregnant woman who has been smoking chooses to use an e-cig and it helps her to quit smoking and stay smokefree, she should be supported to do so." 
Can medical students contribute to quality assurance programmes in day surgery? [SEP] Pharmacy
Minor theatre where minor surgical procedures are done, e.g., circumcision, stitching wounds and manual vacuum aspiration
Maternity
Maternal and child health
Kitchen and catering
Student hostels for rural health training centres where students go to get rural experience. Many are managed by clinical officers. A good number have a medical officer and a wider range of surgical services. The appointment in 1877 of Joseph Lister as professor of clinical surgery greatly benefited the medical school, and the introduction of Lister's antiseptic surgical methods gained the hospital an international reputation.In 1845 King's established a Military Department to train officers for the Army and the British East India Company, and in 1846 a Theological Department to train Anglican priests. These patients were examined by ophthalmic assistants locally but surgery was done on appointment after the patient images were viewed online by eye surgeons in the hospital 6–12 hours away. Additionally, potentially poor quality of transmitted records, such as images or patient progress reports, and decreased access to relevant clinical information are quality assurance risks that can compromise the quality and continuity of patient care for the reporting doctor. Universities are now ensuring that medical students graduate with proficient telehealth communication skills. In 2005, CMCC was granted the privilege of offering a professional health care degree under the Post-secondary Education Choice and Excellence Act, which sets the program within the hierarchy of education in Canada as comparable to that of other primary contact health care professions such as medicine, dentistry and optometry.Regulatory colleges and chiropractic boards in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, and Australia are responsible for protecting the public, standards of practice, disciplinary issues, quality assurance and maintenance of competency. 
Measurement of head and neck paragangliomas: is volumetric analysis worth the effort? [SEP] Volume is a measure of three-dimensional space. The definition of length (cubed) is interrelated with volume. The water volume difference is the volume of the object. Like all continuous monotonic (order-preserving) measures, volumes of bodies can be compared against each other and thus can be ordered. A better way to measure volume is to use roughly consistent and durable containers found in nature, such as gourds, sheep or pig stomachs, and bladders. This method is not the most accurate way to measure volume but is often used to measure cooking ingredients. There, volume of liquids is measured using graduated cylinders, pipettes and volumetric flasks. Integral calculus
The calculation of volume is a vital part of integral calculus. 
Three-dimensional ultrasound-validated large-core needle biopsy: is it a reliable method for the histological assessment of breast lesions? [SEP] This approach demonstrated clinical benefit in breast, thyroid, liver, prostate, and musculoskeletal imaging. A large multi-center breast imaging study has demonstrated both reproducibility and significant improvement in the classification of breast lesions when shear wave elastography images are added to the interpretation of standard B-mode and Color mode ultrasound images. Breast cancer imaging
Several optoacoustic studies have aimed to improve on the poor sensitivity of X-ray mammography in dense breast tissue and the low specificity of ultrasound imaging. MSOT may miss fewer malignancies in dense breast tissue than these conventional modalities because optoacoustic contrast is unaffected by breast density. A frequency sweep seems to be an effective technique for detecting breast cancer using EIT.United States Patent US 8,200,309 B2 combines electrical impedance scanning with magnetic resonance low frequency current density imaging in a clinically acceptable configuration not requiring the use of gadolinium chelate enhancement in magnetic resonance mammography. Thus, for a nodule with a size of less than 10 mm the patient will be reevaluated by
ultrasound every 3 months, as the growth trend is an indication for completion of
investigations with other diagnostic procedures; at a size between 10 – 20 mm two
concordant imaging procedures are necessary, supplemented if necessary by an ultrasound
guided biopsy; at a size over 20 mm one single dynamic imaging technique with
characteristic appearance is enough for positive diagnostic. Antitumor therapies
Ultrasound exploration can be an effective procedure for the assessment of liver tumors
response to treatment. Techniques for evaluating the efficiency of therapy
The efficiency of 2D ultrasound is low in assessing the effects of HCC or metastasis therapy,
as it is unable to differentiate viable tumor tissue from post-therapy tumor necrosis.However, it is able to detect the appearance of new lesions and to assess the occurrence of
any complications of disease progression (ascites or portal vein thrombosis). 
Can bone thickness and inter-radicular space affect miniscrew placement in posterior mandibular sites? [SEP] As far as short bones are concerned, trabecular alignment has been studied in the vertebral pedicle. Intramembranous ossification mainly occurs during formation of the flat bones of the skull but also the mandible, maxilla, and clavicles; the bone is formed from connective tissue such as mesenchyme tissue rather than from cartilage. There are two type of screw designs that are suitable as dental implants, screw-root form and plateau-root form designed screws. Over time, screw-root form designs experience bone resorption and “bone modelling and remodelling at the bone to implant interface”. Intramembranous ossification provides greater stabilisation and a more significant role in peri-implant bone healing around plateau-root form implants than screw-root form designed implants.Miniscrews are another type of implant that can be used to anchor and intrude hard surfaces, such as teeth. Advantages of miniscrews are that they are easily inserted and removed, cheaper compared to other implants, are flexible in regards to insertion sites and cause a lower level of discomfort for the patient. Miniscrews are also able to provide stability without flap surgery and has a “short healing period and immediate loading”.The approach for the fixation of alloplastic implants will be dependent upon the circumstance of the surgical operation and the required stability of the implant. Facial implants that are placed in a supraperiosteal plane centrally and subperiosteal plane laterally minimise bone resorption. 
Do general practice selection scores predict success at MRCGP? [SEP] For example, those wishing to specialise in general medicine must take the examination for Membership of the Royal College of Physicians. General Practice
General Practice (GP) Training most commonly entails at least 3 years to achieve a CCT Certificate of Completion of Training (CCT) on a General Medical Council (GMC) approved program
. This training accompanies MRCGP examinations, which leads to MRCGP membership and a place on the GP Register. MRCGP accreditation is now required to qualify as a General Practitioner. Doctors from the subcontinent have had difficulties in getting jobs in the most popular specialities and the most desirable areas  as was exposed by the work of Aneez Esmail and Sam Everington.In 2013 the Association launched a legal challenge to the regulator, the General Medical Council, and the standards body, the Royal College of General Practitioners, alleging that the clinical skills assessment component of the Membership exam was discriminatory and seeking a judicial review of the way the RCGP conducts the test, because there is a "significant difference in pass rates which cannot be explained by a lack of any knowledge, skill or competency on the part of the International Medical Graduates". He found that ‘subjective bias due to racial discrimination may be a cause’ of the different pass rates for between white and non-white graduates.According to RCGP chairwoman Dr Clare Gerada, the exam is culturally specific, they take equality and diversity issues seriously and candidates eventually pass. She stated that “the RCGP has been at the forefront of identifying the differences in pass rates for some time” and they “were the first of the Medical Royal Colleges to publicly raise this issue” and commission research into the cause of the discrepancies. Paramedic Practitioners also undertake examinations modelled upon the MRCGP (a combination of applied knowledge exams, clinical skills and work place based assessment) in order to use the title "specialist". 
The Deformity Angular Ratio: Does It Correlate With High-Risk Cases for Potential Spinal Cord Monitoring Alerts in Pediatric 3-Column Thoracic Spinal Deformity Corrective Surgery? [SEP] 3D simulations and planning can be used to communicate the patients existing deformities, and plan or propose the desired approach. The red delineation indicates the edge of the nose-tip cartilage, which is narrowed when the surgeon tightens the folded cartilage apex. Congenital deformities. Congenital deformity – The correction of vascular malformations and cleft lip and palate abnormalities. A tumor pressing on the spinal cord may cause weakness, thus an inability to stand, crawl, or walk. In rare cases, no primary tumor can be discerned.Rare but characteristic presentations include transverse myelopathy (tumor spinal cord compression, 5% of cases), treatment-resistant diarrhea (tumor vasoactive intestinal peptide secretion, 4% of cases), Horner's syndrome (cervical tumor, 2.4% of cases), opsoclonus myoclonus syndrome and ataxia (suspected paraneoplastic cause, 1.3% of cases), and hypertension (catecholamine secretion or kidney artery compression, 1.3% of cases). Retrospective studies revealed the high survival rate of 12–18 month-old age group, previously categorized as high-risk, and prompted the decision to reclassify 12–18 month-old children without N-myc (also commonly referred to as MYCN) amplification to intermediate risk category.The new INRG risk assignment will classify neuroblastoma at diagnosis based on a new International Neuroblastoma Risk Group Staging System (INRGSS):

Stage L1: Localized disease without image-defined risk factors. This ensures that changes occurring inside the spine are less likely to affect the neighboring spines. 
Does age moderate the effect of personality disorder on coping style in psychiatric inpatients? [SEP] When people experience comorbidity with an eating disorder and OCD, certain aspects of treatment can be negatively impacted. longitudinal research showed that there is an increase in chance that a young adult female would develop bulimia due to their current psychological pressure and as the person ages and matures, their emotional problems change or are resolved and then the symptoms decline.Several types of scales are currently used – (a) self-report questionnaires –EDI-3, BSQ, TFEQ, MAC, BULIT-R, QEWP-R, EDE-Q, EAT, NEQ – and other; (b) semi-structured interviews – SCID-I, EDE – and other; (c) clinical interviews unstructured or observer-based rating scales- Morgan Russel scale The majority of the scales used were described and used in adult populations. In addition, some psychopathological factors such as depression, social anxiety and substance dependency might promote maladaptive cognitions and result in more PIU behaviours. 88% of men and 79% of women with lifetime PTSD have at least one comorbid psychiatric disorder. Treatment options include psychotherapy and psychopharmacotherapy (i.e., medications) or a combination of both. Clients began to distinguish between the positive and negative aspects of treatment, creating more “balanced” narratives in the process.Due to higher medication consumption, social isolation, financial worries, and other factors, older adults are particularly vulnerable to substance use problems. This should be done at the outset of treatment when the therapist and older adult are developing the therapeutic relationship. In adulthood, lack of coping mechanisms can result in violent behaviour. 
Autoxidation products of both carbohydrates and lipids are increased in uremic plasma: is there oxidative stress in uremia? [SEP] Autoxidation (sometimes auto-oxidation) refers to oxidations brought about by reactions with oxygen at normal temperatures, without the intervention of flame or electric spark. The autoxidation of unsaturated compounds may be initiated by reactions with singlet oxygen or environmental pollutants such as ozone and NO2. The browning of many foods, such as skinned apples, can be considered an autoxidation process, although it is generally an enzymatic process such as lipid peroxidation which proceeds via a different mechanism to the one shown above. Oils with a high degree of unsaturation are most susceptible to autoxidation. The best test for autoxidation (oxidative rancidity) is determination of the peroxide value. Peroxides are intermediates in the autoxidation reaction. Autoxidation is a free radical reaction involving oxygen that leads to deterioration of fats and oils which form off-flavours and off-odours. Oxidation of one gram of carbohydrate yields approximately 16 kJ (4 kcal) of energy, while the oxidation of one gram of lipids yields about 38 kJ (9 kcal). 
Can 'high-risk' human papillomaviruses (HPVs) be detected in human breast milk? [SEP] HPV infection can also spread from a mother to baby during pregnancy. In addition, expression of HPV structural proteins by immunohistochemistry and in vitro studies suggest HPV presence in bronchial cancer and its precursor lesions. Perinatal
Although genital HPV types can be transmitted from mother to child during birth, the appearance of genital HPV-related diseases in newborns is rare. "Theoretically, the HPV DNA and RNA tests could be used to identify HPV infections in cells taken from any part of the body. HPV infection can also spread from a mother to baby during pregnancy. In addition, expression of HPV structural proteins by immunohistochemistry and in vitro studies suggest HPV presence in bronchial cancer and its precursor lesions. Perinatal
Although genital HPV types can be transmitted from mother to child during birth, the appearance of genital HPV-related diseases in newborns is rare. "Theoretically, the HPV DNA and RNA tests could be used to identify HPV infections in cells taken from any part of the body. 
Quaternary cytoreductive surgery in ovarian cancer: does surgical effort still matter? [SEP] Ovarian clear-cell carcinoma does not typically respond well to chemotherapy due to intrinsic chemoresistance, therefore treatment is typically with aggressive cytoreductive surgery and platinum-based chemotherapy. Staging
Ovarian cancer is staged using the FIGO staging system and uses information obtained after surgery, which can include a total abdominal hysterectomy via midline laparotomy, removal of (usually) both ovaries and Fallopian tubes, (usually) the omentum, pelvic (peritoneal) washings, assessment of retroperitoneal lymph nodes (including the pelvic and para-aortic lymph nodes), appendectomy in suspected mucinous tumors, and pelvic/peritoneal biopsies for cytopathology. In women with surgically staged advanced epithelial ovarian cancer (stages III and IV), studies suggest all attempts should be made to reach complete cytoreduction (surgical efforts to remove the bulk of the tumor).In advanced cancers, where complete removal is not an option, as much tumor as possible is removed in a procedure called debulking surgery. Debulking surgery has usually only been done once but a recent study has shown a longer overall survival in recurrent ovarian cancer when surgery combined with chemotherapy was performed compared to treatment with chemotherapy alone. The ongoing TRUST study may clarify selection criteria for each surgical approach.There are several different surgical procedures that can be employed to treat ovarian cancer. Depending on the extent of the cancer, procedures may include a bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, biopsies throughout the peritoneum and abdominal lymphatic system, omentectomy, splenectomy, bowel resection, diaphragm stripping or resection, appendectomy, or even a posterior pelvic exenteration.To fully stage ovarian cancer, lymphadenectomy can be included in the surgery, but a significant survival benefit to this practice may not happen. More aggressive surgeries are associated with better outcomes in advanced (stage III or IV) ovarian cancer. Ongoing research is also investigating the benefits of surgery for recurrent ovarian cancer. 
Chemotherapy and survival in advanced non-small cell lung carcinoma: is pneumologists' skepticism justified? [SEP] In one study of people who had been newly diagnosed with incurable, stage 4 cancer, more than two-thirds of people with lung cancer and more than four-fifths of people with colorectal cancer still believed that chemotherapy was likely to cure their cancer.The blood–brain barrier poses an obstacle to delivery of chemotherapy to the brain. Treatment is similar to small cell lung cancer, but survival rates are much higher than other small-cell carcinomas. Treatment
Small-cell lung cancer is most commonly treated with a combination of two drugs, which is more effective than one drug alone. Despite updated data showing 30% more people with extensive stage small cell lung cancer are alive at 24 months compared to those who received chemotherapy alone, Canadian regulator had rejected to fund Tecentriq for extensive stage small-cell lung cancer "as too costly" followed by United Kingdom also citing "drug’s cost-effectiveness." Prognosis
5-year survival rates for small cell lung cancer (extensive and limited) range between 3.6% and 32.2% for women, and between 2.2% and 24.5% for men. In limited-stage disease, relative 5-year survival rate (both sexes, all races, all ages) is 21.3%; however, women have higher 5-year survival rates, 26.9%, and men have lower survival rates, 21.3%.The prognosis is far grimmer in extensive-stage small-cell lung carcinoma where 5-year relative survival rate (both sexes, all races, all ages) is 2.8%; however, women have higher 5-year survival rates, 3.4%, and men have lower 5-year survival rates, 2.2%.Long-term survival of more than 5 years can be achieved with proper treatment. The prognosis of patients with non-small-cell lung cancer improved significantly with the introduction of immunotherapy. References
External links

MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Lung cancer — non-small cell 
Does topical ropivacaine reduce the post-tonsillectomy morbidity in pediatric patients? [SEP] Tonsillectomy does not appear to affect long term immune function.Following the surgery ibuprofen and paracetamol (acetaminophen) may be used to treat postoperative pain. Medical uses
Tonsillectomy is mainly undertaken for sleep apnea and recurrent or chronic tonsillitis. In 2019, the American Academy of Otolaryngology & Head and Neck Surgery (AAO-HNS) recommended:Caregivers and patients who meet the appropriate criteria for tonsillectomy as described here should be advised of only modest anticipated benefits of tonsillectomy, as weighed against the natural history of resolution with watchful waiting, as well as the risk of surgical morbidity and complications and the unknown risk of general anesthesia exposure in children [younger than] four years of age. The role of tonsillectomy as an option in managing children with recurrent throat infection means that there is a substantial role for shared decision making with the child's caregiver and primary care clinician.Many cases of the sore throat have other causes than tonsillitis and tonsillectomy is therefore not indicated for those cases. Obstructive sleep apnea
Tonsillectomy improves obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) in most children. More recent studies of coblation tonsillectomy indicate reduced pain and ostalgia; less intraoperative or postoperative complications; lesser incidence of delayed hemorrhage, more significantly in pediatric populations, less postoperative pain and early return to daily activities, fewer secondary infections of the tonsil bed and significantly lower rates of secondary hemorrhage. Many people are prescribed antibiotics following a tonsillectomy, however, the benefits and potential harms have not been well studied. Tonsillectomy appears to be more painful in adults than children. 
Is pain a clinically relevant problem in general adult psychiatry? [SEP] One or more pain symptoms are present in 65% of people who have depression, and anywhere from 5 to 85% of people who are experiencing pain will also have depression, depending on the setting—a lower prevalence in general practice, and higher in specialty clinics. CRPS is not a psychological illness, yet pain can cause psychological problems, such as anxiety and depression. Pain
As people age, they experience more health problems, and most health problems associated with aging carry a substantial burden of pain; therefore, between 25% and 50% of older adults experience persistent pain. Beyond the issue of humane care, unrelieved pain has functional implications. Persistent pain can lead to decreased ambulation, depressed mood, sleep disturbances, impaired appetite, and exacerbation of cognitive impairment and pain-related interference with activity is a factor contributing to falls in the elderly.Although persistent pain in people with dementia is difficult to communicate, diagnose, and treat, failure to address persistent pain has profound functional, psychosocial and quality of life implications for this vulnerable population. Effective pain management does not always mean total eradication of all pain. Pain management will then be used to address that pain. However it can be used by medical professionals as a general principle when managing any type of pain. 
Does concomitant anterior/apical repair during midurethral sling improve the overactive bladder component of mixed incontinence? [SEP] When operating a pelvic organ prolapse, introducing a mid-urethral sling during or after surgery seems to reduce stress urinary incontinence. The effectiveness of these approaches to treat people for whom synthetic midurethral tape surgery did not result in a cure (failed surgery) is not clear.Results of a 2019 systematic review of urinary incontinence in women found that most individual, active treatments are better than no treatment. Weak evidence suggests that bladder training may be helpful for the treatment of urinary incontinence. Less-invasive variants of the sling operation have been shown to be equally effective in treating stress incontinence as surgical sling operations. Slings
The procedure of choice for stress urinary incontinence in females is what is called a sling procedure. For severe cases of stress incontinence, the surgeon may secure the urethra with a wide sling. Stress Urinary Incontinence (SUI) Repair
Transvaginal mesh, also called bladder sling in this case, holds up the urethra when pelvic muscles weaken. Stress urinary incontinence (SUI) surgery
Transvaginal mesh, also known as midurethral or bladder neck sling for SUI repair, can be used to support the urethra or the neck of the bladder in two surgical approaches, namely the retropubic and transobturator. 
Does the use of atypical antipsychotics as adjunctive therapy in depression result in cost savings? [SEP] Overall there is no good evidence that atypical antipsychotics have any therapeutic benefit for treating the negative symptoms of schizophrenia.There is very little evidence on which to base a risk and benefit assessment of using antipsychotics for long-term treatment.The choice of which antipsychotic to use for a specific patient is based on benefits, risks, and costs. While the atypical (second-generation) antipsychotics were marketed as offering greater efficacy in reducing psychotic symptoms while reducing side effects (and extrapyramidal symptoms in particular) than typical medications, the results showing these effects often lacked robustness, and the assumption was increasingly challenged even as atypical prescriptions were soaring. Data on treatment efficacies are strongest for atypical antipsychotics. Major depressive disorder
A number of atypical antipsychotics have some benefits when used in addition to other treatments in major depressive disorder. See also
List of investigational antipsychotics
Antipsychotic switching

Notes
References
Further reading
External links

Recommendations for the use of antipsychotics for treating psychosis, World Health Organization 2012
Are atypical antipsychotics advantageous? – the case for, Australian Prescriber 2005 (note: pharmaceutical company conflict of interest statement at the end)
Are atypical antipsychotics advantageous? Overall there is no good evidence that atypical antipsychotics have any therapeutic benefit for treating the negative symptoms of schizophrenia.There is very little evidence on which to base a risk and benefit assessment of using antipsychotics for long-term treatment.The choice of which antipsychotic to use for a specific patient is based on benefits, risks, and costs. While the atypical (second-generation) antipsychotics were marketed as offering greater efficacy in reducing psychotic symptoms while reducing side effects (and extrapyramidal symptoms in particular) than typical medications, the results showing these effects often lacked robustness, and the assumption was increasingly challenged even as atypical prescriptions were soaring. 
Can patients be anticoagulated after intracerebral hemorrhage? [SEP] When HIT is suspected, the heparin infusion is usually replaced by a non-heparin anticoagulant.There is retrograde blood flow in the descending aorta whenever the femoral artery and vein are used for VA (Veno-Arterial) ECMO. Once it has been decided to inititiate ECMO, the patient is anticoagulated with intravenous heparin to prevent thrombus formation from clotting off the oxygenator. Development of imaging-based risk scores for prediction of intracranial haemorrhage and ischaemic stroke in patients taking antithrombotic therapy after ischaemic stroke or transient ischaemic attack: a pooled analysis of individual patient data from cohort studies". "Timing of anticoagulation after recent ischaemic stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation". "Cerebral microbleeds and stroke risk after ischaemic stroke or transient ischaemic attack: a pooled analysis of individual patient data from cohort studies". Cerebral microbleeds and intracranial haemorrhage risk in patients anticoagulated for atrial fibrillation after acute ischaemic stroke or transient ischaemic attack (CROMIS-2): multicentre observational cohort study". In cases of severe bleeding, it can be reversed with the antidote, idarucizumab. Medical uses
Dabigatran is used to prevent strokes in those with atrial fibrillation not caused by heart valve issues, as well as deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in persons who have been treated for 5–10 days with parenteral anticoagulant (usually low molecular weight heparin), and to prevent deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in some circumstances.It appears to be as effective as warfarin in preventing non-hemorrhagic strokes and embolic events in those with atrial fibrillation not due to valve problems.In 2022, a comparative study was performed on direct oral anticoagulants for patients with atrial fibrillation. 
Diagnostic and therapeutic ureteroscopy: is dilatation of ureteral meatus always necessary? [SEP] Function
The ureters are a component of the urinary system. If the ureters have been resited as a result of surgery, for example due to a kidney transplant or due to past surgery for vesicoureteric reflux, that site may also become narrowed.A narrowed ureter may lead to ureteric enlargement (dilation) and cause swelling of the kidneys (hydronephrosis). If a concerning lesion is seen, a flexible camera may be inserted into the ureters, called ureteroscopy, in order to view the lesion and take a biopsy, and a CT scan will be performed of other body parts (a CT scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis) to look for additional metastatic lesions. The ureter can be injured during surgery to nearby structures. Ureteroscopy is most commonly used for medium to large-sized stones when less invasive methods of removal are not able to be used. The urinary tract including the ureters, as well as their function to drain urine from the kidneys, has been described by Galen in the second century AD.The first to examine the ureter through an internal approach, called ureteroscopy, rather than surgery was Hampton Young in 1929. Hence a retrograde urethrogram is essential for diagnosis of urethral injury, or  urethral stricture. The urinary tract including the ureters, as well as their function to drain urine from the kidneys, has been described by Galen in the second century AD.The first to examine the ureter through an internal approach, called ureteroscopy, rather than surgery was Hampton Young in 1929. 
Does managed care enable more low income persons to identify a usual source of care? [SEP] The drop in uninsured rates due to expanded Medicaid has broadened access to care among low-income adults, with post-ACA studies indicating an improvement in affordability, access to doctors, and usual sources of care.A study using national data from the Health Reform Monitoring Survey determined that unmet need due to cost and inability to pay medical bills significantly decreased among low-income (up to 138% FPL) and moderate-income (139-199% FPL) adults, with unmet need due to cost decreasing by approximately 11 percentage points among low-income adults by the second enrollment period. Importantly, issues with cost-related unmet medical needs, skipped medications, paying medical bills, and annual out-of-pocket spending have been significantly reduced among low-income adults in Medicaid expansion states compared to non-expansion states.As well, expanded Medicaid has led to a 6.6% increase in physician visits by low-income adults, as well as increased usage of preventative care such as dental visits and cancer screenings among childless, low-income adults. Numerous studies have shown the target age group gained private health insurance relative to an older group after the policy was implemented, with an accompanying improvement in having a usual source of care, reduction in out-of-pocket costs of high-end medical expenditures, reduction in frequency of Emergency Department visits, 3.5% increase in hospitalizations and 9% increase in hospitalizations with a psychiatric diagnosis, 5.3% increase in utilizing specialty mental health care by those with a probable mental illness, 4% increase in reporting excellent mental health, and a 1.5-6.2% increase in reporting excellent physical health. A 2017 study found that personal experience with public health insurance programs led to greater support for the Affordable Care Act, most prominently among Republicans and low-information voters. "Access to affordable care through public libraries". Because of their low socioeconomic status, receiving health care can be challenging. Underinsured or inefficient health insurance coverage. Some populations experience better quality, access and more personalized health care. 
Knee extensor strength, dynamic stability, and functional ambulation: are they related in Parkinson's disease? [SEP] Lowering the knee joint height was found to effectively increase the hip joint's lever arm, thereby increasing precision control of the hip joint to improve gait symmetry and increase running velocity by 26% on average. The knee is a modified hinge joint, which permits flexion and extension as well as slight internal and external rotation. Function
The knee permits flexion and extension about a virtual transverse axis, as well as a slight medial and lateral rotation about the axis of the lower leg in the flexed position. The second major class of knee disorder involves a tear, slippage, or dislocation that impairs the structural ability of the knee to balance the leg (patellofemoral instability syndrome). In addition, weakening of tissues around the knee may contribute to the problem. Overall fitness and knee injury
Physical fitness is related integrally to the development of knee problems. Common injuries due to physical activity
In sports that place great pressure on the knees, especially with twisting forces, it is common to tear one or more ligaments or cartilages. Besides swelling and pain, walking may be painful and the knee will feel unstable. 
Is distance to provider a barrier to care for medicaid patients with breast, colorectal, or lung cancer? [SEP] However, private coverage is more expensive than Medicaid and the states would not have to contribute as much to the cost of private coverage.Certain groups of people, such as migrants, face more barriers to health care than others due to factors besides policy, such as status, transportation and knowledge of the healthcare system (including eligibility). This disparity has been linked to lower provider rates of participation in Medicaid programs vs Medicare or commercial insurance, and thus decreased access to care for Medicaid patients. A 2020 JAMA study found that Medicaid expansion under the ACA was associated with reduced incidence of advanced-stage breast cancer, indicating that Medicaid accessibility led to early detection of breast cancer and higher survival rates. Importantly, issues with cost-related unmet medical needs, skipped medications, paying medical bills, and annual out-of-pocket spending have been significantly reduced among low-income adults in Medicaid expansion states compared to non-expansion states.As well, expanded Medicaid has led to a 6.6% increase in physician visits by low-income adults, as well as increased usage of preventative care such as dental visits and cancer screenings among childless, low-income adults. Medicaid expansion's swift impact on cancer patients was demonstrated in a study using the National Cancer Institute's Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) program that evaluated more than 850,000 patients diagnosed with breast, lung, colorectal, prostate cancer, or thyroid cancer from 2010 to 2014. Another study, using Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) Program data from 2010 to 2014, found that Medicaid expansion was associated with a 6.4% net increase in early stage (in situ, local, or regional) diagnoses of all cancers combined.Data from the Centers for Disease and Prevention's (CDC) Medical Monitoring Project demonstrated that between 2009 and 2012, approximately 18% of people living with HIV (PLWH) who were actively receiving HIV treatment were uninsured and that at least 40% of HIV-infected adults receiving treatment were insured through Medicaid and/or Medicare, programs they qualified for only once their disease was advanced enough to be covered as a disability under Social Security. The study concluded that the letters, sent to 3.9 million people, may have saved 700 lives.A 2020 JAMA study found that Medicare expansion under the ACA was associated with reduced incidence of advanced-stage breast cancer, indicating that Medicaid accessibility led to early detection of breast cancer and higher survival rates. These studies include a 2.1% increase in the probability of smoking cessation in Medicaid expansion states compared to non-expansion states, a 24% increase in smoking cessation medication use due to increased Medicaid-financed smoking cessation prescriptions, a 27.7% increase in the rate of colorectal cancer screening in Kentucky following Medicaid expansion with an accompanying improvement in colorectal cancer survival, and a 3.4% increase in cancer incidence following Medicaid expansion that was attributed to an increase in early-stage diagnoses.Transition-of-care interventions and Alternative Payment Models under the ACA have also shown promise in improving health outcomes. 
Can folic acid protect against congenital heart defects in Down syndrome? [SEP] Current research continues to investigate the extent to which folic acid can reduce the incidence of clefting. Folic acid alone or in combination with vitamins and minerals prevents neural tube defects but does not have a clear effect on cleft lip palate incidence. The mechanism behind beneficial folate supplementation is due to folate playing a pivotal role in DNA synthesis and methylation and contributes to both development and gene expression. Ultrasound is used to measure the nuchal fold in order to screen for Down syndrome. Adequate periconceptional (time before and right after conception) folic acid (also called folate or Vitamin B9) intake has been shown to decrease the risk of fetal neural tube defects, such as spina bifida. Anemia of folate deficiency, as with vitamin B12, causes megaloblastic anemia
Anemia of prematurity, by diminished erythropoietin response to declining hematocrit levels, combined with blood loss from laboratory testing, generally occurs in premature infants at two to six weeks of age. Preconceptional intake of folic acid is recommended to reduce birth defects. There is also some evidence that folic acid supplement preconceptionally (before becoming pregnant) may reduce premature birth. 
Are there mental health differences between francophone and non-francophone populations in manitoba? [SEP] The majority of Canada is considered Anglophone and the province of Quebec along with small parts of New Brunswick, Ontario, and Manitoba are primarily French-speaking. Akin to the contrasts between European French and Canadian French, differences are also present between French Sign Language and LSQ. This organization represents both the French-speaking and English-speaking regions of Canada. Fewer Métis live in the U.S. than in Canada. Louis Riel and the United States
Riel had a significant impact on the Métis community in Canada, especially in the Manitoba region. The sample was designed to yield separate samples for the two Canadian official languages, English and French, and participants were measured on the dimensions of prose literacy, document literacy and quantitative literacy. Quebec
Quebec differs from the rest of the nine provinces in that its policy focuses on "interculturalism"- rather than multiculturalism, where diversity is strongly encouraged, but only under the notion that it is within the framework that establishes French as the public language. in Canada Since 1945 (University of Toronto Press, 2018). 
Does type 1 diabetes mellitus affect Achilles tendon response to a 10 km run? [SEP] Clinical significance
Inflammation
Inflammation of the Achilles tendon is called Achilles tendinitis. Achilles tendinosis is the soreness or stiffness of the tendon, particularly worse when exercising, and generally due to overuse. Achilles tendinopathy is accompanied by alterations in the tendon's structure and mechanical properties. Tightness in the calf muscles has also been known to be involved in the onset of Achilles tendinitis.During the loading phase of the running and walking cycle, the ankle and foot naturally pronate and supinate by approximately 5 degrees. Achilles tendon injuries can be the result of exceeding the tendon's capabilities for loading, therefore it is important to gradually adapt to exercise if someone is inexperienced, sedentary, or is an athlete who is not progressing at a steady rate.Eccentric strengthening exercises of the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles are utilized to improve the tensile strength of the tendon and lengthen the musculotendinous junction, decreasing the amount of strain experienced with ankle joint movements. Achilles tendinitis is most commonly found in individuals aged 30–40 Runners are susceptible, as well as anyone participating in sports,
and men aged 30–39.Risk factors include participating in a sport or activity that involves running, jumping, bounding, and change of speed. Although Achilles tendinitis is mostly likely to occur in runners, it also is more likely in participants in basketball, volleyball, dancing, gymnastics and other athletic activities. In particular, a study showed that disuse of the Achilles tendon in rats resulted in a decrease in the average thickness of the collagen fiber bundles comprising the tendon. 
Fragility of the esophageal mucosa: a pathognomonic endoscopic sign of primary eosinophilic esophagitis? [SEP] Clinical significance
The main conditions affecting the esophagus are described here. Inflammation
Inflammation of the esophagus is known as esophagitis. Eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) is an allergic inflammatory condition of the esophagus that involves eosinophils, a type of white blood cell. Symptoms include swallowing difficulty, food impaction, vomiting, and heartburn.Eosinophilic esophagitis was first described in children but also occurs in adults. Pathophysiology
Eosinophils are inflammatory cells that release a variety of chemical signals which inflame the surrounding esophageal tissue. Diagnostic criteria
The diagnosis of eosinophilic esophagitis requires all of the following:

Symptoms related to esophageal dysfunction. Eosinophil-predominant inflammation on esophageal biopsy, characteristically consisting of a peak value of ≥15 eosinophils per high power field (HPF). History
The first case of eosinophilic esophagitis was reported in 1978. 
Does cup-cage reconstruction with oversized cups provide initial stability in THA for osteoporotic acetabular fractures? [SEP] Before long, these cup sizes got nicknames: egg cup, tea cup, coffee cup and challenge cup, respectively. The breasts should be supported primarily by the band around the rib cage, rather than by the shoulder straps. Plastic Surgeon Measuring System
Bra-wearers who have difficulty calculating a correct cup size may be able to find a correct fit using a method adopted by plastic surgeons. The cup labels begin with "AAA" for a 5±1.25 cm difference between bust and underbust circumference, i.e. Cups give a hemi-spherical shape to breasts and underwires give shape to cups. The table below shows volume calculations for some cups that can be found in a ready-to-wear large size shop. After successful reconstruction, he returned to action in the 2007 NAB Cup series in February 2007. Cups for some combat sports (e.g. 
Pulmonary valve replacement in adults late after repair of tetralogy of fallot: are we operating too late? [SEP] : 199

Additional anomalies
In addition, tetralogy of Fallot may present with other anatomical anomalies, including:: 66–8 
stenosis of the left pulmonary artery, in 40%
a bicuspid pulmonary valve, in 60%
right-sided aortic arch, in 25%
coronary artery anomalies, in 10%
a patent foramen ovale or atrial septal defect, in which case the syndrome is sometimes called a pentalogy of Fallot
an atrioventricular septal defect
partially or totally anomalous pulmonary venous returnTetralogy of Fallot with pulmonary atresia (pseudotruncus arteriosus) is a severe variant in which there is complete obstruction (atresia) of the right ventricular outflow tract, causing an absence of the pulmonary trunk during embryonic development. : 59  Long-term complications most commonly include pulmonary valve regurgitation, and arrhythmias.Total repair of tetralogy of Fallot initially carried a high mortality risk, but this risk has gone down steadily over the years. : 59

Approaches to surgical repair
After years of tetralogy of Fallot surgical repair expertise, the attention shifted to the emerging evidence that long-term pulmonary insufficiency is detrimental to right ventricular function and clinical prognosis. A transcatheter pulmonary valve method can also be used to replace a pulmonary valve. Prognosis
Untreated, tetralogy of Fallot rapidly results in progressive right ventricular hypertrophy due to the increased resistance caused by narrowing of the pulmonary trunk. Patients with untreated TOF rarely progress to adulthood.Patients who have undergone total surgical repair of tetralogy of Fallot have improved hemodynamics and often have good to excellent cardiac function after the operation with some to no exercise intolerance (New York Heart Association Class I-II). This is usually corrected with a procedure called pulmonary valve replacement. Tetralogy of Fallot
Tetralogy of Fallot is the most common congenital heart disease arising in 1–3 cases per 1,000 births. 
Xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis: a premalignant condition? [SEP] Xanthogranulomatous pyelonephritis
Xanthogranulomatous pyelonephritis is an unusual form of chronic pyelonephritis characterized by granulomatous abscess formation, severe kidney destruction, and a clinical picture that may resemble renal cell carcinoma and other inflammatory kidney parenchymal diseases. The Xanthogranulomatous Process (XP), is a form of acute and chronic inflammation characterized by an exuberant clustering of foamy macrophages among other inflammatory cells. Location
The xanthogranulomatous type of inflammation is most-commonly seen in pyelonephritis and cholecystitis, although it has more recently been described in an array of other locations including bronchi, lung, endometrium, vagina, fallopian tubes, ovary, testis, epididymis, stomach, colon, ileum, pancreas, bone, lymph nodes, bladder, adrenal gland, abdomen and muscle. Cozzutto and Carbone suggested that a wide array of entities characterized by a large content of histiocytes and foamy macrophages could be traced back at least in part to a xanthogranulomatous inflammation. Foreign body-type and Touton-type giant cells, calcospherites, cholesterol clefts and hemosiderin deposits are additional findings.Hemorrhage, suppuration and necrosis are therefore the initial conditions leading to the xanthogranulomatous response. in xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis). A delayed type hypersensitivity reaction of cell mediated immunity has been suggested in the pathogenesis of xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis.Destructive tumor-like masses with variable extension into adjacent fat and connective tissue can occur in cases involving organs such as kidney and gallbladder. See also
Xanthogranulomatous osteomyelitis


== References == 
Does TDP-43 type confer a distinct pattern of atrophy in frontotemporal lobar degeneration? [SEP] See also
Frontotemporal lobar degeneration

References

Boeve BF (2011). In normal brains and other tissues, the TDP-43 protein helps to ensure proper functioning of genes in the cell; the misfolded TDP-43 may thus impair normal gene expression regulation (so in LATE-NC, there is a loss-of-normal-function), and, the aberrant TDP-43 protein in LATE-NC may induce toxic gains of function also.TDP-43 proteinopathy (a disease-associated phenomenon discovered by Dr. Manuela Neumann and colleagues at UPENN in the Drs John Trojanowski/Virginia Lee CNDR Lab) is also implicated in frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and other diseases. Limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy (LATE) is a type of dementia that primarily affects people in their 80s or 90s and in which TDP-43 protein deposits in the limbic portion of the brain.Hereditary disorders that can also cause dementia include: some metabolic disorders such as lysosomal storage disorders, leukodystrophies, and spinocerebellar ataxias. : 1505  In 2006, researchers determined that amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal lobar degeneration are often TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) proteinopathies. In 2007, researchers determined that this neurodegenerative disease, Limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy (LATE), is a TDP-43 proteinopathy. : 1509  Inferior frontal, anterior temporal, and insular cortex atrophy often accompanies LATE hippocampal atrophy, the same anatomical pattern of TDP-43 proteinopathy at autopsy. Hippocampal sclerosis occurs in about 66% of those with frontotemporal lobar degeneration arising from TDP-43 or FUS proteinopathy. Many patients with FTLD have aggregates containing TDP-43, an RNA binding protein. 
Is oncoplastic surgery a contraindication for accelerated partial breast radiation using the interstitial multicatheter brachytherapy method? [SEP] This page reviews the history of this operation, important considerations in decision making and patient selection, and the emerging field of oncoplastic breast conservation surgery. Radiation therapy may still be needed following breast-conservation surgery. Contraindications
Absolute contraindications, which are reasons why the procedure absolutely cannot be done, include:
Pregnancy is an absolute contraindication to the use of breast irradiation. Inflammatory breast cancer
Diffuse or indeterminate micro-calcifications on mammographyRelative contraindications encompass situations of higher risk of complications to the patient that may be outweighed by other considerations, such as the benefit to the patient. Relative contraindications include:
Previous breast radiation therapy
Connective tissue disease such as Scleroderma, Sjogren Syndrome, Lupus, and Rheumatoid arthritis may result in an increased risk of radiation toxicity. Oncoplastic surgery
Oncoplastic surgery is an important consideration in breast-conserving surgery that integrates plastic surgery principles into breast cancer surgery in order to preserve aesthetic outcomes and quality of life, without compromising local control of the cancer. Oncoplastic approaches to breast-conserving surgery may require a close partnership among surgeons who specialize in surgical oncology and plastic surgery. Oncoplastic surgery is not only limited to breast-conserving surgery, as the techniques and principles of plastic surgery can be applied to mastectomy as well.As of 2017, there had been no randomized controlled trials to compare oncoplastic breast-conserving surgery to traditional breast-conserving surgery techniques. 
Diagnostic characteristics of child bipolar I disorder: does the "Treatment of Early Age Mania (team)" sample generalize? [SEP] Children of parents with bipolar disorder more frequently have other mental health problems. The diagnosis of childhood bipolar disorder, while formerly controversial, has gained greater acceptance among childhood and adolescent psychiatrists. Studies using DSM criteria show that up to 1% of youth may have bipolar disorder. Children
Treating bipolar disorder in children involves medication and psychotherapy. Children and adolescents with bipolar disorder have higher rates of significant difficulties with substance use disorders, psychosis, academic difficulties, behavioral problems, social difficulties, and legal problems. One meta-analysis of bipolar disorder in young people worldwide estimated that about 1.8% of people between the ages of seven and 21 have bipolar disorder. Similar to adults, bipolar disorder in children and adolescents is thought to occur at a similar frequency in boys and girls.There are conceptual and methodological limitations and variations in the findings. Research
Research directions for bipolar disorder in children include optimizing treatments, increasing the knowledge of the genetic and neurobiological basis of the pediatric disorder and improving diagnostic criteria. 
Estimation of basal metabolic rate in Chinese: are the current prediction equations applicable? [SEP] Metabolic rate
People have different metabolic rates that can fluctuate due to activity level and environmental conditions. The ASHRAE 55-2010 Standard defines metabolic rate as the level of transformation of chemical energy into heat and mechanical work by metabolic activities within an organism, usually expressed in terms of unit area of the total body surface. Metabolic rate is expressed in met units, which are defined as follows:
1 met = 58.2 W/m² (18.4 Btu/h·ft²), which is equal to the energy produced per unit surface area of an average person seated at rest. For intermittent activity, the Standard states that it is permissible to use a time-weighted average metabolic rate if individuals are performing activities that vary over a period of one hour or less. For longer periods, different metabolic rates must be considered.According to ASHRAE Handbook of Fundamentals, estimating metabolic rates is complex, and for levels above 2 or 3 met – especially if there are various ways of performing such activities – the accuracy is low. Met values can also be determined more accurately than the tabulated ones, using an empirical equation that takes into account the rate of respiratory oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production. It has a different definition of met that is the ratio of the metabolic rate of the activity in question to a resting metabolic rate. Yongchun Tang and his colleagues modeled this process based on laboratory-calibrated kinetics data and found that the frequency factor ratio for D/H is 1.07. 
Does rugby headgear prevent concussion? [SEP] While the benefits of helmets and other head protection are more obvious in the other sports, the role of headgear in soccer was unclear as of 2013.There are clear rules from FIFA regarding what to do when a player gets a concussion. Regarding helmets, there was consensus that they may not always protect against concussions. Numerous studies have also suggested that while helmets can be of great use in reducing the risk and severity of head injury, they have little effect on the incidence of concussions. Changes to the rules or enforcing existing rules in sports, such as those against "head-down tackling", or "spearing", which is associated with a high injury rate, may also prevent concussions. Headgear
Headgear is required for most sports with high risk of head injuries such as American football, bobsledding and cycling. References
External links
http://policy.federation.edu.au/research/general/emeritus_professor_ht_smith/ch01.php
http://playerwelfare.worldrugby.org/concussion; http://playerwelfare.worldrugby.org/?documentid=113
https://pafixproject.wordpress.com/ In the early part of the 21st century, there have been discussions of requiring headgear to prevent concussions. It also indicated that "neck injuries in the scrum and to the front row are of great concern".The use of a scrum cap or other padded headgear does not reduce the incidence of concussion or other head or neck trauma. 
Spinal subdural hematoma: a sequela of a ruptured intracranial aneurysm? [SEP] Subdural hematomas may cause an increase in the pressure inside the skull, which in turn can cause compression of and damage to delicate brain tissue. Acute subdural hematomas are often life-threatening. Chronic subdural hematomas have a better prognosis if properly managed. Symptoms of chronic subdural hematomas are usually delayed more than three weeks after Injury.If the bleeds are large enough to put pressure on the brain, signs of increased intracranial pressure or brain damage will be present. Other symptoms of subdural hematoma can include any combination of the following:

Causes
Subdural hematomas are most often caused by head injury, in which rapidly changing velocities within the skull may stretch and tear small bridging veins. Differential diagnosis
Treatment
Treatment of a subdural hematoma depends on its size and rate of growth. Prognosis
Acute subdural hematomas have one of the highest mortality rates of all head injuries, with 50 to 90 percent of cases resulting in death, depending on the underlying brain injury. An inverted Mercedes-Benz sign shows the spinal subdural hematoma on the axial image. 
Can shape analysis differentiate free-floating internal carotid artery thrombus from atherosclerotic plaque in patients evaluated with CTA for stroke or transient ischemic attack? [SEP] Interventional and non-interventional methods to detect atherosclerosis, specifically vulnerable plaque (non-occlusive or soft plaque), are widely used in research and clinical practice today.Carotid Intima-media thickness Scan (CIMT can be measured by B-mode ultrasonography) measurement has been recommended by the American Heart Association as the most useful method to identify atherosclerosis and may now very well be the gold standard for detection.Intravascular ultrasound is the current most sensitive method detecting and measuring more advanced atheroma within living individuals, but has had limited applications due to cost and body invasiveness.CT scans using state of the art higher resolution spiral, or the higher speed EBT, machines have been the most effective method for detecting calcification present in plaque. The presence of smaller, spotty plaques may actually be more dangerous for progressing to acute myocardial infarction.Arterial ultrasound, especially of the carotid arteries, with measurement of the thickness of the artery wall, offers a way to partially track the disease progression. There are several prospective epidemiologic studies including the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) Study and the Cardiovascular Health Study (CHS), which have supported a direct correlation of Carotid Intima-media thickness (CIMT) with myocardial infarction and stroke risk in patients without cardiovascular disease history. They concluded that carotid atherosclerosis measured by this non-interventional method has prognostic significance in coronary artery patients.In the Rotterdam Study, Bots et al. Promising results are found using carotid intima-media thickness scanning (CIMT can be measured by B-mode ultrasonography), B-vitamins that reduce a protein corrosive, homocysteine and that reduce neck carotid artery plaque volume and thickness, and stroke, even in late-stage disease.Additionally, understanding what drives atheroma development is complex with multiple factors involved, only some of which, such as lipoproteins, more importantly lipoprotein subclass analysis, blood sugar levels and hypertension are best known and researched. Signs and symptoms
Atherosclerosis is asymptomatic for decades because the arteries enlarge at all plaque locations, thus there is no effect on blood flow. Fatty streaks have been observed in the coronary arteries of juveniles aged 11–15, though they appear at a much younger age within the aorta.Clinically, given enlargement of the arteries for decades, symptomatic atherosclerosis is typically associated with men in their 40s and women in their 50s to 60s. Visible features
Although arteries are not typically studied microscopically, two plaque types can be distinguished:
The fibro-lipid (fibro-fatty) plaque is characterized by an accumulation of lipid-laden cells underneath the intima of the arteries, typically without narrowing the lumen due to compensatory expansion of the bounding muscular layer of the artery wall. 
Dementia and aphasia in motor neuron disease: an underrecognised association? [SEP] Apathy, however, is a common symptom in many dementias.Two types of FTD feature aphasia (language problems) as the main symptom. A frontotemporal dementia associated with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) known as (FTD-ALS) includes the symptoms of FTD (behavior, language and movement problems) co-occurring with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (loss of motor neurons). Aphasia can also be the result of brain tumors, brain infections, or neurodegenerative diseases (such as dementias).To be diagnosed with aphasia, a person's speech or language must be significantly impaired in one (or more) of the four aspects of communication following acquired brain injury. Progressive aphasias
Primary progressive aphasia (PPA) is a neurodegenerative focal dementia that can be associated with progressive illnesses or dementia, such as frontotemporal dementia / Pick Complex Motor neuron disease, Progressive supranuclear palsy, and Alzheimer's disease, which is the gradual process of progressively losing the ability to think. Alzheimer's disease may present with either fluent aphasia or expressive aphasia. Classification
Motor neuron disease describes a collection of clinical disorders, characterized by progressive muscle weakness and the degeneration of the motor neuron on electrophysiological testing. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), also known as motor neurone disease (MND) or Lou Gehrig's disease, is a neurodegenerative disease that results in the progressive loss of motor neurons that control voluntary muscles. The British neurologist Russell Brain coined the term motor neurone disease in 1933 to reflect his belief that ALS, progressive bulbar palsy, and progressive muscular atrophy were all different forms of the same disease. 
Does solid culture for tuberculosis influence clinical decision making in India? [SEP] Tuberculosis management describes the techniques and procedures utilized for treating tuberculosis (TB). India
In 1906, India opened its first air sanatorium for treatment and isolation of TB patients.However, the World Health Organization reviewed the national program in India which lacked funding and treatment regimens that could report accurate tuberculosis case management. These patients should have their diagnosis carefully reviewed and specimens obtained for TB culture and sensitivity testing. Public health and health policy
As of 2010, India has more reported cases of TB than any other country. This is in part due to severe mismanagement of diagnosis and treatment of TB within the private health care sector of India that serves about 50% of the population. conducted in 2013 shows evidence that there is a burden of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in India and change is needed for testing, surveillance, monitoring and management. Samples taken for TB culture should be sent to the laboratory in a sterile pot with no additive (not even water or saline) and must arrive in the laboratory as soon as possible. The term "latent tuberculosis treatment" is preferred in the US because the medication does not actually prevent infection: it prevents an existing silent infection from becoming active. 
Diffusion-weighted echo-planar MR imaging of primary parotid gland tumors: is a prediction of different histologic subtypes possible? [SEP] The major salivary glands consist of the parotid, submandibular, and sublingual glands. Presentation
Salivary gland tumours usually present as a lump or swelling in the affected gland which may or may not have been present for a long time. Diagnosis
There are many diagnostic methods that can be used to determine the type of salivary gland tumour and if it is benign or malignant. A chest radiograph may also be taken to rule out any secondary tumours.Ultrasound: Ultrasound can be used to initially assess a tumour that is located superficially in either the submandibular or parotid gland. This system defines five broad categories of salivary gland neoplasms:
Benign epithelial tumors

Pleomorphic adenoma
Warthin's tumor
Myoepithelioma
Basal cell adenoma
Oncocytoma
Canalicular adenoma
Lymphadenoma
Sebaceous lymphadenoma
Nonsebaceous lymphadenoma
Ductal papilloma
Inverted ductal papilloma
Intraductal papilloma
Sialadenoma papilliferum
Cystadenoma
Malignant epithelial tumors
Acinic cell carcinoma
Mucoepidermoid carcinoma
Adenoid cystic carcinoma
Polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinoma
Epithelial-myoepithelial carcinoma
Clear cell carcinoma, not otherwise specified
Basal cell adenocarcinoma
Sebaceous carcinoma
Sebaceous lymphadenocarcinoma
Cystadenocarcinoma
Low-grade cribriform cystadenocarcinoma
Mucinous adenocarcinoma
Oncocytic carcinoma
Salivary duct carcinoma
Salivary duct carcinoma, not otherwise specified
Adenocarcinoma, not otherwise specified
Myoepithelial carcinoma
Carcinoma ex pleomorphic adenoma
Mammary analogue secretory carcinoma
Carcinosarcoma
Metastasizing pleomorphic adenoma
Squamous cell carcinoma
Large cell carcinoma
Lymphoepithelial carcinoma
Sialoblastoma
Soft tissue tumors
Hemangioma
Hematolymphoid tumors
Hodgkin lymphoma
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma
Extranodal marginal zone B cell lymphoma
Secondary tumors (i.e. Within the parotid gland 75 - 80% of tumours are benign. The parotid gland is usually swollen and tender. The involved parotid gland is enlarged and tender at times. 
Is there a role for endothelin-1 in the hemodynamic changes during hemodialysis? [SEP] Endothelin constricts blood vessels and raises blood pressure. The endothelins are normally kept in balance by other mechanisms, but when overexpressed, they contribute to high blood pressure (hypertension), heart disease, and potentially other diseases.Endothelins are 21-amino acid vasoconstricting peptides produced primarily in the endothelium having a key role in vascular homeostasis. Endothelins are implicated in vascular diseases of several organ systems, including the heart, lungs, kidneys, and brain. Secretion of endothelin-1 from the vascular endothelium signals vasoconstriction and influences local cellular growth and survival. Studies have shown that endothelin-2 plays a significant role in ovarian physiology and could impact the pathophysiology of heart failure, immunology, and cancer. Clinical significance
The ubiquitous distribution of endothelin peptides and receptors implicates involvement in a wide variety of physiological and pathological processes among different organ systems. Among numerous diseases potentially occurring from endothelin dysregulation are:

several types of cancer
cerebral vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage
arterial hypertension, pulmonary hypertension, and other cardiovascular disorders
pain mediation
cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure
Dengue haemorrhagic fever
Type II diabetes
some cases of Hirschsprung diseaseIn insulin resistance the high levels of blood insulin results in increased production and activity of ET-1, which promotes vasoconstriction and elevates blood pressure.ET-1 impairs glucose uptake in the skeletal muscles of insulin resistant subjects, thereby worsening insulin resistance.In preliminary research, injection of endothelin-1 into a lateral cerebral ventricle was shown to potently stimulate glucose metabolism in specified interconnected circuits of the brain, and to induce convulsions, indicating its potential for diverse neural effects in conditions such as epilepsy. References
External links
Endothelins at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) 
Do risk factors for suicidal behavior differ by affective disorder polarity? [SEP] The risk of suicide is high; over a period of 20 years, 6% of those with bipolar disorder died by suicide, while 30–40% engaged in self-harm. They are considered to have a higher risk for suicidal behavior as depressive emotions such as hopelessness are often paired with mood swings or difficulties with impulse control. Suicide
Bipolar disorder can cause suicidal ideation that leads to suicide attempts. Individuals whose bipolar disorder begins with a depressive or mixed affective episode seem to have a poorer prognosis and an increased risk of suicide. One out of two people with bipolar disorder attempt suicide at least once during their lifetime and many attempts are successfully completed. The number of deaths from suicide in bipolar disorder is between 18 and 25 times higher than would be expected in similarly aged people without bipolar disorder. The lifetime risk of suicide has been estimated to be as high as 20% in those with bipolar disorder.Risk factors for suicide attempts and death from suicide in people with bipolar disorder include older age, prior suicide attempts, a depressive or mixed index episode (first episode), a manic index episode with psychotic symptoms, hopelessness or psychomotor agitation present during the episodes, co-existing anxiety disorder, a first degree relative with a mood disorder or suicide, interpersonal conflicts, occupational problems, bereavement or social isolation. Assessment of suicide risk is key, as the rate of suicide completion among those with bipolar disorder may be as high as 10–15%. 
Multidisciplinary breast cancer clinics. Do they work? [SEP] The mainstay of breast cancer management is surgery for the local and regional tumor, followed (or preceded) by a combination of chemotherapy, radiotherapy, endocrine (hormone) therapy, and targeted therapy. Management of breast cancer is undertaken by a multidisciplinary team, including medical-, radiation-, and surgical- oncologists, and is guided by national and international guidelines. Surgery
Surgery is the primary management for breast cancer. Any combination of systemic treatments may be used to treat breast cancer. In those in whom the cancer has spread to other parts of the body, treatments are mostly aimed at improving quality of life and comfort.Outcomes for breast cancer vary depending on the cancer type, the extent of disease, and the person's age. A review has found that follow-up programs involving regular physical examinations and yearly mammography alone are as effective as more intensive programs consisting of laboratory tests in terms of early detection of recurrence, overall survival and quality of life.Multidisciplinary rehabilitation programmes, often including exercise, education and psychological help, may produce short-term improvements in functional ability, psychosocial adjustment and social participation in people with breast cancer.Upper limb problems such as shoulder and arm pain, weakness and restricted movement are a common side effect after radiotherapy or breast cancer surgery. Patients with multiple primary breast tumours may receive treatments such as chemotherapy, radiotherapy and breast reconstruction surgery for the same indications as other breast cancer patients. : 6  Physicians were conservative in the treatment they prescribed in the early stages of breast cancer. 
Is the international normalised ratio (INR) reliable? [SEP] This is shown by an increase in prothrombin time and/or international normalised ratio (INR) in patients taking roxithromycin and warfarin concurrently. Reversal agents for warfarin are more widely studied and established guidelines for reversal exist, due to longer history of use of warfarin and the ability to get a more accurate measurement of anticoagulation effect in a patient via measuring the INR (International Normalized Ratio). An International Normalised Ratio (INR) test would be recommended, to confirm the overdose so that the dosage can be adjusted to an acceptable standard. The INR test measures the time taken for a clot to form in a blood sample, relative to a standard. An INR value of 1 indicates a level of coagulation equivalent to that of an average patient not taking warfarin and values greater than 1 indicate a longer clotting time and thus a longer bleeding time. The Malaysian ringgit (; plural: ringgit; symbol: RM; currency code: MYR; Malay name: Ringgit Malaysia; formerly the Malaysian dollar) is the currency of Malaysia. Internationally, the ISO 4217 currency code for Malaysian ringgit is MYR. The initial stability of the ringgit in the late-2000s had led to considerations to reintroduce the currency to foreign trading after over a decade of being non-internationalised. 
Are there associations of health status, disease activity and damage in SLE patients? [SEP] Life expectancy is lower among people with SLE, but with modern treatment, 80-90% of patients can survive for 10 years or more, although men have higher mortality. SLE significantly increases the risk of cardiovascular disease with this being the most common cause of death. People with SLE are at particular risk of developing osteoarticular tuberculosis.A possible association between rheumatoid arthritis and SLE has been suggested, and SLE may be associated with an increased risk of bone fractures in relatively young women. One of the factors associated with SLE is vitamin D deficiency. Women with SLE and of lower socioeconomic status have been shown to have higher depression scores, higher body mass index, and more restricted access to medical care than women of higher socioeconomic statuses with the illness. Studies that report different rates of disease progression in late-stage SLE are most likely reflecting differences in socioeconomic status and the corresponding access to care. The advances made by medical science in the diagnosis and treatment of SLE have dramatically improved the life expectancy of a person diagnosed with SLE. Systemic lupus erythematosus
Arthritis is a common symptom of SLE. 
PSA repeatedly fluctuating levels are reassuring enough to avoid biopsy? [SEP] PSA, PsA, Psa, or psa may refer to:

Biology and medicine
Posterior spinal artery
Primary systemic amyloidosis, a disease caused by the accumulation of abnormal proteins
Prostate-specific antigen, an enzyme used as a blood tracer for prostate cancer
Psoriatic arthritis (PsA), an inflammatory disease
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, a species of bacterium
Pseudomonas syringae pv. PSA was listed on the Euronext Paris stock exchange and was a constituent of the CAC 40 index.Beginning in 2016, PSA began to outline a strategy which entailed the rapid expansion of the company, through both geographic expansion and acquisitions of other car companies. PSA announced plans to enter the Indian, American, Canadian, South East Asian, and other markets in the coming years. On 9 April 1976 they increased their stake of the then bankrupt company to 89.95%, thus creating the PSA Group (where PSA is short for Peugeot Société Anonyme), becoming PSA Peugeot Citroën. In early 2016, PSA unveiled a roadmap detailing its plan to re-enter the North American car market for the first time since 1991. Some expressed concerns about what this major acquisition might do to PSA's bottom line. Locations
Head office
The head office of PSA Group is located in Rueil-Malmaison. Other locations
PSA has a number of manufacturing and development sites around the world. 
Is zero central line-associated bloodstream infection rate sustainable? [SEP] Maternal blood-borne infection is another route of bacterial infection from pregnant parent to baby. Bilateral multilobar ground-glass opacities with a peripheral, asymmetric, and posterior distribution are common in early infection. Evidence indicates that contact with infected surfaces is not the main driver of COVID‑19, leading to recommendations for optimised disinfection procedures to avoid issues such as the increase of antimicrobial resistance through the use of inappropriate cleaning products and processes. The presence of neutralising antibodies in blood strongly correlates with protection from infection, but the level of neutralising antibody declines with time. Those with asymptomatic or mild disease had undetectable levels of neutralising antibody two months after infection. An updated Cochrane review in May 2021 found high certainty evidence that, for the treatment of people with moderate to severe COVID‑19, convalescent plasma did not reduce mortality or bring about symptom improvement. Romer's simulation indicated that the fraction of the population that is infected at any given time (known as the attack rate) peaks reaches roughly 8% in about thirty days before gradually declining, in most runs reaching zero at 500 days, with cumulative prevalence remaining below 20%. Test kits made by BGI, R-Biopharm AG, BGI, KH Medical and Seegene showed high sensitivity.High sensitivity kits are recommended to assess people without symptoms, while lower sensitivity tests are adequate when diagnosing symptomatic patients.The University of Oxford's Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine (CEBM) has pointed to mounting evidence that "a good proportion of 'new' mild cases and people re-testing positives via RT-PCR after quarantine or discharge from hospital are not infectious, but are simply clearing harmless virus particles which their immune system has efficiently dealt with", and have called for "an international effort to standardize and periodically calibrate testing". 
Is gastric electrical stimulation superior to standard pharmacologic therapy in improving GI symptoms, healthcare resources, and long-term health care benefits? [SEP] Gastric electrical stimulation, also known as implantable gastric stimulation, is the use of specific devices to provide electrical stimulation to the stomach to try to bring about weight loss in those who are overweight or improve gastroparesis.Gastric electrical stimulation is a pacemaker-like device with electrical connections to the surface of the stomach. Medical uses
These devices are for treatment of gastroparesis. Gastric pacing is the process where a pacemaker is placed external to the stomach, and leads penetrate the gastric tissue to ensure that an adequate current is running through the cells. It is used as a treatment for gastroparesis. A gastrointestinal cocktail, (also known as a GI cocktail or gastric cocktail), is a mixture of medications used to treat symptoms of dyspepsia The GI cocktail generally contains a mixture of viscous lidocaine, an antacid, and an anticholinergic. The GI cocktail is commonly prescribed in the hospital or emergency department, and has been used to help distinguish chest pain as either gastrointestinal or cardiac. While it has been widely used in the treatment of dyspepsia, studies have suggested that the GI cocktail is only as effective as antacids alone.The "GI cocktail" does not refer to a specific product. Medical uses
The GI cocktail is commonly prescribed in the hospital or emergency department to treat symptoms of dyspepsia. 
Should pulp chamber pulpotomy be seen as a permanent treatment? [SEP] Pulp capping is a technique used in dental restorations to prevent the dental pulp from necrosis, after being exposed, or nearly exposed during a cavity preparation, from a traumatic injury, or by a deep cavity that reaches the center of the tooth causing the pulp to die. The ultimate goal of pulp capping or stepwise caries removal is to protect a healthy dental pulp and avoid the need for root canal therapy. Since pulp capping is not always successful in maintaining the vitality of the pulp, the dentist will usually keep the status of the tooth under review for about 1 year after the procedure. It has been suggested that a pulp capped with MTA should be temporised to allow for the complete setting of MTA, and the patient to present at a second visit for placement of the permanent restoration. See also
Pulpotomy


== References == For the permanent tooth, endodontic treatment can be considered. For symptomatic permanent tooth, root canal treatment is often challenging due to pulp chamber is filled with calcified material and the ‘drop off’ sensation of entering a pulp chamber will not occur. When there are signs of adequate pulp recession, tubercle can be removed and tooth can be restored.For teeth with inflamed pulp and mature apex, conventional root canal treatment could be carried out and restored accordingly.For teeth with inflamed pulp and immature apex, shallow MTA pulpotomy could be performed and then restore with glass ionomer and composite.For teeth with necrotic pulp and mature apex, conventional root canal therapy could be done and restored.For teeth with necrotic pulp and immature apex, MTA root-end barrier could be carried out. 
Does transverse apex coincide with coronal apex levels (regional or global) in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis? [SEP] The adjective transverse implies that the spinal inflammation (myelitis) extends horizontally throughout the cross section of the spinal cord; the terms partial transverse myelitis and partial myelitis are sometimes used to specify inflammation that affects only part of the width of the spinal cord. Signs and symptoms vary according to the affected level of the spinal cord. Therefore, the signs and symptoms depend on the area of the spine involved. Back pain can occur at the level of any inflamed segment of the spinal cord.If the upper cervical segment of the spinal cord is involved, all four limbs may be affected and there is risk of respiratory failure – the phrenic nerve which is formed by the cervical spinal nerves C3, C4, and C5 innervates the main muscle of respiration, the diaphragm.Lesions of the lower cervical region (C5–T1) will cause a combination of upper and lower motor neuron signs in the upper limbs, and exclusively upper motor neuron signs in the lower limbs. The coronal plane or frontal plane (vertical) divides the body into dorsal and ventral (back and front, or posterior and anterior) portions. A coronal plane (also known as frontal plane) is perpendicular to the ground; it separates the anterior from the posterior, the front from the back, the ventral from the dorsal. the 4th cervical vertebra, abbreviated "C4"), or the rib cage (e.g., the 5th intercostal space). Hence, what is technically a transverse (orthogonal) section with respect to the body length axis of a rat (dividing anterior from posterior) may often be referred to in rat neuroanatomical coordinates as a coronal section, and likewise a coronal section with respect to the body (i.e. 
Does the Child Health Computing System adequately identify children with cerebral palsy? [SEP] Cerebral palsy (CP) is a group of movement disorders that appear in early childhood. Babies born with cerebral palsy do not immediately present with symptoms. Chronic pain is under-recognized in children with cerebral palsy, even though three out of four children with cerebral palsy experience pain. Diagnosis
The diagnosis of cerebral palsy has historically rested on the person's history and physical examination and is generally assessed at a young age. Early diagnosis and intervention are seen as being a key part of managing cerebral palsy. Machine learning algorithms facilitate automatic early diagnosis, with methods such as deep neural network and geometric feature fusion producing high accuracy in predicting cerebral palsy from short videos. It is a developmental disability.Once a person is diagnosed with cerebral palsy, further diagnostic tests are optional. Although such cross-over benefit might happen, not enough high-quality studies have been done to demonstrate it.Because cerebral palsy has "varying severity and complexity" across the lifespan, it can be considered a collection of conditions for management purposes. 
Are we seeing the effects of public awareness campaigns? [SEP] In the context of public health, social marketing would promote general health, raise awareness and induce changes in behavior. One study found that health awareness days can potentially raise knowledge about the causes of public health problems and promote an environment that supports policy changes, but noted that the accuracy of information shared is critical. On the other hand, there is some evidence to show that species awareness days meant to increase biodiversity and conservation awareness can lead to an increase in awareness through internet search for information, and an increase in conservation fund-raising by charities and advocacy groups.On a wider front, by 2007, government in the United Kingdom announced the development of its first social marketing strategy for all aspects of health. Marketing Social Change: Changing Behavior to Promote Health, Social Development, and the Environment. Social Marketing: Influencing Behaviors for Good. Social Marketing and Social Change: Strategies and Tools for Improving Health, Well-Being and the Environment. Regulation
There have been increasing efforts to protect the public interest by regulating the content and the influence of advertising. National public awareness of the smog and its health effects spurred the nascent environmental movement in the United States and galvanized support for legislation to regulate air pollution. 
Is breast cancer prognosis inherited? [SEP] Breast cancer, like other forms of cancer, can result from multiple environmental and hereditary risk factors. Approximately 5% of new breast cancers are attributable to hereditary syndromes, and well-established risk factors accounts for approximately 30% of cases. BRCA1 and BRCA2
In 5% of breast cancer cases, there is a strong inherited familial risk.Two autosomal dominant genes, BRCA1 and BRCA2, account for most of the cases of familial breast cancer. If a mother or a sister was diagnosed breast cancer, the risk of a hereditary BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene mutation is about 2-fold higher than those women without a familial history. Gene mutations
Two inherited gene mutations critically associated with the development and/or progression of breast cancer occur in the tumor cells of MBC and female breast cancer but with different frequencies: BRCA2 mutations occur in 12% of males and 5% of females while BRCA1 mutations occur in 1% of males and 5-10% of females. In those with a first degree relative with the disease the risk of breast cancer between the age of 40 and 50 is double that of the general population.In less than 5% of cases, genetics plays a more significant role by causing a hereditary breast–ovarian cancer syndrome. The familial tendency to develop these cancers is called hereditary breast–ovarian cancer syndrome. Because the prognosis for breast cancer was at this stage relatively favorable, compared to the prognosis for other cancers, breast cancer as cause of death among women was 13.9% of all cancer deaths. 
Does nuchal translucency thickness in the first trimester predict GDM onset during pregnancy? [SEP] Nuchal translucency size is typically assessed at the end of the first trimester, between 11 weeks 3 days and 13 weeks 6 days of pregnancy. The use of a single millimeter cutoff (such as 2.5 or 3.0 mm) is inappropriate because nuchal translucency measurements normally increases with gestational age (by approximately 15% to 20% per gestational week from 10 to 13 weeks). At 12 weeks of gestational age, an "average" nuchal thickness of 2.18mm has been observed; however, up to 13% of chromosomally normal fetuses present with a nuchal translucency of greater than 2.5mm. At the end of the first trimester (14 weeks), the nuchal translucency can no longer be seen and instead the nuchal fold thickness is measured between 16 and 24 weeks gestation. Nuchal translucency size is typically assessed at the end of the first trimester, between 11 weeks 3 days and 13 weeks 6 days of pregnancy. The use of a single millimeter cutoff (such as 2.5 or 3.0 mm) is inappropriate because nuchal translucency measurements normally increases with gestational age (by approximately 15% to 20% per gestational week from 10 to 13 weeks). At 12 weeks of gestational age, an "average" nuchal thickness of 2.18mm has been observed; however, up to 13% of chromosomally normal fetuses present with a nuchal translucency of greater than 2.5mm. At the end of the first trimester (14 weeks), the nuchal translucency can no longer be seen and instead the nuchal fold thickness is measured between 16 and 24 weeks gestation. 
Are the arginine vasopressin V1a receptor microsatellites related to hypersexuality in children with a prepubertal and early adolescent bipolar disorder phenotype? [SEP] Vasopressin also plays a role in autism, major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia. Hypersexuality may be a primary condition, or the symptom of another medical disease or condition; for example, Klüver–Bucy syndrome or bipolar disorder. There are other biological factors that are associated with hypersexuality such as premenstrual changes, and the exposure to virilising hormones in childhood or in utero. HPA axis dysregulation has been associated with hypersexual disorder.The American Association for Sex Addiction Therapy acknowledges biological factors as contributing causes of sex addiction. As a symptom
Hypersexuality is known to present itself as a symptom in connection to a number of mental and neurological disorders. As defined in the DSM-IV-TR, hypersexuality can be a symptom of hypomania or mania in bipolar disorder or schizoaffective disorder. Treatment
Hypersexuality may negatively impact an individual. Hypersexuality in the brain
The amygdala plays a significant role in processing emotional stimuli and producing affective responses, which in turn is utilized in social interactions. 
Stage I non-small cell lung carcinoma: really an early stage? [SEP] Classification
Lung cancer is a large and exceptionally heterogeneous family of malignancies. non-basaloid) squamous cell lung carcinomas. Stages I and II), the decreased survival could be attributable to earlier distant metastasis appearing during the natural history of these tumors, as compared to other squamous cell carcinomas and NSCLCs in general. References
External links
Lung Cancer Home Page. World Health Organization Histological Classification of Lung and Pleural Tumours. Stage 0 is a pre-cancerous or marker condition, either ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) or lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS). Stage
Staging is the process of determining how much cancer there is in the body and where it is located. Each stage is as follows:
N0: There is some nuance to the official definitions for N0 disease, which includes:N0(i+) : Isolated Tumor Cell clusters (ITC), which are small clusters of cells not greater than 0.2 mm, or single tumor cells, or a cluster of fewer than 200 cells in a single histologic cross-section, whether detected by routine histology or immunohistochemistry. 
Does Residency Selection Criteria Predict Performance in Orthopaedic Surgery Residency? [SEP] According to a survey of residency program directors by the NRMP in 2020, the following five factors were mentioned by directors over 75% of the time as having the most impact:
Between 60% and 75% also mentioned other factors such as core clerkship grades, perceived commitment to specialty, Audition elective/rotation within your department, any failed attempt in USMLE, class ranking/quartile, personal prior knowledge of the applicant, perceived interest in program and passing USMLE Step 2 CS.These factors often come as a surprise to many students in the preclinical years, who often work very hard to get great grades, but do not realize that only 45% of directors cite basic science performance as an important measure. Although it varies from specialty to specialty, Alpha Omega Alpha membership, clinical clerkship grades, letters of recommendation, class rank, research experience, and school of graduation are all considered when selecting future residents. Subsequently, these medical school graduates undergo residency training in orthopedic surgery. The five-year residency is a categorical orthopedic surgery training. Selection for residency training in orthopedic surgery is very competitive. Roughly 700 physicians complete orthopedic residency training per year in the United States. Around 20,400 actively practicing orthopedic surgeons and residents are in the United States. Many orthopedic surgeons elect to do further training, or fellowships, after completing their residency training. 
Optimism and survival: does an optimistic outlook predict better survival at advanced ages? [SEP] This group reached puberty and maximum height earlier than previous generations.In Europe and North America, many boomers came of age in a time of increasing affluence and widespread government subsidies in postwar housing and education, and grew up genuinely expecting the world to improve with time. Average life expectancy increased by about seven years between the 1930s and 1960s.Communist nations, especially the Soviet Union and the Eastern European states, grew considerably, too. Evidence suggests that those who remain mentally active are more likely to maintain their faculties.By the mid-2010s, it has already become apparent that China was facing a serious demographic crisis as the population of retirees boomed while the number of working-age people shrank. Life expectancy and health
A 2020 study by sociologist Hui Zheng suggests that early US baby boomers (born between the late-1940s and early-1950s) and middle baby boomers (born between the mid- to late-1950s) had significant cognitive decline at age 50 and over compared to their elders,  though the generations born before and during the Second World War had increasing cognitive scores from one generation to the next when they were at the same age.Around the world, people are living longer than ever before. Global life expectancy has increased from 47 years in the 1950s to over 72 years in 2016. As a result, the number of people older than 60 years of age has gone up over the decades, as has their share of the global population. Previous research suggests that aging and key life events—such as seeking employment, marriage, rearing children, and retirement—all make a person more skeptical of change and more conservative.In the United States, especially since the 1970s, working-class voters, who had previously formed the backbone of support for the New Deal introduced by President Franklin D. Roosevelt, have been turning away from the left-leaning Democratic Party in favor of the right-leaning Republican Party. With good treatment patients can generally expect normal lives and lifespans. 
Is it better to be big? [SEP] "Big Hoops (Bigger the Better)" is a song by Canadian recording artist Nelly Furtado, taken from her fifth studio album, The Spirit Indestructible. The title and intro, during which Furtado chants "the bigger the better" against a bass line, references the character finding strength in the size of her earrings. Release and reception
Smith declared that "Big Hoops (Bigger the Better)" was not originally intended as a single, only "a big club banger", as he and Furtado felt the track's status as "a song that would be the best of Nelly, Nelly's attitude, Nelly's freshness" would not be "really about chart positions". Critical reception
"Big Hoops (Bigger the Better)" has received mixed to favourable reviews from music critics, some of whom compared the vocals on the song to those of Rihanna in songs like "Rude Boy" and "Cheers (Drink to That)". Chart performance
"Big Hoops (Bigger the Better)" debuted at number 60 on the Canadian Hot 100 chart and peaked at number 28. On the UK Singles Chart, "Big Hoops (Bigger the Better)" debuted at number 14, becoming Furtado's highest charting single since 2006's All Good Things (Come to an End). Music video
The accompanying music video for "Big Hoops (Bigger the Better)" was directed by Little X, who previously worked with Furtado on the video for "Promiscuous". Shirley Crabtree, Jr. (14 November 1930 – 2 December 1997), better known as Big Daddy, was an English professional wrestler with a record-breaking 64-inch chest. 
Is arch form influenced by sagittal molar relationship or Bolton tooth-size discrepancy? [SEP] Behavioral and dental factors
In the active skeletal growth, mouthbreathing, finger sucking, thumb sucking, pacifier sucking, onychophagia (nail biting), dermatophagia, pen biting, pencil biting, abnormal posture, deglutition disorders and other habits greatly influence the development of the face and dental arches. Tooth size discrepancy
Identifying the presence of tooth size discrepancies between the maxillary and mandibular arches is an important component of correct orthodontic diagnosis and treatment planning. Bolton developed a method to calculate the ratio between the mesiodistal width of maxillary and mandibular teeth and stated that a correct and harmonious occlusion is possible only with adequate proportionality of tooth sizes. Bolton's formula concludes that if in the anterior portion the ratio is less than 77.2% the lower teeth are too narrow, the upper teeth are too wide or there is a combination of both. The earlier uses semicircular arch, while the later contains examples of both gothic style pointed arch and semicircular arches. Some rock balance sculptures are in the form of an arch. The molar and premolar roots in the jaw are indicative of this early human having massive cheek teeth; an adaptation for heavy chewing. Bolton Analysis is a tooth analysis developed by Wayne A. Bolton to determine the discrepancy between size of maxillary and mandibular teeth. 
Cold knife conization vs. LEEP. Are they the same procedure? [SEP] A second pass with a more narrow loop can also be done to obtain an endocervical specimen for further histologic evaluation.The LEEP technique results in some thermal artifact in all specimens obtained due to the use of electricity which simultaneously cuts and cauterizes the lesion, but this does not generally interfere with pathological interpretation. Complications
Complications are less frequent in comparison to a cold-knife conization but can include infection and hemorrhage. Cervical conization (CPT codes 57520 (Cold Knife) and 57522 (Loop Excision)) refers to an excision of a cone-shaped sample of tissue from the mucous membrane of the cervix. Conization may be used for either diagnostic purposes as part of a biopsy or therapeutic purposes to remove pre-cancerous cells.Types include:
Cold knife conization (CKC): usually outpatient, occasionally inpatient
Loop electrical excision procedure (LEEP): usually outpatient.Conization of the cervix is a common treatment for dysplasia following abnormal results from a pap smear. Cervical conization (CPT codes 57520 (Cold Knife) and 57522 (Loop Excision)) refers to an excision of a cone-shaped sample of tissue from the mucous membrane of the cervix. Conization may be used for either diagnostic purposes as part of a biopsy or therapeutic purposes to remove pre-cancerous cells.Types include:
Cold knife conization (CKC): usually outpatient, occasionally inpatient
Loop electrical excision procedure (LEEP): usually outpatient.Conization of the cervix is a common treatment for dysplasia following abnormal results from a pap smear. A second pass with a more narrow loop can also be done to obtain an endocervical specimen for further histologic evaluation.The LEEP technique results in some thermal artifact in all specimens obtained due to the use of electricity which simultaneously cuts and cauterizes the lesion, but this does not generally interfere with pathological interpretation. Complications
Complications are less frequent in comparison to a cold-knife conization but can include infection and hemorrhage. 
Are pectins involved in cold acclimation and de-acclimation of winter oil-seed rape plants? [SEP] Pectin (Ancient Greek: πηκτικός pēktikós: "congealed" and "curdled") is a heteropolysaccharide, a structural acid contained in the primary lamella, in the middle lamella, and in the cell walls of terrestrial plants. Pectin is an important cell wall polysaccharide that allows primary cell wall extension and plant growth. A similar process of cell separation caused by the breakdown of pectin occurs in the abscission zone of the petioles of deciduous plants at leaf fall.Pectin is a natural part of the human diet, but does not contribute significantly to nutrition. In non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice pectin has been shown to increase the incidence of diabetes.A study found that after consumption of fruit the concentration of methanol in the human body increased by as much as an order of magnitude due to the degradation of natural pectin (which is esterified with methanol) in the colon.Pectin has been observed to have some function in repairing the DNA of some types of plant seeds, usually desert plants. Chemistry
Pectins, also known as pectic polysaccharides, are rich in galacturonic acid. The ratio of esterified to non-esterified galacturonic acid determines the behaviour of pectin in food applications – HM-pectins can form a gel under acidic conditions in the presence of high sugar concentrations, while LM-pectins form gels by interaction with divalent cations, particularly Ca2+, according to the idealized ‘egg box’ model, in which ionic bridges are formed between calcium ions and the ionised carboxyl groups of the galacturonic acid.In high-methoxy pectins at soluble solids content above 60% and a pH value between 2.8 and 3.6, hydrogen bonds and hydrophobic interactions bind the individual pectin chains together. The salts of partially esterified pectins are called pectinates, if the degree of esterification is below 5 percent the salts are called pectates, the insoluble acid form, pectic acid.Some plants, such as sugar beet, potatoes and pears, contain pectins with acetylated galacturonic acid in addition to methyl esters. It encompasses winter and spring oilseed, vegetable and fodder rape. 
Updating emotional content in working memory: a depression-specific deficit? [SEP] This might suggest decreased working memory but increased episodic memory. Persons affected by PD often demonstrate difficulties in working memory, a component of executive functioning. The cognitive ability to develop a comprehensive self-construct and the ability to demonstrate capable emotion regulation is a core deficit observed in people with ADHD and is linked to deficits in executive function. Stress hormones produced by emotional situations influence memory storage. Ability to work
Depression may affect people's ability to work. Working memory
In 1974 Baddeley and Hitch proposed a "working memory model" that replaced the general concept of short-term memory with an active maintenance of information in the short-term storage. Working memory. 2005), suggesting a strong relationship between working memory and long-term memory. 
Does ultrasound imaging before puncture facilitate internal jugular vein cannulation? [SEP] obesity, scarred veins from prior cannulations, agitated patient). In the case of catheterization of the internal jugular vein, the risk of pneumothorax is minimized by the use of ultrasound guidance. Accidental cannulation of the carotid artery is a potential complication of placing a central line in the internal jugular vein. The basilic vein is usually a better target for cannulation than the cephalic vein because it is larger and runs a straighter course through the arm. pneumothorax, accidental arterial cannulation), and they are relatively easy to place under ultrasound guidance and cause less discomfort than central lines. Ultrasound can be utilized to assess a person's intravascular volume status and response to intravenous fluid therapy by measuring the size and respiratory change in the diameter of the IVC, including the assessment of central venous collapsibility as a more standardized measure of intravascular volume status. More recent evidence suggests that ultrasound assessment of more "peripheral" veins (e.g., subclavian, femoral, internal jugular) may also be helpful in estimating intravascular volume status in the absence of IVC visualization. Procedural guidance
Using ultrasound to guide needles during procedures may improve success and decrease complications in procedures performed by multiple specialties, including central and venous access, arterial cannulation, thoracentesis, paracentesis, pericardiocentesis, arthrocentesis, regional anesthesia, incision and drainage of abscesses, localization and removal of foreign bodies, lumbar puncture, biopsies, and other procedures. 
Should prostate specific antigen be adjusted for body mass index? [SEP] In the context of prostate disease this usually comprises regular PSA blood tests and prostate biopsies. The risk of disease progression and metastasis (spread of the cancer) may be increased, but this increase risk appears to be small if the program of surveillance is followed closely, generally including serial PSA assessments and repeat prostate biopsies every 1–2 years depending on the PSA trends.Study results in 2011 suggest active surveillance is the best choice for older 'low-risk' patients. Life-style changes
Prostate enlargement can cause difficulties emptying the bladder completely. A meta-analysis of people with prostate enlargement and healthy males showed a significant reduction of residual volume, while a trend towards an improved urinary flow rate and decreased voiding time was found. It causes a dramatic reduction in PSA levels and tumor sizes in aggressive advanced-stage prostate cancer for 70% of patients. PSA has been shown to be lowered in men with apparent localized prostate cancer using a vegan diet (fish allowed), regular exercise, and stress reduction. Relative contraindications of testosterone include elevated prostate-specific antigen (PSA) in men with a high risk of prostate cancer due to ethnicity or family history, severe lower urinary tract symptoms, and elevated hematocrit (>50%). It is recommended that physicians screen for prostate cancer with a digital rectal exam and prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level before starting therapy, and monitor PSA and hematocrit levels closely during therapy.Ethnic groups have different rates of prostate cancer. 
Does obstructive sleep apnea affect aerobic fitness? [SEP] Central sleep apnea or obstructive sleep apnea may cause excessive daytime sleepiness, and these individuals should undergo a sleep study. This is a consequence of prolonged voluntary apnea underwater, and generally occurs in trained athletes in good health and good physical condition. Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome is a risk factor for cerebrovascular disease and cognitive dysfunction. Severe cases of snoring lead to airway blockage or difficulty breathing when sleeping, and usually signals the presence of obstructive sleep apnea (OSAS), a much more serious breathing condition. Blockage or narrowing of the airways, even temporarily, can cause the body to experience lowered oxygen levels in the blood, and these conditions of hypoxia are recurring in those with obstructive sleep apnea (OSAS). A prospective cohort study found the association between habitual snoring and NAFLD development to be significant, and the trend was noted to be most prominent in lean individuals. Reviews of CFS literature have found autonomic abnormalities such as decreased sleep efficiency, increased sleep latency, decreased slow wave sleep, and abnormal heart rate response to tilt table tests, suggesting a role of the autonomic nervous system in CFS. The CDC does not recommend GET, and there is some evidence of harm.A 2019 updated Cochrane review stated that exercise therapy probably has a positive effect on fatigue in adults, and slightly improves sleep, but the long-term effects are unknown and relevance to current definitions of ME/CFS is limited. 
The effect of an intracerebroventricular injection of metformin or AICAR on the plasma concentrations of melatonin in the ewe: potential involvement of AMPK? [SEP] Testing in Animals
Intracerebroventricular injection has also been used to test therapeutics and other drugs in animals. A small double-blind, randomized study found the antibiotic cephalexin to also increase metformin concentrations by a similar mechanism; theoretically, other cationic medications may produce the same effect.Metformin also interacts with anticholinergic medications, due to their effect on gastric motility. Metformin inhibits basal secretion from the pituitary gland of growth hormone, adrenocorticotropic hormone, follicle stimulating hormone, and expression of proopiomelanocortin, which in part accounts for its insulin-sensitizing effect with multiple actions on tissues including the liver, skeletal muscle, endothelium, adipose tissue, and the ovaries. Metformin is frequently used in research along with AICA ribonucleotide as an AMPK agonist. The increase in insulin binding after metformin treatment has also been demonstrated in patients with type 2 diabetes.AMPK probably also plays a role in increased peripheral insulin sensitivity, as metformin administration increases AMPK activity in skeletal muscle. Peak plasma concentrations (Cmax) are reached within 1–3 hours of taking immediate-release metformin and 4–8 hours with extended-release formulations. Metformin is distributed to (and appears to accumulate in) red blood cells, with a much longer elimination half-life: 17.6 hours (reported as ranging from 18.5 to 31.5 hours in a single-dose study of nondiabetics).Some evidence indicates that liver concentrations of metformin in humans may be two to three times higher than plasma concentrations, due to portal vein absorption and first-pass uptake by the liver in oral administration. In 1950, metformin, unlike some other similar compounds, was found not to decrease blood pressure and heart rate in animals. 
Literacy after cerebral hemispherectomy: Can the isolated right hemisphere read? [SEP] Hemispherectomy is a neurosurgical procedure in which a cerebral hemisphere (half of the upper brain, or cerebrum) is removed or disconnected. In addition to controlling seizures and as a result of that, improved development and cognition is also very frequently achieved after hemispherectomy. Most patients who qualify for hemispherectomy already have neurological deficits such as hemibody weakness or loss of vision in one visual field that is opposite to the side of the affected hemisphere. The improvement after hemispherectomy is not limited to seizure control, as there is a comprehensive body of literature showing that early seizure control results in developmental and cognitive gains in most patients undergoing hemispherectomy. In fact, it has been shown that the brain in the first few years of life is able to significantly recover major functions such as memory and language after hemispherectomy further supporting the notion that early surgery is strongly recommended when indicated and that it is not a last resort as frequently portrayed to be. A recent study showed that even adults with hemispheric epilepsy can have excellent seizure and cognitive outcomes following hemispherectomy with seizure freedom in 77% of patients. This patient eventually developed "superior language and intellectual abilities" despite the removal of the left hemisphere, which contains the classical language zones.When resecting the left hemisphere, evidence indicates that some advanced language functions (e.g., higher order grammar) cannot be entirely assumed by the right side. A hemispherectomy is the removal or disabling of one of the hemispheres of the brain. 
Characterization of the gender dimorphism after injury and hemorrhagic shock: are hormonal differences responsible? [SEP] Not all dimorphism has to have a drastic difference between the sexes. Females have a higher sensitivity to pain due to aforementioned nerve differences that increase the sensation, and females thus require higher levels of pain medication after injury. Acute pain tolerance is also more consistent over a lifetime in females than males, despite these hormonal changes. There are reports of several metabolic differences between male and female cells and they also respond to stress differently. See also
References
Sources
Further reading
External links

Sex+dimorphism at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) Men are twice as likely to be killed through injury than women. Rectal injury is less common than injury to the colon, though the rectum is more susceptible to injury following blunt force trauma to the pelvis.Injuries to the male reproductive system are rarely fatal and typically treatable through grafts and reconstruction. Age can greatly affect the nature of genital injuries in women due to changes in hormone composition. 
Can communication with terminally ill patients be taught? [SEP] Hospice care is a type of health care that focuses on the palliation of a terminally ill patient's pain and symptoms and attending to their emotional and spiritual needs at the end of life. Hospice care is available to people in home-like hospice residences, nursing homes, assisted living facilities, veterans' facilities, hospitals and prisons. It is possible that providers are having a "leading conversation" with patients or mistakenly leaving crucial information out when discussing DNR.One study reported that while 88% of young doctor trainees at two hospitals in California in 2013 believed they themselves would ask for a DNR order if they were terminally ill, they are flexible enough to give high intensity care to patients who have not chosen DNR.There is also the ethical issue of discontinuation of an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) in DNR patients in cases of medical futility. Through the use of MIT, a non-fluent aphasic patient can be taught numerous phrases which aid them to communicate and function during daily life. For example, they may advise doctors about better ways to communicate with their patients. The training of health professionals in communication skills, with the aim of improving patient satisfaction and adherence to medical treatment. Practitioners emphasize education and effective communication as a part of illness prevention because many people do not recognize, or minimize, the risk of illness present in their lives. Health psychologists also train other health professionals in communication skills such as how to break bad news or support behavior change for the purpose of improving adherence to treatment. 
Delays in time to primary treatment after a diagnosis of breast cancer: does it impact survival? [SEP] Metastatic breast cancer, also referred to as metastases, advanced breast cancer, secondary tumors, secondaries or stage IV breast cancer, is a stage of breast cancer where the breast cancer cells have spread to distant sites beyond the axillary lymph nodes. Metastases can occur several years after the primary breast cancer, although it is sometimes diagnosed at the same time as the primary breast cancer or, rarely, before the primary breast cancer has been diagnosed.Metastatic breast cancer cells frequently differ from the preceding primary breast cancer in properties such as receptor status. There is no sufficient evidence on the benefits and risks of breast surgery associated with systemic treatment for women diagnosed with metastatic breast cancer. Once the diagnosis is made, further tests are done to determine if the cancer has spread beyond the breast and which treatments are most likely to be effective.The balance of benefits versus harms of breast cancer screening is controversial. Follow-up care
Care after primary breast cancer treatment, otherwise called 'follow-up care', can be intensive involving regular laboratory tests in asymptomatic people to try to achieve earlier detection of possible metastases. A review has found that follow-up programs involving regular physical examinations and yearly mammography alone are as effective as more intensive programs consisting of laboratory tests in terms of early detection of recurrence, overall survival and quality of life.Multidisciplinary rehabilitation programmes, often including exercise, education and psychological help, may produce short-term improvements in functional ability, psychosocial adjustment and social participation in people with breast cancer.Upper limb problems such as shoulder and arm pain, weakness and restricted movement are a common side effect after radiotherapy or breast cancer surgery. Prognosis
Prognostic factors
The stage of the breast cancer is the most important component of traditional classification methods of breast cancer, because it has a greater effect on the prognosis than the other considerations. Patients with multiple primary breast tumours may receive treatments such as chemotherapy, radiotherapy and breast reconstruction surgery for the same indications as other breast cancer patients. 
Are increased carotid artery pulsatility and resistance indexes early signs of vascular abnormalities in young obese males? [SEP] People with obesity are at increased risk of atherosclerosis of the coronary arteries. Coronary fatty streaks can begin to form in adolescence. Simultaneously, the risk of stroke doubles every decade after age 55.Multiple explanations are proposed to explain why age increases the risk of cardiovascular/heart diseases. In the very elderly, age-related large artery pulsatility and stiffness are more pronounced among women than men. Cardiovascular risk assessment
Existing cardiovascular disease or a previous cardiovascular event, such as a heart attack or stroke, is the strongest predictor of a future cardiovascular event. Age, sex, smoking, blood pressure, blood lipids and diabetes are important predictors of future cardiovascular disease in people who are not known to have cardiovascular disease. Whereas mental health problems are known to be associated with risk factors for cardiovascular diseases such as smoking, poor diet, and a sedentary lifestyle, these factors alone do not explain the increased risk of cardiovascular diseases seen in depression, stress, and anxiety. The Pathobiological Determinants of Atherosclerosis in Youth (PDAY) study demonstrated that intimal lesions appear in all the aortas and more than half of the right coronary arteries of youths aged 7–9 years.Obesity and diabetes mellitus are linked to cardiovascular disease, as are a history of chronic kidney disease and hypercholesterolaemia. 
Are acceptance rates of a national preventive home visit programme for older people socially imbalanced? [SEP] A 2009 review for the US Preventive Services Task Force found evidence of benefit in those 40 to 70 years of age, and the organization recommends screening every two years in women 50 to 74 years of age. Cochrane states that, due to recent improvements in breast cancer treatment, and the risks of false positives from breast cancer screening leading to unnecessary treatment, "it therefore no longer seems beneficial to attend for breast cancer screening" at any age. The most widely used grading system is the Nottingham scheme.Younger women with an age of less than 40 years or women over 80 years tend to have a poorer prognosis than post-menopausal women due to several factors. First Nations Australians visit their general practitioners (GPs) and are hospitalised for diabetes, circulatory disease, musculoskeletal conditions, respiratory and kidney disease, mental, ear and eye problems and behavioural problems yet are less likely than non-Indigenous Australians to visit the GP, use a private doctor, or apply for residence in an old age facility. Campaigns by voluntary groups seek to address the higher rates of sectioning, overmedication, misdiagnosis and forcible restraint on members of minority groups. Racism in health care and environmental racism
Institutional racism impacts health care accessibility within non-white minority communities by creating health disparities among racial groups. In responding as to whether institutional racism has played a part in the data gleaned by the CDC, he pointed out the risk of infection along with underlying conditions in certain demographics was a factor, but affirmed his opinion that this was the case. A study shows DNA methylation aging clocks could be useful indicators of health while social factors – such as health behaviors and poverty – are at least as good predictors and e.g. 
Does open access publishing increase the impact of scientific articles? [SEP] Open access can be applied to all forms of published research output, including peer-reviewed and non peer-reviewed academic journal articles, conference papers, theses, book chapters, monographs, research reports and images.Since the revenue of most open access journals is earned from publication fees charged to the authors, OA publishers are motivated to increase their profits by accepting low-quality papers and by not performing thorough peer review. Lower costs for research in academia and industry have been claimed in the Budapest Open Access Initiative, although others have argued that OA may raise the total cost of publication, and further increase economic incentives for exploitation in academic publishing. Open access helps researchers as readers by opening up access to articles that their libraries do not subscribe to. Effects on scholarly publishing
Article impact
Since published articles report on research that is typically funded by government or university grants, the more the article is used, cited, applied and built upon, the better for research as well as for the researcher's career.Some professional organizations have encouraged use of open access: in 2001, the International Mathematical Union communicated to its members that "Open access to the mathematical literature is an important goal" and encouraged them to "[make] available electronically as much of our own work as feasible" to "[enlarge] the reservoir of freely available primary mathematical material, particularly helping scientists working without adequate library access". Open access articles are typically cited more often than equivalent articles requiring subscriptions. Open access (OA) publishing can be a tool to help female researchers increase their publications' visibility, measure impact, and help close the gendered citation gap. "The Development of Open Access Journal Publishing from 1993 to 2009". "Ten-Year Cross-Disciplinary Comparison of the Growth of Open Access and How It Increases Research Citation Impact". 
In vivo visualization of pyloric mucosal hypertrophy in infants with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis: is there an etiologic role? [SEP] The procedure is typically performed in cases of "hypertrophic pyloric stenosis" in young children. Procedure
After pyloric stenosis is identified in a patient, and any electrolyte and fluid imbalances are stabilized, the surgeon will perform the procedure. In either case, the once the pylorus is accessed, the surgeon will visualize the hypertrophied pyloric muscle. From there, the two portions of the pyloric muscle are tested for mobility and the mucosal layer is inspected for any unintentional damage. Once the laparoscopic instruments and camera are place through the trocars, the hypertrophied pylorus is visualized. Indication
The pyloromyotomy is primarily indicated by the presence of hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. Hypertrophic Pyloric stenosis is a gastrointestinal tract defect, most commonly seen in young children, typically in the first few months of life, caused by enlargement of the tissue in the pyloric muscle. See also
List of surgeries by type
Hypertrophic pyloric stenosis
Laparoscopy


== References == 
Does the early adopter of drugs exist? [SEP] History
The cultivation, use, and trade of psychoactive and other drugs has occurred since ancient times. First modern drug regulations
The first modern law in Europe for the regulating of drugs was the Pharmacy Act 1868 in the United Kingdom. Deaths among children under five dropped from 20.5 per million population between 1863 and 1867 to 12.7 per million in 1871 and further declined to between 6 and 7 per million in the 1880s.In the United States, the first drug law was passed in San Francisco in 1875, banning the smoking of opium in opium dens. In 2003, China was estimated to have four million regular drug users and one million registered drug addicts.In the US, the Harrison Act was passed in 1914, and required sellers of opiates and cocaine to get a license. History
The cultivation, use and trade of psychoactive and other drugs has occurred since the dawn of civilization. In the decades before this period, consumption was not generalized – reportedly occurring mainly among persons of high socioeconomic status, intellectuals and artists.As the United States of America is the world's largest consumer of cocaine, as well as of other illegal drugs, their demand is what motivates the drug business, and the main goal of Mexican cartels is to introduce narcotics into the U.S. History
Mid-1800s – 1945: From botanicals to the first synthetic drugs
The modern era of pharmaceutical industry began with local apothecaries that expanded from their traditional role of distributing botanical drugs such as morphine and quinine to wholesale manufacture in the mid-1800s, and from discoveries resulting from applied research. Unsafe drugs and early industry regulation
Prior to the 20th century, drugs were generally produced by small scale manufacturers with little regulatory control over manufacturing or claims of safety and efficacy. 
Does high blood pressure reduce the risk of chronic low back pain? [SEP] In the United States, acute low back pain is the fifth most common reason for physician visits and causes 40% of missed work days. Risk factors
Heavy lifting, obesity, sedentary lifestyle and lack of exercise can increase the risk of back pain. Economics
Although back pain does not typically cause permanent disability, it is a significant contributor to physician visits and missed work days in the United States, and is the single leading cause of disability worldwide. "Noninvasive Treatments for Acute, Subacute, and Chronic Low Back Pain: A Clinical Practice Guideline From the American College of Physicians". While there is no high quality evidence to support ultrasound, it has been found to have a small effect on improving function in non-specific chronic low back pain.Psychological treatments, including cognitive behavioral therapy and acceptance and commitment therapy can be helpful for improving quality of life and reducing pain interference. High blood pressure usually does not cause symptoms. High blood pressure, however, is a major risk factor for stroke, coronary artery disease, heart failure, atrial fibrillation, peripheral arterial disease, vision loss, chronic kidney disease, and dementia. Periodontal disease is also associated with high blood pressure. 
Does responsibility affect the public's valuation of health care interventions? [SEP] In part, these benefits accrue by increasing positive public relations and high ethical standards to reduce business and legal risk by taking responsibility for corporate actions. Risk management
Managing risk is an important executive responsibility. Because of the US health care system is heavily privatized, access to health care is dependent upon one's economic capital; Health care is not a right, it is a commodity that can be purchased through private insurance companies (or that is sometimes provided through an employer). As Wright and Perry assert, "social status differences in health care are a primary mechanism of health inequalities". Citizens are seen as consumers who have a 'choice' to buy the best health care they can afford; in alignment with neoliberal ideology, this puts the burden on the individual rather than the government or the community. This is because health status is a product of more than just how much medical care people have available to them. Access to health care is heavily influenced by socioeconomic status as well, as wealthier population groups have a higher probability of obtaining care when they need it. A study in Uganda found that women were able to obtain treatment more easily than men because they had fewer occupational responsibilities and were more trusting of treatments, but ignorance of the effects of medicines during pregnancy prevented adequate care. 
Nasal fractures:  is closed reduction satisfying? [SEP] A nasal fracture, commonly referred to as a broken nose, is a fracture of one of the bones of the nose. Depending on the type of fracture reduction may be closed or open. Cause
Nasal fractures are caused by physical trauma to the face. A priority is to distinguish simple fractures limited to the nasal bones (Type 1) from fractures that also involve other facial bones and/or the nasal septum (Types 2 and 3). However, diagnosis may be confirmed with X-rays or CT scans, and these are required if other facial injuries are suspected.A fracture that runs horizontally across the septum is sometimes called a "Jarjavay fracture", and a vertical one, a "Chevallet fracture".Although treatment of an uncomplicated fracture of nasal bones is not urgent—a referral for specific treatment in five to seven days usually suffices—an associated injury, nasal septal hematoma, occurs in about 5% of cases and does require urgent treatment and should be looked for during the assessment of nasal injuries. Treatment
Minor nasal fractures may be allowed to heal on their own provided there is not significant cosmetic deformity. For nasal fractures where the nose has been deformed, manual alignment may be attempted, usually with good results. Nasal fractures, also known as a broken nose
Common cold
Sinonasal tumors

See also
Nasal irrigation
Danger triangle of the face

References
External links

lesson9 at The Anatomy Lesson by Wesley Norman (Georgetown University)
Gross anatomy dissection of the nasal cavity, video [1] and [2] 
Do improvements in outreach, clinical, and family and community-based services predict improvements in child survival? [SEP] Many nonprofit and religious organizations provide healthcare services to homeless people. A 2021 systematic review of 28 interventions, mostly in North America, showed that interventions with the highest levels of support led to improved outcomes for both housing stability, and health outcomes.Government initiatives: In South Australia, the state government of Premier Mike Rann (2002–2011) committed substantial funding to a series of initiatives designed to combat homelessness. The National Academy of Medicine defines the law's "essential health benefits" as "ambulatory patient services; emergency services; hospitalization; maternity and newborn care; mental health and substance use disorder services, including behavioral health treatment; prescription drugs; rehabilitative and habilitative services and devices; laboratory services; preventive and wellness services and chronic disease management; and pediatric services, including oral and vision care" and others rated Level A or B by the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Importantly, issues with cost-related unmet medical needs, skipped medications, paying medical bills, and annual out-of-pocket spending have been significantly reduced among low-income adults in Medicaid expansion states compared to non-expansion states.As well, expanded Medicaid has led to a 6.6% increase in physician visits by low-income adults, as well as increased usage of preventative care such as dental visits and cancer screenings among childless, low-income adults. Expanded Medicaid coverage of PLWH has been positively associated with health outcomes such as viral suppression, retention of care, hospitalization rates, and morbidity at the time of hospitalization. Other notable health outcomes associated with Medicaid expansion include improved glucose monitoring rates for patients with diabetes, better hypertension control, and reduced rates of major post-operative morbidity.A July 2019 study by the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) indicated that states enacting Medicaid expansion exhibited statistically significant reductions in mortality rates. These studies include a 2.1% increase in the probability of smoking cessation in Medicaid expansion states compared to non-expansion states, a 24% increase in smoking cessation medication use due to increased Medicaid-financed smoking cessation prescriptions, a 27.7% increase in the rate of colorectal cancer screening in Kentucky following Medicaid expansion with an accompanying improvement in colorectal cancer survival, and a 3.4% increase in cancer incidence following Medicaid expansion that was attributed to an increase in early-stage diagnoses.Transition-of-care interventions and Alternative Payment Models under the ACA have also shown promise in improving health outcomes. Michael Lee, Jr. and Michael C. Monuteaux at Boston Children's Hospital analyzed national emergency department visits among children aged 0 to 17 from 2009 to 2016 using the American Community Survey (ACS) and Nationwide Emergency Department Sample (NEDS). 
Does spontaneous remission occur in polyarteritis nodosa? [SEP] See also
Relapsing-remitting
Spontaneous remission


== References == Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) is a systemic necrotizing inflammation of blood vessels (vasculitis) affecting medium-sized muscular arteries, typically involving the arteries of the kidneys and other internal organs but generally sparing the lungs' circulation. Mononeuritis multiplex develops in more than 70% of patients with polyarteritis nodosa because of damage to arteries supplying large peripheral nerves. Diagnosis
No specific lab tests exist for diagnosing polyarteritis nodosa. Polyarteritis nodosa is more common in people with hepatitis B infection. Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) is a systemic necrotizing inflammation of blood vessels (vasculitis) affecting medium-sized muscular arteries, typically involving the arteries of the kidneys and other internal organs but generally sparing the lungs' circulation. Diagnosis
No specific lab tests exist for diagnosing polyarteritis nodosa. Polyarteritis nodosa is more common in people with hepatitis B infection. 
Gluten tolerance in adult patients with celiac disease 20 years after diagnosis? [SEP] The spectrum of gluten related disorders includes celiac disease in 1–2% of the general population, non-celiac gluten sensitivity in 0.5–13% of the general population, as well as dermatitis herpetiformis, gluten ataxia and other neurological disorders. Coeliac disease
Coeliac disease (American English: celiac) (CD) is one of the most common chronic, immune-mediated disorders, triggered by the eating of gluten, a mixture of proteins found in wheat, barley, rye, and oats and derivatives. Theoretically, a trial of gluten reintroduction to observe reaction after 1–2 years of strict gluten-free diet might be advisable.Approximately one-third of persons with NCGS continue having symptoms despite gluten withdrawal. A survey of geriatrics with celiac disease in Finland revealed that the incidence of disease was much higher than the general population. A four-of-five rule was proposed 2010 for confirming celiac disease, with the disease confirmed if at least four of the following five criteria are satisfied:
typical symptoms of celiac disease;
positivity of serum celiac disease immunoglobulin, A class autoantibodies at high titer;
human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DQ2 or DQ8 genotypes;
celiac enteropathy at the small bowel biopsy; and
response to the gluten-free diet.For diagnosis of wheat allergy, allergy tests are available. Treatment
For people with celiac disease, a lifelong strict gluten-free diet is the only effective treatment to date;For people diagnosed with non-celiac gluten sensitivity, there are still open questions concerning for example the duration of such a diet. The results of a 2017 study suggest that non-celiac gluten sensitivity may be a chronic disorder, as is the case with celiac disease.For people with wheat allergy, the individual average is six years of gluten-free diet, excepting persons with anaphylaxis, for whom the diet is to be wheat-free for life.Preferably, newly diagnosed celiacs seek the help of a dietician to receive support for identifying hidden sources of gluten, planning balanced meals, reading labels, food shopping, dining out, and dining during travel. The degree of gluten cross contamination tolerated by people with non-celiac gluten sensitivity is not clear but there is some evidence that they can present with symptoms even after consumption of small amounts. 
Do symptoms predict COPD in smokers? [SEP] The main symptoms of COPD include shortness of breath and a cough, which may or may not produce mucus. Chronic bronchitis does not always result in airflow limitation but in young adults who smoke the risk of developing COPD is high. COPD is associated with low-grade systemic inflammation.The most common cause of COPD is tobacco smoking. People with COPD often have increased breathlessness and frequent colds before seeking treatment. Some people with COPD attribute the symptoms to the consequences of smoking. However, less than 50 percent of heavy smokers develop COPD, so other factors need to be considered, including exposure to indoor and outdoor pollutants, allergens, occupational exposure, and host factors. Smoking
The primary risk factor for COPD globally is tobacco smoking with an increased rate of developing COPD shown in smokers and ex-smokers. COPD caused by smoking is a permanent, incurable (often terminal) reduction of pulmonary capacity characterised by shortness of breath, wheezing, persistent cough with sputum, and damage to the lungs, including emphysema and chronic bronchitis. 
Search engine as a diagnostic tool in difficult immunological and allergologic cases: is Google useful? [SEP] Former efforts include Wikia Search. The main motivation for HeyStaks to work on this idea is to provide the user with features that search engines didn't provide at that time. The goal was to deliver better, more relevant and personalized search results with this integration. Later on, Google was criticized by Twitter for the perceived potential impact of "Search plus Your World" upon web publishers, describing the feature's release to the public as a "bad day for the web", while Google replied that Twitter refused to allow deep search crawling by Google of Twitter's content. Social search engines
A social search engine in an aspect can be thought of as a search engine that provides an answer for a question from another answer by identifying a person in the answer. As we continue on, and more articles are referred by social media sites, the main concern becomes what good is a search engine without the data of users. The infrastructure required for a search engine is already available in the form of thousands of idle desktops and extensive residential broadband access.Despite of the advantages of distributed search, it shares several same security concerns as the traditionally centralized case. Computer science and networking
Bayesian network
Complex event processing
Diagnosis (artificial intelligence)
Event correlation
Fault management
Fault tree analysis
Grey problem
RPR problem diagnosis
Remote diagnostics
Root cause analysis
Troubleshooting
Unified Diagnostic Services

Mathematics and logic
Bayesian probability
Block Hackam's dictum
Occam's razor
Regression diagnostics
Sutton's law

Medicine
Medical diagnosis
Molecular diagnostics

Methods
CDR computerized assessment system
Computer-aided diagnosis
Differential diagnosis
Medical diagnosis
Retrospective diagnosis

Tools
DELTA (taxonomy)
DXplain
List of diagnostic classification and rating scales used in psychiatry

Organizational development
Organizational diagnostics

Systems engineering
Five whys
Eight disciplines problem solving
Fault detection and isolation
Problem solving

References
External links
 The dictionary definition of diagnosis at Wiktionary 
Uniformity of evidence-based treatments in practice? [SEP] This approach is using evidence-based practice (EBP) as a foundation. Evaluate outcomes
The next step in the evidence-based practice process is to evaluate whether the treatment was effective in terms of patient outcomes. By sharing the results of evidence-based practice process, others may benefit. In addition, the current evidence-based practice (EBP) movement in healthcare emphasizes that clinical decision making should be based on the "best evidence" available, preferably the findings of randomized clinical trials. See also
Evidence-based practices

References
External links
Indiana Center for Evidence-Based Nursing Practice, a collaborating center of The Joanna Briggs Institute, located at Purdue University Calumet's School of Nursing
Helene Fuld Health Trust National Institute for Evidence-based Practice in Nursing and Healthcare, an Evidence Based Practice teaching center within the College of Nursing at The Ohio State University
University of Minnesota Libraries, a tutorial on evidence-based nursing
Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine, University Health Network
Academic Center for Evidence-Based Practice", The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio
"What Is Evidence-Based Practice in Nursing?" Cognitive behavioral therapy, prolonged exposure therapy and dialectical behavioral therapy are well established forms of evidence-based intervention. Ethics
Although the principle of clinical equipoise ("genuine uncertainty within the expert medical community... about the preferred treatment") common to clinical trials has been applied to RCTs, the ethics of RCTs have special considerations. Testing treatments: better research for better health care. 
Do approved doctors and medical referees in the UK agree when assessing a seafarer's fitness? [SEP] Seafaring is a tradition that encompasses a variety of professions and ranks. Usually, seafarers work on board a ship between three and six years. Generally, there are some differences between naval and civilian seafarers. An able bodied seaman also stands a navigational watch, generally as a lookout or helmsman. Surgeons were ranked by the Navy Board based on their training and social status. Professional mariners
Seafarers hold a variety of professions and ranks, each of which carries unique responsibilities which are integral to the successful operation of an ocean-going vessel. Working conditions
Mariners spend extended periods at sea. See also
Notes
References
External links

Survey of Water Transport Occupations
Seafarer Fatigue: The Cardiff Research Programme
Sailor at Etymology Online
The Telegraph, Sea no evil: the life of a modern sailor 
Hepatorenal syndrome: are we missing some prognostic factors? [SEP] Patients may progress to cirrhosis and show the signs of liver failure. Extreme disruption of the renal blood flow can lead to hepatorenal syndrome. Hepatocellular necrosis leads to impaired synthesis of many coagulation factors and their inhibitors. Pathophysiology
In the majority of acute liver failure (ALF) there is widespread hepatocellular necrosis beginning in the centrizonal distribution and progressing towards portal tracts. One scheme defines "acute hepatic failure" as the development of encephalopathy within 26 weeks of the onset of any hepatic symptoms. At present overall short-term survival with transplant is more than 65%.Several prognostic scoring systems have been devised to predict mortality and to identify who will require an early liver transplant. Phrases subfulminant hepatic failure and late onset hepatic failure were coined for onset between 2 weeks to 3 months and for 8 weeks to 24 weeks, respectively. As of 2021, there is limited evidence to indicate that lifestyle modifications and nutritional supplementation have an effect on mortality, liver cirrhosis, liver decompensation, liver transplantation, and hepatocellular carcinoma in people with nonalcohol-related fatty liver disease. 
Vaginal dose assessment in image-guided brachytherapy for cervical cancer: Can we really rely on dose-point evaluation? [SEP] Vaginal intracavity brachytherapy (VBT) is used to treat endometrial, vaginal and cervical cancer. Research is unclear on whether treating cervical cancer with radiation therapy increases the risk of vaginal cancer. Vaginal intracavity brachytherapy (VBT) is used to treat endometrial, vaginal and cervical cancer. Research is unclear on whether treating cervical cancer with radiation therapy increases the risk of vaginal cancer. Cervical cancer
Brachytherapy is commonly used in the treatment of early or locally confined cervical cancer and is a standard of care in many countries. The precision of brachytherapy enables a high dose of targeted radiation to be delivered to the cervix, while minimising radiation exposure to adjacent tissues and organs.The chances of staying free of disease (disease-free survival) and of staying alive (overall survival) are similar for LDR, PDR and HDR treatments. Research shows locally advanced carcinoma of the cervix must be treated with a combination of external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) and intracavity brachytherapy (ICBT). This, together with more recent advancements in three-dimensional imaging modalities, computerised treatment planning systems and delivery equipment has made brachytherapy a safe and effective treatment for many types of cancer today. 
Prescriptions as a proxy for asthma in children: a good choice? [SEP] In 2010, asthma accounted for more than one-quarter of admitted emergency department visits in the U.S. among children aged 1–9 years, and it was a frequent diagnosis among children aged 10–17 years. In England, an estimated 261,400 people were newly diagnosed with asthma in 2005; 5.7 million people had an asthma diagnosis and were prescribed 32.6 million asthma-related prescriptions. Asthma inhalers contain a medication that treats the symptoms of asthma. Specifically it is used to prevent rather than treat asthma attacks. It may also be used for asthma when other treatments are not effective. Asthma
Epinephrine is also used as a bronchodilator for asthma if specific β2 agonists are unavailable or ineffective.When given by the subcutaneous or intramuscular routes for asthma, an appropriate dose is 0.3 to 0.5 mg.Because of the high intrinsic efficacy (receptor binding ability) of epinephrine, high drug concentrations cause adverse side effects when treating asthma. There is an epinephrine metered-dose inhaler sold over the counter in the United States to relieve bronchial asthma. Other programs
Asthma Canada believes that all Canadians living with asthma should have equitable and timely access to prescription medications based on the best possible health outcomes rather than ability to pay. 
Does the familial transmission of drinking patterns persist into young adulthood? [SEP] Through a study conducted in 2021 about the effect childhood experiences have on future substance use, researchers found that there is a direct connection between the two factors. Frequency of drinking also appears to be a factor. Combining the reports of quantity and frequency of alcohol intake, a consumption pattern that reflected frequent intake (5–7 days/week) of any given amount of alcohol was associated with a decreased risk, as compared with nondrinkers. "Social drinking is associated with higher bone mineral density in men and women [over 45]." Short term-term effects of alcoholism on family and children
Children raised in alcoholic families have the potential to suffer emotional distress as they move into their own committed relationships. Evidence shows a correlation between alcoholic fathers who display harsh and ineffective parenting practices with adolescent and adult alcohol dependence. Poor behavior modeling by alcoholic parents contributes to inadequate understanding of how to engage in opposite gender interactions.Sons of alcoholics are at risk for poor self-regulation that is often displayed in the preschool years. Poor decision-making correlates to early alcohol use, especially in sons of alcoholics. 
Proof of concept study: does fenofibrate have a role in sleep apnoea syndrome? [SEP] While statins have strong evidence for reducing heart disease and death, there is evidence to suggest that fenofibrate also reduces to the risk of heart disease and death. Medical uses
Fenofibrate is mainly used for primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed dyslipidemia. Further studies looking at the role of fenofibrate in the progression of diabetic retinopathy as the primary outcome is warranted to understand its role in this condition. "Fenofibrate is a fibrate derivative, a prodrug comprising fenofibric acid linked to an isopropyl ester. References
External links
"Fenofibrate". It is taken by mouth.The most common side effects are abdominal distension (bloating), abdominal pain (stomach ache), constipation, diarrhea, dry mouth, dyspepsia (heartburn), eructation (belching), flatulence (gas), nausea (feeling sick), abdominal discomfort, vomiting and raised blood levels of liver enzymes.Fenofibrate is a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) agonist. Sleep apnea, also spelled sleep apnoea, is a sleep disorder in which pauses in breathing or periods of shallow breathing during sleep occur more often than normal. Correlation with cardiac disorders:Atrial fibrillation (AF): A study in the medical journal Sleep found that the prevalence of atrial fibrillation among patients with idiopathic central sleep apnea was significantly higher than the prevalence among patients with obstructive sleep apnea or no sleep apnea (27%, 1.7%, and 3.3%, respectively). 
Can mental imagery functional magnetic resonance imaging predict recovery in patients with disorders of consciousness? [SEP] In medicine, consciousness is assessed by observing a patient's arousal and responsiveness, and can be seen as a continuum of states ranging from full alertness and comprehension, through disorientation, delirium, loss of meaningful communication, and finally loss of movement in response to painful stimuli. Issues of practical concern include how the presence of consciousness can be assessed in severely ill, comatose, or anesthetized people, and how to treat conditions in which consciousness is impaired or disrupted. Several brain imaging techniques, such as EEG and fMRI, have been used for physical measures of brain activity in these studies.Another idea that has drawn attention for several decades is that consciousness is associated with high-frequency (gamma band) oscillations in brain activity. Rodolfo Llinás, for example, proposed that consciousness results from recurrent thalamo-cortical resonance where the specific thalamocortical systems (content) and the non-specific (centromedial thalamus) thalamocortical systems (context) interact in the gamma band frequency via synchronous oscillations.A number of studies have shown that activity in primary sensory areas of the brain is not sufficient to produce consciousness:  it is possible for subjects to report a lack of awareness even when areas such as the primary visual cortex (V1) show clear electrical responses to a stimulus. The theory suggests that the brain in primary states such as rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, early psychosis and under the influence of psychedelic drugs, is in a disordered state; normal waking consciousness constrains some of this freedom and makes possible metacognitive functions such as internal self-administered reality testing and self-awareness. Patients may have disorders of consciousness or may need to be anesthetized for a surgical procedure. Assessment
In medicine, consciousness is examined using a set of procedures known as neuropsychological assessment. Complete recovery is unusual but not impossible and most people will improve to some extent: proper diet and exercise are known to help the brain to recover. 
The nurse cystoscopist: a feasible option? [SEP] Nurses are not doctors' assistants. Nurses also help doctors perform diagnostic tests. In the United Kingdom there are some nurses who have taken additional specialist training that allows them to prescribe any medications from their scope of practice. Nurses have also been delving into the world of informatics, acting as consultants to the creation of computerized charting programs and other software. Nurse practitioners and CNSs work assessing, diagnosing and treating patients in fields as diverse as family practice, women's health care, emergency nursing, acute/critical care, psychiatry, geriatrics, or pediatrics, additionally, a CNS usually works for a facility to improve patient care, do research, or as a staff educator. In the UK, the title "nurse practitioner" is legally protected. This used to be seen as a natural career progression for those who had reached ward management positions, however with the advent of specialist nursing roles (see above), this has become a less attractive option. Many nurses prefer this option to gaining a degree initially, as there is often an opportunity to study in a specialist field as a part of this upgrading. 
Is cardiovascular evaluation necessary prior to and during beta-blocker therapy for infantile hemangiomas? [SEP] One retrospective review followed 26 infants between 1996–2007 to evaluate the management of hepatic hemangiomas and whether the infants required more complex treatment methods. Cyclophosphamide
A case report involving a four month old girl who was diagnosed with heart failure and critical hemangiomas located on the skin, head, mouth, and liver with resistance to steroid treatment, was given Cyclophosphamide. Propranolol
Propranolol, a beta-blocker medication, has undoubtedly replaced corticosteroids as the preferred first line treatment of therapy for infantile hemangiomas after a dramatic shift in the management of IH since 2008. More studies have been done to assess the treatment of beta-blockers, both systemic and topical, for treating infants with IH. Blocking the beta-receptors can also initiate apoptosis of the endothelial cells to decrease the symptoms of the hemangioma and decrease the movement of EPCs to sites that are predisposed to the formation of the hemangiomas.One study looked at the use of propranolol, a beta-blocker medication, for treating infantile hepatic hemangiomas. Propranolol greatly improved symptoms for the 8 infants with infantile hepatic hemangiomas, with a range of responses from significant improvement to complete resolution of the injuries.Another case report involving the use of propranolol was performed on a neonatal that had multiple hemangiomas on the skin, scalp, lips, brain, liver, lungs, kidney, and bones. It was studied among 20 neonatal and infant subjects that had life-threatening hemangiomas and were not responding positively to corticosteroid treatment. Vincristine (VCR)
The use of VCR is proposed in the setting of infants with severe hemangiomas with complications and that are unresponsive to corticosteroid treatment. 
Is specialty care associated with improved survival of patients with congestive heart failure? [SEP] Signs and symptoms
Congestive heart failure is a pathophysiological condition in which the heart's output is insufficient to meet the needs of the body and lungs. Chronic management
The goals of the treatment for people with chronic heart failure are the prolongation of life, prevention of acute decompensation, and reduction of symptoms, allowing for greater activity. Home visits and regular monitoring at heart-failure clinics reduce the need for hospitalization and improve life expectancy. Palliative care
People with heart failure often have significant symptoms, such as shortness of breath and chest pain. A 2016 and 2017 review found that palliative care is associated with improved outcomes, such as quality of life, symptom burden, and satisfaction with care.Without transplantation, heart failure may not be reversible and heart function typically deteriorates with time. Heart failure is associated with significantly reduced physical and mental health, resulting in a markedly decreased quality of life. However, among patients in more advanced heart failure (NYHA classes II-IV), cardiovascular death, including heart attacks and sudden cardiac death, was the predominant cause in population-based studies.Until recently, it was generally assumed that the prognosis for individuals with diastolic dysfunction and associated intermittent pulmonary edema was better than those with systolic dysfunction. One-year survival is estimated to be higher in people with cardiac admission diagnoses (39%) when compared to those with non-cardiac admission diagnoses (11%). 
Can the prognosis of polymyalgia rheumatica be predicted at disease onset? [SEP] Other risk markers
Other risk markers for fibromyalgia include premature birth, female sex, cognitive influences, primary pain disorders, multiregional pain, infectious illness, hypermobility of joints, iron deficiency and small-fiber polyneuropathy. Immune system
Inflammation has been suggested to have a role in the pathogenesis of fibromyalgia. These criteria, which are known informally as "the ACR 1990", defined fibromyalgia according to the presence of the following criteria:

A history of widespread pain lasting more than three months – affecting all four quadrants of the body, i.e., both sides, and above and below the waist. Differential diagnosis
As of 2009, as many as two out of every three people who are told that they have fibromyalgia by a rheumatologist may have some other medical condition instead. Fibromyalgia could be misdiagnosed in cases of early undiagnosed rheumatic diseases such as preclinical rheumatoid arthritis, early stages of inflammatory spondyloarthritis, polymyalgia rheumatica, myofascial pain syndromes and hypermobility syndrome. The patient's history can provide some hints to a fibromyalgia diagnosis. The first clinical, controlled study of the characteristics of fibromyalgia syndrome was published in 1981, providing support for symptom associations. Tests for rheumatoid factor are negative in affected persons with RP, unless there is a co-morbidity with RA.Less often it has been reported that persons may experience arthralgia, monoarthritis, or chronic polyarthritis that mimics rheumatoid arthritis, leading to a difficult diagnosis for this disease. 
Should ascitis volume and anthropometric measurements be estimated in hospitalized alcoholic cirrotics? [SEP] Clinically, the most useful measure is the difference between ascitic and serum albumin concentrations. Since commonly used methods and approaches in analysing living standards were not helpful enough, the anthropometric history became very useful for historians in answering questions that interested them.Today, anthropometry plays an important role in industrial design, clothing design, ergonomics and architecture where statistical data about the distribution of body dimensions in the population are used to optimize products. the rise in obesity) and require regular updating of anthropometric data collections. The aim is to establish whether the Body Volume Index has the potential to be used as a long-term computer-based anthropometric measurement for health care. Epidemiology and medical anthropology
Anthropometric measurements also have uses in epidemiology and medical anthropology, for example in helping to determine the relationship between various body measurements (height, weight, percentage body fat, etc.) and medical outcomes. Anthropometric measurements are frequently used to diagnose malnutrition in resource-poor clinical settings. a tape measure or similar) depends on the adipose tissue softness. 
The use of audit to identify maternal mortality in different settings: is it just a difference between the rich and the poor? [SEP] (extreme poverty). Health
One-third of deaths around the world—some 18 million people a year or 50,000 per day—are due to poverty-related causes. People living in developing nations, among them women and children, are over represented among the global poor and these effects of severe poverty. According to the World Health Organization, hunger and malnutrition are the single gravest threats to the world's public health and malnutrition is by far the biggest contributor to child mortality, present in half of all cases.Almost 90% of maternal deaths during childbirth occur in Asia and sub-Saharan Africa, compared to less than 1% in the developed world. This is just one of hundreds of cases where systemic racism can affect women of color in pregnancy complications.One of the factors that lead to higher mortality rates amongst black mothers is the poorly conditioned hospitals and lack of standard healthcare facilities. Maternal health is poor in DRC. According to 2010 estimates, DRC has the 17th highest maternal mortality rate in the world. Black women are four times more likely to die in pregnancy, labour and up to a year postpartum than whites.Asian women are twice as likely as whites to die in pregnancy. 
Could the extent of lymphadenectomy be modified by neoadjuvant chemotherapy in cervical cancer? [SEP] Cervical cancer
In early stage cervical cancers, research suggests that adjuvant platinum-based chemotherapy after chemo-radiation may improve survival. For advanced cervical cancers, further research is needed to determine the efficacy, toxicity and effect on the quality of life of adjuvant chemotherapy. Treatment
The treatment of cervical cancer varies worldwide, largely due to access to surgeons skilled in radical pelvic surgery, and the emergence of fertility-sparing therapy in developed nations. Less advanced stages of cervical cancer typically have treatment options that allow fertility to be maintained, if the patient desires. In addition, chemotherapy can be used to treat cervical cancer, and has been found to be more effective than radiation alone. Combination treatment has significant risk of neutropenia, anemia, and thrombocytopenia side effects.There is insufficient evidence whether anticancer drugs after standard care help women with locally advanced cervical cancer to live longer.For surgery to be curative, the entire cancer must be removed with no cancer found at the margins of the removed tissue on examination under a microscope. With treatment, the five-year relative survival rate for the earliest stage of invasive cervical cancer is 92%, and the overall (all stages combined) five-year survival rate is about 66%. Recurrent cervical cancer detected at its earliest stages might be successfully treated with surgery, radiation, chemotherapy, or a combination of the three. 
Do Wound Cultures Give Information About the Microbiology of Blood Cultures in Severe Burn Patients? [SEP] Sepsis guidelines recommend obtaining blood cultures before starting antibiotics; however, the diagnosis does not require the blood to be infected. If other sources of infection are suspected, cultures of these sources, such as urine, cerebrospinal fluid, wounds, or respiratory secretions, also should be obtained, as long as this does not delay the use of antibiotics.Within six hours, if blood pressure remains low despite initial fluid resuscitation of 30 mL/kg, or if initial lactate is ≥ four mmol/L (36 mg/dL), central venous pressure and central venous oxygen saturation should be measured. Biomarkers
Biomarkers can help diagnosis because they can point to the presence or severity of sepsis, although their exact role in the management of sepsis remains undefined. Within the first three hours, someone with sepsis should have received antibiotics and, intravenous fluids if there is evidence of either low blood pressure or other evidence for inadequate blood supply to organs (as evidenced by a raised level of lactate); blood cultures also should be obtained within this time period. Cultures from other sites such as respiratory secretions, urine, wounds, cerebrospinal fluid, and catheter insertion sites (in-situ more than 48 hours) are recommended if infections from these sites are suspected. All those diagnoses have been converted to sepsis, again with modifiers, in ICD-10, such as "Sepsis due to streptococcus".The current terms are dependent on the microorganism that is present: bacteremia if bacteria are present in the blood at abnormal levels and are the causative issue, viremia for viruses, and fungemia for a fungus.By the end of the 19th century, it was widely believed that microbes produced substances that could injure the mammalian host and that soluble toxins released during infection caused the fever and shock that were commonplace during severe infections. References
External links

Sepsis at Curlie
SIRS, Sepsis, and Septic Shock Criteria Archived 17 February 2015 at the Wayback Machine
"Sepsis". Surgical site infections occur on the skin surface, but can spread to internal organs and blood to cause sepsis. 
Are behavioural risk factors to be blamed for the conversion from optimal blood pressure to hypertensive status in Black South Africans? [SEP] Risk factors
There are many risk factors for heart diseases: age, sex, tobacco use, physical inactivity, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, excessive alcohol consumption, unhealthy diet, obesity, genetic predisposition and family history of cardiovascular disease, raised blood pressure (hypertension), raised blood sugar (diabetes mellitus), raised blood cholesterol (hyperlipidemia), undiagnosed celiac disease, psychosocial factors, poverty and low educational status, air pollution, and poor sleep. Some of these risk factors, such as age, sex or family history/genetic predisposition, are immutable; however, many important cardiovascular risk factors are modifiable by lifestyle change, social change, drug treatment (for example prevention of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and diabetes). The amount of dietary salt consumed may also be an important determinant of blood pressure levels and overall cardiovascular risk. Psychosocial factors, environmental exposures, health behaviours, and health-care access and quality contribute to socio-economic differentials in cardiovascular disease. Another review of dietary salt concluded that there is strong evidence that high dietary salt intake increases blood pressure and worsens hypertension, and that it increases the number of cardiovascular disease events; both as a result of the increased blood pressure and probably through other mechanisms. Long-term hypertension is a risk factor for many diseases, including stroke, heart disease,  and kidney failure. Persistent hypertension is one of the risk factors for strokes, heart attacks, heart failure, and arterial aneurysms, and is the leading cause of chronic kidney failure. See also
History of hypertension

References


== Further reading == 
Systematic use of patient-rated depression severity monitoring: is it helpful and feasible in clinical psychiatry? [SEP] Like most medications, psychiatric medications can cause adverse effects in patients, and some require ongoing therapeutic drug monitoring, for instance full blood counts, serum drug levels, renal function, liver function or thyroid function. The length of the original assessment limited its feasibility; consequently, a shorter version, consisting of 11 multi-part questions - the Patient Health Questionnaire was developed and validated.In addition to the PHQ, a nine-item version to assess symptoms of depression, a seven-item version to assess symptoms of anxiety (GAD-7), and a 15-item version to detect somatic symptoms (PHQ-15) have been developed and validated. 9-item depression scale
The PHQ-9 (DEP-9 in some sources), a tool specific to depression, scores each of the 9 DSM-IV related criteria based on the mood module from the original PRIME-MD. : 3  It is a well-validated measure, which asks whether symptoms are present and about their severity. 8-item depression scale
The PHQ-8 is an eight-item scale developed specifically to screen for depression in American epidemiological populations. "A 4-item measure of depression and anxiety: validation andstandardization of the Patient Health Questionnaire-4 (PHQ-4) in the generalpopulation". Depression impacts an estimated 20% to 35% of patients, and may appear at any stage of the disease. Both direct observational measures of behavioral symptoms and standardized psychological assessments were used to evaluate the treatment. 
Treadmill training post stroke: are there any secondary benefits? [SEP] Cerebrovascular disease
Physical exercise plays a significant role in the prevention and management of stroke. It is well established that physical activity decrease the risk of ischemic stroke and intracerebral haemorrhage. Engaging in physical activity before experiencing a stroke has been found to have a positive impact on the severity and outcomes of stroke. Physical activity can increase the ischemic tolerance of the brain via several mechanisms. Preforming exercise decrease the expression and activation of inflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα), interleukins (ILs), and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) following a stroke which mitigate post-stroke inflammation. Preconditioning physical activity reduce the post-stroke expression and activation of matrix metalloproteases (MMPs) while increasing the expression of integrin proteins. Pre-stroke physical activity has been associated with improved outcomes after intracerebral haemorrhages. Being physically active after stroke also enhance the functional recovery. 
Does lunar position influence the time of delivery? [SEP] The predictions are influenced by many factors including the alignment of the Sun and Moon, the phase and amplitude of the tide (pattern of tides in the deep ocean), the amphidromic systems of the oceans, and the shape of the coastline and near-shore bathymetry (see Timing). Bathymetry
The shape of the shoreline and the ocean floor changes the way that tides propagate, so there is no simple, general rule that predicts the time of high water from the Moon's position in the sky. The time taken for the wave to travel around the ocean also means that there is a delay between the phases of the Moon and their effect on the tide. Springs and neaps in the North Sea, for example, are two days behind the new/full moon and first/third quarter moon. away from those prevailing at the measurement time affect the tide's actual timing and magnitude. As the Moon moves around its orbit it changes from north of the Equator to south of the Equator. The timing is relative to high water at some harbour where the tidal behaviour is similar in pattern, though it may be far away. Indeed, it was possible that delivery would slip to February or March 1969. 
Is oral endotracheal intubation efficacy impaired in the helicopter environment? [SEP] Tracheal intubation can be associated with complications such as broken teeth or lacerations of the tissues of the upper airway. Newborn infants may also require endotracheal intubation during surgery while under general anaesthesia. Previous experiences with tracheal intubation, especially difficult intubation, intubation for prolonged duration (e.g., intensive care unit) or prior tracheotomy are also noted.A detailed physical examination of the airway is important, particularly:
the range of motion of the cervical spine: the subject should be able to tilt the head back and then forward so that the chin touches the chest. However, recent higher quality studies have shown no survival or neurological benefit with endotracheal intubation over supraglottic airway devices (Laryngeal mask or Combitube).One complication—unintentional and unrecognized intubation of the esophagus—is both common (as frequent as 25% in the hands of inexperienced personnel) and likely to result in a deleterious or even fatal outcome. In 1880, Scottish surgeon William Macewen (1848–1924) reported on his use of orotracheal intubation as an alternative to tracheotomy to allow a patient with glottic edema to breathe, as well as in the setting of general anesthesia with chloroform. See also
Intratracheal instillation

Notes
References
External links

Video of endotracheal intubation using C-MAC D-blade and bougie used as introducer. Videos of direct laryngoscopy recorded with the Airway Cam (TM) imaging system
Examples of some devices for facilitation of tracheal intubation
Free image rich resource explaining various types of endotracheal tubes 
Tracheal intubation live case 2022 Endotracheal intubation
Seattle Medic One's first-pass success rate for oral endotracheal intubation is 75% (years 2001–2005). 
Prostatic syndrome and pleural effusion: are they different diseases? [SEP] Pleural cavity diseases
Pleural cavity diseases include pleural mesothelioma which are mentioned above. A collection of fluid in the pleural cavity is known as a pleural effusion. It may also be due to inflammation of the pleura itself as can occur with infection, pulmonary embolus, tuberculosis, mesothelioma and other conditions.A pneumothorax is a hole in the pleura covering the lung allowing air in the lung to escape into the pleural cavity. Reproductive diseases
Prostate disease* in dogs includes benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), prostatitis (infection of the prostate), cancer, and cysts and abscesses. Prostatis can be associated with BPH. Pleural effusion and empyema are more common for melioidosis affecting lower lobes of the lungs. Pleural effusion: Lung ultrasound is a cost-effective, safe, and non-invasive imaging method that can aid in the prompt visualization and diagnosis of pleural effusions. Consequently, lung ultrasound can be an additional tool to augment plain chest Xray and chest CT. Pleural effusions on ultrasound appear as structural images within the thorax rather than an artifact. 
Telemedicine and type 1 diabetes: is technology per se sufficient to improve glycaemic control? [SEP] As broadband infrastructure has improved, telehealth usage has become more widely feasible.Healthcare providers often begin telehealth with a needs assessment which assesses hardships which can be improved by telehealth such as travel time, costs or time off work. Telehealth eliminates this barrier as health professionals are able to conduct medical consultations through the use of wireless communication technologies. However, this process is dependent on both parties having Internet access.Telehealth allows the patient to be monitored between physician office visits which can improve patient health. Health care quality and barriers to adoption
A scientific review indicates that, in general, outcomes of telemedicine are or can be as good as in-person care with health care use staying similar. Advantages of the nonexclusive adoption of already existing telemedicine technologies such as smartphone videotelephony may include reduced infection risks, increased control of disease during epidemic conditions, improved access to care, reduced stress and exposure to other pathogens during illness for better recovery, reduced time and labor costs, efficient more accessible matching of patients with particular symptoms and clinicians who are experts for such, and reduced travel while disadvantages may include privacy breaches (e.g. Beneficial enablements
Telemedicine can be beneficial to patients in isolated communities and remote regions, who can receive care from doctors or specialists far away without the patient having to travel to visit them. Although it is predicted that telehealth will replace many consultations and other health interactions, it cannot yet fully replace a physical examination, this is particularly so in diagnostics, rehabilitation or mental health.The benefits posed by telehealth challenge the normative means of healthcare delivery set in both legislation and practice. Early forms of telemedicine achieved with telephone and radio have been supplemented with videotelephony, advanced diagnostic methods supported by distributed client/server applications, and additionally with telemedical devices to support in-home care.In the 21st century, with the advent of the internet, portable devices and other such digital devices are taking a transformative role in healthcare and its delivery. 
Is controlled ovarian stimulation in intrauterine insemination an acceptable therapy in couples with unexplained non-conception in the perspective of multiple pregnancies? [SEP] Prevention in IVF
Today many multiple pregnancies are the result of in vitro fertilisation (IVF). Ethics of multiple births
Medically assisted procreation
In vitro fertilization: In vitro fertilization (IVF) was first successfully completed in the 1970s as a form of assisted reproductive technology. According to UK's National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidelines, IVF treatment is appropriate in cases of unexplained infertility for women who have not conceived after 2 years of regular unprotected sexual intercourse.In women with anovulation, it may be an alternative after 7–12 attempted cycles of ovulation induction, since the latter is expensive and more easy to control. Women who have been previously pregnant are in many cases more successful with IVF treatments than those who have never been pregnant. The additional techniques that are routinely used in IVF include ovarian hyperstimulation to generate multiple eggs, ultrasound-guided transvaginal oocyte retrieval directly from the ovaries, co-incubation of eggs and sperm, as well as culture and selection of resultant embryos before embryo transfer into a uterus. IVF using ovarian hyperstimulation, including gonadotropins, but with a GnRH antagonist protocol so that the cycle initiates from natural mechanisms. If the sperm is of good quality and the mechanics of the woman's reproductive structures are good (patent fallopian tubes, no adhesions or scarring), a course of ovulation induction may be used. It is achieved through use of contraceptive methods and the treatment of involuntary infertility. 
Is half-dose contrast-enhanced three-dimensional MR angiography sufficient for the abdominal aorta and pelvis? [SEP] Angiography
Computed tomography angiography (CTA) is a type of contrast CT to visualize the arteries and veins throughout the body. Abdomen and pelvis
CT is an accurate technique for diagnosis of abdominal diseases like Crohn's disease, GIT bleeding, and diagnosis and staging of cancer, as well as follow-up after cancer treatment to assess response. Contrast reactions
In the United States half of CT scans are contrast CTs using intravenously injected radiocontrast agents. In addition to the use of intravenous contrast, orally administered contrast agents are frequently used when examining the abdomen. Other methods of obtaining contrast are arterial spin labeling and diffusion MRI. The abdominal aorta is clinically divided into 2 segments:

The suprarenal abdominal or paravisceral segment, inferior to the diaphragm but superior to the renal arteries. The descending aorta has two parts. Microanatomy
The aorta is an elastic artery, and as such is quite distensible. 
Digital Tomosynthesis: A Viable Alternative to Noncontrast Computed Tomography for the Follow-Up of Nephrolithiasis? [SEP] Tomosynthesis, also digital tomosynthesis (DTS), is a method for performing high-resolution limited-angle tomography at radiation dose levels comparable with projectional radiography. Differences from other imaging modalities
Digital tomosynthesis combines digital image capture and processing with simple tube/detector motion as used in conventional computed tomography (CT). In a study of patients with wrist fractures, digital tomosynthesis was shown to enable detection of more fractures than radiography while simultaneously providing lower metal artifact than radiography. Evaluation of erosions in rheumatoid arthritis
Tomosynthesis has been compared to digital radiography, with CT as the standard, for the detection of erosions associated with rheumatoid arthritis. The radiation dose of digital tomosynthesis was very close to that of digital radiography. However, tomosynthesis showed sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value of 80%, 75%, 78%, 76%, and 80%, compared to digital radiography were 66%, 81%, 74%, 77%, and 71%. The slight benefit digital tomosynthesis in this application may or may not justify the slightly increased cost of the modality compared to digital radiography. Kidney masses
Detection and characterization of renal parenchymal masses is a frequent indication for CT. An initial noncontrast CT is important for detecting calcium or fat in a lesion, and to provide baseline attenuation of any renal masses. 
High cumulative insulin exposure: a risk factor of atherosclerosis in type 1 diabetes? [SEP] Modifiable
Western pattern diet
Abdominal obesity
Insulin resistance
Diabetes
Dyslipidemia
Hypertension
Trans fat
Tobacco smoking
Bacterial infections
HIV/AIDS

Nonmodifiable
South Asian descent
Advanced age
Genetic abnormalities
Family history
Coronary anatomy and branch pattern

Lesser or uncertain
Thrombophilia
Saturated fat
Excessive carbohydrates
Elevated triglycerides
Systemic inflammation
Hyperinsulinemia
Sleep deprivation
Air pollution
Sedentary lifestyle
Arsenic poisoning
Alcohol
Chronic stress
Hypothyroidism
Periodontal disease

Dietary
The relation between dietary fat and atherosclerosis is controversial. The results demonstrated that the children possessed significantly increased risk factors for Type 2 diabetes by the time they turned eighteen, such as diminished efficiency in the insulin-secreting cells of the pancreas. The insulin resistance that results from such a condition is a direct cause of diabetes onset.Diabetes mellitus is a disease that is characterized by the body's inability to properly regulate blood glucose (or blood sugar) levels. Both males aged 40–91 and younger male patients of early onset AGA (before the age of 35), had a higher likelihood of metabolic syndrome (MetS) and insulin resistance. The low SHBG seen with premature androgenic alopecia is also associated with, and likely contributory to, insulin resistance, and for which it still is used as an assay for pediatric diabetes mellitus.Obesity leads to upregulation of insulin production and decrease in SHBG. This can interfere with cellular functions and hence organ function and is associated with insulin resistance in type-2 diabetes. This explains to a large degree why central obesity is a marker of impaired glucose tolerance and is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease (even in the absence of diabetes mellitus and hypertension). Participants with existing cardiovascular disease at baseline (n = 1,656) were at higher risk of developing coronary heart disease, both during the intervention and extended follow-up periods (101 versus 116 CHD events, HR, 1.47; 95% CI, 1.12 to 1.93; and 36 versus 44, HR, 1.61 95% CI 1.02 to 2.55, respectively). 
Are hepatitis G virus and TT virus involved in cryptogenic chronic liver disease? [SEP] The latter being closely linked to chronic viral hepatitis infection (hepatitis B or C) or exposure to toxins such as alcohol, aflatoxin, or pyrrolizidine alkaloids. For example, while heavy alcohol consumption is estimated to cause 60–70% of cirrhosis, the vast majority of HCC occurs in cirrhosis attributed to viral hepatitis (although there may be overlap). In populations largely protected by hepatitis B vaccination, such as the United States, HCC is most often linked to causes of cirrhosis such as chronic hepatitis C, obesity, and excessive alcohol use.Certain benign liver tumors, such as hepatocellular adenoma, may sometimes be associated with coexisting malignant HCC. Viral hepatitis is liver inflammation due to a viral infection. The blood borne viruses (B, C) can cause both acute and chronic liver disease and can be transmitted from mother to child during birth, through contact with body fluids during sex, unsafe injections and through unscreened blood transfusions.The most common types of hepatitis can be prevented or treated. It was initially identified as Hepatitis G virus. Relationship between hepatitis C virus and liver cancer
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) can cause acute and chronic infections that are a major cause of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), advanced hepatic fibrosis and cirrhosis.HCC is a major cause of death in patients with chronic HCV infection. Other viruses than can cause hepatitis include:

Adenoviruses
Arenaviruses: Guanarito virus, Junín virus, Lassa fever virus, Lujo virus, Machupo virus, and Sabiá virus
Bunyaviruses: Crimean–Congo hemorrhagic fever virus, Dobrava virus, Hantaan virus, Puumala virus, Rift Valley fever virus, and Seoul virus
Coronavirus: severe acute respiratory syndrome virus
Erythrovirus: Parvovirus B19
Filoviruses: Ebola virus and Marburg virus
Flaviviruses: dengue, Kyasanur Forest disease virus, Omsk hemorrhagic fever virus, and yellow fever virus
Herpesviruses: cytomegalovirus, Epstein–Barr virus, varicella-zoster virus, human herpesvirus 6, human herpesvirus 7, and human herpesvirus 8
Orthomyxoviruses: influenza
Picornaviruses: echovirus
Reovirus: Colorado tick fever virus, reovirus 3Additionally, a casual role between the virus KIs-V and hepatitis is suspected based on a 2011 study that isolated KIs-V from four patients with raised serum alanine transferases without other known cause. 
Do older patients who refuse to participate in a self-management intervention in the Netherlands differ from older patients who agree to participate? [SEP] The Netherlands subsequently has one of the oldest populations in the world, with the average age of 42.7 years. Healthcare decisions are being made in a dialogue between the patients and healthcare professionals.Health insurance in the Netherlands is mandatory. Algemene Wet Bijzondere Ziektekosten (AWBZ) covers long-term nursing and care.While Dutch residents are automatically insured by the government for AWBZ, everyone has to take out their own basic healthcare insurance (basisverzekering), except those under 18 who are automatically covered under their parents' premium. In contrast to many other European systems, the Dutch government is responsible for the accessibility and quality of the healthcare system in the Netherlands, but not in charge of its management.Healthcare in the Netherlands can be divided in several ways: three echelons, in somatic and mental health care and in 'cure' (short term) and 'care' (long term). This significantly influences Canada's healthcare services; by 2019, Canada's aging population represented a modest increase in healthcare costs of about 1% a year.Since the 2010s, Statistics Canada health research on aging has focused on "chronic diseases," "social isolation" and senior's mental health needs, and "transitions to institutional care" including long-term care. These findings demonstrate the implications gender has on the receival of care, but more specifically, women's ability, or the lack thereof, to address their own healthcare needs. The current opt-in consent policy assumes that individuals are not willing to become organ donors at the time of their death, unless they have documented otherwise through organ donation registration.Registering to become an organ donor heavily depends on the attitude of the individual; those with a positive outlook might feel a sense of altruism towards organ donation, while others may have a more negative perspective, such as not trusting doctors to work as hard to save the lives of registered organ donors. In a study done to determine if health policy change to a presumed consent or opt-out system would help to increase donors, an increase of 20 to 30 percent was seen among countries who changed their policies from some type of opt-in system to an opt-out system. 
Preoperative locoregional staging of gastric cancer: is there a place for magnetic resonance imaging? [SEP] Staging: To find out whether a structure, such as a lymph node in the mediastinum, has already been invaded by cancer or not.However, it is often possible, with proper planning, to obtain both diagnostic and staging information with a single biopsy procedure. Upper GI series (may be called barium roentgenogram)
Computed tomography or CT scanning of the abdomen may reveal gastric cancer. The surgeon removes nearby lymph nodes and possibly samples of tissue from other areas in the abdomen for examination by a pathologist.The clinical stages of stomach cancer are:
Stage 0 – Limited to the inner lining of the stomach, it is treatable by endoscopic mucosal resection when found very early (in routine screenings), or otherwise by gastrectomy and lymphadenectomy without need for chemotherapy or radiation. Unfortunately, because early stomach cancer causes few symptoms, the disease is usually advanced when the diagnosis is made.Treatment for stomach cancer may include surgery, chemotherapy, or radiation therapy. Of the different surgical techniques, endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) is a treatment for early gastric cancer (tumor only involves the mucosa) that was pioneered in Japan and is available in the United States at some centers. Because of the usual lack of symptoms, when gastric cancer is finally diagnosed it is often fairly advanced. Testing is recommended if peptic ulcer disease or low-grade gastric MALT lymphoma (MALToma) is present, after endoscopic resection of early gastric cancer, for first-degree relatives with gastric cancer, and in certain cases of dyspepsia. MRI affects diagnosis and treatment in many specialties although the effect on improved health outcomes is disputed in certain cases.MRI is the investigation of choice in the preoperative staging of rectal and prostate cancer and has a role in the diagnosis, staging, and follow-up of other tumors, as well as for determining areas of tissue for sampling in biobanking. 
Do familiar teammates request and accept more backup? [SEP] When Valeria asks Victor if he has a backup for restoring his memories, he reveals that Kristoff Vernard is his backup. While police and operational backup personnel have supported Casey and Sarah in various episodes, Chuck is revealed near the climax of "Chuck Versus the Ex" to have gained the contact information required to summon such teams on his own initiative. backup strip in Justice League, appearing as Billy, Mary, and Freddy's foster siblings. 11] When he teams up with others, he becomes more sociable; helping his teammates out, reassuring his trust in them, and thanked them for their effort. 30] While Kosei is not the sort to attack offensively, he is described as a great backup player who uses his Quirk to aid others. Rumi seems to believe that heroes who join teams are cowards, as they could just be relying on their teammates' strength rather than their own.[ch. 191] She also request Endeavor's help while fighting a villain in one occasion, showing that she is not unwilling to ask for help from other heroes despite her solo disposition. Even so, she remains just as eccentric and demanding as the rest of her teammates. 
Transsphenoidal pituitary surgery in Cushing's disease: can we predict outcome? [SEP] Cushing's disease is one cause of Cushing's syndrome characterised by increased secretion of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) from the anterior pituitary (secondary hypercortisolism). Pituitary adenomas are responsible for 80% of endogenous Cushing's syndrome, when excluding Cushing's syndrome from exogenously administered corticosteroids. Although uncommon, some patients with Cushing's disease have large pituitary tumors (macroadenomas). Glaucoma and cataracts also may occur in Cushing's syndrome. In one study of 261 patients with confirmed pituitary Cushing's disease, only 48% of pituitary lesions were identified using MRI prior to surgery. Treatment
The first-line treatment of Cushing's disease is surgical resection of ACTH-secreting pituitary adenoma; this surgery involves removal of the tumor via transsphenoidal surgery (TSS). Patients with persistent disease after initial surgery are treated with repeated pituitary surgery as soon as the active persistent disease is evident; however, reoperation has a lower success rate and increases the risk of pituitary insufficiency.Pituitary radiation therapy is another option for treatment of postoperative persisting hypercortisolemia following unsuccessful transsphenoidal surgery. Hypopituitarism specifically growth hormone deficiency has been reported as the only most common late morbidity of this treatment; GHD has been reported in 36% and 68% of the patients undergoing post-pituitary RT for Cushing's disease.Bilateral adrenalectomy is another treatment that provides immediate reduction of cortisol level and control of hypercortisolism. 
Can bedside assessment reliably exclude aspiration following acute stroke? [SEP] Approximately 10% of people who require mechanical ventilation develop ventilator-associated pneumonia, and people with a gastric feeding tube have an increased risk of developing aspiration pneumonia. There is a very low risk of pneumonia if all vital signs and auscultation are normal. Aspiration pneumonia may present with bilateral opacities primarily in the bases of the lungs and on the right side. In the frail elderly good oral health care may lower the risk of aspiration pneumonia, even though there is no good evidence that one approach to mouth care is better than others in preventing nursing home acquired pneumonia. Aspiration
In general, aspiration pneumonitis is treated conservatively with antibiotics indicated only for aspiration pneumonia. Corticosteroids are sometimes used in aspiration pneumonia, but there is limited evidence to support their effectiveness. Stroke, certain medications, and toxins can cause "secondary parkinsonism" and need to be assessed during visit. Asquith had planned to launch a fightback at the National Liberal Federation in Weston-super-Mare, but on 12 June, five days before the conference was due to start, he suffered a stroke which put him out of action for three months. 
Are UK radiologists satisfied with the training and support received in suspected child abuse? [SEP] Radiology ( rey-dee-ol-uh-jee) is the medical discipline that uses medical imaging to diagnose diseases and guide their treatment, within the bodies of humans and other animals. The radiologist is a medical doctor who has completed the appropriate post-graduate training and interprets medical images, communicates these findings to other physicians by means of a report or verbally, and uses imaging to perform minimally invasive medical procedures. Professional training
United States
Radiology is a field in medicine that has expanded rapidly after 2000 due to advances in computer technology, which is closely linked to modern imaging techniques. Radiographic exams are usually performed by radiographers. United Kingdom
Radiology is an extremely competitive speciality in the UK, attracting applicants from a broad range of backgrounds. UK radiology registrars are represented by the Society of Radiologists in Training (SRT), which was founded in 1993 under the auspices of the Royal College of Radiologists. The society is a nonprofit organisation, run by radiology registrars specifically to promote radiology training and education in the UK. In the UK, interventional radiology was approved as a sub-specialty of clinical radiology in 2010. 
Artefacts in 24-h pharyngeal and oesophageal pH monitoring: is simplification of pH data analysis feasible? [SEP] The pharynx (plural: pharynges) is the part of the throat behind the mouth and nasal cavity, and above the esophagus and trachea (the tubes going down to the stomach and the lungs). Additional images
See also
References
This article incorporates text in the public domain from page 1141 of the 20th edition of Gray's Anatomy (1918)

General

Pharynx, Stedman's Online Medical Dictionary at Lippincott Williams and Wilkins
Human Anatomy and Physiology Elaine N. Marieb and Katja Hoehn, Seventh Edition. And a wireless oesophageal pH measuring devices can now be placed endoscopically, to record ph trends in an area remotely. Diagnosis among those who do not improve with simpler measures may involve gastroscopy, upper GI series, esophageal pH monitoring, or esophageal manometry.Treatment options include lifestyle changes, medications, and sometimes surgery for those who do not improve with the first two measures. Ambulatory esophageal pH monitoring may be useful in those who do not improve after PPIs and is not needed in those in whom Barrett's esophagus is seen. Investigation for H. pylori is not usually needed.The current gold standard for diagnosis of GERD is esophageal pH monitoring. Short-term treatment with proton-pump inhibitors may help predict abnormal 24-hour pH monitoring results among patients with symptoms suggestive of GERD. "ACG practice guidelines: esophageal reflux testing". 
Can the condition of the cell microenvironment of mediastinal lymph nodes help predict the risk of metastases in non-small cell lung cancer? [SEP] The tumor microenvironment (TME) is the environment around a tumor, including the surrounding blood vessels, immune cells, fibroblasts, signaling molecules and the extracellular matrix (ECM). Tumors can influence the microenvironment by releasing extracellular signals, promoting tumor angiogenesis and inducing peripheral immune tolerance, while the immune cells in the microenvironment can affect the growth and evolution of cancerous cells. Stromal cells
In cancer biology, the stroma is defined as the nonmalignant cells which are present in the tumor microenvironment. Neutrophils can accumulate in tumors and in some cancers, such as lung adenocarcinoma, their abundance at the tumor site is associated with worsened disease prognosis. For many cancers, an increased frequency of in the tumor microenvironment is associated with worse outcomes for the individual. The lymph flows subsequently to the mediastinal lymph nodes. Mediastinal lymph nodes: They consist of several lymph node groups, especially along the trachea (5 groups), along the esophagus and between the lung and the diaphragm. Mediastinal lymph nodes are lymph nodes located in the mediastinum. 
Are wandering and physically nonaggressive agitation equivalent? [SEP] Agitation/behavioral symptoms in persons with dementia
A pioneer in the study of behavioral symptoms in dementia, Cohen-Mansfield was the first to define agitation in persons with dementia. She used the findings concerning etiology to develop the theoretical framework of unmet needs underlying agitated behavior, and to contrast it with alternative theories. Cohen-Mansfield’s work has challenged the prevailing paradigm that conceptualized agitation as a biologically caused mental illness symptom to be treated by psychoactive medications and physical restraints. One includes affective (emotional) and hostile, reactive, or retaliatory aggression that is a response to provocation, and the other includes instrumental, goal-oriented or predatory, in which aggression is used as a means to achieve a goal. Research on violence from a range of disciplines lend some support to a distinction between affective and predatory aggression. Classification may also encompass aggression-related emotions (e.g. anger) and mental states (e.g. However, it may be that proactive aggression is associated with low cortisol levels while reactive aggression may be accompanied by elevated levels. 
Is size-reducing ascending aortoplasty with external reinforcement an option in modern aortic surgery? [SEP] When the aneurysm meets size criteria it can be treated with aortic replacement or EVAR. Aneurysms of the descending aorta can often be treated with thoracic endovascular aortic repair or TEVAR. Treating aneurysms which involve the ascending aorta are generally within the scope of cardiac surgeons, but upcoming endovascular technology may allow for a more minimally invasive approach in some patients. Treatment may include thoracic endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR) with or without extra-anatomic bypass such as carotid-carotid bypass, carotid-subclavian bypass, or subclavian-carotid transposition. Blunt thoracic aortic injury
Advances in vascular surgery, specifically endovascular technologies, have led to a dramatic change in the operative approach to blunt thoracic aortic injury (BTAI). Although aortic graft surgery (or any vascular surgery) is a serious undertaking it is generally successful if undertaken on an elective basis. Elective aortic valve/graft surgery is usually considered when aortic root diameter reaches 50 millimeters (2.0 inches), but each case needs to be specifically evaluated by a qualified cardiologist. Large pneumothoraces are likely to be medical emergencies requiring emergency decompression.As an alternative approach, custom-built supports for the aortic root are also being used. 
Does depression diagnosis and antidepressant prescribing vary by location? [SEP] SSRIs are the most widely prescribed antidepressants in many countries. These sources also suggest that aside from the recession, other factors that may influence changes in prescribing rates may include: improvements in diagnosis, a reduction of the stigma surrounding mental health, broader prescribing trends, GP characteristics, geographical location, and housing status. United States
In the United States, antidepressants were the most commonly prescribed medication in 2013. As of 2017, about 16.5% of white people in the United States took antidepressants compared with 5.6% of black people in the United States. United States: The most commonly prescribed antidepressants in the US retail market in 2010 were:
Netherlands: In the Netherlands, paroxetine is the most prescribed antidepressant, followed by amitriptyline, citalopram and venlafaxine. Social science perspective
Some academics have highlighted the need to examine the use of antidepressants and other medical treatments in cross-cultural terms, because various cultures prescribe and observe different manifestations, symptoms, meanings, and associations of depression and other medical conditions within their populations. These cross-cultural discrepancies, it has been argued, then have implications on the perceived efficacy and use of antidepressants and other strategies in the treatment of depression in these different cultures. Psychopharmacology of Antidepressants. 
Can routinely collected ambulance data about assaults contribute to reduction in community violence? [SEP] Willingness to report crime also affects the statistics. A police force and judicial system enjoining a high level of confidence and a good reputation with the public will produce a higher propensity to report crime than a police force which is discredited, inspires fear or distrust.Large-scale victimisation surveys have been presented as a more reliable indicator on the level of crime in a given country. Crime trends
By 2018 gang violence, which had long been a feature of vulnerable areas, had begun to spill out into the wider society where hospital staff reported armed confrontations in emergency rooms and school authorities reported that threats and weapons having become more frequent.In 2020, crime statistics showed that 12 bystanders had been killed and 19 wounded in incidents of gang violence involving shootings and bombings in the preceding six years. Assault
While the number of reported assaults has been on the increase, crime victim surveys show that a large part of the increase may be due to the fact that more crimes are actually reported. This is supported by medical services reporting unchanged levels of incoming patients with wounds derived from assault or serious violent crime. Studies have also shown that police are increasingly likely to personally initiate reports of assault between strangers, which contributes to more cases involving assault being reported.In the recently published 2016 SCS 2.0 per cent of the population (ages 16–79) were exposed to assault. The Local: How did reported crime rates change? In many cases, ambulances and other medical personnel were hit. 
Volume change of uterine myomas during pregnancy: do myomas really grow? [SEP] The abdomen can grow larger mimicking the appearance of pregnancy. Expression of transforming growth interacting factor (TGIF) is increased in leiomyoma compared with myometrium. Findings suggestive of a malignant uterine tumor rather than a benign fibroid include, fast or unexpected growth (particularly after menopause), interruption/effacement of the endometrial stripe, lymph node enlargement, invasion of adjacent organs and metastases to distant organs (e.g. Myomectomy during pregnancy
Leiomyomata tend to grow during pregnancy but only the large ones causing endometrial cavity distortion could interfere with the growing pregnancy directly. Also, after a pregnancy, myomas tend to shrink naturally. They are rare tumors, occur in childhood and often become malignant.Whether or not angiomyomas are a type of leiomyoma or a separate entity is disputed as of 2014.Myomas are benign tumors of the uterus that can affect the fertility of a woman depending mainly on three factors:

Size (cut off value 4-5 cm)
Number
Location (they can be intramural, subserous or submucous). Expression of transforming growth interacting factor (TGIF) is increased in leiomyoma compared with myometrium. Findings suggestive of a malignant uterine tumor rather than a benign fibroid include, fast or unexpected growth (particularly after menopause), interruption/effacement of the endometrial stripe, lymph node enlargement, invasion of adjacent organs and metastases to distant organs (e.g. 
Is laparoscopic adrenalectomy safe and effective for adrenal masses larger than 7 cm? [SEP] These hormone-producing tumors may need adrenalectomy. In addition, American Association Of Clinical Endocrinologists and American Association Of Endocrine Surgeons guidelines state minimally-invasive techniques should be avoided when there is a large tumor size (larger than 6 cm) due to difficulties in maneuvering around a large mass, and in adrenocortical carcinoma where there is a risk of not fully removing the cancerous tissue. A 2018 Cochrane Systematic review compared two different types of surgery: laparoscopic retroperotenial adrenalectomy and laporoscopic transperitoenal adrenelectomy in different types of adrenal tumors. These hormone-producing tumors may need adrenalectomy. In addition, American Association Of Clinical Endocrinologists and American Association Of Endocrine Surgeons guidelines state minimally-invasive techniques should be avoided when there is a large tumor size (larger than 6 cm) due to difficulties in maneuvering around a large mass, and in adrenocortical carcinoma where there is a risk of not fully removing the cancerous tissue. The United States Endocrine Society 2014 Clinical Practice Guideline for pheochromocytoma recommend a laparoscopic adrenalectomy (minimally invasive technique) for most adrenal tumors, unless they are invasive or are larger than 6.0 centimeters. A 2018 Cochrane Systematic review compared two different types of surgery: laparoscopic retroperotenial adrenalectomy and laporoscopic transperitoenal adrenelectomy in different types of adrenal tumors. Surgery, especially adrenal laparoscopy, is the most common treatment for small pheochromocytomas. 
Upstream solutions: does the supplemental security income program reduce disability in the elderly? [SEP] The Marsh Report recommended a broad range of social assistance, social insurance and public welfare programs. These actions formed the foundations of Canada's "social security system or welfare state" which succeeded in "reducing the impact of poverty for many families. The 1967 Guaranteed Income Supplement assisted seniors and near-seniors who would not be able to benefit fully from the other government pension plans. According to the 2019 report, the elderly had the "lowest poverty rate amongst all age-groups in Canada." In 2020, 3.1% of seniors aged 65 years and older were living below the poverty line.According to a March 24, 2022 Bloomberg News article on the "Canadian Income Survey, 2020" released on March 23, by data reporter Erik Hertzberg, in 2020, the number of Canadians under 18 who live in poverty fell by more than half to 324,000." Those with a mental–cognitive disability were more likely to experience low income than those with a physical–sensory disability. Some of the transfers designed to assist low-income people in Canada include Welfare and Old age security. In addition to government transfers, there are number of other publicly funded services and social programs that benefit those with low-incomes like Medicare, Public education for grade school; subsidized post-secondary education, Subsidized housing, and Employment equity programs, which often target various groups of people who are deemed to be susceptible to having low-incomes. 
Profiling quality of care: Is there a role for peer review? [SEP] Peer review is generally considered necessary to academic quality and is used in most major scholarly journals. The Discourse of Peer Review: reviewing submissions to academic journals. Peer review methods are used to maintain quality standards, improve performance, and provide credibility. Professional
Professional peer review focuses on the performance of professionals, with a view to improving quality, upholding standards, or providing certification. When the patient was cured or had died, the notes of the physician were examined by a local medical council of other physicians, who would decide whether the treatment had met the required standards of medical care.Professional peer review is common in the field of health care, where it is usually called clinical peer review. Medical
Medical peer review may be distinguished in four classifications:
Clinical peer review is a procedure for assessing a patient's involvement with experiences of care. A secondary round of peer review for the clinical value of articles concurrently published in medical journals.Additionally, "medical peer review" has been used by the American Medical Association to refer not only to the process of improving quality and safety in health care organizations, but also to the process of rating clinical behavior or compliance with professional society membership standards. The concept includes the assessment or evaluation of the quality of care; identification of problems or shortcomings in the delivery of care; designing activities to overcome these deficiencies; and follow-up monitoring to ensure effectiveness of corrective steps." 
Eyelid-parotid metastasis: do we screen for coexisting masses? [SEP] Treatment and prevention of SCC
Before treatment of squamous-cell carcinoma (SCC) is initiated, evidence of metastasis must be determined either by palpation and aspiration of lymph nodes around the mass or, in smaller horses, radiographs of the thorax. Small tumors found early in the disease process (most frequently on the eyelid) can be treated with cisplatin or radiation with favorable results. Common sites for metastasis include lymph nodes, the liver, spleen, lung, skeletal muscle, blood vessels and parotid salivary gland. The upper eyelid contains more meibomian glands than the lower eyelid and consequently, SGc is 2-3 times more common in the upper eyelid.Periocular SGc most commonly presents as a yellow, hard, painless, subcutaneous nodule or papule, which may rapidly enlarge, and may be confused with chalazion, blepharitis, conjunctivitis, or other inflammatory conditions of the eye.Extraocular SGc accounts for approximately 25% of all SGc. The average delay in diagnosis has been reported to be 1.0 – 2.9 years from expected onset of the lesion.Patients with ocular sebaceous carcinomas present with nonhealing eyelid tumors that are often misdiagnosed for more common benign conditions such as chalazion, blepharitis, conjunctivitis, or other inflammatory conditions. Extraocular SGc frequently appears similarly to skin cancers such as basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma and benign lesions such a molluscum contagiosum and pyogenic granuloma. Periocular sebaceous gland carcinoma exhibits pagetoid (intraepithelial) spread, an upward growth of abnormal cells invading the epidermis, it is most often seen in the lid margin and/or conjunctiva. Since periocular tumors have a higher rate of regional metastasis than extraocular tumors, SLNB is currently recommended for SGc stage T2c or higher according to the AJCC guidelines (10–20 mm in greatest dimension and involving the full thickness of the eyelid). 
Will CT ordering practices change if we educate residents about the potential effects of radiation exposure? [SEP] Public exposure
Medical procedures, such as diagnostic X-rays, nuclear medicine, and radiation therapy are by far the most significant source of human-made radiation exposure to the general public. Radiation exposure can increase cancer risk, with the cancers that arise being indistinguishable from cancers resulting from other causes.In the general population, no increase is expected in the frequency of tissue reactions attributable to radiation exposure and no increase is expected in the incidence of congenital or developmental abnormalities, including cognitive impairment attributable to in-utero radiation exposure. However, lifting the living restrictions did not always help residents as most were uneasy about returning home due to fears of health hazards as well as the stability of the communities if they were to return home.Low doses of radiation may not contribute much to create health effects like cancer, and given that such low doses may never lead to disease for most individuals, this raises the question of how evacuation should be handled in a situation like that of Fukushima. The many ways in which nuclear radiation could affect people in the area, whether through real health consequences or fear, are cause for anxiety; however, it appears that these fears may be settling in the Fukushima population as symptoms of anxiety have become less prevalent over time since the disaster.PTSD
At least 10% of participants in studies following the Fukushima disaster developed PTSD. government and healthcare professionals), and tension with the community health workers due to differences in perceptions of radiation risk. About one third of people [33.3%] in industrialized nations are presently diagnosed with cancer during their lifetimes, radiation exposure can increase one's cancer risk, with the cancers that arise being indistinguishable from cancers resulting from other causes.No increase is expected in the incidence of congenital or developmental abnormalities, including cognitive impairment attributable to within the womb radiation exposure. Some research has found that the radiation has had an apparent "beneficial" effect upon the health of the tenants based on the death rate from cancers. February 2008-August 2009 – A software misconfiguration in a CT scanner used for brain perfusion scanning at Cedars Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, California, resulted in 206 patients receiving radiation doses approximately 8 times higher than intended during an 18-month period starting in February 2008. 
Does context matter for the relationship between deprivation and all-cause mortality? [SEP] Questions about the exact meaning of this term are by no means new, as the following statement by Mary Ainsworth in 1962 indicates: "Although in the early months of life it is the mother who almost invariably interacts most with the child ... the role of other figures, especially the father, is acknowledged to be significant ... [P]aternal deprivation ... has received scant attention ... [In the case of] institutionalization ... the term 'parental deprivation' would have been more accurate, for the child has been ... deprived of interaction with a father-figure as well as a mother-figure ... [It may be better to] discourage the use of [the term 'deprivation'] and encourage the substitution of the terms 'insufficiency', 'discontinuity', and 'distortion' instead." neglect); and economic deprivation. Poverty
Studies show that there is a direct correlation between poverty and mental illness: the lower the socioeconomic status of an individual, the higher the risk of mental illness. Socioeconomic deprivation in neighborhoods can cause worse mental health, even after accounting for genetic factors.The effects of different socioeconomic factors varies by country. There is a strong relationship between levels of violence and modifiable factors in a country such as an concentrated (regional) poverty, income and gender inequality, the harmful use of alcohol, and the absence of safe, stable, and nurturing relationships between children and parents. If we were to draw up a map of the city outlining areas of high infant mortality, bad housing, unemployment, poor nutrition, etc., we would find that these maps would coincide and that further, the outline traced would correspond to those areas of high criminal victimization... Further, this compounding of social problems occurs against those who are more or less vulnerable because of their position in the social structure. Relative deprivation
Young (1994) argues that there is an aetiological crisis, i.e. maternal deprivation, broken homes, etc.) 
Does stress increase imitation of drinking behavior? [SEP] A study showed that social anxiety and stress was positively correlated with aggression in males, meaning as stress and social anxiety increases so does aggression. Situational factors
There has been some links between those prone to violence and their alcohol use. It is possible that stress-induced eating serves an evolutionary adaptive function: Such that, stress motivates low status animals to seek out resources, such as food, that are in possession of and limited by high status animals. Alcohol has a psychopharmacological effect of reducing inhibitions, clouding judgements and impairing the ability to interpret cues. Research on the social anthropology of alcohol consumption suggests that connections between violence, drinking and drunkenness are socially learned rather than universal. Some researchers have noted that alcohol may act as a cultural break time, providing the opportunity for antisocial behavior. Judgments are more likely to act violently when drunk because they do not consider that they will be held accountable for their behavior. Some forms of group sexual violence are also associated with drinking. 
School food policy at Dutch primary schools: room for improvement? [SEP] Education about nutrition and food preparation can affect food utilization and improve this pillar of food security. School nutrition programs, such as the National School Lunch Program (NSLP) and the School Breakfast Program (SBP) have provided millions of children access to healthier lunch and breakfast meals, since their inception in the mid-1900s. Multiple studies have reported that school nutrition programs play an important role in ensuring students are accessing healthy meals. Students who ate school lunches provided by NLSP showed higher diet quality than if they had their lunches. Even more, the USDA improved standards for school meals, which ultimately led to positive impacts on children's food selection and eating habits.Countless partnerships have emerged in the quest for food security. The bill seeks to repeal a rule set by the Food and Nutrition Service of the Department of Agriculture, which mandates schools to provide more nutritious and diverse foods across the food plate. Text taken from The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2021: Transforming food systems for food security, improved nutrition and affordable healthy diets for all, In brief​,  FAO, IFAD, UNICEF, WFP & WHO, FAO. (212)
Achieving Food and Nutrition Security: Actions to Meet the Global Challenge. 
Is the atopy patch test with house dust mites specific for atopic dermatitis? [SEP] Dust mites
Dust mite allergy, also known as house dust allergy, is a sensitization and allergic reaction to the droppings of house dust mites. Unlike scabies mites or skin follicle mites, house dust mites do not burrow under the skin and are not parasitic. Asthma is localized to the respiratory system and eczema is localized to the dermis. Allergy testing can help confirm or rule out allergies. Patch testing
Patch testing is a method used to determine if a specific substance causes allergic inflammation of the skin. It is used to help ascertain the cause of skin contact allergy or contact dermatitis. Fungal allergies are associated with seasonal asthma. Some fungal air-borne allergens such as Coprinus comatus are associated with worsening of eczematous skin lesions. 
Juvenile osteochondritis dissecans: is it a growth disturbance of the secondary physis of the epiphysis? [SEP] Some symptoms of late stages of osteochondritis dissecans are found with other diseases like rheumatoid disease of children and meniscal ruptures. Signs and symptoms
In osteochondritis dissecans, fragments of cartilage or bone become loose within a joint, leading to pain and inflammation. It is thought that repetitive microtrauma, which leads to microfractures and sometimes an interruption of blood supply to the subchondral bone, may cause subsequent localized loss of blood supply or alteration of growth.Trauma, rather than avascular necrosis, is thought to cause osteochondritis dissecans in juveniles. Diagnosis
To diagnose osteochondritis dissecans, an X-ray, CT scan or MRI scan can be performed to show necrosis of subchondral bone, formation of loose fragments, or both. Some symptoms of late stages of osteochondritis dissecans are found with other diseases like rheumatoid disease of children and meniscal ruptures. It is thought that repetitive microtrauma, which leads to microfractures and sometimes an interruption of blood supply to the subchondral bone, may cause subsequent localized loss of blood supply or alteration of growth.Trauma, rather than avascular necrosis, is thought to cause osteochondritis dissecans in juveniles. Diagnosis
To diagnose osteochondritis dissecans, an X-ray, CT scan or MRI scan can be performed to show necrosis of subchondral bone, formation of loose fragments, or both. The term dissecans refers to the "creation of a flap of cartilage that further dissects away from its underlying subchondral attachments (dissecans)".The other recognized types of osteochondritis are osteochondritis deformans juvenilis (osteochondritis of the capitular head of the epiphysis of the femur) and osteochondritis deformans juvenilis dorsi (osteochondrosis of the spinal vertebrae, also known as Scheuermann's disease).Osteochondritis, and especially osteochondritis dissecans, can manifest in animals as a primary cause of elbow dysplasia, a chronic condition in some dog breeds. 
Do preoperative statins reduce atrial fibrillation after coronary artery bypass grafting? [SEP] In people over the age of 70, statins decrease the risk of cardiovascular disease but only in those with a history of heavy cholesterol blockage in their arteries.Most evidence suggests that statins are also effective in preventing heart disease in those with high cholesterol but no history of heart disease. On average, statins can lower LDL cholesterol by 1.8 mmol/L (70 mg/dL), which translates into an estimated 60% decrease in the number of cardiac events (heart attack, sudden cardiac death) and a 17% reduced risk of stroke after long-term treatment. Mortality and adverse cardiovascular events were reduced in statin groups.Older adults who receive statin therapy at time of discharge from the hospital after an inpatient stay have been studied. People with cardiac ischemia not previously on statins at the time of admission have a lower risk of major cardiac adverse events and hospital readmission two years post-hospitalization. Statins, including atorvastatin, before heart surgery do not prevent acute kidney injury.Prior to contrast medium (CM) administration, pre-treatment with atorvastatin therapy can reduce the risk of contrast-induced acute kidney injury (CI-AKI) in patients with pre-existing chronic kidney disease (CKD) (eGFR < 60mL/min/1.73m2) who undergo interventional procedures such as cardiac catheterisation, coronary angiography (CAG) or percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). However, a post hoc analysis on atorvastatin had revealed that it may still be beneficial in reducing combined cardiac events, cardiac and all-cause mortality in those with a higher baseline LDL cholesterol >3.75 mmol/L. A 2010 meta-analysis demonstrated that every 255 people treated with a statin for four years – produced a reduction of 5.4 major coronary events and induced only one new case of diabetes. Bariatric surgery may reduce the risk of new-onset atrial fibrillation in people with obesity without AF and may reduce the risk of a recurrence of AF after an ablation procedure in people with coexisting obesity and atrial fibrillation. 
Is there a uniform basal endometrial gene expression profile during the implantation window in women who became pregnant in a subsequent ICSI cycle? [SEP] When indicated, the use of ICSI has been found to increase the success rates of IVF. Progesterone elevation on the day of induction of final maturation is associated with lower pregnancy rates in IVF cycles in women undergoing ovarian stimulation using GnRH analogues and gonadotrophins. However, it is well accepted that the pro-inflammatory cytokines are dominant during implantation. Leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) is a pro-inflammatory cytokine expressed in the endometrium during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle, with the highest expression seen during the window of implantation. MUC1 is a transmembrane glycoprotein expressed at the apical surface of endometrial epithelial cells during the window of implantation in humans and has been shown to be differentially expressed between fertile and infertile subjects during this time. The rest of the endometrium, in addition, expresses differences between the luminal and the basal sides. Therefore, pregnancy rates can be improved by optimizing endometrial receptivity for implantation. Evaluation of implantation markers may help to predict pregnancy outcome and detect occult implantation deficiency. 
Can decisional algorithms replace global introspection in the individual causality assessment of spontaneously reported ADRs? [SEP] : The use of introspective evidence in cognitive science. Although the hypothesis of an introspection illusion informs some psychological research, the existing evidence is arguably inadequate to decide how reliable introspection is in normal circumstances.In certain situations, this illusion leads people to make confident but false explanations of their own behaviour (called "causal theories") or inaccurate predictions of their future mental states. A priori causal theories
In their classic paper, Nisbett and Wilson proposed that introspective confabulations result from a priori theories, of which they put forth four possible origins:
Explicit cultural rules (e.g., stopping at red traffic lights)
Implicit cultural theories, with certain schemata for likely stimulus-response relationships (e.g., an athlete only endorses a brand because he is paid to do so)
Individual observational experiences that lead one to form a theory of covariation (e.g. Assessing causality
Causality assessment is used to determine the likelihood that a drug caused a suspected ADR. There are a number of different methods used to judge causation, including the Naranjo algorithm, the Venulet algorithm and the WHO causality term assessment criteria. The chronology of the onset of the suspected ADR is important, as another substance or factor may be implicated as a cause; co-prescribed medications and underlying psychiatric conditions may be factors in the ADR.Assigning causality to a specific agent often proves difficult, unless the event is found during a clinical study or large databases are used. Causality assessment
One of the most important, and challenging, problems in pharmacovigilance is that of the determination of causality. Causality determination (or assessment) is often difficult because of the lack of clear-cut or reliable data. 
Can we rely on arterial line sampling in performing activated plasma thromboplastin time after cardiac surgery? [SEP] Use
Arterial lines are most commonly used in intensive care medicine and anesthesia to monitor blood pressure directly and in real-time (rather than by intermittent and indirect measurement) and to obtain samples for arterial blood gas analysis. Intra-operative blood salvage setup, operating and monitoring. Arterial line insertion and monitoring. Apart from detecting abnormalities in blood clotting, partial thromboplastin time is also used to monitor the treatment effect of heparin, a widely prescribed drug that reduces blood's tendency to clot. The blood is mixed, then centrifuged to separate blood cells from plasma (as partial thromboplastin time is most commonly measured using blood plasma). Arteries are typically harvested from the chest, arm, or wrist and then attached to a portion of the coronary artery, relieving pressure and limiting clotting factors in that area of the heart.The procedure is typically performed because of coronary artery disease (CAD), in which a plaque-like substance builds up in the coronary artery, the main pathway carrying oxygen-rich blood to the heart. Pharmacological approaches
Beta-blocking medication is sometimes prescribed during cardiac surgery. It was discovered by Wilfred G. Bigelow of the University of Toronto that the repair of intracardiac pathologies was better done with a bloodless and motionless environment, which means that the heart should be stopped and drained of blood. 
Does timing of initial surfactant treatment make a difference in rates of chronic lung disease or mortality in premature infants? [SEP] One of the main organs greatly affected by premature birth is the lungs. Preterm babies born near 37 weeks often have no problems relating to prematurity if their lungs have developed adequate surfactant, which allows the lungs to remain expanded between breaths. Steroids
Severely premature infants may have underdeveloped lungs because they are not yet producing their own surfactant. To try to reduce the risk of this outcome, pregnant mothers with threatened premature delivery prior to 34 weeks are often administered at least one course of glucocorticoids, an antenatal steroid that crosses the placental barrier and stimulates the production of surfactant in the lungs of the baby. A 2015 Cochrane review (updated in 2022) supports the use of repeat dose(s) of prenatal corticosteroids for women still at risk of preterm birth seven days or more after an initial course.A Cochrane review from 2020 recommends the use of a single course of antenatal corticosteroids to accelerate fetal lung maturation in women at risk of preterm birth. Babies born before 32 weeks have been shown to have a lower risk of death from bronchopulmonary dysplasia if they have CPAP immediately after being born, compared to receiving either supportive care or assisted ventilation.There is insufficient evidence for or against placing preterm stable twins in the same cot or incubator (co-bedding). There is a similar process which occurs in newborns called hyaline membrane disease, although the preferred term is surfactant-deficiency disorder, that also has the formation of hyaline membranes. This disorder typically develops due to prematurity, especially when the infant is delivered prior to 36 weeks since surfactant doesn't start being produced until 35 weeks gestation. 
Clinician assessment for acute chest syndrome in febrile patients with sickle cell disease: is it accurate enough? [SEP] The acute chest syndrome is a vaso-occlusive crisis of the pulmonary vasculature commonly seen in people with sickle cell anemia. Signs and symptoms
The crisis is a common complication in sickle-cell patients and can be associated with one or more symptoms including fever, cough, excruciating pain, sputum production, shortness of breath, or low oxygen levels. Cause
Acute chest syndrome is often precipitated by a lung infection, and the resulting inflammation and loss of oxygen saturation leads to further sickling of red cells, thus exacerbating pulmonary and systemic hypoxemia, sickling, and vaso-occlusion. Given that pneumonia and sickling in the lung can both produce symptoms of acute chest syndrome, the patient is treated for both conditions. Therefore, a urinalysis to detect an occult urinary tract infection, and chest X-ray to look for occult pneumonia should be routinely performed.People who are known carriers of the disease or at risk of having a child with sickle cell anemia may undergo genetic counseling. In the absence of high quality evidence regarding the effectiveness of antibiotics for acute chest syndrome in people with sickle cell disease, there is no standard antibiotic treatment as of 2019. However, there is currently uncertain evidence about the possible benefits or harms of blood transfusion for acute chest syndrome in people with sickle cell disease. One trial focused on analyzing bone marrow samples from patients with sickle cell anemia. 
Outcome Feedback within Emergency Medicine Training Programs: An Opportunity to Apply the Theory of Deliberate Practice? [SEP] According to Building a National Agenda for Simulation-Based Medical Education (Eder-Van Hook, Jackie, 2004), "a health care provider's ability to react prudently in an unexpected situation is one of the most critical factors in creating a positive outcome in medical emergency, regardless of whether it occurs on the battlefield, freeway, or hospital emergency room." Although evidence that simulation-based training actually improves patient outcome has been slow to accrue, today the ability of simulation to provide hands-on experience that translates to the operating room is no longer in doubt.One of the largest factors that might impact the ability to have training impact the work of practitioners at the bedside is the ability to empower frontline staff (Stewart, Manges, Ward, 2015). Another example of an attempt to improve patient safety through the use of simulations training is patient care to deliver just-in-time service or/and just-in-place. It could be therefore hypothesized that by increasing the number of highly trained residents through the use of simulation training, that the simulation training does, in fact, increase patient safety. in their critical review of simulation-based medical education research. Instructionally, the benefits of emergency training through simulations are that learner performance can be tracked through the system. Other advantages are that the learner can be guided or trained on how to respond appropriately before continuing to the next emergency segment—this is an aspect that may not be available in the live environment. Some emergency training simulators also allow for immediate feedback, while other simulations may provide a summary and instruct the learner to engage in the learning topic again. 
Can multiple SNP testing in BRCA2 and BRCA1 female carriers be used to improve risk prediction models in conjunction with clinical assessment? [SEP] BRCA1 and BRCA2 have been described as "breast cancer susceptibility genes" and "breast cancer susceptibility proteins". Clinical significance

Certain variations of the BRCA2 gene increase risks for breast cancer as part of a hereditary breast–ovarian cancer syndrome. Women having inherited a defective BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene have risks for breast and ovarian cancer that are so high and seem so selective that many mutation carriers choose to have prophylactic surgery. BRCA1 and BRCA2 have been described as "breast cancer susceptibility genes" and "breast cancer susceptibility proteins". Females with an abnormal BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene have up to an 80% risk of developing breast cancer by age 90; increased risk of developing ovarian cancer is about 55% for females with BRCA1 mutations and about 25% for females with BRCA2 mutations.These mutations can be changes in one or a small number of DNA base pairs (the building-blocks of DNA), and can be identified with PCR and DNA sequencing.In some cases, large segments of DNA are rearranged. BRCA1 and BRCA2 have been described as "breast cancer susceptibility genes" and "breast cancer susceptibility proteins". Mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 are strongly implicated in some hematological malignancies. An increasing number women who test positive for faulty BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes choose to have risk-reducing surgery. 
Does a special interest in laparoscopy affect the treatment of acute cholecystitis? [SEP] Acute cholecystitis
Cholecystitis, or inflammation of the gallbladder caused by interruption in the normal flow of bile, is another reason for cholecystectomy. If the surgeon has problems identifying anatomical structures, they might need to convert from laparoscopic to open cholecystectomy.Peroperative Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangio-Pancreaticography (ERCP)/ Laparo-endoscopic rendezvous (LERV) technique
CBDS are found in 10-15% of patients during cholecystectomy when intraoperative cholangiography (IOC) is routinely performed. Laparoscopic surgery is thought to have fewer complications, shorter hospital stay, and quicker recovery than open cholecystectomy. Open cholecystectomy is often done if difficulties arise during a laparoscopic cholecystectomy, for example, the patient has unusual anatomy, the surgeon cannot see well enough through the camera, or the patient is found to have cancer. Laparoscopic technique
Erich Mühe performed the first laparoscopic cholecystectomy on September 12, 1985, in Böblingen, Germany. Driven by popularity among patients, the laparoscopic technique became preferred over open surgery and noninvasive treatments for gallstones.By 2013, laparoscopic cholecystectomy had replaced open cholecystectomy as the first-choice of treatment for people with uncomplicated gallstones and acute cholecystitis.By 2014 laparoscopic cholecystectomy had become the gold standard for the treatment of symptomatic gallstones.Laparoscopic cholecystectomy can be a challenging procedure and surgeons must be trained with advanced laparoscopic skills to complete the operation with safety and effectiveness. Presence of infection indicates cholecystitis. Early laparoscopic cholecystectomy happens within 72 hours of diagnosis. 
Can progression of valvar aortic stenosis be predicted accurately? [SEP] Pulmonary valve stenosis (PVS) is a heart valve disorder. Both stenosis of the pulmonary artery and pulmonary valve stenosis are forms of pulmonic stenosis (nonvalvular and valvular, respectively) but pulmonary valve stenosis accounts for 80% of pulmonic stenosis. Pathophysiology
The pathophysiology of pulmonary valve stenosis consists of the valve leaflets becoming too thick (therefore not separate one from another), which can cause high pulmonary pressure, and pulmonary hypertension. Diagnosis
The diagnosis of pulmonary valve stenosis can be made using stethoscopic auscultation of the heart, which can reveal a systolic ejection murmur that is best heard at the second left intercostal space. Transthoracic or transesophageal echocardiography can provide a more accurate diagnosis. Other conditions to consider in the differential diagnosis of pulmonic valvular stenosis include infundibular stenosis and pulmonary artery stenosis. If the valve stenosis is of congenital origin, balloon valvuloplasty is another option, depending on the case. rheumatic endocarditis) may lead to clinically significant valvular regurgitation. 
Does automatic transmission improve driving behavior in older drivers? [SEP] A manual transmission lets the driver choose between several points along the powerband. Drivers themselves may improve fuel efficiency by using a method called progressive shifting, in which the driver shifts through the gears (typical trucks may have between 10 and 18 gears) in such a manner as to optimize the power range of the engine. Automatic transmissions
Increasingly, companies have been equipping their trucks with automatic transmissions for a variety of reasons. Operating a manual transmission requires more skill and attention of the driver, partly due to the unsynchronized transmission found in heavy-duty trucks. Companies have found that automatic transmission has many benefits, including higher fuel efficiency, higher driver retention (drivers frustrated by a manual transmission may quit his/her job), lower wear of transmission gears (inexperienced drivers sometimes grind the gears if they do not follow proper shifting techniques), lower driver fatigue, and fewer accidents (manual transmissions require more attention from the driver, thus increasing the chances for an accident). By placing restrictions on teenagers' driving (forbidding driving after dark, or giving rides to other teens, for example), these companies effectively reduce their risk.Senior drivers are often eligible for retirement discounts, reflecting the lower average miles driven by this age group. However, rates may increase for senior drivers after age 65, due to increased risk associated with much older drivers. Typically, the increased risk for drivers over 65 years of age is associated with slower reflexes, reaction times, and being more injury-prone. 
Birth characteristics and risk of low intellectual performance in early adulthood: are the associations confounded by socioeconomic factors in adolescence or familial effects? [SEP] However, poor prenatal environment, malnutrition and disease are known to have lifelong deleterious effects.Although IQ differences between individuals have been shown to have a large hereditary component, it does not follow that disparities in IQ between groups have a genetic basis. They found that in a study on seven-year-old twins, in impoverished families, 60% of the variance in early childhood IQ was accounted for by the shared family environment, and the contribution of genes is close to zero; in affluent families, the result is almost exactly the reverse.In contrast to Turkheimer (2003), a study by Nagoshi and Johnson (2005) concluded that the heritability of IQ did not vary as a function of parental socioeconomic status in the 949 families of Caucasian and 400 families of Japanese ancestry who took part in the Hawaii Family Study of Cognition.Asbury and colleagues (2005) studied the effect of environmental risk factors on verbal and non-verbal ability in a nationally representative sample of 4-year-old British twins. There was not any statistically significant interaction for non-verbal ability, but the heritability of verbal ability was found to be higher in low-SES and high-risk environments.Harden, Turkheimer, and Loehlin (2007) investigated adolescents, most 17 years old, and found that, among higher income families, genetic influences accounted for approximately 55% of the variance in cognitive aptitude and shared environmental influences about 35%. "Understanding the Genetics of Intelligence". "The Heritability of Intelligence: Not What You Think". (2012), socioeconomic status measured early in childhood reared a significant difference in hippocampal size in adulthood, suggesting that there is in fact an impact on brain and cognitive development. Lower socioeconomic status environments yield lower cognitive and intellectual development in children. Low socioeconomic status due to poverty is a leading cause in hindered cognitive development in growing children. 
Is scintigraphy a guideline method in determining amputation levels in diabetic foot? [SEP] Bone scintigraphy has higher sensitivity but lower specificity than CT or MRI for diagnosis of scaphoid fractures following negative plain radiography. Given different clinical and situational factors, they can predict the likelihood of amputation. Of persons with diabetes who have a lower extremity amputation, up to 55% will require amputation of the second leg within two to three years. Diabetes-related foot problems (such as diabetic foot ulcers) may occur, and can be difficult to treat, occasionally requiring amputation. Foot examination for patients living with diabetes should be done annually which includes sensation testing, foot biomechanics, vascular integrity and foot structure.Concerning those with severe mental illness, the efficacy of type 2 diabetes self-management interventions is still poorly explored, with insufficient scientific evidence to show whether these interventions have similar results to those observed in the general population. The diagnosis is considered in people who develop pain or numbness in a leg or foot with a history of diabetes. Certain physiotherapy techniques can help alleviate symptoms brought on from diabetic neuropathy such as deep pain in the feet and legs, tingling or burning sensation in extremities, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, sexual dysfunction, and diabetic foot.Gait training, posture training, and teaching these patients the basic principles of off-loading can help prevent and/or stabilize foot complications such as foot ulcers. Diabetic neuropathy is implicated in 50–75% of nontraumatic amputations. 
Is determination between complete and incomplete traumatic spinal cord injury clinically relevant? [SEP] This technology was originally used to develop neuroprostheses that were implemented to permanently substitute impaired functions in individuals with spinal cord injury (SCI), head injury, stroke and other neurological disorders. Common applications
Spinal cord injury
Injuries to the spinal cord interfere with electrical signals between the brain and the muscles, resulting in paralysis below the level of injury. Walking in spinal cord injury
Kralj and his colleagues described a technique for paraplegic gait using surface stimulation, which remains the most popular method in use today. "Walking Performance, Medical Outcomes and Patient Training in FES of Innervated Muscles for Ambulation by Thoracic-Level Complete Paraplegics". Human Spinal Cord Injury: New & Emerging Therapies. Institute of Spinal Cord Injury, Iceland. Lichy A., Libin A., Ljunberg I., Groach L., (2007) " Preserving bone health after acute spinal cord injury: Differential responses to a neuromuscular electrical stimulation intervention", Proc. "Feasibility of Functional Electrical Stimulation for Control of Seated Posture after Spinal Cord Injury: A Simulation Study". 
Improvements in survival of gynaecological cancer in the Anglia region of England: are these an effect of centralisation of care and use of multidisciplinary management? [SEP] Gynecologic oncology is a specialized field of medicine that focuses on cancers of the female reproductive system, including ovarian cancer, uterine cancer, vaginal cancer, cervical cancer, and vulvar cancer. In 2013, an estimated 91,730 were diagnosed.There is low quality evidence which demonstrates women with gynaecological cancer receiving treatment from specialized centres benefit from longer survival than those managed in standard care. A meta analysis of three studies combining over 9000 women, suggested that specialist gynaecological cancer treatment centres may prolong the lives of women with ovarian cancer compared with general or community hospitals. In addition, a meta‐analysis of three other studies which assessed over 50,000 women, found that teaching centres or specialized cancer centres may prolong women's lives compared to those treated in community or general hospitals. See also
American Osteopathic Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology
British Gynaecological Cancer Society
Gynecologic cancer disparities in the United States

References
External links
Foundation for Women's Cancer
British Gynaecological Cancer Society
British Gynaecological Cancer Society Meeting 2012 
Gynecologic Cancer Treatment In the United States, however, law and many health insurance plans allow gynaecologists to provide primary care in addition to aspects of their own specialty. The rise of sub-specialties within gynaecology which are primarily surgical in nature (for example urogynaecology and gynaecological oncology) have strengthened the reputations of gynaecologists as surgical practitioners, and many surgeons and surgical societies have come to view gynaecologists as comrades of sorts. Gynaecologic oncology is a subspecialty of gynaecology, dealing with gynaecology-related cancer. 
Do symptoms matter when considering patients for phase I clinical trials? [SEP] The symptoms do not lead to disablement and do not shorten life expectancy.An 11-year follow-up study on 1,555 patients found that most remained with high levels of self-reported symptoms and distress. "Diagnosis requires that the patient have the following three symptoms: 1) A substantial reduction or impairment in the ability to engage in pre-illness levels of occupational, educational, social, or personal activities, that persists for more than 6 months and is accompanied by fatigue, which is often profound, is of new or definite onset (not lifelong), is not the result of ongoing excessive exertion, and is not substantially alleviated by rest, and 2) post-exertional malaise* 3) Unrefreshing sleep*; At least one of the two following manifestations is also required: 1) Cognitive impairment* 2) Orthostatic intolerance" and notes that "*Frequency and severity of symptoms should be assessed. This helps them know that others have had similar experiences and can point them toward effective treatments.In general, the psychological evaluation includes asking the patient about the beginning and severity of symptoms, as well as other questions about how symptoms impact the patient's quality of life. Symptoms assessment in children is uniquely challenging due to communication barriers depending on the child's ability to identify and communicate about symptoms. The earliest symptoms are often subtle problems with mood or mental/ psychiatric abilities. The specific symptoms vary somewhat between people. In the early stages,  subtle personality changes, problems in cognition, and physical skills, irritability, and mood swings occur, all of which may go unnoticed, and these usually precede the motor symptoms. Cognitive or behavioral symptoms are rarely the first symptoms diagnosed; they are usually only recognized in hindsight or when they develop further. 
Is vitamin D insufficiency or deficiency related to the development of osteochondritis dissecans? [SEP] Women with vitamin D deficiency who have been through multiple pregnancies are at elevated risk of osteomalacia. Maternal vitamin D deficiency may affect the baby, causing overt bone disease from before birth and impairment of bone quality after birth. In addition, a vitamin D deficiency may lead to decreased absorption of calcium by the intestines, resulting in increased production of osteoclasts that may break down a person's bone matrix. Osteochondritis dissecans (OCD or OD) is a joint disorder primarily of the subchondral bone in which cracks form in the articular cartilage and the underlying subchondral bone. Some symptoms of late stages of osteochondritis dissecans are found with other diseases like rheumatoid disease of children and meniscal ruptures. Franz König coined the term osteochondritis dissecans in 1887, describing it as an inflammation of the bone–cartilage interface. Signs and symptoms
In osteochondritis dissecans, fragments of cartilage or bone become loose within a joint, leading to pain and inflammation. Pathophysiology
Osteochondritis dissecans differs from "wear and tear" degenerative arthritis, which is primarily an articular surface problem. 
Do episodic migraineurs selectively attend to headache-related visual stimuli? [SEP] This suggests that vision tends to shape the general supramodal mechanisms of memory. "All of the hallucinatory palinopsia symptoms occur concomitantly in a patient with one lesion, which supports current evidence that objects, features, and scenes are all units of visual memory, perhaps at different levels of processing. Studying the excitability alterations associated with palinopsia in migraineurs could provide insight on mechanisms of encoding visual memory.One common group of people that have visual memory problems are children with reading disabilities. On the other hand, CVI can also in some cases cause a desire to gaze compulsively at light sources, including such things as candle flames and fluorescent overhead lights. Proceedings of the Summit on Cerebral/Cortical Visual Impairment: educational, family, and medical perspectives. This research defines a clear link between episodic experiences and semantic memory. vision) and even more specifically to a property within that modality (i.e. Chasing Pain: The Search for a Neurobiological Mechanism. 
Mitral replacement or repair for functional mitral regurgitation in dilated and ischemic cardiomyopathy: is it really the same? [SEP] Mitral regurgitation (MR), also known as mitral insufficiency or mitral incompetence, is a form of valvular heart disease in which the mitral valve is insufficient and does not close properly when the heart pumps out blood. Definition
Mitral regurgitation, also known as mitral insufficiency or mitral incompetence, is the backward flow of blood from the left ventricle, through the mitral valve, and into the left atrium, when the left ventricle contracts, resulting in a systolic murmur radiating to the left armpit. Because the papillary muscles, chordae, and valve leaflets are usually normal in such conditions, it is also called functional mitral regurgitation.Acute MR is most often caused by endocarditis, mainly S. aureus. Surgery
Surgery is curative of mitral valve regurgitation. There are two surgical options for the treatment of MR: mitral valve replacement and mitral valve repair. Mitral valve repair is a cardiac surgery procedure performed by cardiac surgeons to treat stenosis (narrowing) or regurgitation (leakage) of the mitral valve. Mitral regurgitation may also occur as a result of ischemic heart disease (coronary artery disease) or non-ischemic heart disease (dilated cardiomyopathy). "Mitral Valve Repair: Past, Present, and Future". 
Do nontriploid partial hydatidiform moles exist? [SEP] Based on morphology, hydatidiform moles can be divided into two types: in complete moles, all the chorionic villi are vesicular, and no sign of embryonic or fetal development is present. In rare cases a hydatidiform mole co-exists in the uterus with a normal, viable fetus. The mechanism is usually the reduplication of the paternal haploid set from a single sperm, but may also be the consequence of dispermic (two sperm) fertilization of the egg.In rare cases, hydatidiform moles are tetraploid (four chromosome sets) or have other chromosome abnormalities. A small percentage of hydatidiform moles have biparental diploid genomes, as in normal living persons; they have two sets of chromosomes, one inherited from each biological parent. These rare variants of hydatidiform mole may be complete or partial. Epidemiology
Hydatidiform moles are a rare complication of pregnancy, occurring once in every 1,000 pregnancies in the US, with much higher rates in Asia (e.g. There are two subtypes of hydatidiform mole: complete hydatidiform mole, and partial hydatidiform mole. Partial hydatidiform moles have a fetus or fetal cells. 
Is cholecystectomy really an indication for concomitant splenectomy in mild hereditary spherocytosis? [SEP] A splenectomy is the surgical procedure that partially or completely removes the spleen. For long-term treatment of congenital pyruvate kinase (PK) deficiency
Those who have a severe version of the hereditary blood disorder Spherocytosis. It has been found that the risk of acquiring sepsis is 10 to 20 times higher in a splenectomized patient compared to a non-splenectomized patient, which can result in death, especially in young children. Mild thrombocytosis may be observed after a splenectomy due to the lack of sequestering and destruction of platelets that would normally be carried out by the spleen. In addition, the splenectomy may result in a slight increase in the production of platelets within the bone marrow. However, after a splenectomy the lack of presence of the spleen means this function cannot be carried out so damaged erythrocytes will continue to circulate in the blood and can release substances into the blood. Splenectomy may also lead to chronic neutrophilia. Greater risk is associated with splenectomy for hematological conditions such as sickle cell anemia, thalassemia and tumours when compared to splenectomy due to trauma. 
Does surgery or radiation therapy impact survival for patients with extrapulmonary small cell cancers? [SEP] Renal cell cancer and melanoma are generally considered to be radioresistant but radiation therapy is still a palliative option for many patients with metastatic melanoma. The response of a tumor to radiation therapy is also related to its size. Due to complex radiobiology, very large tumors respond less well to radiation than smaller tumors or microscopic disease. In pancreatic cancer, radiotherapy has increased survival times for inoperable tumors. Surgical intervention may be considered prior to treatment with radiation. Cancer
Radiation is a potential cause of cancer, and secondary malignancies are seen in some patients. Studies have found radiation therapy as the cause of secondary malignancies for only a small minority of patients. A team from Stanford University assessed the risk of secondary cancer after primary cancer treatment with external beam radiation using data from the National Cancer Database for 9 tumor types: head and neck, gastrointestinal, gynecologic, lymphoma, lung, prostate, breast, bone/soft tissue, and brain/central nervous system. 
MR Diagnosis of Bone Metastases at 1.5 T and 3 T: Can STIR Imaging Be Omitted? [SEP] A combination of X-ray, CT and MRI scans may be most sensitive in the diagnosis of cancerous bone metastasis. Radionuclide Bone Scan
A radionuclide bone scan or scintigraphy can identify bone metastasis. CT Scan
A CT scan can detect bone metastases before they present with symptoms in patients diagnosed with tumors that are high-risk for spread to the bone. Even sclerotic bone metastases are generally less radiodense than enostoses, and it has been suggested that bone metastasis should be the favored diagnosis between the two for bone lesions lower than a cutoff of 1060 Hounsfield units (HU). MRI
MRIs can be used to detect bone metastasis with a sensitivity of 82-100% and a specificity of 73-100%. Workup
In the detection of bone metastases, skeletal scintigraphy (bone scan) is very sensitive and is recommended as the first imaging study in asymptomatic individuals with suspected breast-cancer metastases. Bone metastases. However, other synovial proliferative processes, such as pigmented villonodular synovitis, require MRI for accurate diagnosis, although noncalcified synovitis can be suspected in radiographs by indirect signs, such as soft tissue swelling and/or erosions in the femoral head, femoral neck, or acetabulum (Figure 7).Figure 7: 

		
		
		
Radiological signs of transient osteoporosis of the hip include localized osteoporosis of the femoral head and neck (Figure 8). 
Histologic evaluation of the testicular remnant associated with the vanishing testes syndrome: is surgical management necessary? [SEP] In newborns, pain is often absent and instead the scrotum may become discolored or the testicle may disappear from its usual place.Most of those affected have no obvious prior underlying health problems. An ultrasound can be useful when the diagnosis is unclear.Treatment is by physically untwisting the testicle, if possible, followed by surgery. If the testicle is not viable during surgical exploration, it must be removed to prevent further necrosis, or tissue death. Such testes are usually necrotic from birth and must be removed surgically. About 40% of cases result in loss of the testicle.With prompt diagnosis and treatment the testicle can often be saved. Testicular size is often diminished, and injury to the unaffected testicle is common. If the testis is not viable, it is removed (orchiectomy). The nubbin is usually identified in childhood by the absence of a palpable testis in the scrotal sac. 
Does pain intensity predict a poor opioid response in cancer patients? [SEP] Traditionally, opioids have been prescribed for pain management, as they are effective for treating acute pain but are less effective for treating chronic pain. During this time, around 100 million people in the United States were estimated to be affected by chronic pain; however, opioids were only reserved for acute pain experienced secondary to cancer or terminal illnesses. This has led to differing medical opinions, with some noting that there is little evidence that opioids are effective for chronic pain not caused by cancer.The annual opioid prescribing rates have been slowly decreasing since 2012, but the number is still high. "Fentanyl can also be found in opioids prescribed for breakthrough cancer pain in opioid-tolerant patients called Transmucosal immediate-release fentanyls (TIRFs.) A person on opioids for more than three months has a 15-fold (1,500%) greater chance of becoming addicted.The CDC's "Guideline for Prescribing Opioids for Chronic Pain" offers many non-pharmacological options as alternatives to prescribing opioids. It states that opioid use is not the preferred treatment when managing chronic pain due to the excessive risks involved, including high risks of addiction, accidental overdose and death. If the pain is not managed adequately, short-term use of opioids such as morphine may be suggested, although low back pain outcomes are poorer in the long-term. In clinical samples insecure attachment is related to higher opioid use in chronic pain patients and higher analgesic consumption during labor. 
Do prerecorded lecture VODcasts affect lecture attendance of first-yearpre-clinical Graduate Entry to Medicine students? [SEP] Lectures delivered by talented speakers can be highly stimulating; at the very least, lectures have survived in academia as a quick, cheap, and efficient way of introducing large numbers of students to a particular field of study. Commonly cited disadvantages of lecture include: placing students in a passive (rather than an active) role, encouraging one-way communication, requiring significant out-of-class time for students to engage with the material, and requiring the speaker to possess effective speaking skills.The criticisms of lectures are often summarized by a quote generally misattributed to Mark Twain:

College is a place where a professor’s lecture notes go straight to the students’ lecture notes, without passing through the brains of either. The Lecture in College Teaching. On the other hand, lecture halls are excellent for focusing the attention of a large group on a single point, either an instructor or an audio-visual presentation, and modern lecture halls often feature audio-visual equipment. Lectures delivered by talented speakers can be highly stimulating; at the very least, lectures have survived in academia as a quick, cheap, and efficient way of introducing large numbers of students to a particular field of study. Commonly cited disadvantages of lecture include: placing students in a passive (rather than an active) role, encouraging one-way communication, requiring significant out-of-class time for students to engage with the material, and requiring the speaker to possess effective speaking skills.The criticisms of lectures are often summarized by a quote generally misattributed to Mark Twain:

College is a place where a professor’s lecture notes go straight to the students’ lecture notes, without passing through the brains of either. The Lecture in College Teaching. On the other hand, lecture halls are excellent for focusing the attention of a large group on a single point, either an instructor or an audio-visual presentation, and modern lecture halls often feature audio-visual equipment. 
Is there an intrauterine influence on obesity? [SEP] However, they also note that the infrequency of successful gestation and weaning of complete triplet litters suggests that even in the face of a fetal mechanism for efficiency, maternal mechanisms may otherwise constrain energetic investments, perhaps especially after birth.A key discovery related to both intrauterine and intragenomic conflict is that the fetal genotype can influence maternal physiology. Large birth weight can be caused by maternal health issues such as gestational diabetes and obesity. Maternal health
The health of the mother during the pregnancy can affect birth weight. Stress
Stressful events have been demonstrated to produce significant effects on birth weight. Researchers furthered this study and found that maternal stressful events that occur prior to conception have a negative impact on birth weight as well, and can result in a higher risk for preterm and lower birth weight babies. Influence on adult life
Studies have investigated how a person's birth weight can influence their future life, including potential links with obesity, diabetes and intelligence.A baby born small or large for gestational age (either of the two extremes) was previously thought to have an increased risk of developing obesity, but it was later found that both high birth weight and maternal BMI are associated with increased risk of developing obesity in childhood.Growth hormone (GH) therapy at a certain dose induced catch-up of lean body mass (LBM). Low birth weight is linked with increase rates of obesity, insulin resistance, and type 2 diabetes and it is shown that children with the low birth weights have increased leptin levels after they catch up growth during childhood. Adiponectin levels are positively related with birth weight and BMI in babies with an increase of risk of type 2 diabetes. 
Assessing Patient Reported Outcomes Measures via Phone Interviews Versus Patient Self-Survey in the Clinic: Are We Measuring the Same Thing? [SEP] Since 2007, the US Department of Housing and Urban Development has issued an Annual Homeless Assessment Report, which revealed the number of individuals and families that were homeless, both sheltered and unsheltered. Statistics and demographics
Completely accurate and comprehensive statistics are difficult to acquire for any social study, but especially so when measuring the ambiguous hidden, and erratic reality of homelessness. Annual Homeless Assessment Report to Congress
Perhaps the most accurate, comprehensive, and current data on homelessness in the United States is reported annually by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) in the Annual Homeless Assessment Report to Congress (AHAR), released every year since 2007. Schutt, Russell K., Feldman, James, et al., "Homeless Persons' Residential Preferences and Needs: A Pilot Survey of Persons with Severe Mental Illness in Boston Mental Health and Generic Shelters", 2004. ISBN 1-55652-190-1
United States Conference of Mayors, "Hunger and Homelessness Survey", December 2005. 2009 Annual homeless assessment report to congress. An Israeli military spokesperson dismissed the testimonies as anonymous hearsay and questioned why Breaking the Silence had not handed over its findings before the media had been informed. The invention could allow the development of smartphones with the ability to diagnose users' medical conditions. 
Is cytokeratin immunoreactivity useful in the diagnosis of short-segment Barrett's oesophagus in Korea? [SEP] Barrett's esophagus is diagnosed by endoscopy: observing the characteristic appearance of this condition by direct inspection of the lower esophagus; followed by microscopic examination of tissue from the affected area obtained from biopsy. Barrett's esophagus, however, is associated with these symptoms:

frequent and longstanding heartburn
trouble swallowing (dysphagia)
vomiting blood (hematemesis)
pain under the sternum where the esophagus meets the stomach
pain when swallowing (odynophagia), which can lead to unintentional weight lossThe risk of developing Barrett's esophagus is increased by central obesity (vs. peripheral obesity). Pathophysiology
Barrett's esophagus occurs due to chronic inflammation. Intestinal metaplasia
The presence of goblet cells, called intestinal metaplasia, is necessary to make a diagnosis of Barrett's esophagus. Management
Many people with Barrett's esophagus do not have dysplasia. Medical societies recommend that if a patient has Barrett's esophagus, and if the past two endoscopy and biopsy examinations have confirmed the absence of dysplasia, then the patient should not have another endoscopy within three years.Endoscopic surveillance of people with Barrett's esophagus is often recommended, although little direct evidence supports this practice. A recent five-year random-controlled trial has shown that photodynamic therapy using photofrin is statistically more effective in eliminating dysplastic growth areas than sole use of a proton pump inhibitor.There is presently no reliable way to determine which patients with Barrett's esophagus will go on to develop esophageal cancer, although a recent study found the detection of three different genetic abnormalities was associated with as much as a 79% chance of developing cancer in six years.Endoscopic mucosal resection has also been evaluated as a management technique. Additionally an operation known as a Nissen fundoplication can reduce the reflux of acid from the stomach into the esophagus.In a variety of studies, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) such as low-dose aspirin (75–300 mg/day) have shown evidence of preventing esophageal cancer in people with Barrett's esophagus. 
Is routine dissection of the station 9 lymph nodes really necessary for primary lung cancer? [SEP] Lymph nodes are important for the proper functioning of the immune system, acting as filters for foreign particles including cancer cells, but have no detoxification function. The condition of lymph nodes is very important in cancer staging, which decides the treatment to be used and determines the prognosis. A biopsy of a lymph node may also be needed. Cancer
Lymph nodes can be affected by both primary cancers of lymph tissue, and secondary cancers affecting other parts of the body. Lymph node involvement is often a key part in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer, acting as "sentinels" of local disease, incorporated into TNM staging and other cancer staging systems. As part of the investigations or workup for cancer, lymph nodes may be imaged or even surgically removed. If removed, the lymph node will be stained and examined under a microscope by a pathologist to determine if there is evidence of cells that appear cancerous (i.e. The staging of the cancer, and therefore the treatment approach and prognosis, is predicated on the presence of node metastases. 
Cutaneous melanoma in a multiethnic population: is this a different disease? [SEP] Melanoma, also redundantly known as malignant melanoma, is a type of skin cancer that develops from the pigment-producing cells known as melanocytes. Australia and New Zealand have the highest rates of melanoma in the world. Melanoma has become more common since the 1960s in areas mostly populated by people of European descent. Melanoma can also occur in skin areas with little sun exposure (i.e. Melanoma rates tend to be highest in countries settled by migrants from Northern Europe which have a large amount of direct, intense sunlight to which the skin of the settlers is not adapted, most notably Australia. A family history could indicate a genetic predisposition to melanoma. Australia
Australia has a very high – and increasing – rate of melanoma. Australian melanoma incidence is, by some margin, the highest in the world. 
Marital status, living arrangement and mortality: does the association vary by gender? [SEP] Health and income
Marriages are correlated with better outcomes for the couple and their children, including higher income for men, better health and lower mortality. Health
Marriage, like other close relationships, exerts considerable influence on health. Married people experience lower morbidity and mortality across such diverse health threats as cancer, heart attacks, and surgery. Simply being married, as well as the quality of one's marriage, have been linked to diverse measures of health.The health-protective effect of marriage is stronger for men than women. Marital status—the simple fact of being married—confers more health benefits to men than women.Women's health is more strongly impacted than men's by marital conflict or satisfaction, such that unhappily married women do not enjoy better health relative to their single counterparts. Among European men, non-communicable diseases, such as cancer, cardiovascular diseases, respiratory illnesses, and diabetes, account for the vast majority of deaths of men aged 30–59 in Europe which are often linked to unhealthy diets, stress, substance abuse, and other habits, which the report connects to behaviors often stereotypically seen as masculine behaviors like heavy drinking and smoking. The differences in life expectancy are partly due to inherent biological advantages, but also reflect behavioral differences between men and women. Male education and health are more of a priority, so women's death rates are increasing. 
Does somatostatin confer insulinostatic effects of neuromedin u in the rat pancreas? [SEP] Somatostatin, also known as  growth hormone-inhibiting hormone (GHIH) or by several other names, is a peptide hormone that regulates the endocrine system and affects neurotransmission and cell proliferation via interaction with G protein-coupled somatostatin receptors and inhibition of the release of numerous secondary hormones. Somatostatin inhibits insulin and glucagon secretion.Somatostatin has two active forms produced by the alternative cleavage of a single preproprotein: one consisting of 14 amino acids (shown in infobox to right), the other consisting of 28 amino acids.Among the vertebrates, there exist six different somatostatin genes that have been named SS1, SS2, SS3, SS4, SS5 and SS6. Somatostatin can also indirectly decrease stomach acid production by preventing the release of other hormones, including gastrin and histamine which effectively slows down the digestive process. The somatostatin neurons in the periventricular nucleus mediate negative feedback effects of growth hormone on its own release; the somatostatin neurons respond to high circulating concentrations of growth hormone and somatomedins by increasing the release of somatostatin, so reducing the rate of secretion of growth hormone.Somatostatin is also produced by several other populations that project centrally, i.e., to other areas of the brain, and somatostatin receptors are expressed at many different sites in the brain. Somatostatin release is inhibited by the Vagus nerve. Anterior pituitary
In the anterior pituitary gland, the effects of somatostatin are:

Inhibiting the release of growth hormone (GH) (thus opposing the effects of growth hormone–releasing hormone (GHRH))
Inhibiting the release of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH)
Inhibiting adenylyl cyclase in parietal cells
Inhibiting the release of prolactin (PRL)

Gastrointestinal system
Somatostatin is homologous with cortistatin (see somatostatin family) and suppresses the release of gastrointestinal hormones
Decreases the rate of gastric emptying, and reduces smooth muscle contractions and blood flow within the intestine
Suppresses the release of pancreatic hormones
Somatostatin release is triggered by the beta cell peptide urocortin3 (Ucn3) to inhibit insulin release. Delta cells in the islet also secrete somatostatin which decreases the release of insulin and glucagon.Glucagon acts to increase glucose levels by promoting the creation of glucose and the breakdown of glycogen to glucose in the liver. Somatostatin acts as an inhibitor of both insulin and glucagon. 
Kell alloimmunization in pregnancy: associated with fetal thrombocytopenia? [SEP] It is possible for a newborn with this disease to have neutropenia and neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia as well. Anti-Kell hemolytic disease of the newborn is most commonly caused by anti-K1 antibodies, the second most common form of severe HDN. Hemolytic disease of the newborn (anti-Kell1) is the second most common cause of severe hemolytic disease of the newborn (HDN) after Rh disease. Hemolytic disease of the newborn (anti-Kell1) is caused by a mismatch between the Kell antigens of the mother and fetus. Over half of the cases of hemolytic disease of the newborn owing the anti-Kell antibodies are caused by multiple blood transfusions, with the remainder due to a previous pregnancy with a Kell1 positive baby. anti-Kell2, anti-Kell3 and anti-Kell4 antibodiesHemolytic disease of the newborn can also be caused by anti-Kell2, anti-Kell3 and anti-Kell4 IgG antibodies. "Female alloimmunization with antibodies known to cause hemolytic disease". "Decreased fetal erythropoiesis and hemolysis in Kell hemolytic anemia". 
Application of computer-aided diagnosis (CAD) in MR-mammography (MRM): do we really need whole lesion time curve distribution analysis? [SEP] The following facts have a strong influence:

Retrospective or prospective design
Quality of the used images
Condition of the x-ray examination
Radiologist's experience and education
Type of lesion
Size of the considered lesion

Challenges that CAD in Medicine Faces Today
Despite the many developments that CAD has achieved since the dawn of computers, there are still certain challenges that CAD systems face today.Some challenges are related to various algorithmic limitations in the procedures of a CAD system including input data collection, preprocessing, processing and system assessments. Breast cancer
CAD is used in screening mammography (X-ray examination of the female breast). A 2008 systematic review on computer-aided detection in screening mammography concluded that CAD does not have a significant effect on cancer detection rate, but does undesirably increase recall rate (i.e. However, it noted considerable heterogeneity in the impact on recall rate across studies.Recent advances in machine learning, deep-learning and artificial intelligence technology have enabled the development of CAD systems that are clinically proven to assist radiologists in addressing the challenges of reading mammographic images by improving cancer detection rates and reducing false positives and unnecessary patient recalls, while significantly decreasing reading times.Procedures to evaluate mammography based on magnetic resonance imaging exist too. Commercial CADx systems for the diagnosis of bone metastases in whole-body bone scans and coronary artery disease in myocardial perfusion images exist.With a high sensitivity and an acceptable false lesions detection rate, computer-aided automatic lesion detection system is demonstrated as useful and will probably in the future be able to help nuclear medicine physicians to identify possible bone lesions. The European Commission's Scientific Advice Mechanism recommends that MRI scans are used in place of mammography for women with dense breast tissue.The presumption was that by detecting cancer in an earlier stage, women will be more likely to be cured by treatment. Because of the importance of breast density as a risk indicator and as a measure of diagnostic accuracy, automated methods have been developed to facilitate assessment and reporting for mammography, and tomosynthesis. Breast MRI is not a perfect tool despite its increased sensitivity for detecting breast cancer masses when compared to mammography. 
Vaccine protection in the elderly: are Austrian seniors adequately protected by vaccinations? [SEP] The extensive testing found younger and less sick people more often: their median age was given as 47 or 45 years, whereas Italy tested older and sicker people at a median of 63 years. The elderly in Germany often do not live in the same household as their extended family and this has reduced the number of infections. Following the approval of the first COVID-19 vaccines in the European Union, free and voluntary vaccination against the disease began in Hungary on 26 December 2020. People aged under 65 acquire insurance via their or a family member's employer, by purchasing health insurance on their own, getting government and/or other assistance based on income or another condition, or are uninsured. In addition, older adults are more likely than those in younger age groups to have medical conditions, such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease, that worsen their oral health. 27 December: MOH announced that healthcare and frontline workers will be vaccinated first starting from 30 December, followed by the elderly aged 70 and above from February 2021 and other Singaporean citizens and permanent residents thereafter, as per the approved recommendations of the Expert Committee on COVID-19 vaccination. 26 April
At the start of World Immunization Week, UNICEF warned that millions of children were in danger of missing life-saving vaccines against measles, diphtheria and polio due to disruptions in immunization as the world attempted to slow the transmission of COVID-19. Meanwhile, Italy's ReiThera, Germany's Leukocare and Belgium's Univercell have confirmed they are working together on developing a trial vaccine within the next few months.Oran Finnegan, the head of the International Committee of the Red Cross' forensic unit, has advised international governments to prepare and plan for mass casualties resulting from the coronavirus, warning that the rising death toll could overwhelm the local capacity to handle the amount of dead bodies.The UEFA Champions League has postponed the UEFA Women's Euro 2021 to July 2022.The World Health Organization Europe Director Dr Hans Kluge has reported that up to half of all coronavirus fatalities in Europe have occurred within nursing homes, showing that the pandemic has disproportionately affected the elderly. 
Vitamin D supplementation and regulatory T cells in apparently healthy subjects: vitamin D treatment for autoimmune diseases? [SEP] Pathogenesis of autoimmunity
Several mechanisms are thought to be operative in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases, against a backdrop of genetic predisposition and environmental modulation. Although this route to autoimmune disease may underlie various degenerative disease states, no diagnostics for this disease mechanism exist at present, and thus its role in human autoimmunity is currently unknown.The roles of specialized immunoregulatory cell types, such as regulatory T cells, NKT cells, γδ T-cells in the pathogenesis of autoimmune disease are under investigation. Managing inflammation is critical in autoimmune diseases. Nutrition and autoimmunity
Vitamin D/Sunlight

Because most human cells and tissues have receptors for vitamin D, including T and B cells, adequate levels of vitamin D can aid in the regulation of the immune system. Vitamin D plays a role in immune function by acting on T cells and natural killer cells. Research has demonstrated an association between low serum vitamin D and autoimmune diseases, including multiple sclerosis, type 1 diabetes, and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (commonly referred to simply as lupus). Polymorphisms in the vitamin D receptor gene are commonly found in people with autoimmune diseases, giving one potential mechanism for vitamin D's role in autoimmunity. There is mixed evidence on the effect of vitamin D supplementation in type 1 diabetes, lupus, and multiple sclerosis. 
Gynecological cancer alarm symptoms: is contact with specialist care associated with lifestyle and socioeconomic status? [SEP] Gynecologic oncology is a specialized field of medicine that focuses on cancers of the female reproductive system, including ovarian cancer, uterine cancer, vaginal cancer, cervical cancer, and vulvar cancer. In the United States, 82,000 women are diagnosed with gynecologic cancer annually. In 2013, an estimated 91,730 were diagnosed.There is low quality evidence which demonstrates women with gynaecological cancer receiving treatment from specialized centres benefit from longer survival than those managed in standard care. The most common symptoms across all gynecological cancers are abnormal vaginal bleeding, vaginal discharge, pelvic pain and urination difficulties. Partners may also be affected by these changes in the relationship, especially with regards to intimacy and sexuality, which may in turn affect gynecological cancer patients by creating a perception of adverse relationship outcomes such as emotional distance or lack of interest. Women with high risk of ovarian cancer that are currently identified based on family history and genetic testing may benefit from screening. Management
Once it is determined that ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer is present, treatment is scheduled by a gynecologic oncologist (a physician trained to treat cancers of a woman's reproductive system). Psychosocial care
Ovarian cancer has a significant effect on quality of life, psychological health and well-being. 
Does elective re-siting of intravenous cannulae decrease peripheral thrombophlebitis? [SEP] A variety of cannulas are used to establish cardiopulmonary bypass in cardiac surgery. Intravenous (IV) cannulation
A venous cannula is inserted into a vein, primarily for the administration of intravenous fluids, for obtaining blood samples and for administering medicines. Use of a vapocoolant (cold spray) immediately before cannulation reduces pain during the procedure, without increasing the difficulty of cannulation.Complications may arise in the vein as a result of the cannulation procedure, the four main groups of complication are:

hematoma: a collection of blood, which can result from failure to puncture the vein when the cannula is inserted or when the cannula is removed. A thromboembolism can be avoided by using a smaller cannula. In cases where a patient is likely to receive many such interventions in a short period (with consequent risk of trauma to the vein), normal practice is to insert a cannula which leaves one end in the vein, and subsequent therapies can be administered easily through tubing at the other end. a central line versus peripheral line, and in which vein the line is placed) can be affected by the potential for some medications to cause peripheral vasoconstriction, which limits circulation to peripheral veins.A peripheral cannula is the most common intravenous access method utilized in hospitals, pre-hospital care, and outpatient medicine. Using this cannula to administer medications causes extravasation of the drug, which can lead to edema, causing pain and tissue damage, and even necrosis depending on the medication. If placed with proper aseptic technique, it is not recommended to change a peripheral IV line more frequently than every 72–96 hours.Phlebitis is particularly common in intravenous drug users, and those undergoing chemotherapy, whose veins can become sclerotic and difficult to access over time, sometimes forming a hard, painful “venous cord”. 
Can third trimester ultrasound predict the presentation of the first twin at delivery? [SEP] Ultrasound
Obstetric ultrasonography can detect fetal abnormalities, detect multiple pregnancies, and improve gestational dating at 24 weeks. This will help with delivering the second twin vaginally. First trimester
At early presentation of pregnancy at around 6 weeks, early dating ultrasound scan may be offered to help confirm the gestational age of the embryo and check for a single or twin pregnancy, but such a scan is unable to detect common abnormalities. For example, studies show that a detailed 2nd-trimester ultrasound, also called a level 2 ultrasound, can detect about 97% of neural tube defects such as spina bifida. Many maternal-fetal specialists do not bother to even do an AFP test on their patients because they do a detail ultrasound on all of them in the 2nd trimester, which has a 97% detection rate for neural tube defects such as anencephaly and open spina bifida. When the first twin is not head down, a caesarean section is often recommended. When the first twin is not head down at the point of labor starting, a caesarean section should be recommended. Although the second twin typically has a higher frequency of problems, it is not known if a planned caesarean section affects this. 
Risk factors for major depression during midlife among a community sample of women with and without prior major depression: are they the same or different? [SEP] The VOXEU analysis of happiness showed the principal determinants of an adult's life satisfaction to be income, parenting, family break up, mother's mental health and schooling. They are first and foremost diagnosed depression/anxiety, which explains twice as much as the next factor, physical health (number of medical conditions), that explains just as much variance in subjective well-being between people, as income and whether someone is partnered. : 257–259

In midlife
The midlife crisis may mark the first reliable drop in happiness during an average human's life. Researchers also suggest depression in the elderly is often due largely to passivity and inaction – they recommend people continue to undertake activities that bring happiness, even in old age.The activity restriction model of depressed affect suggests that stressors that disrupt traditional activities of daily life can lead to a decrease in mental health. In relation with depression and languishing
A study by Keyes found that there are major costs of depression, which 14% of adults experience annually: it impairs social roles; it costs billions each year due to work absenteeism, diminished productivity, and healthcare costs; finally, depression accounts for at least one-third of suicides. One study found that women in urban America were much more likely to experience depression than those in rural Nigeria. In 2019, 80 percent of Canadian adults self-reported having at least one major risk factor for chronic disease; smoking, physical inactivity, unhealthy eating or excessive alcohol use. Mental health
Estrogen is considered to play a significant role in women's mental health. 
Totally implantable venous access device placement by interventional radiologists: are prophylactic antibiotics necessary? [SEP] Implantation is increasingly performed by interventional radiologists due to advancements in techniques and their facile use of imaging technologies. Catheter-related bloodstream infections
All catheters can introduce bacteria into the bloodstream. Evidence suggests that there may not be any benefit associated with giving antibiotics before a long-term central venous catherter is inserted in cancer patients and this practice may not prevent gram positive catheter-related infections. However, for people who require long-term central venous catheters who are at a higher risk of infection, for example, people with cancer who at are risk of neutropenia due to their chemotherapy treatment or due to the disease, flushing the catheter with a solution containing an antibiotic and heparin may reduce catheter-related infections.In a clinical practice guideline, the American Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends against routine culturing of central venous lines upon their removal. Sterile gloves are required for CVC
Full body sterile drapes, cap, mask, gloves are required for placement of CVCs
The catheter site should be monitored visually and with palpation (through dressing) on a regular basis to assess for infection. These CVCs have a low infection rate due to a Dacron cuff, an antimicrobial cuff surrounding the catheter near the entry site, which is coated in antimicrobial solution and holds the catheter in place after two to three weeks of insertion. Complications
Most common complications with venous access are catheter related infections, thrombophlebitis and venous thrombosis. References
External links
Venous access, Society for Vascular Surgery 
Starting insulin in type 2 diabetes: continue oral hypoglycemic agents? [SEP] Effects of early routine use
Early initiation of insulin therapy for the long-term management of conditions such as type 2 diabetes would suggest that the use of insulin has unique benefits, however, with insulin therapy, there is a need to gradually raise the dose and the complexity of the regimen, as well as the likelihood of developing severe hypoglycemia which is why many people and their doctors are hesitant to begin insulin therapy in the early stage of disease management. Many obstacles associated with health behaviors also prevent people with type 2 diabetes mellitus from starting or intensifying their insulin treatment, including lack of motivation, lack of familiarity with or experience with treatments, and time restraints causing people to have high glycemic loads for extended periods of time prior to starting insulin therapy. This is why managing the side effects associated with long-term early routine use of insulin for type 2 diabetes mellitus can prove to be a therapeutic and behavioral challenge. Combination with other antidiabetic drugs
A combination therapy of insulin and other antidiabetic drugs appears to be most beneficial in people who are diabetic, who still have residual insulin secretory capacity. A combination of insulin therapy and sulfonylurea is more effective than insulin alone in treating people with type 2 diabetes after secondary failure to oral drugs, leading to better glucose profiles and/or decreased insulin needs. Diabetes medications, like insulin, sulfonylureas, and biguanides can also be adjusted or stopped to prevent hypoglycemia. See also: Insulin; oral hypoglycemic agents. First-line pharmacotherapy for type 2 diabetes mellitus. 
Clinical identifiers for early-stage primary/idiopathic adhesive capsulitis: are we seeing the real picture? [SEP] Causes
The causes of adhesive capsulitis are incompletely understood; however, there are several factors associated with higher risk. Risk factors for secondary adhesive capsulitis include injury or surgery leading to prolonged immobility. Risk factors for primary, or idiopathic adhesive capsulitis include many systemic diseases, such as COVID-19, diabetes mellitus, stroke, lung disease, connective tissue diseases, thyroid disease, heart disease, autoimmune disease, and Dupuytren's contracture. Primary
Primary adhesive capsulitis, also known as idiopathic adhesive capsulitis, occurs with no known trigger. Diagnosis
Adhesive capsulitis can be diagnosed by history and physical exam. On physical exam, adhesive capsulitis can be diagnosed if limits of the active range of motion are the same or similar to the limits to the passive range of motion. Radiographs will often be normal, but imaging features of adhesive capsulitis can be seen on ultrasound or non-contrast MRI. Prognosis
Most cases of adhesive capsulitis are self limiting, but may take 1 to 3 years to fully resolve. 
Does delaying surgery in immature adolescent idiopathic scoliosis patients with progressive curve, lead to addition of fusion levels? [SEP] Research suggests that Posterior Spinal Fusion (PSF) can be used to correct the more severe deformities caused by adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. Incidence of idiopathic scoliosis (IS) stops after puberty when skeletal maturity is reached, however, further curvature may proceed during late adulthood due to vertebral osteoporosis and weakened musculature. Questions and Answers about Scoliosis in Children and Adolescents – US National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases Pedicle screws achieve better fixation of the vertebral column and have better biomechanical properties than previous techniques, so enabling greater correction of the curve in all planes.Pedicle screw-only posterior spinal fusion may improve major curve correction at two years among patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) as compared to hybrid instrumentation (proximal hooks with distal pedicle screws) (65% versus 46%) according to a retrospective, matched-cohort study. Surgery without fusion for growing children
Implants that aim to delay spinal fusion and to allow more spinal growth in young children is the gold standard for surgical treatment of early onset scoliosis. Research suggests that Posterior Spinal Fusion (PSF) can be used to correct the more severe deformities caused by adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. Incidence of idiopathic scoliosis (IS) stops after puberty when skeletal maturity is reached, however, further curvature may proceed during late adulthood due to vertebral osteoporosis and weakened musculature. Questions and Answers about Scoliosis in Children and Adolescents – US National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases 
Bactericidal activity of 3 cutaneous/mucosal antiseptic solutions in the presence of interfering substances: Improvement of the NF EN 13727 European Standard? [SEP] Bactericides are disinfectants, antiseptics, or antibiotics. Antiseptics
As antiseptics (i.e., germicide agents that can be used on human or animal body, skin, mucoses, wounds and the like), few of the above-mentioned disinfectants can be used, under proper conditions (mainly concentration, pH, temperature and toxicity toward humans and animals). Dakin's solution, 0.5% sodium or potassium hypochlorite solution, pH-adjusted to pH 7 – 8, or 0.5 – 1% solution of sodium benzenesulfochloramide (chloramine B)), some
iodine preparations, such as iodopovidone in various galenics (ointment, solutions, wound plasters), in the past also Lugol's solution,
peroxides such as urea perhydrate solutions and pH-buffered 0.1 – 0.25% peracetic acid solutions,
alcohols with or without antiseptic additives, used mainly for skin antisepsis,
weak organic acids such as sorbic acid, benzoic acid, lactic acid and salicylic acid
some phenolic compounds, such as hexachlorophene, triclosan and Dibromol, and
cationic surfactants, such as 0.05 – 0.5% benzalkonium, 0.5 – 4% chlorhexidine, 0.1 – 2% octenidine solutions.Others are generally not applicable as safe antiseptics, either because of their corrosive or toxic nature. Also bactericidal are daptomycin, fluoroquinolones, metronidazole, nitrofurantoin, co-trimoxazole, telithromycin. Mechanisms of action
Aminoglycosides display concentration-dependent bactericidal activity against "most gram-negative aerobic and facultative anaerobic bacilli" but not against gram-negative anaerobes and most gram-positive bacteria. References
External links
MedlinePlus drug information - Aminoglycosides (Systemic)
Science Daily Bacterial 'Battle for Survival' - Rhodostreptomycin The latter is used for skin disinfection and cleaning surgical instruments. See also
Actinonin
Henry Jacques Garrigues, introduced antiseptic obstetrics to North America
NASLA (Nanostructured Anti-septical Coatings) Project

References
External links
"Antiseptic" . 
Empiric treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infection with fluoroquinolones in older women in Israel: another lost treatment option? [SEP] As symptoms can be vague and without reliable tests for urinary tract infections, diagnosis can be difficult in the elderly. Medical uses
Fluoroquinolones are often used for genitourinary infections and are widely used in the treatment of hospital-acquired infections associated with urinary catheters. Fluoroquinolone use in children may be appropriate when the infection is caused by multidrug-resistant bacteria, or when alternative treatment options require parenteral administration and oral therapy is preferred. The Drug-Resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae Working Group recommends fluoroquinolones be used for the ambulatory treatment of community-acquired pneumonia only after other antibiotic classes have been tried and failed, or in cases with demonstrated drug-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae.Resistance to quinolones can evolve rapidly, even during a course of treatment. The advisory committee concluded that the serious risks associated with the use of fluoroquinolones for these types of uncomplicated infections generally outweighed the benefits for patients with other treatment options. Ciprofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibiotic used to treat a number of bacterial infections. It also features prominently in treatment guidelines for acute pyelonephritis, complicated or hospital-acquired urinary tract infection, acute or chronic prostatitis, certain types of endocarditis, certain skin infections, and prosthetic joint infections.In other cases, treatment guidelines are more restrictive, recommending in most cases that older, narrower-spectrum drugs be used as first-line therapy for less severe infections to minimize fluoroquinolone-resistance development. For example, the Infectious Diseases Society of America recommends the use of ciprofloxacin and other fluoroquinolones in urinary tract infections be reserved to cases of proven or expected resistance to narrower-spectrum drugs such as nitrofurantoin or trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole. 
Do risk calculators accurately predict surgical site occurrences? [SEP] There is also an increased risk of mortality associated with hip surgery, with the mean average mortality rate for Europe being 23.3%, for Asia 17.9%, United States 21% and Australia 24.9%.Fracture risk calculators assess the risk of fracture based upon several criteria, including bone mineral density, age, smoking, alcohol usage, weight, and gender. There are risks in addition to cataract procedural risks. As with any type of surgery, some level of risk remains. 88.76% were within one diopter of target refraction and 62.36% within 0.50 dioptres.In a 2009 study in Sweden, factors that affected predicted refraction error included sex, preoperative visual acuity, and glaucoma, and other eye diseases. Both for cancer progression outcomes and surgical side effects, the skill and experience of the individual surgeon doing the procedure are among the greatest determinants of success. Predict Prostate is endorsed for use as a decision aid for prostate cancer by the UK National Institute for Health and Care Excellence No evidence shows that either surgery or beam radiation has an advantage over the other in this regard. Classification systems
Several tools are available to help predict outcomes, such as pathologic stage and recurrence after surgery or radiation therapy. The UCSF Cancer of the Prostate Risk Assessment (CAPRA) score predicts both pathologic status and recurrence after surgery. 
Can EMS Providers Provide Appropriate Tidal Volumes in a Simulated Adult-sized Patient with a Pediatric-sized Bag-Valve-Mask? [SEP] Underscoring the frequency and prominence of BVM use in the United States, the American Heart Association (AHA) Guidelines for Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation and Emergency Cardiac Care recommend that "all healthcare providers should be familiar with the use of the bag-mask device." However, manual resuscitator devices also can be connected to a separate bag reservoir, which can be filled with pure oxygen from a compressed oxygen source, thus increasing the amount of oxygen delivered to the patient to nearly 100%.Bag valve masks come in different sizes to fit infants, children, and adults. In order to be effective, a bag valve mask must deliver between 500 and 600 milliliters of air to a normal male adult patient's lungs, but if supplemental oxygen is provided 400 ml may still be adequate. Squeezing the bag once every 5 to 6 seconds for an adult or once every 3 seconds for an infant or child provides an adequate respiratory rate (10–12 respirations per minute in an adult and 20 per minute in a child or infant).Professional rescuers are taught to ensure that the mask portion of the BVM is properly sealed around the patient's face (that is, to ensure proper "mask seal"); otherwise, pressure needed to force-inflate the lungs is released to the environment. Inability of professional providers to use manual resuscitators within established safety guidelines
Manual resuscitators have no built-in tidal volume control — the amount of air used to force-inflate the lungs during each breath depends entirely on how much the operator squeezes the bag. In response to the dangers associated with the use of manual resuscitators, specific guidelines from the American Heart Association and European Resuscitation Council were issued that specify recommended maximal tidal volumes (or breath sizes) and ventilation rates safe for patients. Another clinical study found "the tidal volume delivered by a manual resuscitator shows large variations", concluding that "the manual resuscitator is not a suitable device for accurate ventilation." A further examination has recently been made to assess whether a solution to the over-ventilation problem may lie with the use of pediatric-sized manual resuscitators in adults or use of more advanced flow-inflation (or "Mapleson C") versions of manual resuscitators: while "the paediatric self-inflating bag delivered the most guideline-consistent ventilation", it did not lead to full guideline compliance as "participants hyperventilated patients' lungs in simulated cardiac arrest with all three devices." 
Can students' scores on preclerkship clinical performance examinations predict that they will fail a senior clinical performance examination? [SEP] is the basis for all Irish pupils who wish to do so to advance to higher education via a points system. All higher education courses have a minimum of points needed for admission.At Trinity College, Dublin under-graduate students are formally called "junior freshmen", "senior freshmen", "junior sophister" or "senior sophister", according to the year they have reached in the typical four year degree course. The first two years are known as the preclerkship curriculum, during which M.D. The principles of medical ethics, professionalism and medical jurisprudence are also taught in preclerkship. Medical curriculum
TCOM's medical curriculum consists of two years of pre-clinical studies and two years of clinical rotations. Pharmacy Practice Skills Laboratories in Years 1 and 2 focus on medication preparation, patient interviewing and assessment, and professional communication skills. (See Longevity and clinical performance.) (See Longevity and clinical performance, below.) 
Recovery Outcome Measures: Is There a Place for Culture, Attitudes, and Faith? [SEP] Major empirical findings
Hope, and more specifically, particularized hope, has been shown to be an important part of the recovery process from illness; it has strong psychological benefits for patients, helping them to cope more effectively with their disease. Benefits
The impact that hope can have on a patient's recovery process is strongly supported through both empirical research and theoretical approaches. Recovery. Resilience scales that focus on recovery, such as engineering resilience, align with reports of stability in emotional and health systems. heart rate and the like.Forgiveness is also said to play a role in predicting resilience, among patients with chronic pain (but not the severity of the pain). Cross-cultural resilience
Areas of difference
There is controversy about the indicators of good psychological and social development when resilience is studied across different cultures and contexts. Researchers of indigenous health have shown the impact of culture, history, community values, and geographical settings on resilience in indigenous communities. In some countries services are increasingly based on a recovery approach, intended to support individual's personal journey to gain the kind of life they want. 
Can surgeon familiarization with current evidence lead to a change in practice? [SEP] It is imperative that the surgeon be fully familiar with tissue handling and processing; and not simply rely on a trained technologist to perform his sectioning. The consulting surgeon on the repeat surgery may not inform the first surgeon of the recurrence. Poor training of the surgeon/pathologist/histotechnologist. Originally, surgeons learned the procedure by spending a few hours to several months with Mohs or during their residencies. It is highly encouraged that a physician interested in learning Mohs surgery should spend extended time observing, cutting, processing, and staining Mohs specimens. When the two year mandatory clinical training is completed, another 3-4 years of training is needed to focus more on surgical procedures which is especially for forensic pathologists. After surgery, the degree of stabilization, pain reduction, and people's satisfaction can improve, but surgery does not guarantee an optimal result; affected peoples and surgeons report being dissatisfied with the results. He was receiving training as a flight surgeon at the time of his death. 
Advanced epithelial ovarian carcinoma in Thai women: should we continue to offer second-look laparotomy? [SEP] 75% of women with epithelial ovarian cancer are found within the advanced-stages; however younger patients are more likely to have better prognoses than older patients. A diagnosis of ovarian cancer is confirmed through a biopsy of tissue, usually removed during surgery.Screening is not recommended in women who are at average risk, as evidence does not support a reduction in death and the high rate of false positive tests may lead to unneeded surgery, which is accompanied by its own risks. High grade serous carcinoma accounts for 75% of all epithelial ovarian cancer. Staging
Ovarian cancer is staged using the FIGO staging system and uses information obtained after surgery, which can include a total abdominal hysterectomy via midline laparotomy, removal of (usually) both ovaries and Fallopian tubes, (usually) the omentum, pelvic (peritoneal) washings, assessment of retroperitoneal lymph nodes (including the pelvic and para-aortic lymph nodes), appendectomy in suspected mucinous tumors, and pelvic/peritoneal biopsies for cytopathology. Surgery outcomes are best at hospitals that do a large number of ovarian cancer surgeries.It is unclear if laparoscopy or laparotomy is better or worse for FIGO stage I ovarian cancer. More aggressive surgeries are associated with better outcomes in advanced (stage III or IV) ovarian cancer. For epithelial ovarian cancers, the most common test upon follow-up is CA-125 level. Ongoing research is also investigating the benefits of surgery for recurrent ovarian cancer. 
Is high-sensitivity C-reactive protein associated with carotid atherosclerosis in healthy Koreans? [SEP] Cardiovascular disease
Recent research suggests that patients with elevated basal levels of CRP are at an increased risk of diabetes, hypertension and cardiovascular disease. CRP is a general marker for inflammation and infection, so it can be used as a very rough proxy for heart disease risk. Currently, C-reactive protein is not recommended as a cardiovascular disease screening test for average-risk adults without symptoms.The American Heart Association and U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have defined risk groups as follows:
Low Risk: less than 1.0 mg/L
Average risk: 1.0 to 3.0 mg/L
High risk: above 3.0 mg/LBut hs-CRP is not to be used alone and should be combined with elevated levels of cholesterol, LDL-C, triglycerides, and glucose level. CRP level is an independent risk factor for atherosclerotic disease. Elevated levels of CRP appear to be associated with common comorbidities including cardiovascular disease, metabolic syndrome, diabetes and interstitial lung (pulmonary) disease. Additional images
References
External links
MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: C-reactive protein
Inflammation, Heart Disease and Stroke: The Role of C-Reactive Protein (American Heart Association)
C-Reactive+Protein at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)
CRP: analyte monograph - The Association for Clinical Biochemistry and Laboratory Medicine
George Vrousgos, N.D. - Southern Cross University Archived 2020-02-18 at the Wayback Machine
Human CRP genome location and CRP gene details page  in the UCSC Genome Browser. Other
High-sensitivity C-reactive protein has been developed and used as a marker to predict coronary vascular diseases in metabolic syndrome, and it was recently used as a predictor for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (steatohepatitis) in correlation with serum markers that indicated lipid and glucose metabolism. Carotid stenosis may occur in patients with atherosclerosis. 
Validation of the 2009 TNM version in a large multi-institutional cohort of patients treated for renal cell carcinoma: are further improvements needed? [SEP] The TNM Classification of Malignant Tumors (TNM) is a globally recognised standard for classifying the anatomical extent of the spread of malignant tumours (cancer). TNM is a notation system that describes the stage of a cancer, which originates from a solid tumor, using alphanumeric codes:

T describes the size of the original (primary) tumor and whether it has invaded nearby tissue,
N describes nearby (regional) lymph nodes that are involved,
M describes distant metastasis (spread of cancer from one part of the body to another).The TNM staging system for all solid tumors was devised by Pierre Denoix between 1943 and 1952, using the size and extension of the primary tumor, its lymphatic involvement, and the presence of metastases to classify the progression of cancer. General outline
The TNM classification comprises staging algorithms for almost all cancers, with the primary exception of pediatric cancers. Essential TNM
Essential TNM is a simplified form of TNM designed specifically to enable cancer registries in low and middle income countries to collect stage information when complete details of the extent of disease are not available for collection by the registry. The initial evaluation of non-small cell lung cancer staging uses the TNM classification. Their TNM system, which they now develop jointly, first classifies cancer by several factors, T for tumor, N for nodes, M for metastasis, and then groups these TNM factors into overall stages as shown in their table.AJCC has provided web accessible poster versions of these copyrighted TNM descriptors and stage groups, to which readers are directed for accurate, detailed, up to date information; additionally, both the National Cancer Institute (NCI) and the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN)  reprint these descriptors and grouping tables with AJCC permission, and extensively discuss staging modalities and treatment options, providing expert clear assistance in decisions about the best treatments. As in each edition of the TNM staging system, that used from 2010 January 1 (7 edition) made significant changes to the schema that is used for non-small cell lung carcinoma, small-cell lung carcinoma and broncho-pulmonary carcinoid tumors. Prostate cancer is typically staged using the American Joint Committee on Cancer's (AJCC) three-component TNM system, with scores assigned for the extent of the tumor (T), spread to any lymph nodes (N), and the presence of metastases (M). 
Are interstitial fluid concentrations of meropenem equivalent to plasma concentrations in critically ill patients receiving continuous renal replacement therapy? [SEP] Meropenem, sold under the brand name Merrem among others, is an intravenous β-lactam antibiotic used to treat a variety of bacterial infections. The World Health Organization classifies meropenem as critically important for human medicine. Meropenem is frequently given in the treatment of febrile neutropenia. Administration
Meropenem is administered intravenously as a white crystalline powder to be dissolved in 5% monobasic potassium phosphate solution. Dosing must be adjusted for altered kidney function and for haemofiltration.As with other β-lactams antibiotics, the effectiveness of treatment depends on the amount of time during the dosing interval that the meropenem concentration is above the minimum inhibitory concentration for the bacteria causing the infection. For β-lactams, including meropenem, prolonged intravenous administration is associated with lower mortality than bolus intravenous infusion in persons with whose infections are severe, or caused by bacteria that are less sensitive to meropenem, such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Meropenem has a reduced potential for seizures in comparison with imipenem. It attained 100% of meropenem serum concentrations above the minimum inhibitory concentration for at least 40% of the dosing interval. 
Does Sensation Return to the Nasal Tip After Microfat Grafting? [SEP] Sensation (psychology) refers to the processing of the senses by the sensory system. JUMP
"Sensation" (song), by The Who
"Sensations" (Alphaville song), a song by German band Alphaville
Sensation (album), by Anúna, released in 2006
The Sensations, an American musical R&B/pop quartet of the 1950s and early 1960s
Sensation (event), an indoor dance event which originated from the Netherlands
SENSATION (music project), a band and a label formed by the Malaysian-Chinese singer-songwriter Gary Chaw

Other uses in arts and entertainment
Sensation (art exhibition), a controversial British art exhibition

In science and technology
Aeroflying Sensation, a French ultralight aircraft
HTC Sensation, a HTC mobile phone
Sensation Science Centre, a science centre in Dundee, Scotland

Businesses
Sensation Animation, a subsidiary group of the Walt Disney Corporation
Sensation Lawn Mowers, a defunct manufacturer of lawn mowers and lawn equipment

Other uses
Sensation (mango), a mango cultivar that originated in south Florida
Sensation (ship), Carnival Cruise Line ship
Sensation, Arkansas, a ghost town
Sensation play (BDSM), a term in sexual culture
Walkers Sensations, a type of potato crisp
Vedana, the Buddhist concept of sensation

See also
Sense
Sensationalism
Sensory (disambiguation) He also worked at Woolworth's in Halesowen town for a short period of time. He nevertheless embarked on a successful solo career, helped by encouragement from Genesis drummer Phil Collins, who would go on to play with him. Fourteen years of speculation from their fans and occasional sniping between the two former members ended when they reconvened their former musical partnership to produce No Quarter. The album combines the results of both of these projects. Because, you know, I've still got a twinkle in my eye. I can still play. 
Do older men benefit from curative therapy of localized prostate cancer? [SEP] Radiation therapy
Radiation therapy, also known as radiotherapy, is often used to treat all stages of prostate cancer. In advanced stages of prostate cancer, radiation is used to treat painful bone metastases or reduce spinal cord compression. However, a recent retrospective study suggests that men under 60 with high grade prostate cancer have higher survival rates with surgery than with beam radiation. For men with advanced prostate cancer early hormonal treatment probably lowers the risk of dying from any cause, including dying from prostate cancer without severely affecting quality of life. Extensive disease
Palliative care for advanced-stage prostate cancer focuses on extending life and relieving the symptoms of metastatic disease. Since the expected harms relative to risk of death are perceived by patients as minimal, men found to have prostate cancer usually (up to 90% of cases) elect to receive treatment. 27  and prostate cancer: Ch. About two-thirds of men in these trials, who had advanced prostate cancer and were of almost invariably advanced age, maintained sexual interest, while sexual function was slightly reduced by 18%. 
Pituitary apoplexy: do histological features influence the clinical presentation and outcome? [SEP] Pituitary apoplexy is bleeding into or impaired blood supply of the pituitary gland. Signs and symptoms
Acute symptoms
The initial symptoms of pituitary apoplexy are related to the increased pressure in and around the pituitary gland. Causes
Almost all cases of pituitary apoplexy arise from a pituitary adenoma, a benign tumor of the pituitary gland. It was previously thought that particular types of pituitary tumors were more prone to apoplexy than others, but this has not been confirmed. Diagnosis
It is recommended that magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of the pituitary gland is performed if the diagnosis is suspected; this has a sensitivity of over 90% for detecting pituitary apoplexy; it may demonstrate infarction (tissue damage due to a decreased blood supply) or hemorrhage. In pituitary apoplexy the results are typically normal, although abnormalities may be detected if blood from the pituitary has entered the subarachnoid space. Even in people with a known pituitary tumor, only 0.6–10% experience apoplexy; the risk is higher in larger tumors. Based on extrapolations from existing data, one would expect 18 cases of pituitary apoplexy per one million people every year; the actual figure is probably lower.The average age at onset is 50; cases have reported in people between 15 and 90 years old. 
Do African American women require fewer calories to maintain weight? [SEP] Modifying portion sizes may impact energy intake. colorectal cancer), osteoarthritis, liver disease, sleep apnea, depression, and other medical conditions that affect mortality and morbidity.According to NHANES data, African American and Mexican American adolescents between 12 and 19 years old are more likely to be overweight than non-Hispanic White adolescents. Furthermore, minority households can be more prone to obesity because of cultural food preferences and family norms.White
The obesity rate for White adults 18 years and older (over 30 BMI) in the US in 2015 was 29.7%. Black or African American
The obesity rate for Black adults 18 years and older (over 30 BMI) in the US in 2015 was 39.8%. According to the obesity rates from the NHANES 2016 data, black males had significantly lower than black females, their rates were 36.9% and 54.8%, respectively. American perspective
Black and African American
Historically, identifying as African American has been considered a protective factor for body dissatisfaction. Those identifying as African American have been found to have a greater acceptance of larger body image ideals and less internalization of the thin ideal, and African American women have reported the lowest levels of body dissatisfaction among the five major racial/ethnic groups in the US.However, recent research contradicts these findings, indicating that African American women may exhibit levels of body dissatisfaction comparable to other racial/ethnic minority groups. In this way, just because those who identify as African American may not internalize the thin ideal as strongly as other racial and ethnic groups, it does not mean that they do not hold other appearance ideals that may promote body shape concerns. 
Emergency double-balloon enteroscopy combined with real-time viewing of capsule endoscopy: a feasible combined approach in acute overt-obscure gastrointestinal bleeding? [SEP] If the use of traction alone cannot stop the bleeding, the esophageal balloon is also inflated to help stop the bleeding. It is a temporary measure: ulceration and rupture of the esophagus and stomach are recognized complications.A related device with a larger gastric balloon capacity (about 500 ml), the Linton–Nachlas tube, is used for bleeding gastric varices. Capsule endoscopy is a medical procedure used to record internal images of the gastrointestinal tract for use in disease diagnosis. General advantages of capsule endoscopy over standard endoscopy include the minimally invasive procedure setup, ability to visualize more of the gastrointestinal tract, and lower cost of the procedure. Many new models such as the PillCam SB and DBE for obscure gastrointestinal bleeding, the Olympus CE for the small bowel, the PillCam ESO for investigation of esophageal diseases, and the PillCam COLON for detection of colonic neoplasias have been created.As research into capsule endoscopy has increased and technology has advanced better wireless and more energy-efficient systems have allowed for the creation of more compact capsules and image processing systems, with many in development today. Currently, within the United States, capsule endoscopy can not be used as a primary imaging method over standard endoscopy first. Capsule endoscopy is therefore used to examine parts of the gastrointestinal tract that cannot be seen by standard endoscopy. Side effects
Capsule endoscopy is considered to be a very safe method for gastrointestinal tract examination. 
Cardiopulmonary bypass temperature does not affect postoperative euthyroid sick syndrome? [SEP] Cooling more than a few degrees was no longer needed for heart surgery. Cardiopulmonary bypass machines allow blood circulation and cooling to continue below the temperature at which the heart stops working. By cooling blood directly, cardiopulmonary bypass also cools people faster than surface cooling, even if the heart is not functioning. Temperatures used
Mild hypothermia (32 °C to 34 °C) and moderate hypothermia (26 °C to  31 °C) are contraindicated for hypothermic circulatory arrest because 100% and 75% of people respectively will not achieve electrocerebral silence in these temperature ranges. Similar low temperatures are expected to be reached in emergency preservation and resuscitation (EPR) clinical trials described in the Research section of this article. Post-operative hyperthermia is associated with adverse outcomes. Complications
The use of hypothermia following cardiac arrest shows increased likelihood of survival. Examples of clinical situations that may prompt the initiation of ECMO include the following:
Hypoxemic respiratory failure with a ratio of arterial oxygen tension to fraction of inspired oxygen (PaO2/FiO2) of <100 mmHg despite optimization of the ventilator settings, including the fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2), positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP), and inspiratory to expiratory (I:E) ratio
Hypercapnic respiratory failure with an arterial pH <7.20
Refractory cardiogenic shock
Cardiac arrest
Failure to wean from cardiopulmonary bypass after cardiac surgery
As a bridge to either heart transplantation or placement of a ventricular assist device
As a bridge to lung transplantation
Septic shock is a more controversial but increasingly studied use of ECMO
Hypothermia, with a core temperature between 28 and 24 °C and cardiac instability, or with a core temperature below 24 °C.In those with cardiac arrest or cardiogenic shock, it appears to improve survival and good outcomes. 
Body dysmorphic disorder: does it have a psychotic subtype? [SEP] Delusional disorder is a mental illness in which a person has delusions, but with no accompanying prominent hallucinations, thought disorder, mood disorder, or significant flattening of affect. Delusions are a specific symptom of psychosis. The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) defines six subtypes of the disorder: erotomanic (belief that someone is in love with one), grandiose (belief that one is the greatest, strongest, fastest, richest, or most intelligent person ever), jealous (belief that one is being cheated on), persecutory (delusions that one or someone one is close to is being malevolently treated in some way), somatic (belief that one has a disease or medical condition), and mixed, i.e., having features of more than one subtype.Delusions also occur as symptoms of many other mental disorders, especially the other psychotic disorders. Delusions
Psychosis may involve delusional beliefs. In countries such as the United States where there exists a predominantly biomedical understanding of the body, the mind and in turn, mental health, subjects were found to report their hallucinations as having 'violent content' and self-describing as 'crazy'. Psychotic Disorders: Comprehensive Conceptualization and Treatments (1st ed.). A specifier was expanded (and added to body dysmorphic disorder and hoarding disorder) to allow for good or fair insight, poor insight, and "absent insight/delusional" (i.e., complete conviction that obsessive-compulsive disorder beliefs are true). Criteria were added to body dysmorphic disorder to describe repetitive behaviors or mental acts that may arise with perceived defects or flaws in physical appearance. 
Does receipt of hospice care in nursing homes improve the management of pain at the end of life? [SEP] Hospice care is a type of health care that focuses on the palliation of a terminally ill patient's pain and symptoms and attending to their emotional and spiritual needs at the end of life. Hospice care prioritizes comfort and quality of life by reducing pain and suffering. Although an important part of end-of-life care, palliative care is not limited to individuals near the end of life.Evidence supports the efficacy of a palliative care approach in improvement of a person's quality of life. Evidence that palliative care services increase the likelihood of dying at home and reduce symptom burden without impacting on caregiver grief among the vast majority of Americans who prefer to die at home. Medications are often managed at home by family or nursing support.Palliative care interventions in care homes may contribute to lower discomfort for residents with dementia and to improve family members' views of the quality of care. As aging populations put increasing pressure on existing resources, long-term palliative care for patients’ non-communicable, chronic conditions has emerged as a necessary approach to increase these patient’s quality of life, through prevention and relief by identifying, assessing, and treating the source of pain and other psychosocial and spiritual problems. Hospice care, which can be provided at home or in a long-term care facility, additionally provides emotional and spiritual support for the patient and loved ones. Additionally, in both of these studies, patients receiving hospice care had significantly lower healthcare expenditures.Hospice care allows patients to spend more time with family and friends. 
Fulfilling human resources development goal in West Africa: can the training of ophthalmologist diplomates be improved? [SEP] The most senior body of the UN with regard to human rights is the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. Established in 2001, the AU's purpose is to help secure Africa's democracy, human rights, and a sustainable economy, especially by bringing an end to intra-African conflict and creating an effective common market.The African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights (ACHPR) is a quasi-judicial organ of the African Union tasked with promoting and protecting human rights and collective (peoples') rights throughout the African continent as well as interpreting the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights and considering individual complaints of violations of the Charter. The commission has three broad areas of responsibility:
Promoting human and peoples' rights
Protecting human and peoples' rights
Interpreting the African Charter on Human and Peoples' RightsIn pursuit of these goals, the commission is mandated to "collect documents, undertake studies and researches on African problems in the field of human and peoples, rights, organise seminars, symposia and conferences, disseminate information, encourage national and local institutions concerned with human and peoples' rights and, should the case arise, give its views or make recommendations to governments" (Charter, Art. "Ships Passing in the Night: The Current State of the Human Rights and Development Debate seen through the Lens of the Millennium Development Goals". Human Rights: Promotion and Protection. Human Rights in International Relations. "Journalists’ Perceptions of Human Rights Reporting in Rwanda." Human resources can be defined in terms of skills, energy, talent, abilities, or knowledge.In a project management context, human resources are those employees responsible for undertaking the activities defined in the project plan. 
Does binge drinking during early pregnancy increase the risk of psychomotor deficits? [SEP] Pathophysiology
Chronic use of alcohol leads to changes in brain chemistry especially in the GABAergic system. This in turn leads to more profound withdrawal symptoms including anxiety, convulsions and neurotoxicity.Binge drinking is associated with increased impulsivity, impairments in spatial working memory and impaired emotional learning. Repeated periods of acute intoxication followed by acute detoxification has profound effects on the brain and is associated with an increased risk of seizures as well as cognitive deficits. The brain regions most sensitive to harm from binge drinking are the amygdala and prefrontal cortex.People in adolescence who experience repeated withdrawals from binge drinking show impairments of long-term nonverbal memory. Kindling may also be the reason for cognitive damage seen in binge drinkers. Cannabis consumption in pregnancy is associated with restrictions in growth of the fetus, miscarriage, and cognitive deficits in offspring. Although the majority of research has concentrated on the adverse effects of alcohol, there is now evidence that prenatal exposure to cannabis has serious effects on the developing brain and is associated with "deficits in language, attention, areas of cognitive performance, and delinquent behavior in adolescence". Using sophisticated technologies, scientists are now finding that exposure to cocaine during fetal development may lead to subtle, yet significant, later deficits in some children, including deficits in some aspects of cognitive performance, information-processing, and attention to tasks—abilities that are important for success in school. 
Does tranexamic acid reduce desmopressin-induced hyperfibrinolysis? [SEP] Tranexamic acid and aminocaproic acid inhibit fibrinolysis and lead to a de facto reduced bleeding rate. Tranexamic acid has roughly eight times the antifibrinolytic activity of an older analogue, ε-aminocaproic acid. Tranexamic acid is an antifibrinolytic medication.Tranexamic acid was first made in 1962 by Japanese researchers Shosuke and Utako Okamoto. Death due to postpartum bleeding is reduced in women receiving tranexamic acid. Experimental uses
Tranexamic acid might alleviate neuroinflammation in some experimental settings.Tranexamic acid can be used in case of postpartum hemorrhage; it can decrease the risk of death due to bleeding by one third according to the WHO. Despite this, and the inhibitory effect of tranexamic acid on blood clot breakdown, large studies of the use of tranexamic acid have not shown an increase in the risk of venous or arterial thrombosis, even in people who had previously experienced thrombosis under other circumstances. Tranexamic acid
Tranexamic acid helps promote blood clotting. Tranexamic acid and aminocaproic acid inhibit fibrinolysis and lead to a de facto reduced bleeding rate. 
Does ultrasound-scored synovitis depend on the pharmacokinetics of subcutaneous anti-TNF agents in patients with rheumatoid arthritis? [SEP] Color Doppler and power Doppler ultrasound are useful in assessing the degree of synovial inflammation as they can show vascular signals of active synovitis. Biological DMARD agents used to treat rheumatoid arthritis include: tumor necrosis factor alpha inhibitors (TNF inhibitors) such as infliximab; interleukin 1 blockers such as anakinra, monoclonal antibodies against B cells such as rituximab, interleukin 6 blockers such as tocilizumab, and T cell co-stimulation blockers such as abatacept. One meta-analysis found that vitamin D levels are low in people with rheumatoid arthritis and that vitamin D status correlates inversely with prevalence of rheumatoid arthritis, suggesting that vitamin D deficiency is associated with susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis.The fibroblast-like synoviocytes have a prominent role in the pathogenic processes of the rheumatic joints, and therapies that target these cells are emerging as promising therapeutic tools, raising hope for future applications in rheumatoid arthritis.Possible links with intestinal barrier dysfunction are investigated. Color Doppler and power Doppler ultrasound are useful in assessing the degree of synovial inflammation as they can show vascular signals of active synovitis. Biological DMARD agents used to treat rheumatoid arthritis include: tumor necrosis factor alpha inhibitors (TNF inhibitors) such as infliximab; interleukin 1 blockers such as anakinra, monoclonal antibodies against B cells such as rituximab, interleukin 6 blockers such as tocilizumab, and T cell co-stimulation blockers such as abatacept. One meta-analysis found that vitamin D levels are low in people with rheumatoid arthritis and that vitamin D status correlates inversely with prevalence of rheumatoid arthritis, suggesting that vitamin D deficiency is associated with susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis.The fibroblast-like synoviocytes have a prominent role in the pathogenic processes of the rheumatic joints, and therapies that target these cells are emerging as promising therapeutic tools, raising hope for future applications in rheumatoid arthritis.Possible links with intestinal barrier dysfunction are investigated. Color Doppler and power Doppler ultrasound are useful in assessing the degree of synovial inflammation as they can show vascular signals of active synovitis. Biological DMARD agents used to treat rheumatoid arthritis include: tumor necrosis factor alpha inhibitors (TNF inhibitors) such as infliximab; interleukin 1 blockers such as anakinra, monoclonal antibodies against B cells such as rituximab, interleukin 6 blockers such as tocilizumab, and T cell co-stimulation blockers such as abatacept. 
Counter sampling combined with medical provider education: do they alter prescribing behavior? [SEP] A survey of doctors in Senegal found that many doctors feel that their training and knowledge of benzodiazepines is, in general, poor; a study in Dakar found that almost one-fifth of doctors ignored prescribing guidelines regarding short-term use of benzodiazepines, and almost three-quarters of doctors regarded their training and knowledge of benzodiazepines to be inadequate. More training regarding benzodiazepines has been recommended for doctors. Over-prescription and doctor shopping
Health practitioners can prescribe drugs in a number of ways that inadvertently and unintentionally contribute to prescription drug abuse..: 29  They may inappropriately prescribe drugs due to influence by ill-informed, careless or deceptive patients or by succumbing to patient pressure..: 29 The American Medical Association describes four mechanism by which a physician becomes involved in overprescribing in its four-”Ds” model:

’’’Dated’’’: the physician is outdated regarding knowledge of pharmacology and the differential diagnosis and management of diseases. Prevention
Patients, healthcare providers, the government, pharmaceutical companies and a variety of stakeholders can contribute to the prevention of prescription drug misuse and its subsequent addiction. Regulations regarding drug prescription
In addition to existing controlled substance scheduling systems, mandatory prescriber registration, education and training, many governments launched various initiatives and regulations to minimize misuse of prescription drugs. Ensuring drug compliance
Pharmacists improve drug compliance by counselling patients on medication instructions, along with educating patients about potential side effects related to medications. These programs allow pharmacists and prescribers to access patients' prescription histories in order to identify suspicious use. However, a survey of US physicians published in 2015 found that only 53% of doctors used these programs, while 22% were not aware that the programs were available to them. 
Global Longitudinal Pathway: has medical education curriculum influenced medical students' skills and attitudes toward culturally diverse populations? [SEP] : p.14

Access to healthcare
Cognitive and structural barriers make it difficult to determine the medical service utilization rates and patterns of refugee children. : p.279  Language and cultural differences also complicate a refugee's understanding of mental illness and available healthcare. Culturally competent care
Culturally competent care exists when healthcare providers have received specialized training that helps them to identify the actual and potential cultural factors informing their interactions with refugee patients. : p.524  Culturally competent care tends to prioritize the social and cultural determinants contributing to health, but the traditional Western biomedical model of care often fails to acknowledge these determinants. : p.527 To provide culturally competent care to refugees, mental healthcare providers should demonstrate some understanding of the patient's background, and a sensitive commitment to relevant cultural manners (for example: privacy, gender dynamics, religious customs, and lack of language skills). : p.342  Adolescent ethnic minorities are less likely to access mental healthcare services than youth in the dominant cultural group. Lack of transportation: p.600 
A lack of public awareness and access to information about available resources: p.77 
An unfamiliarity with the host country's healthcare system, amplified by a shortage of government or community intervention in settlement services: p.600 Structural deterrents for healthcare professionals:

Heightened instances of mental health complications in refugee populations: p.47 
A lack of documented medical history, which makes comprehensive care difficult: p.49 
Time constraints: medical appointments are restricted to a small window of opportunity, making it difficult to connect and provide mental healthcare for refugees: p.93 
Complicated insurance plans, resulting in a delay in compensation for the healthcare provider: p.174

Health education
The World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts (WAGGGS) and Family Health International (FHI) have designed and piloted a peer-centered education program for adolescent refugee girls in Uganda, Zambia, and Egypt. ESL programs are also often subject to lack of stability in teachers and curriculum which hinders students' learning.A 2005 study by Yu Xie and Emily Greenman posited that assimilation and integration of refugee children positively impacts their education and development and that in non-poverty neighborhoods, assimilation is positively correlated with their academic achievement and mental well-being. 
Failed IUD insertions in community practice: an under-recognized problem? [SEP] Copper IUDs have a first year failure rate ranging from 0.1 to 2.2%. The use of intrauterine lidocaine (paracervical block) is underutilized in the United States as an effective method to reduce pain associated with insertion.IUD insertion can occur at multiple timepoints in a woman's reproductive lifespan:

interval insertion, the most common, occurs remote from pregnancy;
post-abortion or post-miscarriage insertion occurs following an abortion or miscarriage when the uterus is known to be empty;
postpartum insertion occurs after a woman gives birth either immediately, while the woman is still in the hospital, or delayed, up to 6-weeks following delivery, following either vaginal delivery or cesarean delivery. Insertion timing changes the risk of IUD expulsion. Procedure
During the insertion procedure, health care providers use a speculum to find the cervix (the opening to the uterus), pinch the cervix to stabilize it open with a tenaculum, and then use an insertion device to place the IUD in the uterus. It is recommended to consult an obstetrician/gynecologist, who has the equipment to properly insert the IUD and check that it does not move during the months following insertion. The same is likely the case for virgin women, unless there is a microperforate hymen that obstructs any insertion of the IUD. Insertion
The copper IUD must be inserted by a qualified medical practitioner. It is recommended to consult an obstetrician/gynecologist, who has the equipment to properly insert the IUD and check that it does not move during the months following insertion. 
Type II supracondylar humerus fractures: can some be treated nonoperatively? [SEP] A supracondylar humerus fracture is a fracture of the distal humerus just above the elbow joint. Mechanism
Extension type of supracondylar humerus fractures typically result from a fall on to an outstretched hand, usually leading to a forced hyperextension of the elbow. Meanwhile, the flexion-type of supracondylar humerus fracture is less common. Diagnosis
A supracondylar humerus facture is diagnosed by x-ray and the injured limb will be examined to assess the surrounding soft tissue, neurovascular status, and to identify any other injuries to the affected area. Classification
Management
Treatment options for supracondyl humerus fractures vary depending if the bone is displaced (out of position) or not displaced (see classification section above). All Type IV fractures of supracondylar humerus are unstable; therefore, requires percutaneous pinning. Epidemiology
Supracondylar humerus fractures is commonly found in children between 5 and 7 years (90% of the cases), after the clavicle and forearm fractures. "Advantages and disadvantages of the prone position in the surgical treatment of supracondylar humerus fractures in children. 
The promise of specialty pharmaceuticals: are they worth the price? [SEP] Vertex Pharmaceuticals. Vertex Pharmaceuticals. This includes the acquisition, manufacture, and distribution of specialty pharmaceuticals, active pharmaceutical ingredients, contrast products, and radiopharmaceuticals. Specialty Pharmaceuticals products include branded drugs as well as specialty generics and active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs). Medical Imaging products include contrast media and radiopharmaceuticals for medical imaging applications.In the fourth quarter of 2014, Specialty Pharmaceuticals accounted for 74% of net sales. When Questcor acquired the drug in 2001 it sold for $40 a vial; within a year of the acquisition Questcor raised the price of the drug to $1,500 per vial and to $28,000 by 2013. Specialty pharmacy
In 2005 Genzyme chose the specialty pharmacy division of PharmaCare, one of the largest pharmaceutical benefit management companies, as national network provider for Thyrogen, Genzyme's specialty drug. The high price of the medication is part of Genzyme's business strategy in order for the biotech firm to undertake research and development for other drugs and to allow them to fund programs that distribute a small portion of production for free. 
Does invasive diagnosis of nosocomial pneumonia during off-hours delay treatment? [SEP] Hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP) or nosocomial pneumonia refers to any pneumonia contracted by a patient in a hospital at least 48–72 hours after being admitted. It is usually caused by a bacterial infection, rather than a virus.Hospital acquired pneumonia is the second most common nosocomial infection (after urinary tract infections) and accounts for 15–20% of the total. Definition
Healthcare-associated pneumonia can be defined as pneumonia in a patient with at least one of the following risk factors:

hospitalization in an acute care hospital for two or more days in the last 90 days;
residence in a nursing home or long-term care facility in the last 30 days
receiving outpatient intravenous therapy (like antibiotics or chemotherapy) within the past 30 days
receiving home wound care within the past 30 days
attending a hospital clinic or dialysis center in the last 30 days
having a family member with known multi-drug resistant pathogens

Causes
In some studies, the bacteria found in patients with HCAP were more similar to HAP than to CAP; compared to CAP, they could have higher rates of Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and less Streptococcus pneumoniae and Haemophilus influenzae. In patients with an early onset pneumonia (within 5 days of hospitalization), they are usually due to anti microbial-sensitive bacteria such as Enterobacter spp, E. coli, Klebsiella spp, Proteus spp, Serratia mare scans, community pathogens such as Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, and methicillin-sensitive S. aureus should also be considered. Morrow L. Critical Decisions for the Treatment of Health-care-Associated Pneumonia in the ICU. External links
Hospital-Acquired, Health Care Associated, and Ventilator-Associated Pneumonia from the Cleveland Clinic
Cecil Textbook of Medicine HAP, or nosocomial pneumonia, is a lower respiratory infection that was not incubating at the time of hospital admission and that presents clinically two or more days after hospitalization. The incidence of VAP is 10–30% among patients who require mechanical ventilation for >48 h.  A standard treatment protocol is based on accurate diagnosis definitions, microbiological confirmation of VAP, and the administration of imipenem plus ciprofloxacin as initial empirical antibiotic treatment.One-third of nosocomial infections are considered preventable. 
Undescended testes: does age at orchiopexy affect survival of the testis? [SEP] Without intervention, an undescended testicle will usually descend during the first year of life, but to reduce these risks, undescended testes can be brought into the scrotum in infancy by a surgical procedure called an orchiopexy.Although cryptorchidism nearly always refers to congenital absence or maldescent, a testis observed in the scrotum in early infancy can occasionally "reascend" (move back up) into the inguinal canal. Signs and symptoms
Infertility
Many men who were born with undescended testes have reduced fertility, even after orchiopexy in infancy. Even after orchiopexy, these may also affect sperm maturation and motility at an older age. The cause is unknown, with a small percentage associated with developmental abnormalities or chromosomal aberrations.Early orchiopexy reduces the risks for cancer and sterility in males with cryptorchidism, or undescended testes.Cryptorchidism is definitively diagnosed after 1 year of age, as testicular descent may occur after birth. The cause is unknown, with a small percentage associated with developmental abnormalities or chromosomal aberrations.Early orchiopexy reduces the risks for cancer and sterility in males with cryptorchidism, or undescended testes.Cryptorchidism is definitively diagnosed after 1 year of age, as testicular descent may occur after birth. Without intervention, an undescended testicle will usually descend during the first year of life, but to reduce these risks, undescended testes can be brought into the scrotum in infancy by a surgical procedure called an orchiopexy.Although cryptorchidism nearly always refers to congenital absence or maldescent, a testis observed in the scrotum in early infancy can occasionally "reascend" (move back up) into the inguinal canal. Signs and symptoms
Infertility
Many men who were born with undescended testes have reduced fertility, even after orchiopexy in infancy. Even after orchiopexy, these may also affect sperm maturation and motility at an older age. 
Do lipids, blood pressure, diabetes, and smoking confer equal risk of myocardial infarction in women as in men? [SEP] Risk factors
The most prominent risk factors for myocardial infarction are older age, actively smoking, high blood pressure, diabetes mellitus, and total cholesterol and high-density lipoprotein levels. Many risk factors of myocardial infarction are shared with coronary artery disease, the primary cause of myocardial infarction, with other risk factors including male sex, low levels of physical activity, a past family history, obesity, and alcohol use. At any given age, men are more at risk than women for the development of cardiovascular disease. Sex
Men are at greater risk of heart disease than pre-menopausal women. If a female has diabetes, she is more likely to develop heart disease than a male with diabetes.Coronary heart diseases are 2 to 5 times more common among middle-aged men than women. Another study reports similar results finding that sex differences explains nearly half the risk associated with cardiovascular diseases One of the proposed explanations for sex differences in cardiovascular diseases is hormonal difference. Age, sex, smoking, blood pressure, blood lipids and diabetes are important predictors of future cardiovascular disease in people who are not known to have cardiovascular disease. Men with angina were found to have an increased risk of subsequent acute myocardial infarction and coronary heart disease related death than women. 
Does family practice at residency teaching sites reflect community practice? [SEP] They are supervised and taught during this clinical experience by residents and fully licensed staff physicians. In the final year of residency training, residents take an exam administered by either the College of Family Physicians of Canada or the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, depending on whether they are seeking certification in family medicine or another specialty. Residency training, which is a supervised training period of three to seven years (usually incorporating the first-year internship) typically completed for specific areas of specialty. Upon completion of medical school in the United States, students transition into residency programs through the National Resident Match Program. In this last step, the students focus on clinical practice, through training in teaching hospitals and clinics. MD doctors can continue their educations through residency and fellowship. During these years, actual practice at the hospital and some theoretical courses are meant to balance the training. All graduates have to go through residency and specialization exams after that in order to practice, although older graduates had different requirements and training (e.g., clinical rotations similar to sub-internship) and might still be able to practice Family Medicine / General Medicine. 
Midwives' competence: is it affected by working in a rural location? [SEP] In rural areas and small towns, healthcare is sub-standard, with patients often asked to buy basic supplies such as gloves and syringes. It has the lowest proportion of nurses and midwives per head in Europe – 73 per 100,000 in 2015.Another issue is the high level of out-of-pocket spending. CRNAs account for approximately half of the anesthesia providers in the United States and are the main providers (80%) of anesthesia in rural America. Female healers and midwives were identified by European men and the church as a threat to their power, both in Europe and in the Americas. Their barrister Christopher Griggs claimed the directive was unlawful and breached the group's right to refuse medical treatment under the New Zealand Bill of Rights Act 1990.In mid October 2021, ten of the 63 registered midwives employed by the Taranaki District Health Board indicated that they would quit their jobs rather than  be vaccinated against COVID-19. Rural vaccination rates
On 13 October 2021, a University of Otago study found that COVID-19 vaccination rates in rural areas was lower than urban areas. The study also identified longer driving times within rural areas and lower access to vaccination services as factors affecting lower rural vaccination rates. 463 of the stood-down employees are nurses while 723 others include senior medical officers, midwives and registered medical officers.In early August 2022,  Radio New Zealand reported that the College of Midwives chief executive Alison Eddy had written a letter to the Health Minister Andrew Little and the COVID-19 Response Minister Chris Hipkins in May 2022 urging them to reconsider lifting the ban on unvaccinated midwives in order to address the staffing shortage in the healthcare sector. 
The effective orifice area/patient aortic annulus area ratio: a better way to compare different bioprostheses? [SEP] The results showed that this original valve exhibited the best haemodynamic performance, at rest and during exercise, when compared with the reported results of all other artificial valves in existence. Haemodynamic Investigations and In-Vitro Testing of Valves
The Ionescu pericardial valve had a large central opening almost equal with the inner surface area of the supporting stent. Haemodynamic studies by several authors investigating patients with pericardial valves demonstrated that in all respects the haemodynamic function of this valve is superior to that reported for the porcine valves and, generally speaking, equal to that of the best mechanical prostheses. Some authors stressed the advantage of very low pressure gradients across small pericardial valves (viz: 17, 19 and 21mm diameter) for implantation in small aortic roots without the need of complex surgical techniques for root enlargement.Tandon and associates performed pre- and postoperative haemodynamic investigations at rest and during exercise in 110 patients. (Fig   )
Many authors had studied, in-vitro, the hydrodynamic performance of the pericardial valve and found that it possesses better functional characteristics than the porcine valves and similar to those of the best prostheses. Why in the hands of one surgeon, the same type of tissue valve fails in one patient at 24 months, and in another one it lasts 243 months? All pericardial valves are large enough for the corresponding orifice in which they are supposed to be fitted comfortably.Great damage can be inflicted on a bioprosthesis at the time of its implantation. For the new generation valves, the ratio was about 5:1 in favour of the aortic valve. 
Evaluation of pediatric VCUG at an academic children's hospital: is the radiographic scout image necessary? [SEP] In urology, voiding cystourethrography (VCUG) is a frequently performed technique for visualizing a person's urethra and urinary bladder while the person urinates (voids). Uses
Some uses of this procedure are: to study the presence of vesicoureteric reflux, study of urethra during micturition, presence of bladder leak post surgery or trauma, and is used in urodynamic testing to assess urinary incontinence.Indications for performing VCUG:

All males with recurrent UTIs (urinary tract infections) or abnormality on ultrasound if first UTI. Diagnosis
The following procedures may be used to diagnose VUR:

Cystography
Fluoroscopic voiding cystourethrogram (VCUG)
Abdominal ultrasound
Technetium-99m Dimercaptosuccunic Acid (DMSA) ScintigraphyAn abdominal ultrasound might suggest the presence of VUR if ureteral dilatation is present; however, in many circumstances of VUR of low to moderate, even high severity, the sonogram may be completely normal, thus providing insufficient utility as a single diagnostic test in the evaluation of children suspected of having VUR, such as those presenting with prenatal hydronephrosis or urinary tract infection (UTI).VCUG is the method of choice for grading and initial workup, while RNC is preferred for subsequent evaluations as there is less exposure to radiation. A VCUG and abdominal ultrasound should be performed in these cases
DMSA scintigraphy is used for the evaluation of the parenchymal damage, which is seen as cortical scars. After the first febrile UTI, the diagnostic role of an initial scintigraphy for detecting the damage before the VCUG was investigated and it was suggested that VCUG can be omitted in children who has no cortical scars and urinary tract dilatation.Early diagnosis in children is crucial as studies have shown that the children with VUR who present with a UTI and associated acute pyelonephritis are more likely to develop permanent renal cortical scarring than those children without VUR, with an odds ratio of 2.8. Medical management is recommended in children with Grade I-III VUR as most cases will resolve spontaneously. Of the patients with Grade V VUR only infants are trialled on a medical approach before surgery is indicated, in older patients surgery is the only option. Surveillance
The American Urological Association recommends ongoing monitoring of children with VUR until the abnormality resolves or is no longer clinically significant. 
Are endometrial polyps from pre-menopausal women similar to post-menopausal women? [SEP] During the menopausal transition and after menopause, women can experience a wide range of symptoms. The European Menopause and Andropause Society has released guidelines for assessment of the endometrium, which is usually the main source of spotting or bleeding.In post-menopausal women, however, any unscheduled vaginal bleeding is of concern and requires an appropriate investigation to rule out the possibility of malignant diseases. Women with vasomotor symptoms during menopause seem to have an especially unfavorable cardiometabolic profile, as well as women with premature onset of menopause (before 45 years of age). During perimenopause (approaching menopause), estradiol levels and patterns of production remain relatively unchanged or may increase compared to young women, but the cycles become frequently shorter or irregular. As women age, double-strand breaks accumulate in the DNA of their primordial follicles. A period-like flow during postmenopause, even spotting, may be a sign of endometrial cancer. Tamoxifen increases the risk of postmenopausal bleeding, endometrial polyps, hyperplasia, and endometrial cancer; using tamoxifen with an intrauterine system releasing levonorgestrel might increase vaginal bleeding after one to two years, but reduces somewhat endometrial polyps and hyperplasia, but not necessarily endometrial cancer. Tamoxifen increases the risk of postmenopausal bleeding, endometrial polyps, hyperplasia, and endometrial cancer; using tamoxifen with an intrauterine system releasing levonorgestrel might increase vaginal bleeding after 1 to 2 years, but reduces somewhat endometrial polyps and hyperplasia, but not necessarily endometrial cancer. 
Does accompanying metabolic syndrome contribute to heart dimensions in hypertensive patients? [SEP] Cardiomyopathy – diseases of cardiac muscle
Hypertensive heart disease – diseases of the heart secondary to high blood pressure or hypertension
Heart failure - a clinical syndrome caused by the inability of the heart to supply sufficient blood to the tissues to meet their metabolic requirements
Pulmonary heart disease – a failure at the right side of the heart with respiratory system involvement
Cardiac dysrhythmias – abnormalities of heart rhythm
Inflammatory heart disease
Endocarditis – inflammation of the inner layer of the heart, the endocardium. People with obesity are at increased risk of atherosclerosis of the coronary arteries. Genetics
Cardiovascular disease in a person's parents increases their risk by ~3 fold, and genetics is an important risk factor for cardiovascular diseases. Cardiovascular risk assessment
Existing cardiovascular disease or a previous cardiovascular event, such as a heart attack or stroke, is the strongest predictor of a future cardiovascular event. Depression and traumatic stress
There is evidence that mental health problems, in particular depression and traumatic stress, is linked to cardiovascular diseases. Whereas mental health problems are known to be associated with risk factors for cardiovascular diseases such as smoking, poor diet, and a sedentary lifestyle, these factors alone do not explain the increased risk of cardiovascular diseases seen in depression, stress, and anxiety. In fact, cardiovascular disease is the most life-threatening of the diabetic complications and diabetics are two- to four-fold more likely to die of cardiovascular-related causes than nondiabetics. Mental stress–induced myocardial ischemia is associated with an increased risk of heart problems in those with previous heart disease. 
The Prevalence of Incidentally Detected Idiopathic Misty Mesentery on Multidetector Computed Tomography: Can Obesity Be the Triggering Cause? [SEP] Physical examination in a thin patient may detect a palpable abdominal or flank mass caused by the enlarged kidney. Examination of the mesentery may indicate a solitary mass, but diffuse mesentery thickening is common.It often mimics other abdominal diseases such as pancreatic or disseminated cancer. Diagnosis
In regards to the diagnosis of idiopathic sclerosing mesenteritis, a CT scan which creates cross-section pictures of the affected individuals body, can help in the assessment of the disease. “Misty mesentery” is often used to describe increase in mesenteric fat density in sclerosing mesenteritis. Epidemiology
The epidemiology of Idiopathic sclerosing mesenteritis disease is extremely rare and has only been diagnosed in about an estimated 300 patients worldwide to date (as of 2014), it is probably under diagnosed. CT scan often incidentally finds thyroid abnormalities, and so is often the preferred investigation modality for thyroid abnormalities. Bronchial wall thickening can be seen on lung CTs and generally (but not always) implies inflammation of the bronchi.An incidentally found nodule in the absence of symptoms (sometimes referred to as an incidentaloma) may raise concerns that it might represent a tumor, either benign or malignant. As of 2007, in the United States a proportion of CT scans are performed unnecessarily. 
Are pediatric concussion patients compliant with discharge instructions? [SEP] A thorough evaluation by a qualified medical provider working in their scope of practice (such as a physician or nurse practitioner) is required to rule out life-threatening head injuries, injuries to the cervical spine, and neurological conditions and to use information obtained from the medical evaluation to diagnose a concussion. Evidence to support the use of hyperbaric oxygen therapy and chiropractic therapy is lacking.Worldwide, concussions are estimated to affect more than 3.5 per 1,000 people a year. Brain imaging such as a CT scan or MRI may be suggested, but should be avoided unless there are progressive neurological symptoms, focal neurological findings, or concern of skull fracture on exam.Diagnosis of concussion requires an assessment performed by a physician or nurse practitioner to rule out severe injuries to the brain and cervical spine, mental health conditions, or other medical conditions. For example, post-concussion symptoms such as cognitive problems may be misattributed to brain injury when, in fact, due to post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).There are no fluid biomarkers (i.e., blood or urine tests) that are validated for diagnosing concussion in children or adolescents. Treatment
Adults and children with a suspected concussion require a medical assessment with a doctor or nurse practitioner to confirm the diagnosis of concussion and rule out more serious head injuries. Students with a suspected concussion are required to see a doctor for an initial medical assessment and for suggestions on recovery, however, medical clearance is not required for a student to return to school. Prognosis
The majority of children and adults fully recover from a concussion, however some may experience a prolonged recovery. Pediatric concussion
Most children recover completely from concussion in less than four weeks, however 15–30% of youth may experience symptoms that last longer than a month. 
Is the zeolite hemostatic agent beneficial in reducing blood loss during arterial injury? [SEP] Hemostatic agent
QuikClot brand hemostatic agent, which is used to stop severe bleeding, contains a calcium-loaded form of zeolite found in kaolin clay. These agents permit rapid hemostasis, better visualization of the surgical area, shorter operative times, decreased requirement for transfusions, decreased wound healing time and overall improvement in patient recovery time. It is primarily used by militaries and law enforcement to treat hemorrhaging from trauma. Zeolite
The original formulation of the product contained the active ingredient zeolite, which promoted blood clotting. The zeolite would have an exothermic (heat-releasing) reaction with blood during the clotting process, which could cause second-degree burns. Newer zeolite formulas come pre-hydrated, which produce less heat, and can be used more safely to pack wounds and stop hemorrhage. The stopping or controlling of bleeding is called hemostasis and is an important part of both first aid and surgery. Hemostasis involves several components. 
Treatment as prevention in resource-limited settings: is it feasible to maintain HIV viral load suppression over time? [SEP] HIV Prevention Trials Network clinical trial 052
Early work by Quinn in Uganda demonstrated that transmission was reduced by over 90% when people living with HIV were on treatment and virally suppressed. The study's purpose was to reveal that HIV-1 viral transmission can be prevented through treatment, leading many regions to incorporate a treatment as prevention plan into their public health policy for responding to HIV. Implementation
Treatment as prevention has been used as a form of controlling the spread of HIV since the mid-1990s, initially in the context of preventing the transmission of the virus from mothers to their children. Moving forward
Treatment as prevention has the ability to shift the paradigm of how HIV is received and treated. This has been shown to lead to dramatically reduced transmission of HIV when one partner with a suppressed viral load (<50 copies/ml) has sex with a partner who is HIV negative. By treating acutely infected patients, it is presumed that it could have a significant impact on decreasing overall HIV transmission rates since lower viral loads are associated with lower risk of transmission (See section on treatment as prevention). On the other hand, Uganda, Zambia, Senegal, and most recently Botswana have begun intervention and educational measures to slow the spread of HIV, and Uganda has succeeded in actually reducing its HIV infection rate.During COVID-19, some countries in South and East Africa were able to set up treatment sites that provided 1.8 million individuals with a larger supply of antiretroviral (ART) medication that could sustain them for longer than the typical 3 months. Increased education and treatment drugs will help to decrease incidence levels even more.According to the UNAIDS Global AIDS Update 2022, there is a significant gap when it comes to children and adults alike receiving treatments which is playing a part in inhibiting the world from reaching its 2023 goal of 75% viral suppression among children. 
Are octogenarians at high risk for carotid endarterectomy? [SEP] Carotid endarterectomy is a surgical procedure used to reduce the risk of stroke from carotid artery stenosis (narrowing the internal carotid artery). Carotid endartectomy itself can cause strokes, so to be of benefit in preventing strokes over time, the risks for combined 30-day mortality and stroke risk following surgery should be < 3% for asymptomatic people and ≤ 6% for symptomatic people. It is controversial if carotid endarterectomy can improve cognitive function in some patients. In symptomatic patients with a 70–99% stenosis, for every six people treated, one major stroke would be prevented at two years (i.e., a number needed to treat of six).Unlike asymptomatic patients, symptomatic people with mild carotid stenosis (50–69%) still benefit from endarterectomy, albeit to a lesser degree, with a number needed to treat of 22 at five years. The annual risk of stroke in patients with asymptomatic carotid disease is between 1% and 2%, although some patients are considered to be at higher risk, such as those with ulcerated plaques. Complications
The most feared complication of carotid endarterectomy is stroke. People deemed unfit for the operation by the surgeon or anesthesiologist due to comorbidities.High risk criteria for carotid endarterectomy include the following:

Age ≥80 years
Class III/IV congestive heart failure
Class III/IV angina pectoris
Left main or multi vessel coronary artery disease
Need for open heart surgery within 30 days
Left ventricular ejection fraction of ≤30%
Recent (≤30 days) heart attack
Severe lung disease or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Severe renal disease
High cervical (C2) or intrathoracic lesion
Prior radical neck surgery or radiation therapy
Contralateral carotid artery occlusion
Prior ipsilateral carotic endarterectomy. An endarterectomy of the carotid artery in the neck is recommended to reduce the risk of stroke when the carotid artery is severely narrowed, particularly after a stroke to reduce the risk of additional strokes.Coronary endarterectomy involves removing atheroma from the wall of blocked blood vessels (coronary) supplying the heart muscle. 
Has the mammography quality standards act affected the mammography quality in North Carolina? [SEP] The Nordic Cochrane Collection updated research in 2012 and stated that advances in diagnosis and treatment make mammography screening less effective today, rendering it "no longer effective". This is due to several factors:

The higher spatial resolution demands of mammography
Significantly increased expense of the equipment
Concern by the FDA that digital mammography equipment demonstrate that it is at least as good as screen-film mammography at detecting breast cancers without increasing dose or the number of women recalled for further evaluation.As of March 1, 2010, 62% of facilities in the United States and its territories have at least one FFDM unit. This is true of mammography. Facilities found deficient during the inspection or accreditation process can be barred from performing mammograms until corrective action has been verified or, in extreme cases, can be required to notify past patients that their exams were sub-standard and should not be relied upon.At this time, MQSA applies only to traditional mammography and not to related scans, such as breast ultrasound, stereotactic breast biopsy, or breast MRI. The Nordic Cochrane Collection updated research in 2012 and stated that advances in diagnosis and treatment make mammography screening less effective today, rendering it "no longer effective". This is due to several factors:

The higher spatial resolution demands of mammography
Significantly increased expense of the equipment
Concern by the FDA that digital mammography equipment demonstrate that it is at least as good as screen-film mammography at detecting breast cancers without increasing dose or the number of women recalled for further evaluation.As of March 1, 2010, 62% of facilities in the United States and its territories have at least one FFDM unit. This is true of mammography. Facilities found deficient during the inspection or accreditation process can be barred from performing mammograms until corrective action has been verified or, in extreme cases, can be required to notify past patients that their exams were sub-standard and should not be relied upon.At this time, MQSA applies only to traditional mammography and not to related scans, such as breast ultrasound, stereotactic breast biopsy, or breast MRI. 
Do hospitals provide lower quality care on weekends? [SEP] Same thing with labs and radiology clinics ... The same survey states that 37% of Canadians say it is difficult to access care after hours (evenings, weekends or holidays) without going to the emergency department compared to over 34% of Americans. Researchers say that the cost of rehospitalizing patients for more critical conditions is higher than the cost of providing appropriate healthcare and following careful patient discharge procedures, which in some cases are beyond the requirements outlined by policies like the EMTALA.However, there are studies that have indicated that hospitals sometimes face delays when discharging a homeless patient because they also have the responsibility of finding appropriate housing and care. In addition to the lack of staff, medical doctors are often not on duty on the weekends and during evening hours. This can be dangerous if medical emergencies arise during non-business hours. The review also did not find conclusive evidence to suggest that topical antibiotics increased the risk of local skin reactions or antibiotic resistance.Through a retrospective analysis of national administrative data, the association between mortality and day of elective surgical procedure suggests a higher risk in procedures carried out later in the working week and on weekends. The odds of death were 44% and 82% higher respectively when comparing procedures on a Friday to a weekend procedure. This "weekday effect" has been postulated to be from several factors including poorer availability of services on a weekend, and also, decrease number and level of experience over a weekend.Postoperative pain affects an estimated 80% of people who underwent surgery. 
Screening History Among Women with Invasive Cervical Cancer in an Academic Medical Center: Will We Miss Cancers Following Updated Guidelines? [SEP] Cervical cancer screening is still required following vaccination. Since the vaccines only cover some high-risk types of HPV, cervical cancer screening is recommended even after vaccination. Verification that cervical cancer is caused by an infectious agent led several other groups to develop vaccines against HPV strains that cause most cases of cervical cancer. Vaccine implementation
In developed countries, the widespread use of cervical "Pap smear" screening programs has reduced the incidence of invasive cervical cancer by 50% or more. It will be many years before the vaccination programme has an effect on cervical cancer incidence so women are advised to continue accepting their invitations for cervical screening. The drop in number of infections is expected to in turn lead to a decline in cervical and other HPV-related cancers in the future. The World Health Organization (WHO) suggests using routine screening to detect cervical cancer. It is incorrectly assumed that LGBT women have a lower incidence of cervical cancer than their heterosexual counterparts, resulting in lower rates of screening. 
Oral mucocele/ranula: Another human immunodeficiency virus-related salivary gland disease? [SEP] It was first observed in HIV infected individuals and termed "HIV-gingivitis", but the condition is not confined to this group. Chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis
This refers to a group of rare syndromes characterized by chronic candidal lesions on the skin, in the mouth and on other mucous membranes (i.e., a secondary oral candidiasis). About 90% of people with chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis have candidiasis in the mouth. Oral candidiasis. Human immunodeficiency virus. Erythroleukoplakia frequently occurs on the buccal mucosa in the commissural area (just inside the cheek at the corners of the mouth) as a mixed lesion of white nodular patches on an erythematous background, although any part of the mouth may be affected. Oral hairy leukoplakia
Oral hairy leukoplakia is a corrugated ("hairy") white lesion on the sides of the tongue caused by opportunistic infection with Epstein-Barr virus on a systemic background of immunodeficiency, almost always human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. It is one of the most common oral lesions associated with HIV infection, along with pseudomembraneous candidiasis. 
Is there an increase in the incidence of gbs carrier rates among pregnant women in northern Israel? [SEP] Fatal neonatal infections by GBS are more frequent among premature infants. Epidemiology
In 2000–2001, the reported overall incidence of GBS infection in newborn babies in the UK was 0.72 per 1,000 live births, 0.47 per 1,000 for GBS-EOD and 0.25 per 1,000 for GBS-LOD. Another study on the epidemiology of invasive GBS infections in England and Wales, reported a rise in the incidence of GBS-EOD between 2000 and 2010 from 0.28 to 0.41 per 1,000 live births. Rates of GBS-LOD also increased between 1991 and 2010 from 0.11 to 0.29 per 1,000 live births in England and Wales.In the past, the incidence of GBS-EOD ranged from 0.7 to 3.7 per thousand live births in the US, and from 0.2 to 3.25 per thousand in Europe. The estimate of the global incidence of GBS LOD is 0.26 cases per 1,000 live births.It has been appraised that GBS infections cause at least 409.000 maternal/fetal/infant cases and 147.000 stillbirths and infant deaths worldwide annually.The following are estimates of the chances that a baby will be infected with a GBS neonatal infection if no preventive measures are taken and no other risk factors are present:
One in 1,000 where the woman is not a known GBS carrier
One in 400 where the woman carries GBS during the pregnancy
One in 300 where the woman carries GBS at delivery
One in 100 where the woman had a previous baby infected with GBSIf a woman who carries GBS is given IAP during labour, the baby's risk is reduced significantly:

One in 8,000 where the mother carries GBS during pregnancy;
One in 6,000 where the mother carries GBS at delivery; and
One in 2,200 where the mother has previously had a baby infected with GBS

Guidelines
United Kingdom
Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists (RCOG)
The Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists (RCOG) first issued their Green Top Guideline No 36 "Prevention of early onset neonatal Group B streptococcal disease" in 2003. GBS infection in babies has increased in England, Wales, and Northern Ireland since 2003 (when the guideline was introduced). If pregnant women could be given a vaccine against GBS, this could potentially prevent most cases of GBS without the need for antibiotics or screening. Vaccination is considered an ideal solution to prevent not only early- and late-onset disease but also GBS infections in adults at risk.Development of GBS vaccines for maternal immunization has been identified as a priority by the World Health Organization on the basis of high unmet need. 
Does a dedicated discharge coordinator improve the quality of hospital discharge? [SEP] Depending on underlying causes of the patient's chief complaint, he or she may be discharged home from this area or admitted to the hospital for further treatment. Exit block
While a significant proportion of people attending emergency departments are discharged home after treatment, many require admission for ongoing observation or treatment, or to ensure adequate social care before discharge is possible. To help prevent inappropriate emergency department use and return visits, some hospitals offer care coordination and support services such as at-home and in-shelter transitional primary care for frequent flyers and short-term housing for homeless patients recovering after discharge. Case Managers concurrently plan for transitions of care, discharge and often post discharge follow up. Discharge from hospice
The majority of discharges from hospice are due to the death of the patient, although hospice treatment may not end then as care also provides for a period of bereavement counseling for the family afterward. Under the direction of the medical provider and team leaders or sergeants, they intake, triage, and stabilize or treat patients for transfer to another tier or discharge. Patients supported by advocates have been shown to experience fewer treatment errors and require fewer readmissions post discharge. Hospital-employed patient advocates, navigators, social workers, and discharge planners are no different. 
Can dobutamine stress echocardiography induce cardiac troponin elevation? [SEP] Catecholamine-induced myocyte injury: It has been suggested that the response to catecholamines (such as epinephrine and norepinephrine, released in response to stress) leads to heart muscle dysfunction that contributes to takotsubo cardiomyopathy. Dobutamine stress-echocardiography (DSE)
Alternatively, dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) is commonly performed and has an 85% sensitivity for the presence of CAV. Medications that are commonly associated with an increased risk of developing atrial fibrillation include dobutamine and the chemotherapy agent cisplatin. Takotsubo cardiomyopathy (Transient apical ballooning, stress-induced cardiomyopathy) – A type of dilated cardiomyopathy caused by a sudden temporary weakening of the myocardium, which can include emotional stress (i.e. Troponin – The troponin complex is present in skeletal and cardiac muscle, but cardiac-specific forms of troponin I and troponin T are used as sensitive & specific indicators of heart damage if acute coronary syndrome is suspected. The presence of troponins are not exclusive to myocardial infarction, and so other conditions should be considered (e.g., heart failure, cardiomyopathies, trauma, defibrillation, cardioversion, ASD closure, radiofrequency ablation, toxicity from chemotherapy, snake venom, cyanide poisoning, ascending aortic dissection, stroke, seizure). Cardiac stress test – Testing of the cardiovascular system through controlled exercise or drugs. Chemotherapy – Doxorubicin is one agent known to have heart toxicity (leads to dilated cardiomyopathy). 
Cigarettes and cinema: does parental restriction of R-rated movie viewing reduce adolescent smoking susceptibility? [SEP] Youth who use e-cigarettes are more likely to go on to smoke cigarettes. Smoke: a global history of smoking. E-cigarettes and nicotine are regularly promoted as safe and even healthy in the media and on brand websites, which is an area of concern.While advertising of tobacco products is banned in most countries, television and radio e-cigarette advertising in several countries may be indirectly encouraging traditional cigarette use. Public Health Consequences of E-Cigarettes. The law was amended in 2013 as to prohibit persons under the age of 18 only if the film was considered "harmful to minors". Critic Roger Ebert criticized the MPAA for the rating and called it "a wild overreaction".In May 2007, the MPAA announced that depictions of cigarette smoking would be considered in a film's rating. Anti-smoking advocates stated that the child-friendly PG rating was inappropriate for the 2011 Nickelodeon-animated film Rango, which included over 60 depictions of characters smoking. Issuance of "R Cards"
Starting in 2004, GKC Theatres (since absorbed into AMC Theatres) introduced "R Cards", which parents could obtain for their children under 17 to see R-rated films without adult accompaniment. 
Are laboratories reporting serum quantitative hCG results correctly? [SEP] First Trimester Combined Test has a sensitivity (i.e. Maternal serum screening
First-trimester maternal serum screening can check levels of free β-hCG, PAPP-A, intact or beta hCG, or h-hCG in the woman's serum, and combine these with the measurement of nuchal translucency (NT). Second-trimester maternal serum screening (AFP screening, triple screen, quad screen, or penta screen) can check levels of alpha fetoprotein, β-hCG, inhibin-A, estriol, and h-hCG (hyperglycosolated hCG) in the woman's serum. The triple test measures serum levels of AFP, estriol, and beta-hCG, with a 70% sensitivity and 5% false-positive rate. Even when the Quad results are positive (or, to be more precise, when the Quad test yields a score that shows at least a 1 in 270 risk of abnormality), usually the pregnancy is normal, but additional diagnostic tests are offered. In the real world, where calculating gestational age may be a less precise art, the formulas that generate a patient's risk score are not as accurate and the false-positive rate can be higher, even 10%. Diagnostic tests, such as amniocentesis, are considered to be very accurate for the defects they check for, though even these tests are not perfect, with a reported 0.2% error rate (often due to rare abnormalities such as mosaic Down syndrome where only some of the fetal/placental cells carry the genetic abnormality). For example, Human placental lactogen (hPL) and beta-hCG mRNA are stable in maternal plasma and can be detected. 
Steroids in aminoglycoside-containing ear drops: do they reduce cochlear toxicity? [SEP] Adverse effects
Aminoglycosides can cause inner ear toxicity which can result in sensorineural hearing loss. The incidence of inner ear toxicity varies from 7 to 90%, depending on the types of antibiotics used, susceptibility of the patient to such antibiotics, and the duration of antibiotic administration.Another serious and disabling side effect of aminoglycoside use is vestibular ototoxicity. Antibiotic ear drops may cause ear discomfort, pain, or itching. Ear drops are usually used for a short duration of time. Antibiotic ear drops are generally safe and well-tolerated. Some studies have demonstrated that the addition of topical steroids to antibiotic ear drops provides quicker pain relief, but these results are conflicting. Antibiotic ear drops should be used as prescribed. Most antibacterial ear drops also contain a steroid to hasten resolution of canal edema and pain. 
Does having a regular primary care clinician improve quality of preventive care for young children? [SEP] It is recommended that adults and children aim to visit their doctor for regular check-ups, even if they feel healthy, to perform disease screening, identify risk factors for disease, discuss tips for a healthy and balanced lifestyle, stay up to date with immunizations and boosters, and maintain a good relationship with a healthcare provider. Preventive health care offers many benefits to those that chose to participate in taking an active role in the culture. Effectiveness
There is no general consensus as to whether or not preventive healthcare measures are cost-effective, but they increase the quality of life dramatically. Preventive care is composed of a variety of clinical services and programs including annual doctor's check-ups, annual immunizations, and wellness programs; recent models show that these simple interventions can have significant economic impacts. The need for and interest in preventive care is driven by the imperative to reduce health care costs while improving quality of care and the patient experience. Preventive care can lead to improved health outcomes and cost savings potential. According to Healthy People 2020, for every birth cohort that receives the routine childhood vaccination schedule, direct health care costs are reduced by $9.9 billion and society saves $33.4 billion in indirect costs. Care coordination
Primary care doctors are often the point of entry for most patients needing care, but in the fragmented healthcare system of the US, many patients and their providers experience problems with care coordination. 
Does performance in selection processes predict performance as a dental student? [SEP] First, it has been shown that traditional interview formats or simulations of educational situations do not accurately predict performance in medical school. Candidate assessment is normally deemed successful when the scores generated by the measuring tool predict for future outcomes of interest, such as job performance or job retention. In determining whether or not a candidate should be awarded a place, most universities also took into account a structured or semi-structured interview (such as a multiple mini interview) with the candidate, as well as Year 12 (Australia) or Year 13 (NCEA in New Zealand) results. To a smaller extent interview performances and to an even smaller extent secondary school performances. In the absence of tests and interviews, the personal statement and reference can be decisive, as many students are likely to apply to competitive courses with similar predicted and actual grades. Another important determinant of whether an offer is to be made is the amount of competition for admission to that course. "How Widespread is Graphology in Personnel Selection Practice? International Journal of Selection and Assessment. 
Is it time to reconsider lobectomy in low-risk paediatric thyroid cancer? [SEP] Lobectomy means surgical excision of a lobe. Lung lobectomy
A lobectomy of the lung is performed in early-stage non-small cell lung cancer patients. Tumor size, type, and location are major factors as to whether a lobectomy is performed. Lung lobectomies are performed on patients as young as eleven or twelve who have no cancer or smoking history, but have conditions from birth or early childhood that necessitate the operation. Lobectomy of the lung is a surgical operation where a lobe of the lung is removed. It is done to remove a portion of diseased lung, such as early stage lung cancer.In addition to cancer, a lobectomy can also help to treat such things as a fungal infection, emphysema and tuberculosis. Thyroid cancer is relatively amenable to treatment for several decades. This is because doses of radioiodine to the child's thyroid were much higher than other isotopes and the child's thyroid is still growing. 
Is an advance care planning model feasible in community palliative care? [SEP] This is referred to as palliative treatment. The palliative care movement, a more recent offshoot of the hospice movement, has engendered more widespread support for preemptive pain treatment for cancer patients. Hospice in cancer
Hospice is a group that provides care at the home of a person that has an advanced illness with a likely prognosis of fewer than 6 months. Advance Care Planning
Advance Care Planning (ACP) has been suggest to increase the quality of life of cancer survivors. "A cross-sectional population-based survey looking at the impact of cancer survivorship care plans on meeting the needs of cancer survivors in the posttreatment stage". Access to palliative care is recommended from an early stage to explore options, ensure psychosocial support for the patient and caregivers, and to discuss advance healthcare directives.As with cancer staging, ALS has staging systems numbered between 1 and 4 that are used for research purposes in clinical trials. Hospice care can improve symptom management at the end of life and increases the likelihood of a peaceful death. End-of-life care
Palliative care, which relieves symptoms and improves the quality of life without treating the underlying disease, should begin shortly after someone is diagnosed with ALS. 
Do preoperative serum C-reactive protein levels predict the definitive pathological stage in patients with clinically localized prostate cancer? [SEP] C-reactive protein (CRP) is an annular (ring-shaped) pentameric protein found in blood plasma, whose circulating concentrations rise in response to inflammation. CRP between 100 and 500 mg/L is considered highly predictive of inflammation due to bacterial infection. CRP is a general marker for inflammation and infection, so it can be used as a very rough proxy for heart disease risk. Currently, C-reactive protein is not recommended as a cardiovascular disease screening test for average-risk adults without symptoms.The American Heart Association and U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have defined risk groups as follows:
Low Risk: less than 1.0 mg/L
Average risk: 1.0 to 3.0 mg/L
High risk: above 3.0 mg/LBut hs-CRP is not to be used alone and should be combined with elevated levels of cholesterol, LDL-C, triglycerides, and glucose level. While there is an association between increased levels of C-reactive protein and risk of developing cancer, there is no association between genetic polymorphisms influencing circulating levels of CRP and cancer risk.In a 2004 prospective cohort study on colon cancer risk associated with CRP levels, people with colon cancer had higher average CRP concentrations than people without colon cancer. Rheumatoid arthritis
In the context of RA, CRP is one of the acute phase reactants, whose assessment is defined as part of the joint 2010 ACR/EULAR classification criteria for RA with abnormal levels accounting for a single point within the criteria  Higher levels of CRP are associated with more severe disease and a higher likelihood of radiographic progression. Rheumatoid arthritis associated antibodies together with 14-3-3η YWHAH have been reported to complement CRP in predicting clinical and radiographic outcomes in patients with recent onset inflammatory polyarthritis. Elevated levels of CRP appear to be associated with common comorbidities including cardiovascular disease, metabolic syndrome, diabetes and interstitial lung (pulmonary) disease. 
Sub-classification of low-grade cerebellar astrocytoma: is it clinically meaningful? [SEP] Clinical significance
Astrocytomas
Astrocytomas are primary intracranial tumors that develop from astrocytes. Astrocytomas are divided into two categories: low grade (I and II) and high grade (III and IV). Fibrillary astrocytomas commonly occur in younger people, who often present with seizures.Anaplastic astrocytomas are grade III malignant tumors. These tumors can be present in major brain areas not associated with the main cerebral hemispheres, including the cerebellum, optic nerve, cauda equina, hypothalamus, and brain stem.The most defining physical symptom of astroblastoma, regardless of location, is elevated intracranial pressure, occurring when cerebrospinal fluid in the subarachnoid space exhibits heavy pressure and decreased blood flow, resulting in throbbing headache or nausea for the patient. Subtypes
Astroblastoma can be divided into low-grade, well-differentiated tumors and high-grade, anaplastic subtypes. In general, when brain lesions are smaller than Grade I, demarcating between these features is near impossible, often mistaking astroblastoma with glial neoplasms, high-grade astrocytes, and embryonal neoplasms. Specific neuronal markers further distinguish astroblastoma. Differential diagnosis
Brain tumors, including cerebellar astrocytoma, medulloblastoma, neuroblastoma
Cerebellar contusion
Subdural hematoma
Toxins, including ethanol or anticonvulsants
Cerebellar infarction or hemorrhage
Meningitis
Encephalitis
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis
Multiple sclerosis

Management
Supportive treatment is the only intervention for acute cerebellar ataxia of childhood. 
After CLASS--Is a voluntary public insurance program a realistic way to meet the long-term support and service needs of adults with disabilities? [SEP] The goal of the company was to help people with disabilities live independently. The court ruled that students with disabilities must be given a public education even if the students are unable to pay for the cost of the education. 1985 – The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in Burlington School Committee v. Department of Education that schools must pay the expenses of disabled children enrolled in private programs during litigation under the Education for All Handicapped Children Act of 1975, if the courts ruled that such placement is needed to provide the child with an appropriate education in the least restrictive environment. 1986 – The Employment Opportunities for Disabled Americans Act was passed, allowing recipients of Supplemental Security Income and Social Security Disability Insurance to retain benefits, particularly medical coverage, after they obtain work. 1999 –  In Cedar Rapids Community School District v. Garret F., the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that taxpayer-supported schools are responsible for the costs of providing continual care for disabled students under a federal law that says all children must receive "free, appropriate public education." 1999 – The United States Social Security Administration's Ticket to Work and Self-Sufficiency Program is the centerpiece of the Ticket to Work and Work Incentives Improvement Act of 1999; this free and voluntary program supports career development for people who receive Social Security disability benefits. Disability insurance is designed not as insurance against loss of income, but as a substitute for earnings when an insured is deprived of the capacity to earn an income. 2007 – The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) requires the U.S. states to provide students with disabilities a "free appropriate public education." 
Is intraoperative neuromonitoring associated with better functional outcome in patients undergoing open TME? [SEP] Intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring (IONM) or intraoperative neuromonitoring is the use of electrophysiological methods such as electroencephalography (EEG), electromyography (EMG), and evoked potentials to monitor the functional integrity of certain neural structures (e.g., nerves, spinal cord and parts of the brain) during surgery. Patients who benefit from neuromonitoring are those undergoing operations involving the nervous system or which pose risk to its anatomic or physiologic integrity. Surgical procedures
Patients benefit from neuromonitoring during certain surgical procedures, namely any surgery where there is risk to the nervous system. The Certification for Neurophysiological Intraoperative Monitoring (CNIM) is awarded by the American Board of Electroencephalographic and Evoked Potential Technologists. Intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring (IONM) or intraoperative neuromonitoring is the use of electrophysiological methods such as electroencephalography (EEG), electromyography (EMG), and evoked potentials to monitor the functional integrity of certain neural structures (e.g., nerves, spinal cord and parts of the brain) during surgery. Patients who benefit from neuromonitoring are those undergoing operations involving the nervous system or which pose risk to its anatomic or physiologic integrity. Surgical procedures
Patients benefit from neuromonitoring during certain surgical procedures, namely any surgery where there is risk to the nervous system. The Certification for Neurophysiological Intraoperative Monitoring (CNIM) is awarded by the American Board of Electroencephalographic and Evoked Potential Technologists. 
Can we predict which head and neck cancer survivors develop fears of recurrence? [SEP] It can be used when there is little evidence of cancer present, but there is risk of recurrence. Survivors of childhood cancer are more than 13 times as likely to get a secondary neoplasm during the 30 years after treatment than the general population. Many of these cancers have extremely low cure rates. However, methoxytyramine can be utilized to detect the tumors of the head and neck. There are (3) major, well-recognized biochemical phenotypes that can be used by health care providers to direct patient care.Adrenergic (Epinephrine and metanephrine)
More likely to indicate an adrenal tumor
When plasma metanephrine levels were elevated to greater than 15% of the combined levels of normetanephrine and metanephrine, an adrenal tumor or a recurrence of an adrenal tumor that had already been excised can be predicted
Patients are more likely to present with the classic, paroxysmal (episodic) symptoms described above
Noradrengeric (Norepinephrine and normetanephrine)
More likely to indicate an extra-adrenal tumor
Patients are more likely to present with continuous, persistent pheochromocytoma-related symptoms (hypertension and tachycardia) compared to those that are classically episode with an adrenergic phenotype
Common in patients with von-Hippel Lindau and succinate dehydrogenase subunit X genetic variants
Dopaminergic (Dopamine and 3-methoxytyramine)
More likely to indicate an extra-adrenal tumor of the head and neck
Patients are more likely to be asymptomatic; however, they may present with non-specific signs of nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhea, and weight loss secondary to the stimulation of dopamine receptors throughout the gastrointestinal tract
Particularly prevalent in patients with succinate dehydrogenase subunit B genetic variants Across both an adrenergic and a noradrenergic phenotype, the greater the sum of plasma or urinary concentrations of metanephrine and normetanephrine, the larger the expected tumor diameter. The risk of leaving adrenal tissue is recurrent disease (tumor comes back). A multidisciplinary team from the Mayo Clinic retrospectively reviewed all of their patients who underwent external beam radiation therapy from 1973 to 2015 and reported that 94% of patients acknowledged symptomatic improvement and over 80% of patients showed no evidence of recurrent disease 5-years post-therapy. Overall survival improved if the patient had (1) disease of the head and neck compared to abdomen, (2) less than 40 years of age, (3) and if their biochemistry was less than five times the upper reference limit of normal.Recent literature has detailed several factors that predict accelerated progression of disease and higher mortality rates, including patients who choose to forego surgical resection of their primary tumor, larger tumors at initial presentation, older age at initial diagnosis, and a shortened time from primary tumor to presence of metastases. 
The secular growth acceleration: does it appear during fetal life? [SEP] Acceleration in human development process is the phenomenon which has been registered in many populations around the world. This applies equally to the growth of certain anthropometric parameters and the speed of reaching sexual maturity. These facts illustrate the results of secular changes in body height and appearance of the first menstruation (menarche).Increases in human stature are a main indicator of improvements in the average health of populations. During a century average height increased by 11 cm representing a dramatic improvement of this phenomenon. Increase in adult height of birth cohorts (cm/decade)

See also
Human body development


== References == Each of the lateral parts begins to ossify from a single center during the eighth week of fetal life. The basilar portion is ossified from two centers, one in front of the other; these appear about the sixth week of fetal life and rapidly coalesce. The ossification centers appear in the intervals between the articular depressions for the costal cartilages, in the following order: in the manubrium and first piece of the body, during the sixth month of fetal life; in the second and third pieces of the body, during the seventh month of fetal life; in its fourth piece, during the first year after birth; and in the xiphoid process, between the fifth and eighteenth years. 
Does hippocampal atrophy on MRI predict cognitive decline? [SEP] It has been shown that a decrease in the volume of various parts of the hippocampus in people leads to specific memory impairments. Disorders
Aging
Age-related conditions such as Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia (for which hippocampal disruption is one of the earliest signs) have a severe impact on many types of cognition including memory. Because the hippocampus is thought to play a central role in memory, there has been considerable interest in the possibility that age-related declines could be caused by hippocampal deterioration. Similarly, some MRI studies have reported shrinkage of the hippocampus in elderly people, but other studies have failed to reproduce this finding. There is, however, a reliable relationship between the size of the hippocampus and memory performance; so that where there is age-related shrinkage, memory performance will be impaired. There is evidence that humans having experienced severe, long-lasting traumatic stress show atrophy of the hippocampus more than of other parts of the brain. These effects show up in post-traumatic stress disorder, and they may contribute to the hippocampal atrophy reported in schizophrenia and severe depression. General cortical atrophy occurs in aging and e.g. 
Chemoradiotherapy in the management of locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma esophagus: is surgical resection required? [SEP] Management
Improvements in diagnosis and local management, as well as targeted therapy, have led to improvements in quality of life and survival for people with head and neck cancer.After a histologic diagnosis has been established and tumor extent determined, the selection of appropriate treatment for a specific cancer depends on a complex array of variables, including tumor site, relative morbidity of various treatment options, concomitant health problems, social and logistic factors, previous primary tumors, and the person's preference. Treatment planning generally requires a multidisciplinary approach involving specialist surgeons and medical and radiation oncologists.Surgical resection and radiation therapy are the mainstays of treatment for most head and neck cancers and remain the standard of care in most cases. Surgery
Surgery as a treatment is frequently used in most types of head and neck cancer. Some targeted therapy used in squamous cell cancers of the head and neck include cetuximab, bevacizumab and erlotinib. This study found that concurrent cetuximab and radiotherapy improves survival and locoregional disease control compared to radiotherapy alone, without a substantial increase in side effects, as would be expected with the concurrent chemoradiotherapy, which is the current gold standard treatment for advanced head and neck cancer. HPV-associated oropharyngeal cancer has been shown to respond better to chemoradiation and, subsequently, a better prognosis, compared to non-associated HPV head and neck cancer.Consensus panels in America (AJCC) and Europe (UICC) have established staging systems for head and neck squamous-cell cancers. The treatments for throat cancer can also be harmful to the digestive system as well as other body systems. For locally advanced rectal cancer, neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy has become the standard treatment. 
Does quantitative left ventricular regional wall motion change after fibrous tissue resection in endomyocardial fibrosis? [SEP] Additionally, increased fibrosis of the ventricle can result in a failure to relax appropriately which impairs cardiac filling and may lead to diastolic dysfunction or heart failure with preserved ejection fraction. See also
Athletic heart syndrome
Cardiac fibrosis
Cardiology
Cardiomegaly
Cardiovascular disease
ECG – See diagnosis
Right ventricular hypertrophy

References


== External links == Left-sided heart failure may be present with a reduced ejection fraction or with a preserved ejection fraction. Heart murmurs may indicate the presence of valvular heart disease, either as a cause (e.g., aortic stenosis) or as a consequence (e.g., mitral regurgitation) of heart failure.Reverse insufficiency of the left ventricle causes congestion in the blood vessels of the lungs, so that symptoms are predominantly respiratory. Though still harmful, right ventricular failure is not as deleterious to the left side. Over time, these increases in workload, which are mediated by long-term activation of neurohormonal systems such as the renin–angiotensin system and the sympathoadrenal system, lead to fibrosis, dilation, and structural changes in the shape of the left ventricle from elliptical to spherical.The heart of a person with heart failure may have a reduced force of contraction due to overloading of the ventricle. Echocardiography can also help determine if acute myocardial ischemia is the precipitating cause, and may manifest as regional wall motion abnormalities on echo. The presence of siderophages indicates chronic left-sided heart failure, but is not specific for it. 
Bridge experience with long-term implantable left ventricular assist devices. Are they an alternative to transplantation? [SEP] In severe disease that persists despite all other measures, a cardiac assist device ventricular assist device, or, occasionally, heart transplantation may be recommended.Heart failure is a common, costly, and potentially fatal condition, and is the leading cause of hospitalization and readmission in older adults. Implanted devices
In people with severe cardiomyopathy (left ventricular ejection fraction below 35%), or in those with recurrent VT or malignant arrhythmias, treatment with an automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (AICD) is indicated to reduce the risk of severe life-threatening arrhythmias. Surgical therapies
People with the most severe heart failure may be candidates for ventricular assist devices, which have commonly been used as a bridge to heart transplantation, but have been used more recently as a destination treatment for advanced heart failure.In select cases, heart transplantation can be considered. An artificial heart is a device that replaces the heart. It has been implanted in more than 1,350 people as a bridge to transplantation. Hybrid assistive devices
Patients who have some remaining heart function but who can no longer live normally may be candidates for ventricular assist devices (VAD), which do not replace the human heart but complement it by taking up much of the function.The first Left Ventricular Assist Device (LVAD) system was created by Domingo Liotta at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston in 1962.Another VAD, the Kantrowitz CardioVad, designed by Adrian Kantrowitz, boosts the native heart by taking up over 50% of its function. In a young person, this device could delay the need for a transplant by 10–15 years, or even allow the heart to recover, in which case the VAD can be removed. The device has since been successfully implanted in several children including a 4-year-old Honduran girl at Children's Hospital Boston.Several continuous-flow ventricular assist devices have been approved for use in the European Union, and, as of August 2007, were undergoing clinical trials for FDA approval. 
Does occupational nuclear power plant radiation affect conception and pregnancy? [SEP] It also plays a major role as a radioactive isotope present in nuclear fission products, and was a significant contributor to the health hazards from open-air atomic bomb testing in the 1950s, and from the Chernobyl disaster, as well as being a large fraction of the contamination hazard in the first weeks in the Fukushima nuclear crisis. Such a precaution would essentially eliminate direct fetal exposure to radioactivity and markedly reduce the possibility of conception with sperm that might theoretically have been damaged by exposure to radioiodine." RadiologyInfo – The radiology information resource for patients: Radioiodine (I −131) Therapy
Case Studies in Environmental Medicine: Radiation Exposure from Iodine 131
Sensitivity of Personal Homeland Security Radiation Detectors to Medical Radionuclides and Implications for Counseling of Nuclear Medicine Patients
NLM Hazardous Substances Databank – Iodine, Radioactive Similarly, in Poland exposure to PM2.5 and PM10 lead to an increase in the percentage of cells with immature chromatin (DNA that has not fully developed or has developed abnormally).In Turkey, a study looked at the fertility of men who work as toll collectors and are therefore exposed to high levels of traffic pollutants daily. Exposure to smaller particulate matter, PM2.5, was seen to have an effect on conception rates in women undergoing IVF but not with live birth rates. Within an IVF population, NOx and ozone pollutants were linked with reduced rates of live birth.While most research on this topic is focused on the direct human exposure of air pollution, other studies have analysed the impact of air pollution on gametes and embryos within IVF laboratories. Conversely, a negative effect is demonstrated upon exposure to ozone after embryo implantation.Retrospective and prospective studies evaluating the effect of several traffic pollutants (of which ground-level ozone is one) highlighted a significant decrease in live birth rates and miscarriages.In terms of male fertility, ozone is reported to cause a significant decrease in sperm concentration measured in semen after exposure. Prenatal exposure may also affect neurodevelopment. 
Lloyd-Davies position with Trendelenburg--a disaster waiting to happen? [SEP] Lloyd-Davies position is a medical term referring to a common position for surgical procedures involving the pelvis and lower abdomen. The majority of colorectal and pelvic surgery is conducted with the patient in the Lloyd-Davies position. It was popularised for these procedures by Oswald Lloyd-Davies working at St Marks Hospital London. It is derived from the Trendelenburg position but with the legs abducted to allow access to the perineum. Trendelenburg position
Same as supine position but the upper torso is lowered. Fracture Table Position
For hip fracture surgery. Lloyd-Davies position
It is a medical term referring to a common position for surgical procedures involving the pelvis and lower abdomen. The majority of colorectal and pelvic surgery is conducted with the patient in the Lloyd-Davis position. 
Is patient outcome compromised during the initial experience with robot-assisted radical cystectomy? [SEP] The adoption of robotic surgery has contributed to the increase in minimally invasive surgery for gynecologic disease. Gynecologic procedures may take longer with robot-assisted surgery and the rate of complications may be higher, but there are not enough high-quality studies to know at the present time. Some have found tentative evidence of more complete removal of cancer and fewer side effects from surgery for prostatectomy.In 2000, the first robot-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy was performed.Robotic surgery has also been utilized in radical cystectomies. Higher expectations may explain higher rates of dissatisfaction and regret.Compared with other minimally invasive surgery approaches, robot-assisted surgery gives the surgeon better control over the surgical instruments and a better view of the surgical site. The rate of not-so-serious side effects may be similar for both surgeries.Radical cystectomy has a significant morbidity associated with it. A meta-analysis, K Nagpal, K Ahmed, A Vats, D Yakoub, D James, H Ashrafian, A Darzi, Surgical endoscopy 24, 1621-1629	398	2010
Current trends in the diagnosis and management of renal nutcracker syndrome: a review, K Ahmed, R Sampath, MS Khan, European Journal of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery 31 (4), 410-416, 325, 2006
Catastrophizing: a predictive factor for postoperative pain, RS Khan, K Ahmed, E Blakeway, P Skapinakis, L Nihoyannopoulos, The American journal of surgery 201 (1), 122-131, 317, 2011
A single-centre early phase randomised controlled three-arm trial of open, robotic, and laparoscopic radical cystectomy (CORAL) MS Khan, C Gan, K Ahmed, AF Ismail, J Watkins, JA Summers, European urology 69 (4), 613-621, 288, 2016
Analysis of intracorporeal compared with extracorporeal urinary diversion after robot-assisted radical cystectomy: results from the International Robotic Cystectomy Consortium, K Ahmed, SA Khan, MH Hayn, PK Agarwal, KK Badani, MD Balbay, European urology 65 (2), 340-347	284	2014
Current status of validation for robotic surgery simulators–a systematic review, H Abboudi, MS Khan, O Aboumarzouk, KA Guru, B Challacombe, BJU international 111 (2), 194-205	266	2013
Observational tools for assessment of procedural skills: a systematic review, K Ahmed, D Miskovic, A Darzi, T Athanasiou, GB Hanna The American Journal of Surgery 202 (4), 469-480. e6	262	2011

References
External links
Kamran Ahmed publications indexed by Google Scholar
https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Kamran-Ahmed-13 "Robotic-assisted Laparoscopic Radical Cystectomy with Extracorporeal Urinary Diversion: Initial Experience". Publications
Robot-assisted laparoscopic radical cystectomy with extracorporeal urinary diversion: Initial experience and outcomes, PMID 29692505
The Spectrum of Clinical and Urodynamic Findings in Patients with Spinal Tuberculosis Exhibiting Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms, before and after Spinal Surgical Intervention with Antitubercular Treatment: A Prospective Study, PMID 30909676
Punctures versus shocks: a comparison of renal functional and structural changes after percutaneous nephrolithotomy and shockwave lithotripsy for solitary renal stone
Percutaneous Management of Systemic Fungal Infection Presenting As Bilateral Renal Fungal Ball
Device malfunction with the da Vinci S® surgical system and its impact on surgical procedures
Renal cell carcinoma with sarcomatoid transformation, presenting as skin rashes
Device Malfunction with the da Vinci S Surgical System and Impact on Surgical Procedures: Could Device Aging be Responsible? 
Is the Retromandibular Transparotid Approach a Reliable Option for the Surgical Treatment of Condylar Fractures? [SEP] Because the curve of the mandible appears in a 2-dimensional image, fractures are easier to spot leading to an accuracy similar to CT except in the condyle region. The indications to use CT for mandible fracture vary by region, but it does not seem to add to diagnosis or treatment planning except for comminuted or avulsive type fractures, although, there is better clinician agreement on the location and absence of fractures with CT compared to panoramic radiography. Pediatric condylar fractures have special protocols for management. Current clinical evidence
A 2013 Cochrane review assessed clinical studies on surgical (open reduction) and non-surgical (closed reduction) management of mandible fractures that do not involve the condyle. Special considerations
Condyle
The best treatment for condylar fractures is controversial. A systematic review was unable to find sufficient evidence of the superiority of one method over another in the management of condylar fractures. Pediatric condylar fractures have higher rates of ankylosis and the potential for growth disturbance.,Rarely, mandibular fracture can lead to Frey's syndrome. It appears to be an acceptable alternative in unstable distressed lateral condylar fractures of the humerus in children, but if fracture displacement after closed reduction exceeds 2 mm, open reduction and internal fixation is recommended.Various techniques of minimally invasive surgery for internal fixation of bones have been reported. 
Appendectomy timing: Will delayed surgery increase the complications? [SEP] The timing of complications is not predictable. Risks are simply those of abdominal surgery. Risks
All surgery carries risk of serious complications including damage to nearby structures, bleeding, infection, or even death. Early elective surgery is recommended for women with symptomatic gallstones to decrease the risk of spontaneous abortion and pre-term delivery. After controlling for patient risk and surgery type, weekend elective surgery (OR = 3.18; 95% CI 2.26-4.49; p<0.001) and weekend urgent surgery (OR = 2.11; 95% CI 1.68-2.66; p<0.001) were associated with a higher risk of death compared with weekday surgery. Weekend elective (OR = 1.58; 95% CI 1.29-1.93; p<0.001) and weekend urgent surgery (OR = 1.61; 95% CI 1.42-1.82; p<0.001) were also associated with a higher risk of major complications compared with weekday surgery. When comparing admission during weekends with admission during weekdays, off-hours admission was associated with a higher risk of surgical delay (OR = 1.19; 95% CI 1.05-1.37) and a higher 30-day mortality risk (OR = 1.13; 95% CI 1.04-1.23). appendicitis). 
Treatment of vitamin D deficiency in CKD patients with ergocalciferol: are current K/DOQI treatment guidelines adequate? [SEP] Fat percentage
Since vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) and vitamin D2 (ergocalciferol) are fat-soluble, humans and other animals with a skeleton need to store some fat. Critical illness
Vitamin D deficiency is associated with increased mortality in critical illness. Vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) or calcitriol given orally may reduce the mortality rate without significant adverse effects. In another proposed cholecalciferol loading dose guideline for vitamin D-deficient adults, a weekly dosage is given, up to a total amount that is proportional to the required serum increase (up to the level of 75 nmL/L) and within certain body weight limits, to body weight.According to new data and practices relevant to vitamin D levels in the general population in France, to establish optimal vitamin D status and frequency of intermittent supplement dosing, patients with or at high risk for osteoporosis and vitamin D deficiency should start supplementation with a loading phase consisting of 50,000 IU weekly of vitamin D for 8 weeks in patients with levels <20 ng/mL and 50,000 IU weekly for 4 weeks in patients with levels between 20 and 30 ng/mL. Special cases
To maintain blood levels of calcium, therapeutic vitamin D doses are sometimes administered (up to 100,000 IU or 2.5 mg daily) to patients who have had their parathyroid glands removed (most commonly kidney dialysis patients who have had tertiary hyperparathyroidism, but also to patients with primary hyperparathyroidism) or with hypoparathyroidism. Patients with chronic liver disease or intestinal malabsorption disorders may also require larger doses of vitamin D (up to 40,000 IU or 1 mg (1000 micrograms) daily). Co-supplementation with vitamin K
The combination of vitamin D and vitamin K supplements has been shown in trials to improve bone quality. As high intake of vitamin D is a cause of raised calcium levels (hypercalcemia), the addition of vitamin K may be beneficial in helping to prevent vascular calcification, particularly in people with chronic kidney disease. 
Comparing femoral version after intramedullary nailing performed by trauma-trained and non-trauma trained surgeons: is there a difference? [SEP] The femoral version is measured by an angle formed between a line through the femoral head-neck axis and another horizontal line drawn between both ischial tuberosities. An intramedullary rod, also known as an intramedullary nail (IM nail) or inter-locking nail or Küntscher nail (without proximal or distal fixation), is a metal rod forced into the medullary cavity of a bone. IM nails have long been used to treat fractures of long bones of the body. IM nails resulted in earlier return to activity for the soldiers, sometimes even within a span of a few weeks, since they share the load with the bone, rather than entirely supporting the bone. This led to the emergence of locked IM nailing, which is the standard today.The extension mechanism of intramedullary can be of two types: ratcheting, such as in the Bliskunov, Albizzia, and the Internal Skeletal Kinetic Distractor (ISKD, removed from market in 2015) nails; and rotating spindle, as in the Fitbone, Phenix, PRECICE, and PRECICE 2 nails. Complications
At a median 14 years after tibial nailing of isolated tibial fractures, patients' function is comparable to population norms, but objective and subjective evaluation shows persistent sequelae which are not insignificant.One potential complication of intramedullary nailing after a fracture is bone malrotation, where the broken bone is fixated out of alignment and heals incorrectly, causing a rotated limb. During the evaluation of trauma patients in an emergency department, the stability of the pelvis is typically assessed by the healthcare provider to determine whether fracture may have occurred. Following initial treatment of the patient, fractures may need to be treated surgically if significant, while some minor fractures may heal without requiring surgery.A life-threatening concern is hemorrhage, which may result from damage to the aorta, iliac arteries or veins in the pelvis. 
Does Viral Co-Infection Influence the Severity of Acute Respiratory Infection in Children? [SEP] Immunopathology
Although SARS-CoV-2 has a tropism for ACE2-expressing epithelial cells of the respiratory tract, people with severe COVID‑19 have symptoms of systemic hyperinflammation. When someone with existing respiratory problems is infected with COVID‑19, they might be at greater risk for severe symptoms. The WHO recommended that people with respiratory symptoms be screened for both diseases, as testing positive for COVID‑19 could not rule out co-infections. Influenza may progress to pneumonia, which can be caused by the virus or by a subsequent bacterial infection. Pneumonia may be caused by the primary viral infection or by a secondary bacterial infection. Severe disease and mortality are usually attributable to pneumonia from the primary viral infection or a secondary bacterial infection, which can progress to ARDS.Other respiratory complications that may occur include sinusitis, bronchitis, bronchiolitis, excess fluid buildup in the lungs, and exacerbation of chronic bronchitis and asthma. In children, influenza is one of the two most common causes of ARDS, the other being the respiratory syncytial virus. ICV-associated hospitalization most commonly occurs in children under the age of 3 and is frequently accompanied by co-infection with another virus or a bacterium, which may increase the severity of disease. 
Will clinical studies elucidate the connection between the length of storage of transfused red blood cells and clinical outcomes? [SEP] In January 2017, a revised Committee Opinion extended the recommendation to term infants, citing data that term infants benefit from increased hemoglobin levels in the newborn period and improved iron stores in the first months of life, which may result in improved developmental outcomes. These cord blood cells can be used for bone marrow transplant. Some parents choose to have this blood diverted from the baby's umbilical blood transfer through early cord clamping and cutting, to freeze for long-term storage at a cord blood bank should the child ever require the cord blood stem cells (for example, to replace bone marrow destroyed when treating leukemia). The Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists stated in 2006 that "there is still insufficient evidence to recommend directed commercial cord blood collection and stem-cell storage in low-risk families".The American Academy of Pediatrics has stated that cord blood banking for self-use should be discouraged (as most conditions requiring the use of stem cells will already exist in the cord blood), while banking for general use should be encouraged. 31 May – Success of record-long (3 days rather than usually <12 hours) of human transplant organ preservation with machine perfusion of a liver is reported. It could possibly be extended to 10 days and prevent substantial cell damage by low temperature preservation methods. This could be used to preserve donor organs or for revival in medical emergencies. 7 November
The first clinical trial of laboratory-grown red blood cells transfused into people begins. 
Cardiogenic shock complicating acute myocardial infarction in elderly patients: does admission to a tertiary center improve survival? [SEP] Cardiogenic shock as a result of the heart being unable to adequately pump blood may develop, dependent on infarct size, and is most likely to occur within the days following an acute myocardial infarction. Cardiogenic shock is the largest cause of in-hospital mortality. "Heart Failure and Cardiogenic Shock After Myocardial Infarction". The mortality rate for those still living at time of admission who develop complications (among others, cardiac arrest or further abnormal heart rhythms, heart failure, cardiac tamponade, a ruptured or dissecting aneurysm, or another heart attack) from cardiogenic shock is even worse around 85%, especially without drastic measures such as ventricular assist devices or transplantation.Cardiogenic shock may be treated with intravenous dobutamine, which acts on β1 receptors of the heart leading to increased contractility and heart rate. Cardiogenic shock may be due to a heart attack or cardiac contusion. Cardiogenic shock as a result of the heart being unable to adequately pump blood may develop, dependent on infarct size, and is most likely to occur within the days following an acute myocardial infarction. Cardiogenic shock is the largest cause of in-hospital mortality. "Heart Failure and Cardiogenic Shock After Myocardial Infarction". 
Learning needs of postpartum women: does socioeconomic status matter? [SEP] "Childbirth educators" are instructors who aim to teach pregnant women and their partners about the nature of pregnancy, labour signs and stages, techniques for giving birth, breastfeeding and newborn baby care. An October 2021 review of literature published to that date suggested that the lack of up-to-date information "makes it necessary to educate mothers because educated mothers are usually better at handling postpartum situations if they are prepared in advance." An increase in these capacities of support has shown to greatly positively effect breastfeeding rates, especially among women with education below a high school level. The authors advocate that women be provided with education on breastfeeding's benefits as well as problem-solving skills, however there is no conclusive evidence that breastfeeding education alone improves initiation of breastfeeding or the proportion of women breastfeeding either exclusively or partially at 3 months and 6 months. While women's health is affected by their biology, it is also affected by their social conditions, such as poverty, employment, and family responsibilities, and these aspects should not be overshadowed.Women have traditionally been disadvantaged in terms of economic and social status and power, which in turn reduces their access to the necessities of life including health care. "After the Baby: Work-Family Conflict and Working Mothers' Psychological Health". Women's Health: A Relational Perspective Across the Life Cycle. These effects may be due in part to pre-existing differences between mothers who return to work and those who do not such as differences in character or reason for returning to work.Low-income families are less likely to provide a stimulating home learning environment to their children due to time constraints and financial stress. 
Pitfalls in urinary stone identification using CT attenuation values: are we getting the same information on different scanner models? [SEP] Diagnosis
The diagnosis of bladder stone includes urinalysis, ultrasonography, x rays or cystoscopy (inserting a small thin camera into the urethra and viewing the bladder). CT scans are more sensitive and can identify very small stones not seen by other tests. Imaging studies
Calcium-containing stones are relatively radiodense, and they can often be detected by a traditional radiograph of the abdomen that includes the kidneys, ureters, and bladder (KUB film). Cystine calculi are only faintly radiodense, while uric acid stones are usually entirely radiolucent.In people with a history of stones, those who are less than 50 years of age and are presenting with the symptoms of stones without any concerning signs do not require helical CT scan imaging. A CT scan is also not typically recommended in children.Otherwise a noncontrast helical CT scan with 5 millimeters (0.2 in) sections is the diagnostic method to use to detect kidney stones and confirm the diagnosis of kidney stone disease. Near all stones are detectable on CT scans with the exception of those composed of certain drug residues in the urine, such as from indinavir. Ultrasound imaging is useful for detecting stones in situations where X-rays or CT scans are discouraged, such as in children or pregnant women. The main reason for this is that, compared with CT, renal ultrasonography more often fails to detect small stones (especially ureteral stones) and other serious disorders that could be causing the symptoms.On the contrary, a 2014 study suggested that ultrasonography should be used as the initial diagnostic imaging test, with further imaging studies be performed at the discretion of the physician on the basis of clinical judgment, and using ultrasonography rather than CT as an initial diagnostic test results in less radiation exposure and equally good outcome. 
Laminoplasty outcomes: is there a difference between patients with degenerative stenosis and those with ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament? [SEP] Laminoplasty is an orthopaedic/neurosurgical surgical procedure for treating spinal stenosis by relieving pressure on the spinal cord. History
Laminoplasty is a surgical procedure that has been developed as an alternative to cervical laminectomy, which is used to treat cervical myelopathy. These studies have also indicated that neck pain is more prevalent in patients undergoing laminoplasty compared to that of other surgical techniques, whereas C-5 palsy occurs less in laminoplasty. There is also a slower progression rate of OPLL in laminoplasty compared to laminectomy. Laminoplasty is an orthopaedic/neurosurgical surgical procedure for treating spinal stenosis by relieving pressure on the spinal cord. History
Laminoplasty is a surgical procedure that has been developed as an alternative to cervical laminectomy, which is used to treat cervical myelopathy. There is also a slower progression rate of OPLL in laminoplasty compared to laminectomy. See also
Microsurgical lumbar laminoplasty


== References == 
Immunohistochemical assessment of steroid hormone receptors in tissues of the anal canal. Implications for anal incontinence? [SEP] In addition to nuclear receptors, several G protein-coupled receptors and ion channels act as cell surface receptors for certain steroid hormones. New studies suggest that along with the well documented intracellular receptors that cell membrane receptors are present for several steroid hormones and that their cellular responses are much quicker than the intracellular receptors. Ion channels
Neuroactive steroids bind to and modulate the activity of several ion channels including the GABAA, NMDA, and sigma receptors.The steroid progesterone has been found to modulate the activity of CatSper (cation channels of sperm) voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. "MBC 3320 Steroid hormones and receptors". Ion channels, transporters, G-protein coupled receptors (GPCR), and membrane fluidity have all been shown to be affected by steroid hormones. "Exploring the role of sex steroids through studies of receptor deficient mice". "physiological versus pharmacological steroid hormone actions". The anal gland secretes lymphal discharge and built-up fecal matter from the colon lining. 
Is acute fibrinous and organizing pneumonia the expression of immune dysregulation? [SEP] The clinical syndrome is associated with pathological findings including pneumonia, eosinophilic pneumonia, cryptogenic organizing pneumonia, acute fibrinous organizing pneumonia, and diffuse alveolar damage (DAD). The clinical syndrome is associated with pathological findings including pneumonia, eosinophilic pneumonia, cryptogenic organizing pneumonia, acute fibrinous organizing pneumonia, and diffuse alveolar damage (DAD). Pneumonia is an inflammatory condition of the lung primarily affecting the small air sacs known as alveoli. Bloody sputum (known as hemoptysis) may also occur with tuberculosis, Gram-negative pneumonia, lung abscesses and more commonly acute bronchitis. "The term pneumonia is sometimes more broadly applied to any condition resulting in inflammation of the lungs (caused for example by autoimmune diseases, chemical burns or drug reactions); however, this inflammation is more accurately referred to as pneumonitis.Factors that predispose to pneumonia include smoking, immunodeficiency, alcoholism, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, sickle cell disease (SCD), asthma, chronic kidney disease, liver disease, and biological aging. The progress of pneumonia is determined by the virulence of the organism; the amount of organism required to start an infection; and the body's immune response against the infection. Classification
Pneumonitis refers to lung inflammation; pneumonia refers to pneumonitis, usually due to infection but sometimes non-infectious, that has the additional feature of pulmonary consolidation. Differential diagnosis
Several diseases can present with similar signs and symptoms to pneumonia, such as: chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, asthma, pulmonary edema, bronchiectasis, lung cancer, and pulmonary emboli. 
Hypotension in patients with coronary disease: can profound hypotensive events cause myocardial ischaemic events? [SEP] Myocardial Ischemia/Infarction: A heart attack is often caused by a significant build-up of plaque (atherosclerosis) in the coronary vessels. Toxic Myocarditis: Even in patients without myocardial damage, excessive catecholamines can result in abnormal ST changes on an ECG. It is important to note that if a patient does not have a pheochromocytoma, they may become extremely hypotensive following clonidine. Perioperative fluid status
Excess catecholamines cause a decrease in the total blood volume, making a patient vulnerable to hypotension during the operation. Hypotension - Seizure, mental status change, diaphoresis, and signs of orthostatic hypotension and shock. This altered ventricular contraction will decrease cardiac output, and in turn will lead to systemic hypotensive reflex response with varying symptoms. Loss of atrial contraction
Inappropriate pacing in patients with decreased ventricular compliance, which may be caused by diseases such as hypertensive cardiomyopathy, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, restrictive cardiomyopathy, and aging, can result in loss of atrial contraction and significantly reduces cardiac output. Possible complications include heart failure, hypotension, tachycardia, tachypnea, and oxygenation deficit. 
An HIV1/2 point of care test on sputum for screening TB/HIV co-infection in Central India - Will it work? [SEP] Pre-exposure
Antiretroviral treatment among people with HIV whose CD4 count ≤ 550 cells/µL is a very effective way to prevent HIV infection of their partner (a strategy known as treatment as prevention, or TASP). In addition to improving current disease, treatment with antiretrovirals reduces the risk of developing additional opportunistic infections.Adults and adolescents who are living with HIV (even on anti-retroviral therapy) with no evidence of active tuberculosis in settings with high tuberculosis burden should receive isoniazid preventive therapy (IPT); the tuberculin skin test can be used to help decide if IPT is needed. Children with HIV may benefit from screening for tuberculosis. "Sensitivity of clinical samples by RT-PCR is 63% for nasal swab, 32% for pharyngeal swab, 48% for feces, 72–75% for sputum, and 93–95% for bronchoalveolar lavage.The likelihood of detecting the virus depends on collection method and how much time has passed since infection. Sputum culture-positive patients who are smear-negative at the start of treatment do well with only 4 months of treatment (this has not been validated for HIV-positive patients); sputum culture-negative patients do well on only 3 months of treatment (possibly because some of these patients never had TB at all). Directly observed therapy certainly helps to improve outcomes in MDR-TB and should be considered an integral part of the treatment of MDR-TB.Response to treatment must be obtained by repeated sputum cultures (monthly if possible). The districts are capable of detecting TB and treating patients. Identifying and diagnosing patients with HIV/AIDS as soon as possible. 
Do inhaled corticosteroids affect perception of dyspnea during bronchoconstriction in asthma? [SEP] Use of inhaled corticosteroids among children with asthma may result in decreased height. In a moderate or severe exacerbation, corticosteroids by mouth are added to these treatments.People with asthma have higher rates of anxiety, psychological stress, and depression. For adults and children who are in the hospital due to acute asthma, systemic (IV) corticosteroids improve symptoms. A short course of corticosteroids after an acute asthma exacerbation may help prevent relapses and reduce hospitalizations. Continuous (daily) use of an inhaled corticosteroid, rather than its intermitted use, seems to provide better results in controlling asthma exacerbations. For adults or adolescents who have persistent asthma that is not controlled very well, the addition of anti-leukotriene agents along with daily inhaled corticosteriods improves lung function and reduces the risk of moderate and severe asthma exacerbations. Early treatment with corticosteroids seems to prevent or ameliorates a decline in lung function. Corticosteroids: Inhaled corticosteroids (e.g. 
Is routine chest radiography after transbronchial biopsy necessary? [SEP] Progressive dyspnea on exertion without the exacerbations and remissions that are characteristic of asthma or COPD sometimes prompt a chest CT. A review of the CT by an expert familiar with LAM may increase diagnostic accuracy. Video-assisted thoracoscopic lung biopsy is the most definitive technique, but transbronchial biopsy has a yield of over 50% and can also be effective. Chest radiograph
The chest radiograph may appear relatively normal, even late in the disease, or may suggest hyperinflation only. Computed tomography
The high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) chest scan is better than the chest radiograph to detect cystic parenchymal disease and is almost always abnormal at the time of diagnosis, even when the chest radiograph and pulmonary function assessments are normal. Radiology
Chest X-rays are useful in the follow up routine of IPF patients. Small biopsies, such as those obtained via transbronchial lung biopsy (performed during bronchoscopy) are usually not sufficient for this purpose. In some cases, a more invasive technique is necessary, including tissue biopsy during mediastinoscopy or thoracoscopy. However, chest radiographs may be used to rule out the possibility of pulmonary TB in a person who has a positive reaction to the tuberculin skin test and no symptoms of the disease.Cavitation or consolidation of the apexes of the upper lobes of the lung or the tree-in-bud sign  may be visible on an affected patient's chest X-ray. 
Is it safe to perform rectal anastomosis in gynaecological debulking surgery without a diverting stoma? [SEP] With an ileum-anal anastomosis, the entire colon and rectum were removed. Hand Sewn: Surgeons typically use this type of anal anastomosis to remove all of the rectal mucosal layer, although very small islands may still remain. A hand sewn anal anastomosis may be necessary when ulcerative colitis, FAP, or cancer patients retain disease in the anal canal to remove all remaining disease. Risks to fertility for women include removal of the rectum reducing fertility by at least 50%, a dysfunctional pouch sparking a hostile environment in the pelvis preventing embryo implementation in the uterus and scar tissue formation over fallopian tubes blocking ovulation, although, scar tissue formation appears to be less likely with laparoscopic than open surgery. Salvage surgery to redo an IPAA's anal anastomosis
If a pouch has a troubled anal-anastomosis that leaks and causes sepsis or if a person retained more than the recommended amount of rectum (a rectal cuff of no more than 2 cm follows global colorectal surgery recommendations for an ulcerative colitis person), then an experience surgeon may be able to 'redo' the anal anastomosis by removing excess rectum. It might not be possible for an experienced salvage surgeon to redo an anal-anastomosis that has already been hand sewn or has a complication like a fistula or sepsis damage too close to the anus because this presents a surgical situation that is high risk to not heal properly and cause more complications. "Ileal pouch–anal anastomosis". More complete debulking is associated with better outcomes: women with no macroscopic evidence of disease after debulking have a median survival of 39 months, as opposed to 17 months with less complete surgery. 
Does angiotensin-converting enzyme-1 (ACE-1) gene polymorphism lead to chronic kidney disease among hypertensive patients? [SEP] Angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are a class of medication used primarily for the treatment of high blood pressure and heart failure. Mechanism of action
ACE inhibitors reduce the activity of the renin–angiotensin–aldosterone system (RAAS) as the primary etiologic (causal) event in the development of hypertension in people with diabetes mellitus, as part of the insulin-resistance syndrome or as a manifestation of renal disease. Effects
ACE inhibitors block the conversion of angiotensin I (ATI) to angiotensin II (ATII). Under normal conditions, angiotensin II has these effects:

Vasoconstriction (narrowing of blood vessels) and vascular smooth muscle hypertrophy (enlargement) induced by ATII may lead to increased blood pressure and hypertension. Persistent hypertension is a major risk factor for hypertensive heart disease, coronary artery disease, stroke, aortic aneurysm, peripheral artery disease, and chronic kidney disease.Cardiac output and peripheral resistance are the two determinants of arterial pressure. Whenever such a mutation is identified, family-specific genetic testing can be used to identify relatives at-risk for the disease, although clinical severity and age of onset cannot be predicted.An insertion/deletion polymorphism in the gene encoding for angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) alters the clinical phenotype of the disease. Genetic Risk Factors
Polymorphisms in genes have been shown to increase or decrease risk of renal ischemic injury. Acute Renal Failure caused by the treatment of hypertension
In patients with hypertension, treatment of the disease using Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) are sometimes necessary. 
Does laparoscopic antireflux surgery improve quality of life in patients whose gastro-oesophageal reflux disease is well controlled with medical therapy? [SEP] In a large series of 2,000 patients with symptomatic reflux disease, it has been shown that 13% of changes in esophageal acid exposure is attributable to changes in body mass index.Factors that have been linked with GERD, but not conclusively:

Obstructive sleep apnea
Gallstones, which can impede the flow of bile into the duodenum, which can affect the ability to neutralize gastric acidIn 1999, a review of existing studies found that, on average, 40% of GERD patients also had H. pylori infection. Medical nutrition therapy and lifestyle changes
Medical nutrition therapy plays an essential role in managing the symptoms of the disease by preventing reflux, preventing pain and irritation, and decreasing gastric secretions.Some foods such as chocolate, mint, high-fat food, and alcohol have been shown to relax the lower esophageal sphincter, increasing the risk of reflux. "Guidelines for the diagnosis and management of gastroesophageal reflux disease". Gastroesophageal reflux (GERD) occurs after pneumatic dilatation in many undergoing patients. Recent understanding of the gastroesophageal antireflux barrier/valve has shed light on the reason for the occurrence of reflux following myotomy. A Nissen fundoplication, or laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication when performed via laparoscopic surgery, is a surgical procedure to treat gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and hiatal hernia. Patients that continue to have reflux symptoms or that have had uncontrolled reflux symptoms for more than 5 years are also candidates for surgical management. Although antacids and PPI drug therapy can reduce the effects of reflux acid, successful surgical treatment has the advantage of eliminating drug side-effects and damaging effects from other components of reflux such as bile or gastric contents. 
Is semi-closed endarterectomy of the superficial femoral artery combined with a short venous bypass in case of insufficient venous material an acceptable alternative for limb-threatening ischemia? [SEP] Endarterectomy for a significant stenosis has been shown to be useful in preventing further strokes in those who have already had one. On the other hand, lithoplasty balloon angioplasty may represent a safe tool to treat CFA stenosis.The superficial femoral artery is the part of the femoral artery between the branching point of the deep femoral artery and the adductor hiatus, passing through the subsartorial canal. When it is blocked through atherosclerosis, percutaneous intervention with access from the opposite femoral may be needed. Endarterectomy, a surgical cut down and removal of the plaque of the femoral artery is also common. However, if flow in the femoral artery of a normal leg is suddenly disrupted, blood flow distally is rarely sufficient. A previous usage of subsartorial artery was published to avoid the name superficial femoral vein from being used. An iliofemoral DVT  carries a greater risk of a pulmonary embolism developing.The femoral vein is often used to place a central venous catheter, or line for venous access. There are a number of vascular surgeries and endovascular surgeries carried out by vascular surgeons to treat many venous diseases. 
Can biofeedback training of psychophysiological responses enhance athletes' sport performance? [SEP] As of 2013, sport psychologists have also began to explore the effectiveness of various techniques such as setting goals during rehabilitation, self-talk, or biofeedback techniques.Injury among athletes has also been proven to negatively impact their mental health. This has been shown help modify athletes' thoughts, emotions, and behaviors in beneficial ways. Biofeedback is the process of gaining greater awareness of many physiological functions of one's own body by using electronic or other instruments, and with a goal of being able to manipulate the body's systems at will. Some of the processes that can be controlled include brainwaves, muscle tone, skin conductance, heart rate and pain perception.Biofeedback may be used to improve health, performance, and the physiological changes that often occur in conjunction with changes to thoughts, emotions, and behavior. The definition reads:
Biofeedback is a process that enables an individual to learn how to change physiological activity for the purposes of improving health and performance. Over time, these changes can endure without continued use of an instrument.A more simple definition could be:
Biofeedback is the process of gaining greater awareness of many physiological functions primarily using instruments that provide information on the activity of those same systems, with a goal of being able to manipulate them at will. Electrodermal biofeedback is used as an adjunct to psychotherapy to increase client awareness of their emotions. Relaxation
In a study of 18 healthy individuals published in the International Journal of Stress Management it was established that with the use of biofeedback there were large improvements in the individuals ability to relax which was translated in the individuals having improved scores on the Smith Relaxation States Inventory 3 test which measures mindfulness, energized positive feelings and basic relaxation. 
Do cytokines have any role in epilepsy? [SEP] These children have prolonged, often focal, febrile seizures in the first year of life followed by severe epilepsy. One proposal is that inflammatory mediators, particularly cytokines (including IL-1β) play a role in febrile seizures. There are many cytokines and their roles in the body are complicated; some are important for fever but they may also  affect brain excitability. There is some evidence that children with febrile seizures have different amounts of some cytokines compared with children without febrile seizures. Viral meningitis or encephalitis may present with a seizure. Epilepsy is a condition in which a person experiences repeated seizures. Epilepsy
Epilepsy is a neurological disorder characterized by excessive neurological activity in the brain, causing seizures. Journal of Pediatric Epilepsy. 
Cue-induced behavioural activation: a novel model of alcohol craving? [SEP] Notably, abstinence from addicting drugs activates the PFC, glutamatergic projection to the NAc, which leads to strong cravings, and modulates reinstatement of addiction behaviors resulting from abstinence. Addictions can begin experimentally in social contexts and can arise from the use of prescribed medications or a variety of other measures.Drug addiction has been shown to work in phenomenological, conditioning (operant and classical), cognitive models, and the cue reactivity model. Stimulus-driven behavioral responses (i.e., stimulus control) that are associated with a particular rewarding stimulus tend to dominate one's behavior in an addiction. In simple terms, when reward sensitization to a specific stimulus (e.g., a drug) occurs, an individual's "wanting" or desire for the stimulus itself and its associated cues increases. "Cue-induced wanting" or "cue-triggered wanting", a form of craving that occurs in addiction, is responsible for most of the compulsive behavior that people with addictions exhibit. During the development of an addiction, the repeated association of otherwise neutral and even non-rewarding stimuli with drug consumption triggers an associative learning process that causes these previously neutral stimuli to act as conditioned positive reinforcers of addictive drug use (i.e., these stimuli start to function as drug cues). As conditioned positive reinforcers of drug use, these previously neutral stimuli are assigned incentive salience (which manifests as a craving) – sometimes at pathologically high levels due to reward sensitization – which can transfer to the primary reinforcer (e.g., the use of an addictive drug) with which it was originally paired.Research on the interaction between natural and drug rewards suggests that dopaminergic psychostimulants (e.g., amphetamine) and sexual behavior act on similar biomolecular mechanisms to induce ΔFosB in the nucleus accumbens and possess a bidirectional reward cross-sensitization effect that is mediated through ΔFosB. In contrast to resting state and decision related activity, cues associated with drugs evoke robust OFC activity that correlates with craving. 
Can routine offering of influenza vaccination in office-based settings reduce racial and ethnic disparities in adult influenza vaccination? [SEP] Investigation of different types of vaccination policy finds strong evidence that standing orders and allowing healthcare workers without prescription authority (such as nurses) to administer vaccines in defined circumstances increase vaccination rates, and sufficient evidence that requiring vaccinations before attending child care and schools also does so. There is also evidence that mandatory vaccination policies for healthcare workers, for instance for influenza shots, increase uptake. In schools and daycare
Vaccination requirements for access to daycare and schools increase vaccine uptake in the United States and there is evidence that these requirements may decrease disease. Socioeconomic disparities have been found to hinder reasonable access to vaccinations in the U.S., and it has also been found that even were such status is not a factor, "racial ethnic minority adults are less likely than whites to receive preventive care including vaccination". The intent is to encourage the most at-risk populations to get vaccinated. Influenza is the only nationally necessary vaccine for adults, and is administered by general practitioners. In one trial, an educational intervention designed to dispel common misconceptions about the influenza vaccine decreased parents' false beliefs about the vaccines but did not improve uptake of the influenza vaccine. Vaccines uptake of migrants can be increased by customised communications, clear policies, community-guided interventions (such as vaccine advocates), and vaccine offers in local accessible settings. 
Colorectal cancer in young patients: is it a distinct clinical entity? [SEP] For example, individuals with Crohn's disease involving the small bowel are at higher risk for small intestinal cancer. Screening for colon cancer with colonoscopy is recommended for anyone who has had Crohn's colitis for at least eight years.Some studies suggest there is a role for chemoprotection in the prevention of colorectal cancer in Crohn's involving the colon; two agents have been suggested, folate and mesalamine preparations. However, Crohn's disease is associated with a small increase in risk of small bowel and colorectal carcinoma (bowel cancer). Comparing low to high dietary folate showed a modest but statistically significant reduced risk of colon cancer. A third supplementation meta-analysis limited to reporting only on colorectal cancer incidence showed that folic acid treatment was not associated with colorectal cancer risk. Anal cancer is relatively rare, and significantly less common than cancer of the colon or rectum (colorectal cancer); the American Cancer Society states that it affects approximately 7,060 people (4,430 in women and 2,630 in men) and results in approximately 880 deaths (550 in women and 330 in men) in the United States, and that, though anal cancer has been on the rise for many years, it is mainly diagnosed in adults, "with an average age being in the early 60s" and it "affects women somewhat more often than men. "Though anal cancer is serious, treatment for it is "often very effective" and most anal cancer patients can be cured of the disease; the American Cancer Society adds that "receptive anal intercourse also increases the risk of anal cancer in both men and women, particularly in those younger than the age of 30. The two CK1δ mutations, R324H and T67S identified in intestinal mucosa and in a colorectal tumor, respectively, exhibit increased carcinogenic potential. 
Can implant retention be recommended for treatment of infected TKA? [SEP] Positive intraoperative cultures: Antibiotic therapy alone
Early post-operative infections: debridement, antibiotics, and retention of prosthesis. titanium or a titanium alloy has more than 85% titanium content, it will form a titanium-biocompatible titanium oxide surface layer or veneer that encloses the other metals, preventing them from contacting the bone.Ceramic (zirconia-based) implants exist in one-piece (combining the screw and the abutment) or two-piece systems - the abutment being either cemented or screwed - and might lower the risk for peri‐implant diseases, but long-term data on success rates is missing. Maintenance
After placement, implants need to be cleaned (similar to natural teeth) with a periodontal scaler to remove any plaque. : 76  An oral irrigator may also be useful for cleaning around implants.The same kinds of techniques used for cleaning teeth are recommended for maintaining hygiene around implants, and can be manually or professionally administered. There is no evidence that one type of antimicrobial is better than the other.Peri-implantitis is a condition that may occur with implants due to bacteria, plaque, or design and it is on the rise. People are encouraged to discuss oral hygiene and maintenance of implants with their dentists.There are different interventions if peri-implantitis occurs, such as mechanical debridement, antimicrobial irrigation, and antibiotics. There can also be surgery such as open-flap debridement to remove bacteria, assess/smooth implant surface, or decontaminate implant surface. Immediate post-operative risks
Infection (pre-op antibiotics reduce the risk of implant failure by 33 percent but do not affect the risk of infection). 
Long-term significance of postictal psychotic episodes II. Are they predictive of interictal psychotic episodes? [SEP] The postictal state is the altered state of consciousness after an epileptic seizure. The ictal period is the seizure itself; the interictal period is the time between seizures, when brain activity is more normal; and the preictal period is the time leading up to a seizure:

Ictal period refers to a physiologic state or event such as a seizure, stroke, or headache. Interictal refers to the period between seizures, or convulsions, that are characteristic of an epilepsy disorder. The interictal period is often used by neurologists when diagnosing epilepsy since an EEG trace will often show small interictal spiking and other abnormalities known by neurologists as subclinical seizures. Signs and symptoms
Jerome Engel defines the postictal state as "manifestations of seizure-induced reversible alterations in neuronal function but not structure." Symptoms typically last about 15 hours, but can continue for 36 hours.Postictal psychosis is a neuropsychiatric sequel to seizures of chronic epilepsy in adults. In persons who experience postictal psychosis, this "lucid phase" usually continues at least 6 hours (and up to a week) followed by the psychosis lasting as little as one hour to more than 3 months (the mean is 9–10 days). The psychosis is typically treated medically using atypical antipsychotics and benzodiazepines, and successful epilepsy surgery can resolve the psychotic episodes.Postictal bliss or euphoria is also reported following seizures. 
Do primary care physicians underprescribe antibiotics for peptic ulcer disease? [SEP] Ulcers due to H. pylori are treated with a combination of medications, such as amoxicillin, clarithromycin, and a PPI. Medicines associated with peptic ulcer include NSAIDs (non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs) that inhibit cyclooxygenase and most glucocorticoids (e.g., dexamethasone and prednisolone).In people over the age of 45 with more than two weeks of the above symptoms, the odds for peptic ulceration are high enough to warrant rapid investigation by esophagogastroduodenoscopy.The timing of symptoms in relation to the meal may differentiate between gastric and duodenal ulcers. NSAIDs
Taking nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as aspirin can increase the risk of peptic ulcer disease by four times compared to non-users. Also, when severe ulcers resist treatment, particularly if a person has several ulcers or the ulcers are in unusual places, a doctor may suspect an underlying condition that causes the stomach to overproduce acid.An esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD), a form of endoscopy, also known as a gastroscopy, is carried out on people in whom a peptic ulcer is suspected. Differential diagnosis
Conditions that may appear similar include:

Prevention
Prevention of peptic ulcer disease for those who are taking NSAIDs (with low cardiovascular risk) can be achieved by adding a proton pump inhibitor (PPI), an H2 antagonist, or misoprostol. PPI is the most popular agent in peptic ulcer prevention. The reason that the rates of peptic ulcer disease decreased is thought to be the development of new effective medication and acid suppressants and the rational use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). History
John Lykoudis, a general practitioner in Greece, treated people for peptic ulcer disease with antibiotics beginning in 1958, long before it was commonly recognized that bacteria were a dominant cause for the disease.Helicobacter pylori was identified in 1982 by two Australian scientists, Robin Warren and Barry J. Marshall, as a causative factor for ulcers. 
Blunt trauma in intoxicated patients: is computed tomography of the abdomen always necessary? [SEP] When blunt abdominal trauma is complicated by 'internal injury,' the liver and spleen (see blunt splenic trauma) are most frequently involved, followed by the small intestine.In rare cases, this injury has been attributed to medical techniques such as the Heimlich maneuver, attempts at CPR and manual thrusts to clear an airway. These algorithms take into account the mechanism of injury, physical examination, and patient's vital signs to determine whether patients should have imaging or proceed directly to surgery.Recently, criteria have been defined that might allow patients with blunt abdominal trauma to be discharged safely without further evaluation. Treatment
When blunt trauma is significant enough to require evaluation by a healthcare provider, treatment is typically aimed at treating life-threatening injuries, which requires ensuring the patient is able to breathe and preventing ongoing blood loss. When blunt abdominal trauma is complicated by 'internal injury,' the liver and spleen (see blunt splenic trauma) are most frequently involved, followed by the small intestine.In rare cases, this injury has been attributed to medical techniques such as the Heimlich maneuver, attempts at CPR and manual thrusts to clear an airway. These algorithms take into account the mechanism of injury, physical examination, and patient's vital signs to determine whether patients should have imaging or proceed directly to surgery.Recently, criteria have been defined that might allow patients with blunt abdominal trauma to be discharged safely without further evaluation. Abdominal injuries are typically caused by traffic accidents, assaults, falls, and work-related injuries, and physical examination is often unreliable in diagnosing blunt abdominal trauma. The intestines are susceptible to injury following blunt abdominal trauma. The liver's size and location in the body makes injury relatively common compared to other abdominal organs, and blunt trauma injury to the liver is typically treated with nonoperative management. 
Chronic progressive cervical myelopathy with HTLV-I infection: Variant form of HAM/TSP? [SEP] Human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 or human T-lymphotropic virus (HTLV-I), also called the adult T-cell lymphoma virus type 1, is a retrovirus of the human T-lymphotropic virus (HTLV) family that has been implicated in several kinds of diseases including very aggressive adult T-cell lymphoma (ATL), HTLV-I-associated myelopathy, uveitis, Strongyloides stercoralis hyper-infection and some other diseases. Infection with HTLV-I, like infection with other retroviruses, probably occurs for life. Inflammatory diseases
HTLV myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis
HTLV-1 is also associated with a progressive demyelinating upper motor neuron disease known as HTLV-1 associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP), characterized by sensory and motor deficits, particularly of the lower extremities, incontinence and impotence. Only 0.3 to 4% of infected individuals develop HAM/TSP, but this will vary from one geographic location to another.Signs and symptoms of HTLV myelopathy include:

Motor and sensory changes in the extremities
Spastic gait in combination with weakness of the lower limbs
Clonus
Bladder dysfunction(neurogenic bladder) and bladder cancerOther neurologic findings that may be found in HTLV include:

Mild cognitive impairment
Erectile dysfunction

Arthropathy
HTLV-1 is associated with a rheumatoid-like arthropathy, although the evidence is contradictory. Uveitis
Studies from Japan demonstrated that HTLV-1 infection may be associated with an intermediate uveitis. Adult T cell lymphoma is a common complication of HTLV infection and requires aggressive chemotherapy, typically R-CHOP. One case report describes an HTLV-1 infected woman who developed chronic refractory eczema, corneal injury and adult T cell leukemia. HTLV-2 is associated with milder neurologic disorders and chronic pulmonary infections. 
Gender difference in survival of resected non-small cell lung cancer: histology-related phenomenon? [SEP] Squamous-cell lung carcinoma
Squamous-cell carcinoma (SCC) of the lung is more common in men than in women. References
External links

MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Lung cancer — non-small cell Survival rates are higher in those diagnosed at an earlier stage, diagnosed at a younger age, and in women compared to men. There are two main types of lung cancer, categorized by the size and appearance of the malignant cells seen by a histopathologist under a microscope: small cell lung cancer (SCLC; 15% of cases) and non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC; 85% of cases). Women tend to be diagnosed with less-advanced disease, and have better outcomes than men diagnosed at the same stage. The median age of a person diagnosed with lung cancer is 70; the median age of death is 72.Lung cancer incidence varies by geography and sex, with the highest rates in Micronesia, Polynesia, Europe, Asia, and North America; and lowest rates in Africa and Central America. Globally, around 8% of men and 6% of women develop lung cancer in their lifetimes. The ratio of lung cancer cases in men to women varies considerably by geography, from as high as nearly 12:1 in Belarus, to 1:1 in Brazil, likely due to differences in smoking patterns.Lung cancer risk is influenced by environmental exposure, namely cigarette smoking, as well as occupational risks in mining, shipbuilding, petroleum refining, and occupations that involve asbestos exposure. 
Is lumbar drainage of postoperative cerebrospinal fluid fistula after spine surgery effective? [SEP] A lumbar puncture that drains CSF may also be used as part of treatment for some conditions, including idiopathic intracranial hypertension and normal pressure hydrocephalus.Lumbar puncture can also be performed to measure the intracranial pressure, which might be increased in certain types of hydrocephalus. In 1869 Gustav Schwalbe proposed that CSF drainage could occur via lymphatic vessels.In 1891, W. Essex Wynter began treating tubercular meningitis by removing CSF from the subarachnoid space, and Heinrich Quincke began to popularize lumbar puncture, which he advocated for both diagnostic and therapeutic purposes. The evidence of the last decade suggests however, that these leaks result from either a discogenic pathology, such as microspur, osteophyte or intra-dural disc herniation that pierces the dura like a knife, connective tissue disorder (which can often lead to discogenic pathology), or spinal drainage problems.A cerebrospinal fluid leak can be a rare complication of an anterior cervical discectomy and fusion (ACDF). CT
Diagnosis of a cerebrospinal fluid leak is performed through a combination of measurement of the CSF pressure and a computed tomography myelogram (CTM) scan of the spinal column for fluid leaks. Finding the location of a cerebrospinal fluid leak is not required prior to using an epidural blood patch as initial lumbar epidural blood patches often provide relief of symptoms and resolve the leak without further intervention. Surgical drain technique
In extreme cases of intractable CSF leak, a surgical lumbar drain has been used. Neurosurgical repair
Surgery to treat a CSF-venous fistula in CSF leak patients is highly effective. Research
Tetracosactide is a corticosteroid that causes the brain to produce additional spinal fluid to replace the volume of the lost CSF and alleviate symptoms, and has been given intravenously to treat CSF leaks.In three small studies of 1-2 patients with recurrent CSF leaks where repeated blood patches failed to form clots and relieve symptoms, the patients received temporary but complete resolution of symptoms with an epidural saline infusion. 
Is obesity a risk factor for wheezing among adolescents? [SEP] Individuals with certain types of urticaria may also experience symptoms of asthma.There is a correlation between obesity and the risk of asthma with both having increased in recent years. Several factors may be at play including decreased respiratory function due to a buildup of fat and the fact that adipose tissue leads to a pro-inflammatory state.Beta blocker medications such as propranolol can trigger asthma in those who are susceptible. This among other factors leads to bouts of narrowing of the airway and the classic symptoms of wheezing. The wheezing is most often when breathing out. Risk factors include a family history of allergies, vitamin D deficiency, obesity, and high levels of cleanliness. Asthma
Asthma is a common chronic disease in children that impacts their ability to breathe. Asthma in children is typically triggered by environmental antigens, allergies, viral respiratory infections, fumes, obesity, and emotional factors including stress. Childhood Overweight and Obesity
Overweight and obesity in children is a chronic illness that has been steadily increasing in prevalence in the US. 
Dose end-tidal carbon dioxide measurement correlate with arterial carbon dioxide in extremely low birth weight infants in the first week of life? [SEP] Capnography is the monitoring of the concentration or partial pressure of carbon dioxide (CO2) in the respiratory gases. When the measurement is taken at the end of a breath (exhaling), it is called "end tidal" CO2 (PETCO2).The capnogram is a direct monitor of the inhaled and exhaled concentration or partial pressure of CO2, and an indirect monitor of the CO2 partial pressure in the arterial blood. The relationship of cardiac output and end tidal CO2 is linear, such that as cardiac output increases or decreases, the amount of CO2 is also adjusted in the same manner. Therefore the monitoring of end tidal CO2 can provide vital information on the integrity of the cardiovascular system, specifically how well the heart is able to pump blood.The amount of CO2 that is measured during each breath requires an intact cardiovascular system to delivery the CO2 to the alveoli which is the functional unit of the lungs. Indirectly, it reflects the production of CO2 by tissues and the circulatory transport of CO2 to the lungs.When expired CO2 is related to expired volume rather than time, the area beneath the curve represents the volume of CO2 in the breath, and thus over the course of a minute, this method can yield the CO2 per minute elimination, an important measure of metabolism. Studies have shown that when a person doing CPR tires, the patient's end-tidal CO2 (PETCO2, the level of carbon dioxide released at the end of expiration) falls, and then rises when a fresh rescuer takes over. Both effectively serve the same function to quantify the amount of CO2 that is being exhaled in each breath. Likewise, for any given total body CO2 production rate, alveolar ventilation is inversely proportional to end-tidal CO2 concentration (since their mutual product must equal total body CO2 production rate). 
Is CA72-4 a useful biomarker in differential diagnosis between ovarian endometrioma and epithelial ovarian cancer? [SEP] Endometriomas are usually benign growths, most often found in the ovary. Endometrioma can potentially lead to premature ovarian failure, decreased ovarian function, or problems with ovulation. Risks
Endometriomas can increase the risk of ovarian cancer in reproductive women, decrease normal ovarian function, and cause pain in the pelvis during or after periods or during sexual intercourse. Another factor that endometrioma can impact is the ovarian reserve, or the number of quality follicles left in the ovary to produce viable eggs. A 2016 review found that this biomarker was present in those with symptoms of endometriosis; and, once ovarian cancer has been ruled out, a positive CA-125 may confirm the diagnosis. CA-125 levels appear to fall during endometriosis treatment, but it has not shown a correlation with disease response.Another review in 2011 identified several putative biomarkers upon biopsy, including findings of small sensory nerve fibers or defectively expressed β3 integrin subunit. It has been postulated a future diagnostic tool for endometriosis will consist of a panel of several specific and sensitive biomarkers, including both substance concentrations and genetic predisposition.A 2016 review of endometrial biomarkers for diagnosing endometriosis was unable to draw conclusions due to the low quality of the evidence.MicroRNAs have the potential to be used in diagnostic and therapeutic decisions

Histopathology
For a histopathological diagnosis, at least two of the following three criteria should be present:
Endometrial type stroma
Endometrial epithelium with glands
Evidence of chronic hemorrhage, mainly hemosiderin depositsImmunohistochemistry has been found to be useful in diagnosing endometriosis as stromal cells have a peculiar surface antigen, CD10, thus allowing the pathologist go straight to a staining area and hence confirm the presence of stromal cells and sometimes glandular tissue is thus identified that was missed on routine H&E staining. An ultrasound can identify large clumps of tissue as potential endometriosis lesions and ovarian cysts but it is not effective for all patients, especially in cases with smaller, superficial lesions.These studies suggest that endometriosis affects approximately 11% of women in the general population. 
Preservation of the PCL when performing cruciate-retaining TKA: Is the tibial tuberosity a reliable predictor of the PCL footprint location? [SEP] The cartilages and the anterior cruciate ligament are removed; the posterior cruciate ligament also may be removed but the tibial and fibular collateral ligaments are preserved. Whether the posterior cruciate ligament is removed or preserved depends on the type of implant used, although there appears to be no clear difference in knee function or range of motion favoring either approach. Tibia polyethylene component
Polyethylene is the plastic component that is inserted between the femoral and tibial components. Ligament retaining or sacrificing
The posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) is important to the stability of the knee by preventing posterior subluxation of the tibia, reducing shear stress, increasing flexion and lever arm of the extensor mechanism by inducing femoral rollback upon flexion, and thus minimizing polyethylene abrasion through reducing stress applied to the articular surface. The PS implant uses a post that is built into the implant to accommodate for the loss of PCL. Proponents of retaining the PCL advise that it is difficult to balance a CR knee and unnatural physiologic loads may increase wear of the polyethylene. Other component designs have the polyethylene member fixed to the tibial component, and only articulate at the femur/polyethylene junction. The ACL is one of the ligaments crucial to knee stability and persons who tear their ACL often undergo reconstructive surgery, which can be done through a variety of techniques and materials. 
The English antibiotic awareness campaigns: did they change the public's knowledge of and attitudes to antibiotic use? [SEP] In 1954, the introduction of haemoglobin electrophoresis allowed the discovery of particular subtypes, such as HbSC disease.Large-scale natural history studies and further intervention studies were introduced in the 1970s and 1980s, leading to widespread use of prophylaxis against pneumococcal infections amongst other interventions. United Kingdom
In 2021 many patients were found to be afraid to visit hospitals so purchasing pain relief to treat themselves outside the NHS, such was the level of ignorance among staff. In 2007, following evidence that good respiratory and hand hygiene might reduce the spread of flu, the phrase appeared in a government campaign that publicised the directive "Catch it, Bin it, Kill it" throughout the NHS, on buses and trains and in libraries, shopping centres and police stations. For example, good respiratory and hand hygiene, as summed up in the NHS's 'Catch It, Bin It, Kill It' campaign, can slow the spread of the pandemic." Campaigns
In November 2007, following a review of hand hygiene published in the British Medical Journal and a research paper published in the American Journal of Infection Control, which "warn(ed) that, in the event of a flu pandemic, good hand hygiene will be the first line of defence during the early critical period before mass vaccination becomes available", the government launched a respiratory and hand hygiene campaign using the "Catch it, Bin it, Kill it" slogan, to prevent the spread of colds and flu by encouraging people to practise correct respiratory and hand hygiene when coughing and sneezing. 2009 swine flu in the UK
The slogan gained widespread media attention in 2009 when it was used during that year's swine flu pandemic and its presence in the UK to encourage respiratory and hand hygiene to reduce transmission of swine flu. Research
In 2008, a Department of Health report on advertising aimed at encouraging better hand and respiratory hygiene practice to mothers reported that mothers found the phrase easy to remember and that it would be taken up by their children.In 2009, funding was granted to researchers from University College London to study public behaviour and the effect of initiatives such as the campaigns using the slogan. For example, good respiratory and hand hygiene, as summed up in the NHS's 'Catch It, Bin It, Kill It' campaign, can slow the spread of the pandemic." 
Does increased nerve length within the treatment volume improve trigeminal neuralgia radiosurgery? [SEP] While this process does repair some nerves, there will still be some functional deficit as the repairs are not perfect. The vagotomy reduces this secretion and ultimately leads to deficiency, which, if left untreated, causes nerve damage, tiredness, dementia, paranoia, and ultimately death.Researchers from Aarhus University and Aarhus University Hospital have demonstrated that vagotomy prevents (halves the risk of) the development of Parkinson's disease, suggesting that Parkinson's disease begins in the gastrointestinal tract and spreads via the vagus nerve to the brain. Radiation therapy has several applications in non-malignant conditions, such as the treatment of trigeminal neuralgia, acoustic neuromas, severe thyroid eye disease, pterygium, pigmented villonodular synovitis, and prevention of keloid scar growth, vascular restenosis, and heterotopic ossification. For example, for breast cancer after breast-conserving surgery, radiotherapy has been found to halve the rate at which the disease recurs. Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) is when doctors use a single or several stereotactic radiation treatments of the brain or spine. When the treatment volume conforms to the shape of the tumor, the relative toxicity of radiation to the surrounding normal tissues is reduced, allowing a higher dose of radiation to be delivered to the tumor than conventional techniques would allow. IMRT also improves the ability to conform the treatment volume to concave tumor shapes, for example when the tumor is wrapped around a vulnerable structure such as the spinal cord or a major organ or blood vessel. This results in better tumor targeting, lessened side effects, and improved treatment outcomes than even 3DCRT. 
Is the affinity column-mediated immunoassay method suitable as an alternative to the microparticle enzyme immunoassay method as a blood tacrolimus assay? [SEP] They have been used to evaluate the properties of specific epitopes and antibodies. Techniques such as immunoassay, which is the most common form of amphetamine test, may cross-react with a number of sympathomimetic drugs. In some cases, an immunoassay may use an antigen to detect for the presence of antibodies, which recognize that antigen, in a solution. In the kinetic interaction of microparticle in solution (KIMS) and particle enhanced turbidimetric inhibition immunoassay (PETINIA), free antibodies bind to drug microparticle conjugates to form aggregates that absorb in the visible range in the absence of the analyte. The photoacoustic immunoassay can be applied to lateral flow tests, which use colloidal nanoparticles. The assay uses a solid-phase type of enzyme immunoassay (EIA) to detect the presence of a ligand (commonly a protein) in a liquid sample using antibodies directed against the protein to be measured. Conventionally, like other forms of immunoassays, the specificity of antigen-antibody type reaction is used because it is easy to raise an antibody specifically against an antigen in bulk as a reagent. A major disadvantage of the direct ELISA is that the method of antigen immobilization is not specific; when serum is used as the source of test antigen, all proteins in the sample may stick to the microtiter plate well, so small concentrations of analyte in serum must compete with other serum proteins when binding to the well surface. 
Should tumor depth be included in prognostication of soft tissue sarcoma? [SEP] Prognostic importance
Tumor depth is one of the cornerstones of the current AJCC TNM staging of malignant melanoma. A large study validated the importance of tumor depth (but not Breslow's original description) as one of the three most important prognostic factors in melanoma (the others being T stage and ulceration). A soft-tissue sarcoma (STS) is a malignant tumor, a type of cancer, that develops in soft tissue. Treatment
In general, treatment for soft-tissue sarcomas depends on the stage of the cancer. Soft tissue sarcomas
Diagnosis of soft-tissue sarcomas also begins with a thorough history and physical examination. Staging for soft tissue sarcomas typically includes imaging of the primary tumor by MRI or CT to determine tumor size, as well as contrast-enhanced CT of the chest to evaluate for metastatic tumors in the lungs. Thus, 12.3% of bone sarcoma deaths occur in people under 20 years old, 13.8% occur in people 20–34 years old, 5.5% occur in people 35–44 years old, 9.3% occur in people 45–54 years old, 13.5% occur in people 55–64 years old, 16.2% occur in people 65–74 years old, 16.4% occur in people 75–84 years old, and 13.1% occur in people 85 years or older.For soft tissue sarcomas, the overall 5-year survival (irrespective of stage) is 64.5%, but survival is affected by many factors, including stage. Thus, the 5-year survival is 80.8% for soft tissue sarcomas that have not spread beyond the primary tumor ("localized" tumors), 58.0% for soft tissue sarcomas that have spread only to nearby lymph nodes, and 16.4% for soft tissue sarcomas that have spread to distant organs. 
Is amoxapine an atypical antipsychotic? [SEP] Atypicals are less likely than haloperidol—the most widely used typical antipsychotic—to cause extrapyramidal motor control disabilities in patients such as unsteady Parkinson's disease-type movements, body rigidity, and involuntary tremors. The definition of "atypicality" was based upon the absence of extrapyramidal side effects, but there is now a clear understanding that atypical antipsychotics can still induce these effects (though to a lesser degree than typical antipsychotics). Like the other atypical antipsychotics, it is believed to have antagonist activity at dopamine and serotonin receptors in the brain. – the case for, Australian Prescriber 2005 (note: pharmaceutical company conflict of interest statement at the end)
Are atypical antipsychotics advantageous? Fifty Years of Antipsychotic Drugs in Psychiatry. An atypical antidepressant is any antidepressant medication that acts in a manner that is different from that of most other antidepressants. Atypical antidepressants include agomelatine, bupropion, iprindole, mianserin, mirtazapine, nefazodone, opipramol, tianeptine, and trazodone. Several researchers have argued that loxapine, initially classified as a typical antipsychotic, behaves as an atypical antipsychotic.Loxapine may be metabolized by N-demethylation to amoxapine, a tricyclic antidepressant. 
Does topical N-acetylcysteine application after myringotomy cause severe otorrhea? [SEP] However, 3% to 6% of people given intravenous acetylcysteine show a severe, anaphylaxis-like allergic reaction, which may include extreme breathing difficulty (due to bronchospasm), a decrease in blood pressure, rash, angioedema, and sometimes also nausea and vomiting. Repeated doses of intravenous acetylcysteine will cause these allergic reactions to progressively worsen in these people. Side effects
The most commonly reported adverse effects for IV formulations of acetylcysteine are rash, urticaria, and itchiness.Adverse effects for inhalational formulations of acetylcysteine include nausea, vomiting, stomatitis, fever, rhinorrhea, drowsiness, clamminess, chest tightness, and bronchoconstriction. A marked decrease in myoclonus and some normalization of somatosensory evoked potentials with acetylcysteine treatment has been documented. A myringotomy is a surgical procedure in which an incision is created in the eardrum (tympanic membrane) to relieve pressure caused by excessive buildup of fluid, or to drain pus from the middle ear. One randomized controlled study found that laser myringotomies are safe but less effective than ventilation tube in the treatment of chronic OME. No effect on speech and language development has yet been shown.A retrospective study of success rates in 96 adults and 130 children with otitis media treated with CO2 laser myringotomy showed about a 50% cure rate at six months in both groups. Adverse effects
Ear discharge (otorrhoea) is common in 25–75% of children after grommets are inserted. 
Is non-HDL-cholesterol a better predictor of long-term outcome in patients after acute myocardial infarction compared to LDL-cholesterol? [SEP] High levels of blood cholesterol is a known risk factor, particularly high low-density lipoprotein, low high-density lipoprotein, and high triglycerides.Many risk factors for myocardial infarction are potentially modifiable, with the most important being tobacco smoking (including secondhand smoke). All the lipoproteins carry cholesterol, but elevated levels of the lipoproteins other than HDL (termed non-HDL cholesterol), particularly LDL-cholesterol, are associated with an increased risk of atherosclerosis and coronary heart disease. In contrast, higher levels of HDL cholesterol are protective.Avoiding trans fats and replacing saturated fats in adult diets with polyunsaturated fats are recommended dietary measures to reduce total blood cholesterol and LDL in adults. Trans fats have been shown to reduce levels of high-density lipoprotein while increasing levels of LDL.A 2016 review found tentative evidence that dietary cholesterol is associated with higher blood cholesterol. For people at high risk of cardiovascular disease, the recommended limit for total cholesterol is 4 mmol/L, and 2 mmol/L for LDL.In the United States, the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute within the National Institutes of Health classifies total cholesterol of less than 200 mg/dL as "desirable", 200 to 239 mg/dL as "borderline high", and 240 mg/dL or more as "high".There is no absolute cutoff between normal and abnormal cholesterol levels, and values must be considered in relation to other health conditions and risk factors.Higher levels of total cholesterol increase the risk of cardiovascular disease, particularly coronary heart disease. Levels of LDL or non-HDL cholesterol both predict future coronary heart disease; which is the better predictor is disputed. While the SHARP study suggested that LDL cholesterol-lowering treatments (e.g. Elevated cholesterol may increase ischemic stroke risk while decreasing the risk of hemorrhagic stroke. 
Is intrapartum vibroacoustic stimulation an effective predictor of fetal acidosis? [SEP] Premise
The premise of the NST is that a well-oxygenated, non-acidemic fetus will spontaneously have temporary increases, termed "accelerations," in the fetal heart rate (FHR).Vibroacoustic stimulation can wake the fetus, and is sometimes used to speed up the test or to facilitate further evaluation of a non-reactive nonstress test. Fetal metabolic acidemia
In the fetus, the normal range differs based on which umbilical vessel is sampled (umbilical vein pH is normally 7.25 to 7.45; umbilical artery pH is normally 7.18 to 7.38). Fetal metabolic acidemia is defined as an umbilical vessel pH of less than 7.20 and a base excess of less than −8. Fetal respiratory acidemia
In the fetus, the normal range differs based on which umbilical vessel is sampled (umbilical vein pH is normally 7.25 to 7.45; umbilical artery pH is normally 7.20 to 7.38). Fetal respiratory acidemia is defined as an umbilical vessel pH of less than 7.20 and an umbilical artery PCO2 of 66 or higher or umbilical vein PCO2 of 50 or higher. Its presence is reassuring in predicting an absence of metabolic acidemia and hypoxic injury to the fetus at the time it is observed. (2014), four saltatory patterns in CTG exceeding 20 minutes in the last 30 minutes before birth were associated with fetal metabolic acidosis. (2019), it was demonstrated that the occurrence of saltatory pattern (already with the minimum duration of 2 minutes) in CTG tracings during labor was associated with fetal hypoxia indicated by high umbilical vein (UV) blood erythropoietin (EPO) levels and umbilical artery (UA) blood acidosis at birth in human fetuses. 
The association of puberty and young adolescent alcohol use: do parents have a moderating role? [SEP] It has been demonstrated that adolescents who drink at least to some degree may be as much as sixteen times more likely than non-drinkers to use illicit drugs. Distinctions between the reasons for alcohol consumption of males and females begin to emerge around ages 14–15; overall, boys tend to view drinking in a more social light than girls, who report on average a more frequent use of alcohol as a coping mechanism. The latter effect appears to shift in late adolescence and onset of early adulthood (20–21 years of age); however, despite this trend, age tends to bring a greater desire to drink for pleasure rather than coping in both boys and girls.Drinking habits and the motives behind them often reflect certain aspects of an individual's personality; in fact, four dimensions of the Five-Factor Model of personality demonstrate associations with drinking motives (all but 'Openness'). Alcohol use as a negative emotion control mechanism often links with many other behavioral and emotional impairments, such as anxiety, depression, and low self-esteem.Research has generally shown striking uniformity across different cultures in the motives behind teen alcohol use. Social engagement and personal enjoyment appear to play a fairly universal role in adolescents' decision to drink throughout separate cultural contexts. Substance use prevention efforts typically focus on minors and young adults – especially between 12–35 years of age. A few more factors that contribute to teen drug abuse are lack of or poor parent to child communication, unsupervised accessibility of alcohol at home, having too much freedom and being left alone for long periods of time. For example, some studies report that not living with both biological parents or having poor parent-adolescent communication is associated with substance use, especially in female adolescents.Main risk periods for substance use occur during major transitions in a child's life. 
Must early postoperative oral intake be limited to laparoscopy? [SEP] Dietary recommendations
Diet restrictions after recovery from surgery depend in part on the type of surgery. In general, immediately after bariatric surgery, the patient is restricted to a clear liquid diet, which includes foods such as clear broth, diluted fruit juices or sugar-free drinks and gelatin desserts. Nutritional effects
After surgery, patients feel fullness after ingesting only a small volume of food, followed soon thereafter by a sense of satiety and loss of appetite. Due to the reduced size of the newly created stomach pouch, and reduced food intake, adequate nutrition demands that the patient follow the surgeon's instructions for food consumption, including the number of meals to be taken daily, adequate protein intake, and the use of vitamin and mineral supplements. With reduced ability to eat a large volume of food, gastric bypass patients must focus on eating their protein requirements first, and with each meal. Impactions are usually managed with fluids for 3–5 days before surgery is considered. The abdomen is usually lavaged copiously before the abdomen is sutured closed, and anti-inflammatories are given postoperatively. Post-operative care
Small amounts of food is usually introduced as soon as possible after surgery, usually within 18–36 hours, to encourage motility and reduce the risk of ileus and the formation of adhesions. 
Does loss of consciousness predict neuropsychological decrements after concussion? [SEP] Fewer than 10% of sports-related concussions among children are associated with loss of consciousness.Common causes include motor vehicle collisions, falls, sports injuries, and bicycle accidents. In one in about seventy concussions, concussive convulsions occur, but seizures that take place during or immediately after a concussion are not "post-traumatic seizures", and, unlike post-traumatic seizures, are not predictive of post-traumatic epilepsy, which requires some form of structural brain damage, not just a momentary disruption in normal brain functioning. Loss of consciousness may occur, but is not necessarily correlated with the severity of the concussion if it is brief. Though these events are thought to interfere with neuronal and brain function, the metabolic processes that follow concussion are reversible in a large majority of affected brain cells; however, a few cells may die after the injury.Included in the cascade of events unleashed in the brain by concussion is impaired neurotransmission, loss of regulation of ions, deregulation of energy use and cellular metabolism, and a reduction in cerebral blood flow. Such changes in brain structure could be responsible for certain symptoms such as visual disturbances, but other sets of symptoms, especially those of a psychological nature, are more likely to be caused by reversible pathophysiological changes in cellular function that occur after concussion, such as alterations in neurons' biochemistry. It was agreed that concussion typically involves temporary impairment of neurological function that heals by itself within time, and that neuroimaging normally shows no gross structural changes to the brain as the result of the condition.However, although no structural brain damage occurs according to the classic definition, some researchers have included injuries in which structural damage has occurred, and the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence definition includes physiological or physical disruption in the brain's synapses. Also, by definition, concussion has historically involved a loss of consciousness. A concussion is a type of traumatic brain injury. 
Does body mass index (BMI) influence morbidity and long-term survival in gastric cancer patients after gastrectomy? [SEP] If diet, exercise, and medication are not effective, a gastric balloon or surgery may be performed to reduce stomach volume or length of the intestines, leading to feeling full earlier, or a reduced ability to absorb nutrients from food.Obesity is a leading preventable cause of death worldwide, with increasing rates in adults and children. High BMI is a marker of risk for, but not a direct cause of, diseases caused by diet and physical activity. On average, obesity reduces life expectancy by six to seven years, a BMI of 30–35 kg/m2 reduces life expectancy by two to four years, while severe obesity (BMI ≥ 40 kg/m2) reduces life expectancy by ten years. Surgery for severe obesity is associated with long-term weight loss, improvement in obesity-related conditions, and decreased overall mortality; however, improved metabolic health results from the weight loss, not the surgery. Body mass index (BMI) is a value derived from the mass (weight) and height of a person. In this paper, Keys argued that what he termed the BMI was "if not fully satisfactory, at least as good as any other relative weight index as an indicator of relative obesity".The interest in an index that measures body fat came with observed increasing obesity in prosperous Western societies. Body mass index (BMI) is a value derived from the mass (weight) and height of a person. In this paper, Keys argued that what he termed the BMI was "if not fully satisfactory, at least as good as any other relative weight index as an indicator of relative obesity".The interest in an index that measures body fat came with observed increasing obesity in prosperous Western societies. 
Does patella position influence ligament balancing in total knee arthroplasty? [SEP] During the operation any deformities must be corrected, and the ligaments balanced so the knee has a good range of movement, and is stable and aligned. Robotic-assisted knee replacements take into account both mechanical axis and soft-tissue balancing in order to assist the surgeon in placement of a knee replacement. Knee arthroplasty was not among the top five most frequently performed OR procedures for stays paid by Medicaid or for uninsured stays.By 2030, the demand for primary total knee arthroplasty is projected to increase to 3.48 million surgeries performed annually in the U.S.

Fall risk after total knee arthroplasty
With osteoarthritis (OA) being the number one reason for total knee arthoplasty (TKA) surgery, it is important to understand that balance deficits significantly impact the quality of daily living in patients with knee OA and are also linked to greater risk of falling and poor mobility. The anterolateral ligament (ALL) is situated in front of the LCL.Lastly, there are two ligaments on the dorsal side of the knee. The lower third culminates in the apex which serves as the origin of the patellar ligament. During the operation any deformities must be corrected, and the ligaments balanced so the knee has a good range of movement, and is stable and aligned. Robotic-assisted knee replacements take into account both mechanical axis and soft-tissue balancing in order to assist the surgeon in placement of a knee replacement. Knee arthroplasty was not among the top five most frequently performed OR procedures for stays paid by Medicaid or for uninsured stays.By 2030, the demand for primary total knee arthroplasty is projected to increase to 3.48 million surgeries performed annually in the U.S.

Fall risk after total knee arthroplasty
With osteoarthritis (OA) being the number one reason for total knee arthoplasty (TKA) surgery, it is important to understand that balance deficits significantly impact the quality of daily living in patients with knee OA and are also linked to greater risk of falling and poor mobility. 
Is the advanced age a contraindication to GERD laparoscopic surgery? [SEP] Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) or gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD)  is one of the upper gastrointestinal chronic diseases in which stomach content persistently and regularly flows up into the esophagus, resulting in symptoms and/or complications. Signs and symptoms
Adults
The most common symptoms of GERD in adults are an acidic taste in the mouth, regurgitation, and heartburn. Obesity: increasing body mass index is associated with more severe GERD. In a large series of 2,000 patients with symptomatic reflux disease, it has been shown that 13% of changes in esophageal acid exposure is attributable to changes in body mass index.Factors that have been linked with GERD, but not conclusively:

Obstructive sleep apnea
Gallstones, which can impede the flow of bile into the duodenum, which can affect the ability to neutralize gastric acidIn 1999, a review of existing studies found that, on average, 40% of GERD patients also had H. pylori infection. Surgery
The standard surgical treatment for severe GERD is the Nissen fundoplication. The prevalence rate of GERD in developed nations is also tightly linked with age, with adults aged 60 to 70 being the most commonly affected. "Role of endoscopy in the management of GERD" (PDF). Lay summary in: "Role of endoscopy in the management of GERD". 
Ultra high risk (UHR) for psychosis criteria: are there different levels of risk for transition to psychosis? [SEP] The duration of untreated psychosis (DUP) has been shown as an indicator of prognosis, with a longer DUP associated with more long-term disability. There has also been debate about the ethics of using antipsychotic medication to reduce the risk of developing psychosis, because of the potential harms involved with these medications.In 2015, the European Psychiatric Association issued guidance recommending the use of the Cognitive Disturbances scale (COGDIS), a subscale of the basic symptoms scale, to assess psychosis risk; a meta-analysis conducted for the guidance found that while rates of conversion to psychosis were similar to those who meet Ultra High Risk (UHR) criteria up to 2 years after assessment, they were significantly higher after 2 years for those patients who met the COGDIS criteria. People who were assessed to be high risk according to the basic symptoms criteria have a 48.5% likelihood of progressing to psychosis. In 2015, the European Psychiatric Association issued guidance recommending the use of a subscale of basic symptoms, called the Cognitive Disturbances scale (COGDIS), in the assessment of psychosis risk in help-seeking psychiatric patients; in a meta-analysis, COGDIS was shown to be as predictive of transition to psychosis as the Ultra High Risk (UHR) criteria up to 2 years after assessment, and significantly more predictive thereafter. People who were assessed to be high risk according to the basic symptoms criteria have a 48.5% likelihood of progressing to psychosis. In 2015, the European Psychiatric Association issued guidance recommending the use of a subscale of basic symptoms, called the Cognitive Disturbances scale (COGDIS), in the assessment of psychosis risk in help-seeking psychiatric patients; in a meta-analysis, COGDIS was shown to be as predictive of transition to psychosis as the Ultra High Risk (UHR) criteria up to 2 years after assessment, and significantly more predictive thereafter. A Clinical Introduction to Psychosis: Foundations for Clinical Psychologists and Neuropsychologists (1st ed.). Risk Factors for Psychosis: Paradigms, Mechanisms, and Prevention (1st ed.). 
Has the 80-hour workweek improved surgical resident education in New England? [SEP] The theme of The 4-Hour Workweek revolves around the idea of "living more and working less".The format of The 4-Hour Workweek took shape during a series of lectures Ferriss delivered on high-tech entrepreneurship at Princeton University, his alma mater. The proportion of people working very long weeks has since risen, and the full-time employment of women has increased dramatically.The New Economics Foundation has recommended moving to a 21-hour standard workweek to address problems with unemployment, high carbon emissions, low well-being, entrenched inequalities, overworking, family care, and the general lack of free time. Overtime is allowed, limited to two extra hours a day, with an increase in pay. The typical workweek is five days, Sunday to Thursday, with 8.4 hours a day as the standard, with anything beyond that considered overtime. Their work schedule typically consists of 8.5 hours between Monday and Thursday (from 8:00 to 16:30) and 6 hours on Fridays (8:00–14:00). Before the mid-1960s there was a 42-hour 6-day standard working week: 7 hours Monday to Friday and 6 hours on Saturday. In season 6, he becomes a surgical attending after having completed his residency. Employment
As of January 2017, employment is stronger in New England than in the rest of the United States. 
Can continuous physical training counteract aging effect on myoelectric fatigue? [SEP] It is used with individuals who experience limitations in movement, inadequate muscle strength or loss of endurance in occupations. EMGs may be useful for additional study of fatigue associated with post-poliomyelitis syndrome and electromechanical function in myotonic dystrophy (level C rating, class III data). According to the article "Peak and average rectified EMG measures: Which method of data reduction should be used for assessing core training exercises? Other measurements
EMG can also be used for indicating the amount of fatigue in a muscle. The following changes in the EMG signal can signify muscle fatigue: an increase in the mean absolute value of the signal, increase in the amplitude and duration of the muscle action potential and an overall shift to lower frequencies. Monitoring the changes of different frequency changes the most common way of using EMG to determine levels of fatigue. As adipose tissue increased, the amplitude of the surface EMG signal directly above the center of the active muscle decreased. The capability of detecting electromyographic signals improved steadily from the 1930s through the 1950s, and researchers began to use improved electrodes more widely for the study of muscles. 
Does ischemic preconditioning require reperfusion before index ischemia? [SEP] Reperfusion injury, sometimes called ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) or reoxygenation injury, is the tissue damage caused when blood supply returns to tissue (re- + perfusion) after a period of ischemia or lack of oxygen (anoxia or hypoxia). Mechanisms
Reperfusion of ischemic tissues is often associated with microvascular injury, particularly due to increased permeability of capillaries and arterioles that lead to an increase of diffusion and fluid filtration across the tissues. Recent researches have shown significant therapeutic effects on pre-clinical models of reperfusion injury after ischemic stroke. Reperfusion injury is classified as the damage that ensues after restoration of blood supply to ischemic tissue.Due to different susceptibility to ischemia of various brain regions, a global brain ischemia may cause focal brain infarction. Ischemic preconditioning (IPC) is an experimental technique for producing resistance to the loss of blood supply, and thus oxygen, to tissues of many types. Early Preconditioning
Early preconditioning is thought to be stimulated by local action of adenosine, opiates, and bradykinin, which are all endogenously released by ischemic cells. Some research also suggests that ischemic conditioning is also beneficial following a stroke, chronic cerebral hypoperfusion, or heart attack. "Role of opioids in acute and delayed preconditioning". 
Are sports medicine journals relevant and applicable to practitioners and athletes? [SEP] In addition to instruction and training of psychological skills for performance improvement, applied sport psychology may include work with athletes, coaches, and parents regarding injury, rehabilitation, communication, team building, and career transitions. Griffith devoted himself to rigorous research, and also published for both applied and academic audiences, noting that the applicability of sport psychology research was equally important with the generation of knowledge. These two organizations would go on to be the leading sources of collaboration among scientists in sport psychology, and in 1985, the NASPSPA became the first organization in North America to sponsor a journal in sport psychology, when the previously unaffiliated The Journal of Sport Psychology, which was founded in 1979, became The Journal of Sport and Exercise Psychology. As Rainer Martens argued for applied methods in sport psychology research, the increasing emergence of practitioners of sport psychology (including sport psychology consultants who taught sport psychology skills and principles to athletes and coaches, and clinical and counseling psychologists who provided counseling and therapy to athletes) brought into focus two key questions and a debate which continues to the present day: under what category does the discipline of sport psychology fall?, and who governs the accepted practices for sport psychology? Is sport psychology a branch of kinesiology or sport and exercise science (like exercise physiology and athletic training)? The subject of "what exactly constitutes applied sport psychology and who can practice it?" Athletic Performance
Sport psychology remains influential to athletic performance at all levels. Because athletes, especially professionals, are more at risk to injury than other kinds of exercisers, the process of recovering from injury, and the varying effects of different kinds of injuries are an important component of sports psychology research. 
Does head positioning influence anterior chamber depth in pseudoexfoliation syndrome? [SEP] Many studies over time have discussed the reproducibility of the natural head position in patients. This ratio is linearly correlated with the depth of the anterior chamber with the following equation:
Anterior chamber depth (expressed in millimetres) = -3.3 x EZ ratio + 4.2
This estimate has been shown to be accurate with a 95% confidence interval of +/– 0.33 mm error, when compared to measurements of the anterior chamber depth by Scheimpflug photography. The anterior chamber angle is the structure which determines the anterior chamber depth. Pseudoexfoliation syndrome, often abbreviated as PEX and sometimes as PES or PXS, is an aging-related systemic disease manifesting itself primarily in the eyes which is characterized by the accumulation of microscopic granular amyloid-like protein fibers. Causes
The cause of pseudoexfoliation glaucoma is generally unknown.PEX is generally believed to be a systemic disorder, possibly of the basement membrane of the eye. The gene is called LOXL1 ... Because pseudoexfoliation syndrome is associated with abnormalities of the extracellular matrix and the basement membrane, this gene could reasonably play a role in the pathophysiology of the condition. Pseudoexfoliation syndrome is considered to be the most common of identifiable causes of glaucoma. History
Pseudoexfoliation syndrome (PEX) was first described by an ophthalmologist from Finland named John G. Lindberg in 1917. 
Are polymorphisms in oestrogen receptors genes associated with lipid levels in response to hormone therapy? [SEP] Estrogen or oestrogen (see spelling differences) is a category of sex hormone responsible for the development and regulation of the female reproductive system and secondary sex characteristics. The metabolic effects of estrogen in postmenopausal women have been linked to the genetic polymorphism of the ER.While estrogens are present in both men and women, they are usually present at significantly higher levels in women of reproductive age. In addition, estrogens play an important role in regulation of gonadotropin secretion. A non-transcriptional response to oestrogen stimulation was also documented (termed membrane-initiated steroid signalling, MISS). Associated conditions
Researchers have implicated estrogens in various estrogen-dependent conditions, such as ER-positive breast cancer, as well as a number of genetic conditions involving estrogen signaling or metabolism, such as estrogen insensitivity syndrome, aromatase deficiency, and aromatase excess syndrome. Cardiovascular and metabolic
Tamoxifen treatment of postmenopausal women is associated with beneficial effects on serum lipid profiles. "Estrogen Action, Selective Estrogen Receptor Modulators and Women's Health" Imperial College Press, Singapore. mTOR inhibitors such as everolimus may show more effect in PIK3CA/Akt e9 mutants than in e20 mutants or wild types.DNA methylation patterns can epigenetically affect gene expression in breast cancer and may contribute to some of the observed differences between genetic subtypes.Tumors overexpressing the Wnt signaling pathway co-receptor low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 6 (LRP6) may represent a distinct subtype of breast cancer and a potential treatment target.Numerous clinical investigations looked at whether testing for variant genotype polymorphic alleles of several genes could predict whether or not to prescribe tamoxifen; this was based on possible differences in the rate of conversion of tamoxifen to the active metabolite, endoxifen. 
Sternal plating for primary and secondary sternal closure; can it improve sternal stability? [SEP] Chrome plating (less commonly chromium plating) is a technique of electroplating a thin layer of chromium onto a metal object. Disadvantages
One functional disadvantage of hexavalent chromium plating is low cathode efficiency, which results in bad throwing power. Trivalent chromium plating is an alternative to hexavalent chromium in certain applications and thicknesses (e.g. decorative plating).A trivalent chromium plating process is similar to the hexavalent chromium plating process, except for the bath chemistry and anode composition. However, chrome plating is metal and contains no hexavalent chromium after it is rinsed, so chrome plating is not banned. Other health advantages include higher cathode efficiencies, which lead to less chromium air emissions; lower concentration levels, resulting in less chromium waste and anodes that do not decompose.Maintaining a bath surface tension less than 35 dyn/cm is necessary to prevent plating solution from becoming airborne when bubbles rise to the surface and pop. It is typically countered by reinforcing the bow and the stern with beams and stringers. "Delayed sternal closure. 
Can dose reduction to one parotid gland prevent xerostomia? [SEP] Altered saliva composition may also be responsible for xerostomia. Physiologic age-related changes in salivary gland tissues may lead to a modest reduction in salivary output and partially explain the increased prevalence of xerostomia in older people. Radiation therapy
Radiation therapy for cancers of the head and neck (including brachytherapy for thyroid cancers) where the salivary glands are close to or within the field irradiated is another major cause of xerostomia. Parasympathomimetic drugs (saliva stimulants) such as pilocarpine may improve xerostomia symptoms and other problems associated with salivary gland dysfunction, but the evidence for treatment of radiation-induced xerostomia is limited. A systematic review of the management of radiotherapy-induced xerostomia with parasympathomimetic drugs found that there was limited evidence to support the use of pilocarpine in the treatment of radiation-induced salivary gland dysfunction. Patients can lessen the effects of xerostomia with breath mints, sugarless gum, or lozenges, or physicians can increase saliva flow with artificial saliva or oral pilocarpine. Dosimetry
The probability of xerostomia at one year increases by 5% for every 1Gy increase in dose to the parotid gland. Similar considerations apply to the submandibular gland, but xerostomia is less common if only one parotid gland is included in the radiated field and the contralateral submandibular gland is spared (less than 39 Gy) In the same manner, radiation dose to the pharyngeal constrictor muscles, larynx, and cricopharyngeal inlet determine the risk of dysphagia (and hence dependence on gastrostomy tube feeds). 
Is the histidine triad nucleotide-binding protein 1 (HINT1) gene a candidate for schizophrenia? [SEP] Histidine triad nucleotide-binding protein 1 also known as adenosine 5'-monophosphoramidase is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the HINT1 gene.HINT1 hydrolyzes purine nucleotide phosphoramidates with a single phosphate group. See also
Histidine triad nucleotide-binding protein 2 (HINT2)

References


== Further reading == Histidine triad nucleotide binding protein 2 (HINT2) is a mitochondrial protein that in humans is encoded by the HINT2 gene on chromosome 9. Structure
As a member of the histidine triad nucleotide-binding (Hint) protein family, which is a subfamily of the histidine triad (HIT) family, HINT2 contains a conserved histidine and HIT sequence motif (His-X-His-X-His-X-X), and the latter two histidines contribute to a catalytic triad. See also
Histidine triad nucleotide-binding protein 1 (HINT1)


== References == Genetic
Estimates of the heritability of schizophrenia are between 70% and 80%, which implies that 70% to 80% of the individual differences in risk of schizophrenia are associated with genetics. Results of candidate gene studies of schizophrenia have generally failed to find consistent associations, and the genetic loci identified by genome-wide association studies explain only a small fraction of the variation in the disease.Many genes are known to be involved in schizophrenia, each with small effects and unknown transmission and expression. Genetic variations have been found associated with these conditions involving the circadian rhythm, dopamine and histamine metabolism, and signal transduction.Schizophrenia is also associated with a number of somatic comorbidities including diabetes mellitus type 2, autoimmune diseases, and cardiovascular diseases. 
Increased neutrophil migratory activity after major trauma: a factor in the etiology of acute respiratory distress syndrome? [SEP] During the beginning (acute) phase of inflammation, particularly as a result of bacterial infection, environmental exposure, and some cancers, neutrophils are one of the first responders of inflammatory cells to migrate toward the site of inflammation. They are the predominant cells in pus, accounting for its whitish/yellowish appearance.Neutrophils are recruited to the site of injury within minutes following trauma and are the hallmark of acute inflammation; however, due to some pathogens being indigestible, they might not be able to resolve certain infections without the assistance of other types of immune cells. Function
Chemotaxis
Neutrophils undergo a process called chemotaxis via amoeboid movement, which allows them to migrate toward sites of infection or inflammation. It has been shown in mice that in certain conditions neutrophils have a specific type of migration behaviour referred to as neutrophil swarming during which they migrate in a highly coordinated manner and accumulate and cluster to sites of inflammation. Neutrophils express and release cytokines, which in turn amplify inflammatory reactions by several other cell types. In addition to recruiting and activating other cells of the immune system, neutrophils play a key role in the front-line defense against invading pathogens. Unregulated activity of neutrophil elastase can lead to disruption of pulmonary barrier showing symptoms corresponding with acute lung injury. Neutrophils promote ventricular tachycardia in acute myocardial infarction.In autopsy, the presence of neutrophils in the heart or brain is one of the first signs of infarction, and is useful in the timing and diagnosis of myocardial infarction and stroke. 
BCRABL transcript detection by quantitative real-time PCR : are correlated results possible from homebrew assays? [SEP] A real-time polymerase chain reaction (real-time PCR, or qPCR when used quantitatively) is a laboratory technique of molecular biology based on the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Two common methods for the detection of PCR products in real-time PCR are (1) non-specific fluorescent dyes that intercalate with any double-stranded DNA and (2) sequence-specific DNA probes consisting of oligonucleotides that are labelled with a fluorescent reporter, which permits detection only after hybridization of the probe with its complementary sequence. "Kinetic PCR: Real time monitoring of DNA amplification reactions". Quantitative Real-time PCR in Applied Microbiology. Real-Time PCR: Current Technology and Applications. Real-time RT-PCR
The emergence of novel fluorescent DNA labeling techniques in the past few years has enabled the analysis and detection of PCR products in real-time and has consequently led to the widespread adoption of real-time RT-PCR for the analysis of gene expression. Not only is real-time RT-PCR now the method of choice for quantification of gene expression, it is also the preferred method of obtaining results from array analyses and gene expressions on a global scale. Not only does the use of multiplex probes save time and effort without compromising test utility, its application in wide areas of research such as gene deletion analysis, mutation and polymorphism analysis, quantitative analysis, and RNA detection, make it an invaluable technique for laboratories of many discipline.Two strategies are commonly employed to quantify the results obtained by real-time RT-PCR; the standard curve method and the comparative threshold method. 
Does higher body mass index contribute to worse asthma control in an urban population? [SEP] Asthma
Urbanization has also been associated with an increased risk of asthma as well. Throughout the world, as communities transition from rural to more urban societies, the number of people affected by asthma increases. This finding indicates that urbanization may have a negative impact on population health particularly affecting people's susceptibility to asthma.In low and middle income countries many factors contribute to the high numbers of people with asthma. Similar to areas in the United States with increasing urbanization, people living in growing cities in low income countries experience high exposure to air pollution, which increases the prevalence and severity of asthma among these populations. Children living in poor, urban areas in the United States now have an increased risk of morbidity due to asthma in comparison to other low-income children in the United States. In addition, children with croup living in urban areas have higher hazard ratios for asthma than similar children living in rural areas. Researchers suggest that this difference in hazard ratios is due to the higher levels of air pollution and exposure to environmental allergens found in urban areas.Exposure to elevated levels of ambient air pollutants such as nitrogen dioxide (NO2), carbon monoxide (CO), and particulate matter with a diameter of less than 2.5 micrometers (PM2.5), can cause DNA methylation of CpG sites in immune cells, which increases children's risk of developing asthma. Studies have shown that in urban areas people experience mucus hypersecretion, lower levels of lung function, and more self-diagnosis of chronic bronchitis and emphysema. 
Does a physician's specialty influence the recording of medication history in patients' case notes? [SEP] An example of possible medical errors is the administration of medication. With paper documentation it is very easy to not properly document the administration of medication, the time given, or errors such as giving the "wrong drug, dose, form, or not checking for allergies" and could affect the patient negatively. prescriptions) and outcomes (e.g. While there is no argument that electronic documentation of patient visits and data brings improved patient care, there is increasing concern that such documentation could open physicians to an increased incidence of malpractice suits. If a malpractice claim goes to court, through the process of discovery, the prosecution can request a detailed record of all entries made in a patient's electronic record. Diagnosis is typically based on a person's medical history. Medical specialty
An allergist is a physician specially trained to manage and treat allergies, asthma, and the other allergic diseases. Medications for other health conditions may need to be managed differently for a person who has a dementia diagnosis. 
Living in an urban environment and non-communicable disease risk in Thailand: Does timing matter? [SEP] Cities that implemented such interventions earlier had greater delays in reaching peak mortality rates. Thailand
Bangkok is the largest urban area in Thailand. Risk factors
Risk factors such as a person's background; lifestyle and environment are known to increase the likelihood of certain non-communicable diseases. The WHO's World Health Report 2002 identified five important risk factors for non-communicable disease in the top ten leading risks to health. The other factors associated with higher risk of NCDs include a person's economic and social conditions, also known as the social determinants of health. Global health
Referred to as a "lifestyle" disease, because the majority of these diseases are preventable illnesses, the most common causes for non-communicable diseases (NCD) include tobacco use (smoking), hazardous alcohol use, poor diets (high consumption of sugar, salt, saturated fats, and trans fatty acids) and physical inactivity. The burden of non-communicable diseases in developing countries has increased however, with an estimated 80% of the four main types of NCDs — cardiovascular diseases, cancers, chronic respiratory diseases and diabetes — now occurring in low- and middle-income countries. Action Plan for the Global Strategy for the Prevention and Control of non-communicable Diseases and with two-thirds of people who are affected by diabetes now residing in developing nations, NCD can no longer be considered just a problem affecting affluent estimation of the economic impact of chronic non-communicable diseases in selected countries. 
Is renal warm ischemia over 30 minutes during laparoscopic partial nephrectomy possible? [SEP] A partial nephrectomy can be performed through an open, laparoscopic or robotic approach. Should a drain be routinely required after transperitoneal robotic partial nephrectomy? Do patients with Stage 3-5 chronic kidney disease benefit from ischaemia-sparing techniques during partial nephrectomy? Robot assisted partial nephrectomy versus laparoscopic partial nephrectomy for renal tumors: a multi-institutional analysis of perioperative outcomes. Robotic partial nephrectomy: Dealing with dilemmas. Rennoraphy during robotic partial nephrectomy: Progression of technique. Pediatric laparoscopic partial nephrectomy: The NYU technique. Da Vinci surgical system assisted laparoscopic partial nephrectomy. 
Does a febrile reaction to platelets predispose recipients to red blood cell alloimmunization? [SEP] Leukoreduced blood products are less likely to cause HLA alloimmunization (development of antibodies against specific blood types), febrile non-hemolytic transfusion reaction, cytomegalovirus infection, and platelet-transfusion refractoriness. cause transfusion reactions, HDN, etc.). Febrile nonhemolytic reactions are, along with allergic transfusion reactions, the most common type of blood transfusion reaction and occur because of the release of inflammatory chemical signals released by white blood cells in stored donor blood or attack on donor's white blood cells by recipient's antibodies. Allergic transfusion reactions are caused by IgE anti-allergen antibodies. Fever, rash, diarrhoea are often associated with this type of transfusion reaction. This together induces platelet activation. : vii

Thrombocytopenia
Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) – formerly known as immune thrombocytopenic purpura and idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura
Splenomegaly
Gaucher's disease
Familial thrombocytopenia
Chemotherapy
Babesiosis
Dengue fever
Onyalai
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura
HELLP syndrome
Hemolytic–uremic syndrome
Drug-induced thrombocytopenic purpura (five known drugs – most problematic is heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT)
Pregnancy-associated
Neonatal alloimmune associated
Aplastic anemia
Transfusion-associated
Pseudothrombocytopenia
Vaccine-induced immune thrombotic thrombocytopenia (VITT)

Altered platelet function (thrombocytopathy)
Congenital
Disorders of adhesion
Bernard–Soulier syndrome
Disorders of activation
Disorders of granule amount or release
Hermansky–Pudlak syndrome
Gray platelet syndrome
ADP receptor defect
Decreased cyclooxygenase activity
Platelet storage pool deficiency
Disorders of aggregation
Glanzmann's thrombasthenia
Wiskott–Aldrich syndrome
Disorders of coagulant activity
COAT platelet defect
Scott syndrome
Acquired
Disorders of adhesion
Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria
Asthma
Aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease (AERD/Samter's triad)
Cancer
Malaria
Decreased cyclooxygenase activity

Thrombocytosis and thrombocythemia
Reactive
Chronic infection
Chronic inflammation
Malignancy
Hyposplenism (post-splenectomy)
Iron deficiency
Acute blood loss
Myeloproliferative neoplasms – platelets are both elevated and activated
Essential thrombocythemia
Polycythemia vera
Associated with other myeloid neoplasms
Congenital

Pharmacology
Anti-inflammatory drugs
Some drugs used to treat inflammation have the unwanted side effect of suppressing normal platelet function. Delivery to recipients
Platelets do not need to belong to the same A-B-O blood group as the recipient or be cross-matched to ensure immune compatibility between donor and recipient unless they contain a significant amount of red blood cells (RBCs). 
Maternal creatine homeostasis is altered during gestation in the spiny mouse: is this a metabolic adaptation to pregnancy? [SEP] Metabolic role
Creatine is a naturally occurring non-protein compound and the primary constituent of phosphocreatine, which is used to regenerate ATP within the cell. This increase in myonuclei probably stems from creatine's ability to increase levels of the myogenic transcription factor MRF4. Genetic deficiencies
Genetic deficiencies in the creatine biosynthetic pathway lead to various severe neurological defects. Renal function
A 2019 systematic review published by the National Kidney Foundation investigated whether creatine supplementation had adverse effects on renal function. While in general creatine supplementation resulted in slightly elevated creatinine levels that remained within normal limits, supplementation did not induce renal damage (P value< 0.001). At the same time, the first of two steps for endogenous creatine synthesis takes place in the kidneys themselves. Patients with kidney disease and those undergoing dialysis treatment generally show significantly lower levels of creatine in their organs, since the pathological kidneys are both hampered in creatine synthesis capability and are in back-resorption of creatine from the urine in the distal tubules. See also
Beta-Alanine
Creatine methyl ester

References
External links

Creatine bound to proteins in the PDB 
Pap smears with glandular cell abnormalities: Are they detected by rapid prescreening? [SEP] The Papanicolaou test (abbreviated as Pap test, also known as Pap smear (AE), cervical smear (BE), cervical screening (BE), or smear test (BE)) is a method of cervical screening used to detect potentially precancerous and cancerous processes in the cervix (opening of the uterus or womb) or colon (in both men and women). Screening during this period may show this immune reaction and repair as mild abnormalities, which are usually not associated with cervical cancer, but could cause the patient stress and result in further tests and possible treatment. Specificity analysis captures the ability of Pap smears to correctly identify women without cervical cancer. While Pap smears may not be entirely accurate, they remain one of the most effective cervical cancer prevention tools. Pap smears may be supplemented with HPV DNA testing. In a typical scenario, about 0.5% of Pap results are high-grade SIL (HSIL), and less than 0.5% of results indicate cancer; 0.2 to 0.8% of results indicate Atypical Glandular Cells of Undetermined Significance (AGC-NOS).As liquid-based preparations (LBPs) become a common medium for testing, atypical result rates have increased. The nucleus in koilocytes is typically irregular, indicating possible cause for concern; requiring further confirmatory screens and tests.In addition, human papillomavirus (HPV) test may be performed either as indicated for abnormal Pap results, or in some cases, dual testing is done, where both a Pap smear and an HPV test are done at the same time (also called Pap co-testing). Cells may exfoliate onto the cervix and be collected from there, so as with endocervical cells, abnormal cells can be recognised if present but the Pap test should not be used as a screening tool for endometrial malignancy.In the United States, a Pap test itself costs $20 to $30, but the costs for Pap test visits can cost over $1,000, largely because additional tests are added that may or may not be necessary. 
The HELPP syndrome--evidence of a possible systemic inflammatory response in pre-eclampsia? [SEP] It is thought that this results in oxidative stress, hypoxia, and the release of factors that promote endothelial dysfunction, inflammation, and other possible reactions.The clinical manifestations of pre-eclampsia are associated with general endothelial dysfunction, including vasoconstriction and end-organ ischemia. Both circulating and placental levels of soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFlt-1) are higher in women with pre-eclampsia than in women with normal pregnancy. Oxidative stress may also play an important part in the pathogenesis of pre-eclampsia. Aberrant immune responses promoting pre-eclampsia may also be due to an altered fetal allorecognition or to inflammatory triggers. These findings have given rise to the hypothesis that pre-eclampsia is a disease process by which a placental lesion such as hypoxia allows increased fetal material into the maternal circulation, that in turn leads to an immune response and endothelial damage, and that ultimately results in pre-eclampsia and eclampsia. Angiogenic proteins such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and placental growth factor (PIGF) and anti-angiogenic proteins such as soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFlt-1) have shown promise for potential clinical use in diagnosing pre-eclampsia, though evidence is insufficient to recommend a clinical use for these markers.A recent study, ASPRE, known to be the largest multi-country prospective trial, has reported a significant performance in identifying pregnant women at high risk of pre-eclampsia yet during the first trimester of pregnancy. Differential diagnosis
Pre-eclampsia can mimic and be confused with many other diseases, including chronic hypertension, chronic renal disease, primary seizure disorders, gallbladder and pancreatic disease, immune or thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, antiphospholipid syndrome and hemolytic-uremic syndrome. Acutely, pre-eclampsia can be complicated by eclampsia, the development of HELLP syndrome, hemorrhagic or ischemic stroke, liver damage and dysfunction, acute kidney injury, and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).Pre-eclampsia is also associated with increased frequency of Caesarean section, preterm delivery, and placental abruption. 
Spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy with resection of the splenic vessels. Should one rely on the short gastric arteries? [SEP] This may lead to another operation shortly thereafter in which the remainder of the pancreas (and sometimes the spleen) is removed to prevent further spread of infection and possible morbidity. Both the short gastric arteries and the splenic artery supply it with blood.The germinal centers are supplied by arterioles called penicilliary radicles. In human anatomy, the splenic artery or lienal artery is the blood vessel that supplies oxygenated blood to the spleen. Structure
The splenic artery gives off branches to the stomach and pancreas before reaching the spleen. Splenic artery - medterms.com
Anatomy photo:38:05-0101 at the SUNY Downstate Medical Center - "Stomach, Spleen and Liver: The Splenic Artery"
Anatomy image:8557 at the SUNY Downstate Medical Center
celiactrunk at The Anatomy Lesson by Wesley Norman (Georgetown University) The short gastric arteries are of 5-7 small branches of the splenic artery that pass along part of the greater curvature of the stomach from left to right between the layers of the gastrolienal ligament, and are distributed to the greater curvature of the stomach. Structure
Origin
The short gastric arteries arise from the end of the splenic artery and its terminal divisions. Anastomoses
The short gastric arteries form anastomoses with branches of the left gastric artery, and left gastro-omental artery.Unlike the gastroepiploics and the left and right gastric arteries, the short gastric arteries have poor anastomoses if the splenic artery is blocked. 
Delayed peripheral facial palsy in the stapes surgery: can it be prevented? [SEP] In those whose blinking is disrupted by the facial palsy, frequent use of artificial tears while awake is recommended, along with ointment and a patch or taping the eye closed when sleeping. Bell's palsy is a type of facial paralysis that results in a temporary inability to control the facial muscles on the affected side of the face. Facial palsy is typified by inability to move the muscles of facial expression. Babies can be born with facial palsy. Surgery
Surgery may be able to improve outcomes in facial nerve palsy that has not recovered. History
The Persian physician Muhammad ibn Zakariya al-Razi (865–925) detailed the first known description of peripheral and central facial palsy.Cornelis Stalpart van der Wiel (1620–1702) in 1683 gave an account of Bell's palsy and credited the Persian physician Ibn Sina (980–1037) for describing this condition before him. The stapes is also stabilized by the stapedius muscle, which is innervated by the facial nerve. Stapedotomy
A modified stapes operation, called a stapedotomy, is thought by many otologic surgeons to be safer and reduce the chances of postoperative complications. 
Hepatic arterial embolization for unresectable hepatocellular carcinomas: do technical factors affect prognosis? [SEP] Prognosis
The usual outcome is poor because only 10–20% of hepatocellular carcinomas can be removed completely using surgery. Other
Portal vein embolization prior to liver resection. Hepatic artery embolization, also known as trans-arterial embolization (TAE), is one of the several therapeutic methods to treat primary liver tumors or metastases to the liver. In practice, hepatic artery embolization occludes the blood flow to the tumors, achieving significant tumor shrinkage in over 80% of people. Background
The  several types of hepatic artery treatments are based on the observation that tumor cells get nearly all their nutrients from the hepatic artery, while the normal cells of the liver get about 70-80 percent of their nutrients and 50% their oxygen supply from the portal vein, and thus can survive with the hepatic artery effectively blocked. In practice,  hepatic artery embolization is an option if the neoplastic growth is mainly within the liver. See also
Neuroendocrine tumor
Carcinoid syndrome

References
External links
eMedicine: Embolization
Embolization therapy for liver cancer Prognosis
The usual outcome is poor because only 10–20% of hepatocellular carcinomas can be removed completely using surgery. 
Are pelvic anatomical structures in danger during arthroscopic acetabular labral repair? [SEP] Arthroscopic procedures can be performed during ACL reconstruction. Studies have shown that damage to the labral tissue can result in disruption of the labral suction-seal, a fluid force paramount in maintaining hip joint integrity. More moderate damage responds better to arthroscopic labral repair, a procedure in which surgical anchors are drilled into the bony acetabular rim and sutures are used to reapproximate the damaged labral tissue. Complications
The complications encountered during and after labral reconstruction are similar to arthroscopic procedures involving the hip. Operative complications
As with all surgery, arthroscopic labral reconstruction has a small risk of infection. The reason for this is so the surgeon can ensure that the needle, and subsequent cannulae do not penetrate and damage the acetabular labrum or cartilage joint surfaces (see fig. If the acetabular labrum requires repair, specially designed anchors may be used. Repeated contact between the femoral neck and the edge of the acetabulum may lead to damage to the labrum and adjacent articular cartilage. 
Staging laparoscopy in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma: is it useful? [SEP] Surgery
Surgical exploration may be necessary to obtain a suitable biopsy and to accurately stage a person with cholangiocarcinoma. Laparoscopy can be used for staging purposes and may avoid the need for a more invasive surgical procedure, such as laparotomy, in some people. Immunohistochemistry is useful in the diagnosis and may be used to help differentiate a cholangiocarcinoma from hepatocellular carcinoma and metastasis of other gastrointestinal tumors. Staging
Although there are at least three staging systems for cholangiocarcinoma (e.g. Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinomas (those arising from the bile ducts within the liver) are usually treated with partial hepatectomy. Functional staging has the advantage of evaluating the whole liver and directly measuring hepatic function that determines many clinical outcomes. Quantitative hepatic function tests were better than combinations of routine blood tests and Ishak fibrosis score in predicting clinical outcomes. Liver biopsy is also the gold standard to detect hepatic fibrosis and assess its progression. 
Can echocardiography and ECG discriminate hereditary transthyretin V30M amyloidosis from hypertrophic cardiomyopathy? [SEP] Also, it is important in treatment and follow-up in patients with heart failure, by assessing ejection fraction.Echocardiography can help detect cardiomyopathies, such as hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, dilated cardiomyopathy, and many others. Cardiac amyloidosis can present with symptoms of heart failure including shortness of breath, fatigue, and edema. In males with advanced age (>80 years), there is significant risk of wild-type transthyretin amyloid deposition in synovial tissue of knee joint, but predominantly in old age deposition of wild type transthyretin is seen in cardiac ventricles. It may be either age related in wild-type ATTR (ATTRv) or familial transthyretin-associated amyloidosis, is suspected in people with family history of idiopathic neuropathies or heart failure who lack evidence of plasma cell dyscrasias. Findings can be corroborated by genetic testing to look for specific known mutations in transthyretin that predispose to amyloidosis.AA is suspected on clinical grounds in individuals with longstanding infections or inflammatory diseases. Genetics
Familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait and is attributed to mutations in one of a number of genes that encode for the sarcomere proteins. Evidence only supports clinical testing in predicting the progression and risk of developing complications of HCM.For individuals suspected of having HCM:

Genetic testing is not recommended for determining other causes of left ventricular hypertrophy (such as "athlete's heart", hypertension, and cardiac amyloidosis). Children
Even though hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) may be present early in life and is most likely congenital, it is one of the most-uncommon cardiac malformations encountered in pediatric cardiology, largely because the presentation of symptoms is usually absent, incomplete, or delayed into adulthood. 
Does pediatric housestaff experience influence tests ordered for infants in the neonatal intensive care unit? [SEP] Modern neonatal intensive care involves sophisticated measurement of temperature, respiration, cardiac function, oxygenation, and brain activity. Hearing assessment
The Joint Committee on Infant Hearing (JCIH) state that for preterm infants who are in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) for a prolonged time should have a diagnostic audiologic evaluation before they are discharged from the hospital. For premature babies in the NICU, auditory brainstem response (ABR) testing is recommended. Maternal screening for intrapartum infections reduce the risk of neonatal infection. There is risk of progression to CNS or disseminated disease, so infants should be thoroughly evaluated for progression of symptoms. All infants with signs of neonatal sepsis should undergo testing for HSV and empiric antiviral therapy. The widespread use of broad-spectrum antibiotics in the nursery intensive care unit can cause a higher prevalence of invasive antibiotic resistant bacteria. Clinical testing may not be available in all settings and clinicians must rely on the signs of infection in the newborn. 
Is robotically assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy less invasive than retropubic radical prostatectomy? [SEP] A radical prostatectomy, the removal of the entire prostate gland, the seminal vesicles and the vas deferens, is performed for cancer.There are multiple ways the operation can be done: with open surgery (via a large incision through the lower abdomen), laparoscopically with the help of a robot (a type of minimally invasive surgery), through the urethra or through the perineum. Contrasted with the original open form of the surgery, it does not make a large incision but instead uses fiber optics and miniaturization.The laparoscopic and open forms of radical prostatectomy physically remove the entire prostate and reconstruct the urethra directly to the bladder. Medical uses
A few good studies exist looking at open versus laparoscopic versus laparoscopic and robotic radical prostatectomy in cancer as of 2011.There is a robotic and non robotic version. 2008 studies
There was a study in the Journal of Clinical Oncology from Harvard using a national random sample of Medicare patients, showing that patients who had a laparoscopic/robotic radical prostatectomy underwent hormonal therapy in more than 25% of cases after the procedure compared to an open radical prostatectomy [this is usually not necessary with open radical prostatectomy if all the cancer has been removed and is usually less than 10% of cases], with a high risk of secondary procedures for bladder neck contracture [40% greater risk] which can result in poorer continence. Radical prostatectomy can also be performed laparoscopically, through a series of small (1 cm) incisions in the abdomen, with or without the assistance of a surgical robot. Relying on modern technology, such as miniaturization, fiber optics, laparoscopic radical prostatectomy is a minimally invasive prostate cancer treatment but is technically demanding and seldom performed in the United States. Robotic assistance
Some believe that in the hands of an experienced surgeon, robotic-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy (RALP) may reduce positive surgical margins when compared to radical retropubic prostatectomy (RRP) among patients with prostate cancer according to a retrospective study. Cryosurgery is less invasive than radical prostatectomy. 
Nasal polyposis: is there an inheritance pattern? [SEP] Pai syndrome, also known as Median cleft of the upper lip-corpus callosum lipoma-midline facial cutaneous polyps syndrome, is a very rare genetic disorder which is characterized by nervous system, cutaneous, ocular, nasal and bucal anomalies with facial dysmorphisms. Nasal polyposis
Presence of skin tags
Subcutaneous noduleList of not-so-common symptoms:[2]

Oral frenulum abnormalities
Bifid uvula
Hypertelorism
TelecanthusList of uncommon symptoms:[2]

Missing/underdeveloped corpus callosum
Down-slanting palpebral fissures
Encephalocele
Coloboma
Nose defects
Frontal bossing
High palate

Causes
A specific, shared genetic cause hasn't been found. The most common problem is nosebleeds (epistaxis), which happen frequently from childhood and affect about 90–95% of people with HHT. MADH4 mutations, which cause colonic polyposis in addition to HHT, comprise about 2% of disease-causing mutations. Not all mutations in these genes have been linked with disease.Mutations in the MADH4 gene is usually associated with juvenile polyposis, and detection of such a mutation would indicate a need to screen the patient and affected relatives for polyps and tumors of the large intestine. This has been attributed to a founder effect, in which a population descending from a small number of ancestors has a high rate of a particular genetic trait because one of these ancestors harbored this trait. Frequent nosebleeds are the most common symptom and can significantly affect quality of life. History
Several 19th century English physicians, starting with Henry Gawen Sutton (1836–1891) and followed by Benjamin Guy Babington (1794–1866) and John Wickham Legg (1843–1921), described the most common features of HHT, particularly the recurrent nosebleeds and the hereditary nature of the disease. 
c-Kit-dependent growth of uveal melanoma cells: a potential therapeutic target? [SEP] Melanoma, also redundantly known as malignant melanoma, is a type of skin cancer that develops from the pigment-producing cells known as melanocytes. Cause
Melanomas are usually caused by DNA damage resulting from exposure to UV light from the sun. Pathophysiology
The earliest stage of melanoma starts when melanocytes begin out-of-control growth. From this point on, melanoma is capable of spreading. The vertical growth phase (VGP) following is invasive melanoma. In another experiment they found that elasticity of melanoma cells is important for its metastasis and growth: non-pigmented tumors were bigger than pigmented and it was much easier for them to spread. Sunscreen
Sunscreen appears to be effective in preventing melanoma. Targeted therapy
Melanoma cells have mutations that allow them to survive and grow indefinitely in the body. 
Pharmacologic regimens for knee osteoarthritis prevention: can they be cost-effective? [SEP] As an adjunct to these lifestyle changes, use of analgesia, intra-articular cortisone injection and consideration of hyaluronic acids and platelet-rich plasma are recommended for pain relief in patients with knee osteoarthritis. A 2015 review indicated that aquatic therapy is safe, effective, and can be an adjunct therapy for knee osteoarthritis.Functional, gait, and balance training have been recommended to address impairments of position sense, balance, and strength in individuals with lower extremity arthritis, as these can contribute to a higher rate of falls in older individuals. Also therapeutic exercise programs such as aerobics and walking reduce pain and improve physical functioning for up to 6 months after the end of the program for people with knee osteoarthritis. Oral steroids are not recommended in the treatment of osteoarthritis.Use of the antibiotic doxycycline orally for treating osteoarthritis is not associated with clinical improvements in function or joint pain. A Cochrane review from 2016 concluded that reasonably reliable evidence is available only for use of topical diclofenac and ketoprofen in people aged over 40 years with painful knee arthritis. Other surgical options
Osteotomy may be useful in people with knee osteoarthritis, but has not been well studied and it is unclear whether it is more effective than non-surgical treatments or other types of surgery. The European Society for Clinical and Economic Aspects of Osteoporosis and Osteoarthritis (ESCEO) recommends glucosamine sulfate and chondroitin sulfate for knee osteoarthritis. Its use as a therapy for osteoarthritis is usually safe.A 2015 Cochrane review of clinical trials of chondroitin found that most were of low quality, but that there was some evidence of short-term improvement in pain and few side effects; it does not appear to improve or maintain the health of affected joints. 
Is anorectal endosonography valuable in dyschesia? [SEP] Anismus occurs in a small minority of persons with chronic constipation or obstructed defecation.Spinal cord lesions and neurological disorders such as Parkinson's disease and pelvic floor dysfunction can also lead to constipation. Early intervention with withholding is important as this can lead to anal fissures. Other tests rarely ordered include anorectal manometry, anal sphincter electromyography, and defecography.Colonic propagating pressure wave sequences (PSs) are responsible for discrete movements of the bowel contents and are vital for normal defecation. Straining during defecation for at least 25% of bowel movements
Lumpy or hard stools in at least 25% of defecations
Sensation of incomplete evacuation for at least 25% of defecations
Sensation of anorectal obstruction/blockage for at least 25% of defecations
Manual maneuvers to facilitate at least 25% of defecations
Fewer than 3 defecations per week
Loose stools are rarely present without the use of laxatives
There are insufficient criteria for irritable bowel syndrome

Prevention
Constipation is usually easier to prevent than to treat. Colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis is another intervention performed only in patients known to have a slow colonic transit time and in whom a defecation disorder has either been treated or is not present. obstructed defecation, dyschesia (constipation), or degrees of fecal incontinence
gynaecological symptoms, e.g. dysuria (painful urination), dyspareunia (pain during sexual intercourse), urinary incontinence and urgencyOther researchers concluded that abnormal perineal descent did not correlate with constipation or perineal pain, and there are also conflicting reports of the correlation of fecal incontinence with this condition. A retro anal ultrasound scan may demonstrate the condition. 
Production of chemokines by perivascular adipose tissue: a role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis? [SEP] Although adipose tissue macrophages are subject to anti-inflammatory homeostatic control by sympathetic innervation, experiments using ADRB2 gene knockout mice indicate that this effect is indirectly exerted through the modulation of adipocyte function, and not through direct Beta-2 adrenergic receptor activation, suggesting that adrenergic stimulation of macrophages may be insufficient to impact adipose tissue inflammation or function in obesity.Within the fat (adipose) tissue of CCR2 deficient mice, there is an increased number of eosinophils, greater alternative macrophage activation, and a propensity towards type 2 cytokine expression. This is one of the causes of a low-grade systemic chronic inflammatory state associated with obesity. In obesity, adipose tissue is also implicated in the chronic release of pro-inflammatory markers known as adipokines, which are responsible for the development of metabolic syndrome, a constellation of diseases including, but not limited to, type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease and atherosclerosis. Adipose tissue contains many small blood vessels. Perivascular adipose tissue releases adipokines such as adiponectin that affect the contractile function of the vessels that they surround. Chaldakov developed a complex tripartite model of atherogenesis which involve smooth muscle cells, immune cells, and perivascular adipose tissue communicating through secreted factors (e.g. Innovations and substantial contributions to science
Concept of the secretory function/phenotype of the vascular smooth muscle cell, as related to atherogenesis.Tubulin/microtubule-targeted pharmacology for atherosclerosis.Concept of the neurotrophins NGF and BDNF as metabotrophic factors (metabotrophins) in cardiometabolic biology/diseases.Conceptualize the protein secretory products of adipose tissue cells as adipokines, also focusing on perivascular adipose tissue.Conceptualize studying adipose tissue-directed pharmacology as adipopharmacology.In 2006 introduced the term Homo obesus and is actively involved in popularizing the need of healthy lifestyle and dietary restriction: millions of people suffer and die from starvation in ill-developed and poor countries while in Western world and Europe people get overweight and die as a result of strokes or heart infarctions. References and notes
External links
Bulgarian Society for Cell Biology
Biomedical Reviews, ISSN 1314-1929
Adipobiology, ISSN 1313-3705
eMedicine - Atherosclerosis: Article by F Brian Boudi, MD
The European Atherosclerosis Society
Medical University of Varna Website 
Continuity of care experience of residents in an academic vascular department: are trainees learning complete surgical care? [SEP] Residents are, collectively, the house staff of a hospital. Some residency programs refer to residents in their final year as chief residents (typically in surgical branches). Alternatively, a chief resident may describe a resident who has been selected to extend his or her residency by one year and organize the activities and training of the other residents (typically in internal medicine and pediatrics). In dermatology generally one of the final year residents is chosen as chief, to add administrative duties to the normal learning in the last year.If a physician finishes a residency and decides to further his or her education in a fellowship, they are referred to as a "fellow". History
Residency as an opportunity for advanced training in a medical or surgical specialty evolved in the late 19th century from brief and informal programs for extra training in a special area of interest. Australia
In Australia, specialist training is undertaken as a registrar; The term 'resident' is used synonymously with 'hospital medical officer' (HMO), and refers to unspecialised postgraduate medical practitioners prior to specialty training. To be fully licensed, one must first finish a medical training program that usually lasts five to six years (varies between universities), followed by one year of medical and surgical internship. Clinical programs:
The Department conducts a robust postgraduate training program in cardiac and vascular surgery and has trained hundreds of young surgeons. 
Household and food shopping environments: do they play a role in socioeconomic inequalities in fruit and vegetable consumption? [SEP] Differences in the definition of a food desert vary according to the following:

The type of area, urban or rural
Economic barriers and affordability of accessing nutritious foods, including the cost of transportation, price of foods, and incomes of those in the area
The distance to the nearest supermarket or grocery store
number of supermarkets in the given area
type of foods offered, whether it be fresh or prepared
nutritional values of the foods offeredThe multitude of definitions, varying by country, has fueled controversy over the existence of food deserts.It should also be noted that because it is too costly to survey the types of foods and prices offered in every store, researchers use the availability of supermarkets and large grocery stores (including discount and supercenter stores) as a proxy for the availability of affordable nutritious food. The researchers reached the conclusion that for a community of people, food choice bound by family and household socioeconomic status remained as a personal challenge, but social and physical environments played a significant role in stressing and in shaping their dietary behaviors. For many people, the reason for not being able to get nutritious food is a lack of supermarkets or grocery stores When supermarkets are inaccessible, it has been shown that vegetable and fruit consumption are lower. A longitudinal study of food deserts in JAMA Internal Medicine shows that supermarket availability is generally unrelated to fruit and vegetable recommendations and overall diet quality.The availability of unhealthy foods at supermarkets may affect that relationship because they tempt customers to purchase precooked foods, which tend to contain more preservatives. Studies like those show that living close to a store that is stocked with fruits and vegetables does not make a large impact on food choices.A separate survey also found that supermarket and grocery store availability did not generally correlate with diet quality and fresh food intake. further confirmed that physical access is not the sole determinant of fruit and vegetable consumption. Causes
A 2019 study published in The Quarterly Journal of Economics cast doubt on the notion that exposing poor neighborhoods to healthy groceries reduces nutritional inequality. The study found "that exposing low-income households to the same products and prices available to high-income households reduces nutritional inequality by only about 10 percent, while the remaining 90 percent is driven by differences in demand. 
Does birth center care during a woman's first pregnancy have any impact on her future reproduction? [SEP] Child
Early motherhood can affect the psychosocial development of the infant. Prenatal care
The absence of prenatal care has been associated with higher rates of preterm births. These home monitors may not reduce the number of preterm births, however, using these devices may increase the number of unplanned antenatal visits and may reduce the number of babies admitted to special care when compared with women receiving normal antenatal care. Support from medical professionals, friends, and family during pregnancy may be beneficial at reducing caesarean birth and may reduce prenatal hospital admissions, however, these social supports alone may not prevent preterm birth. Outcomes and prognosis
Preterm births can result in a range of problems including mortality and physical and mental delays. A report by the American Psychological Association concluded that a woman's first abortion is not a threat to mental health when carried out in the first trimester, with such women no more likely to have mental-health problems than those carrying an unwanted pregnancy to term; the mental-health outcome of a woman's second or greater abortion is less certain. Late initiation of prenatal care
Patients with unintended pregnancies enter prenatal care later. For example, a pelvic exam, breast exam, or blood test before starting birth control pills does not appear to affect outcomes. 
Are environmental factors important in primary systemic vasculitis? [SEP] Sjögren's syndrome may be associated with other autoimmune diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA), systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) or systemic sclerosis. Patients with secondary Sjögren's syndrome also often exhibit signs and symptoms of their primary rheumatic disorders, such as systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, or systemic sclerosis. Lifestyle
Conditions reported as worsening the disease include chronic infections, stress, and changes in season and climate. Risk factors
RA is a systemic (whole body) autoimmune disease. Some genetic and environmental factors affect the risk for RA. Environmental
There are established epigenetic and environmental risk factors for RA. Genetic factors interact with environmental risk factors for RA, with cigarette smoking as the most clearly defined risk factor.Other environmental and hormonal factors may explain higher risks for women, including onset after childbirth and hormonal medications. Chronic inflammatory diseases and some autoimmune diseases, such as inflammatory bowel disease, systemic sclerosis, Behçet's syndrome, primary antiphospholipid syndrome, and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) increase risk. 
Is low serum chloride level a risk factor for cardiovascular mortality? [SEP] Because cardiovascular disease is relatively rare in the younger population, the impact of high cholesterol on health is larger in older people.Elevated levels of the lipoprotein fractions, LDL, IDL and VLDL, rather than the total cholesterol level, correlate with the extent and progress of atherosclerosis. These groups were more likely to die of cancer, liver diseases, and mental diseases with very low total cholesterol, of 186 mg/dL (10.3 mmol/L) and lower. Associated low potassium or low calcium should also be treated. Magnesium plays an important role in carbohydrate metabolism and its deficiency may worsen insulin resistance, a condition that often precedes diabetes, or may be a consequence of insulin resistance.People being treated on an intensive care unit (ICU) who have a low magnesium level may have a higher risk of requiring mechanical ventilation, and death. Low magnesium intake over time can increase the risk of illnesses, including high blood pressure and heart disease, diabetes mellitus type 2, osteoporosis, and migraines.There is a direct effect on sodium (Na), potassium (K), and calcium (Ca) channels. A 2016 meta-analysis not restricted to diabetic subjects found that increasing dietary magnesium intake, while associated with a reduced risk of stroke, heart failure, diabetes, and all-cause mortality, was not clearly associated with lower risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) or total cardiovascular disease (CVD).A 2021 study on blood from 4,400 diabetic patients over 6 to 11 years reported that "People with higher levels of magnesium in the blood were found to have a significantly lower risk of cardiovascular disease", and also of diabetic foot and diabetic retinopathy. High levels of potassium (> 5.5 mmol/L) have been associated with cardiovascular events. Abnormal sodium levels during hospitalisation with COVID-19 are associated with poor prognoses: high sodium with a greater risk of death, and low sodium with an increased chance of needing ventilator support. 
Is EQ-5D a valid quality of life instrument in patients with acute coronary syndrome? [SEP] The EQ-5D is a generalised health-related quality of life measure which was developed in 1991 by the EuroQol Group. EQ-5D is a standardised measure of health-related quality of life developed by the EuroQol Group to provide a simple, generic questionnaire for use in clinical and economic appraisal and population health surveys. EQ-5D assesses health status in terms of five dimensions of health and is considered a ‘generic’ questionnaire because these dimensions are not specific to any one patient group or health condition. ‘EQ-5D’ is not an abbreviation and is the correct term to use when referring to the instrument in general.EQ-5D is widely used around the world in clinical trials and real-world clinical settings, population studies, and health economic evaluations. In clinical trials and routine clinical settings, EQ-5D can be used (i) to provide a profile of patient health on the day of questionnaire completion; (ii) to monitor the health status of patient groups at particular times, e.g. EQ-5D-5L
EQ-5D-5L was introduced in 2009 with the aim of enhancing instrument sensitivity and providing respondents with the opportunity to provide a more detailed and accurate picture of their health. Theoretical and psychometric properties
The validity, reliability, and responsiveness of EQ-5D-3L have been assessed for EQ-5D versions in many different health conditions, including cardiovascular disease, mental health populations, aged care, skin conditions, cancer, and total knee arthroplasty.The brevity of EQ-5D-3L is likely to be a major factor in its widespread use, but the three-level format can be a limitation in some clinical areas. EQ-5D in economic evaluation
EQ-5D is the most widely used health-related quality of life questionnaire in health economic evaluations. 
Could Adult European Pharmacoresistant Epilepsy Patients Be Treated With Higher Doses of Zonisamide? [SEP] Benzodiazepines are used as an acute treatment for seizure clusters. Epilepsy surgery is often pursued. "It is, therefore, possible to outgrow epilepsy or to undergo treatment that causes epilepsy to be resolved, but with no guarantee that it will not return. About 30% of people continue to have seizures despite anticonvulsant treatment.There are a number of medications available including phenytoin, carbamazepine and valproate. Despite this, treatment is often continued once effective, because the risk of untreated epilepsy is believed to be greater than the risk of the medications. Prognosis
Epilepsy cannot usually be cured, but medication can control seizures effectively in about 70% of cases. The greatest increase in mortality from epilepsy is among the elderly. Approximately 30% of people with epilepsy have a drug-resistant form.When 2 AED regimens have failed to produce sustained seizure-freedom, it is important to initiate other treatments to control seizures. 
Does early migraine treatment shorten time to headache peak and reduce its severity? [SEP] Headache
Amitriptyline is probably effective for the prevention of periodic migraine in adults. In some people, the headache resolves by itself, and no other symptoms are present. This includes migraine disorders, where co-occurrences between ET and migraines have been examined. Effervescent formulations of aspirin relieve pain faster than aspirin in tablets, which makes them useful for the treatment of migraines. Topical aspirin may be effective for treating some types of neuropathic pain.Aspirin, either by itself or in a combined formulation, effectively treats certain types of a headache, but its efficacy may be questionable for others. Aspirin or other over-the-counter analgesics are widely recognized as effective for the treatment of tension headaches. Aspirin, especially as a component of an aspirin/paracetamol/caffeine combination, is considered a first-line therapy in the treatment of migraine, and comparable to lower doses of sumatriptan. It is most effective at stopping migraines when they are first beginning. 
Does the manic/mixed episode distinction in bipolar disorder patients run true over time? [SEP] If untreated, a manic episode usually lasts three to six months.In severe manic episodes, a person can experience psychotic symptoms, where thought content is affected along with mood. Mixed affective episodes
In bipolar disorder, a mixed state is an episode during which symptoms of both mania and depression occur simultaneously. A mixed affective state, formerly known as a mixed-manic or mixed episode, has been defined as a state wherein features unique to both depression and  mania—such as episodes of despair, doubt, anguish, rage or homicidal ideation, suicidal ideation, splitting, racing thoughts, sensory overload, pressure of activity, and heightened irritability—occur either simultaneously or in very short succession. Previously, the diagnostic criteria for both a manic and depressive episode had to be met in a consistent and sustained fashion, with symptoms enduring for at least a week (or any duration if psychiatric hospitalization was required), thereby restricting the official acknowledgement of mixed affective states to only a minority of patients with bipolar I disorder. In current DSM-5 nomenclature, however, a "mixed episode" no longer stands as an episode of illness unto itself; rather, the symptomology specifier "with mixed features" can be applied to any major affective episode (manic, hypomanic, or depressive), meaning that they are now officially recognized in patients with, in addition to bipolar I disorder, bipolar II disorder and, by convention, major depressive disorder. If the person is concurrently depressed, they are said to be having a mixed episode.The World Health Organization's classification system defines a manic episode as one where mood is higher than the person's situation warrants and may vary from relaxed high spirits to barely controllable exuberance, is accompanied by hyperactivity, a compulsion to speak, a reduced sleep requirement, difficulty sustaining attention, and/or often increased distractibility. A mixed episode represents a combination of symptoms of mania and depression at the same time. Mixed type, when the disturbance includes both manic and depressive symptoms, but psychotic symptoms exist separately from bipolar disorder. 
Post-tonsillectomy late haemorrhage: is it a preferably night-time event? [SEP] Rates of survival to discharge was substantially lower during the night compared with day/evening; 14.7% (95% CI 14.3%-15.1%) vs 19.8% (95% CI 19.5%-20.1%). In 2009 in the US, Crowley et al., in a study of 13,821 US patients with intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH), reported  the risk of in-hospital death was 12% higher with weekend admission (OR = 1.12; 95% CI 1.05-1.20). After multivariate analysis, children undergoing procedures during a weekday after hours or weekends were more likely to experience complications (p=0.0227), and had an increased mortality. Published research: Disease-specific (selected) patients: Specialist surgery
General surgery
The weekend effect have been assessed in a wide range of specific surgical conditions. In a risk-adjusted analysis, patients admitted on weekends had a significantly higher risk for any postoperative complication (OR = 1.10; p=0.005). When comparing admission during weekends with admission during weekdays, off-hours admission was associated with a higher risk of surgical delay (OR = 1.19; 95% CI 1.05-1.37) and a higher 30-day mortality risk (OR = 1.13; 95% CI 1.04-1.23). The authors found that 2208 elective tonsillectomies were performed on a weekday and 141 on the weekend. Post-tonsillectomy haemorrhages occurred in 104 patients (4.7%) who underwent the procedure on a weekday and in 10 patients (7.1%) who had surgery at the weekend (p = 0.20), i.e. 
Acute hepatitis C in Israel: a predominantly iatrogenic disease? [SEP] HIV, rubella, and Hepatitis viruses A, B, and C can produce an illness resembling IM. More severe cases persist beyond six weeks and may be accompanied by uncommon but serious complications such as hepatitis, anemia, thrombocytopenia, hemophagocytosis, meningoencephalitis, myocarditis, pericarditis, pneumonitis, parotitis, pancreatitis and, in rare but extremely severe cases, life-threatening complications such as rupture or the spleen or disease-transitions to other LPD such as hemophagocytic lymphohisiocytosis (HLH), chronic active EBV (CAEBV), or lymphoma.During the infection's acute phase, individuals generally have high levels of infective EBV in their oral/nasal secretions plus high blood levels of EBV, atypical lymphocytes, CD8 T cells, and memory B cells (up to 50% of the latter cells are EBV+). Non-malignant disorders associated with secondary HLH include: autoimmune disorders such as juvenile idiopathic arthritis, juvenile Kawasaki disease, systemic lupus erythematosus, the juvenile onset and adult onset forms of Still's disease, and rheumatoid arthritis; immunodeficiency disorders such as severe combined immunodeficiency, DiGeorge syndrome, Wiskott–Aldrich syndrome, ataxia telangiectasia, and dyskeratosis congenita); and infections caused by EBV, cytomegalovirus, HIV/AIDS, bacteria, protozoa, and fungi. Laboratory studies show abnormal liver function tests, reduced levels of blood fibrinogen, impaired blood clotting, and high levels of blood ferritin, triglycerides, soluble interleukin-2 receptor, and, in EBV+ HLH cases, circulating EBV. Chronic viral hepatitis. Hepatic schistosomiasis, or intestinal schistosomiasis. Hepatitis C – RA-like symmetrical small-joint polyarthritis may occur in the context of this condition. The medication allows for the curing of Hepatitis C positive individuals which has increased the pool of available organs. 
Out of the smokescreen II: will an advertisement targeting the tobacco industry affect young people's perception of smoking in movies and their intention to smoke? [SEP] Tobacco promotion and advertising is an important cause of tobacco use initiation and escalation among youth. Exposure to advertisements increases intention to use e-cigarettes among adolescent non-users, and is associated with current e-cigarette use, even in a dose-dependent fashion, as increasing exposure is associated with increased odds of use. Seeing e-cigarette advertisements online is linked with greater positive views of e-cigarettes, a more likelihood of use, while seeing them at retail locations is linked with greater positive views and a more likelihood of use.Cigarette smokers were found to be more likely to be susceptible to the e-cigarettes advertisements than non-smokers. This study indicated that seeing an e-cigarette advertisement could incite thoughts relating to smoking and prompt the desire to smoke. E-cigarette television advertisements could be attracting previous tobacco users to use a traditional cigarette.As a result of the large-scale marketing, e-cigarettes gained widespread pervasiveness among all age groups, including vulnerable adolescents and youths populations. The increasing frequency and reach of advertising on television raises concerns about the potential impact of promoting nicotine products and renormalizing smoking through that medium, particularly for youth. Exposure to e-cigarette advertisements is associated with higher odds of current e-cigarette use among US middle and high school students. Exposure to e-cigarette advertising might reduce youths' perception of harm associated with e-cigarettes and increase their beliefs that e-cigarettes can be used where smoking is prohibited. 
Do adjuvant aromatase inhibitors increase the cardiovascular risk in postmenopausal women with early breast cancer? [SEP] The risk is not negated by regular exercise, though it is lowered.Hormone therapy to treat menopause is also associated with an increased risk of breast cancer. Medications
The selective estrogen receptor modulators reduce the risk of breast cancer but increase the risk of thromboembolism and endometrial cancer. Aromatase inhibitors (such as exemestane and anastrozole) may be more effective than selective estrogen receptor modulators (such as tamoxifen) at reducing breast cancer risk and they are not associated with an increased risk of endometrial cancer and thromboembolism. Cardiovascular and metabolic
Tamoxifen treatment of postmenopausal women is associated with beneficial effects on serum lipid profiles. osteoporosis and breast cancer. "Tamoxifen and Metastatic Breast Cancer". "Risk of chemotherapy induced menopause: More detailed data will lead to improved quality of life". "Do selective serotonin receptor inhibitor antidepressants reduce tamoxifen's effectiveness and increase the risk of death from breast cancer?". 
Metastatic carcinoma to the cervical nodes from an unknown head and neck primary site: Is there a need for neck dissection? [SEP] Head and neck cancer develops from tissues in the lip and oral cavity (mouth), larynx (throat), salivary glands, nose, sinuses or the skin of the face. Head and neck cancer often begins with benign signs and symptoms of disease, like an enlarged lymph node on the outside of the neck, a hoarse-sounding voice or progressive worsening cough or sore throat. Management of the neck
Spread of cancer from the oral cavity to the lymph nodes of the neck has a significant effect on survival. If there is evidence of lymph node involvement of the neck, during the diagnostic phase, then a modified radical neck dissection is generally performed. On imaging, involved lymph nodes may appear cystic, a characteristic of HPV+OPC.HPV+OPC has been treated similarly to stage-matched and site-matched HPV unrelated OPC, but its unique features, which contrast smoking-related HPV-OPC head and neck cancers, for which patients' demographics, comorbidities, risk factors, and carcinogenesis differ markedly, suggest that a distinct staging system be developed to more appropriately represent the severity of the disease and its prognosis. Neck dissection to examine the draining lymph nodes may be carried out simultaneously or as a second staging procedure. For tumours of the tonsil and lateral pharyngeal wall, and clinically node negative (N0) disease, dissection of the neck typically involves levels 2–4 (see diagram in Dubner 2017) ipsilaterally. The occurs in 2-4% of patients presenting with metastatic cancer in the cervical nodes. 
Cardiac reoperations in octogenarians: Do they really benefit? [SEP] Rehabilitation
Patients are evaluated after surgery for cardiac and pulmonary function. By age 80, more than half of all Americans either have a cataract or have had cataract surgery. Older adults, however, may not experience depression as much as younger adults, and were paradoxically found to have improved mood despite declining physical health. Older people's music participation contributes to the maintenance of interpersonal relationships and promoting successful ageing. At the same time, older persons can make contributions to society including caregiving and volunteering. Ageing has a significant impact on society. As cyborgs currently are on the rise  some theorists argue there is a need to develop new definitions of ageing and for instance a bio-techno-social definition of ageing has been suggested.There is a current debate as to whether or not the pursuit of longevity and the postponement of senescence are cost-effective health care goals given finite health care resources. The rule presumes that anyone, even an octogenarian (i.e., someone between 80 and 90 years of age) can parent a child, regardless of sex or health. 
Location and number of sutures placed for hiatal hernia repair during laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding: does it matter? [SEP] Laparoscopic hernia repair is the repair of a hiatal hernia using a laparoscope, which is a tiny telescope-like instrument. Methods
There are several different methods when performing a laparoscopic hernia repair. In bariatric surgery, hernias are repaired laparoscopically anteriorly, rather than posteriorly as in the fundoplication procedure. Laparoscopic hernia repair
A laparoscopic hernia repair is when the hiatal hernia is corrected using a covering for the mesh that is used to repair the weakened area. General complications that can occur using any method of hernia repair are:
problems with anesthesia dosage
difficulty swallowing because the stomach is too high up or esophagus is wrapped too tightly
heartburn
excessive gas
infection or bleeding
esophagus moving out of wrap causing lower esophageal sphincter to not be supported

General laparoscopic procedure
Some complications that can arise from the general laparoscopic procedure are PUR (postoperative urinary retention) Other complications that can arise during this procedure are:
nerve injury that results in prolonged pain
recurrence of hernia
hematomas
excessive bleeding that leads to the switch to open hernia repair
wound infection

Nissen fundoplication procedure
Complications that can arise form this procedure are:
dysphagia
bloating
other gastrointestinal symptomsOverall, the complication rate for this procedure is about 10% to 20%. Outcomes from having laparoscopic hernia repair are:
A lower morbidity rate
Low mortality rate
Quarter inch to half an inch incisions that result in three small scarsA laparoscopic hiatal hernia repair results in a hospital stay of approximately 36 to 48 hours after the procedure has been performed

Benefits
Laparoscopic hernia repair has several benefits compared to performing Open hernia repairs.Benefits are:
Three small scars at the point of incision compared to one large scar
Reduced post-operative pain
Shorter recovery time
Shorter hospital stay

See also
Hiatus hernia


== References == Gastric banding is performed using laparoscopic surgery and usually results in a shorter hospital stay, faster recovery, smaller scars, and less pain than open surgical procedures. Placement via laparoscopic surgery
The surgical insertion of an adjustable gastric band is often referred to as a lap band procedure or band placement. 
Is Alveolar Macrophage Phagocytic Dysfunction in Children With Protracted Bacterial Bronchitis a Forerunner to Bronchiectasis? [SEP] An alveolar macrophage, pulmonary macrophage, (or dust cell) is a type of macrophage, a professional phagocyte, found in the airways and at the level of the alveoli in the lungs, but separated from their walls.Activity of the alveolar macrophage is relatively high, because they are located at one of the major boundaries between the body and the outside world. Comparison of pigmented pulmonary macrophages
Function
Alveolar macrophages are phagocytes that play a critical role in homeostasis, host defense, and tissue remodeling. Alveolar macrophages are also involved in the phagocytosis of apoptotic and necrotic cells. The lungs are especially sensitive and prone to damage, thus to avoid collateral damage to type 1 and type II pneumocytes, alveolar macrophages are kept in a quiescent state, producing little inflammatory cytokines and displaying little phagocytic activity, as evidenced by downregulated expression of the phagocytic receptor Macrophage 1 antigen (Mac-1). Upon activation, macrophages become primed for phagocytosis and begin to secrete proinflammatory cytokines (TNF-α and IL-6).The priming of macrophages involves the enhancement of respiratory burst activity by IFN-γ and TNF-α. M1 macrophages have pro-inflammatory, bactericidal, and phagocytic functions. Recent evidence suggests that in response to the pulmonary infection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the peripheral macrophages matures into M1 phenotype. Macrophage M1 phenotype is characterized by increased secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, TNF-α, and IL-6) and increased glycolytic activities essential for clearance of infection. 
Do elderly patients benefit from surgery in addition to radiotherapy for treatment of metastatic spinal cord compression? [SEP] Pain: 25% of seniors have chronic pain, increasing with age, up to 80% of those in nursing homes. Shared-decision making
During primary care
There is currently limited evidence to form a robust conclusion that involving older patients with multiple health conditions in decision-making during primary care consultations has benefits. Improving physical mobility
Impaired mobility is a major health concern for older adults, affecting 50% of people over 85 and at least a fourth of those over 75 years old. Assistive technology and advancements in the health care field are further giving elders greater freedom and mobility. Frail elderly people are at significant risk of post-surgical complications and the need for extended care. Orthopedic surgeons use both surgical and nonsurgical means to treat musculoskeletal trauma, spine diseases, sports injuries, degenerative diseases, infections, tumors, and congenital disorders. Spinal fusion was one of the five most common OR procedures performed in every age group except infants younger than 1 year and adults 85 years and older. Knee arthroplasty and hip replacement were in the top five OR procedures for adults aged 45 years and older. 
Are WHO/UNAIDS/UNICEF-recommended replacement milks for infants of HIV-infected mothers appropriate in the South African context? [SEP] An upswing in breastfeeding in many countries has been accompanied by a deferment in the average age of introduction of baby foods (including cow's milk), resulting in both increased breastfeeding and increased use of infant formula between the ages of 3- and 12-months.A 2001 World Health Organization (WHO) report found that infant formula prepared in accordance with applicable Codex Alimentarius standards was a safe complementary food and a suitable breast milk substitute. In balancing the risks, such as cases where the mother is infected with HIV, a decision to use infant formula versus exclusive breastfeeding may be made based on alternatives that satisfy the “AFASS” (Acceptable, Feasible, Affordable, Sustainable and Safe) principles. Nutritional content
Besides breast milk, infant formula is the only other milk product which the medical community considers nutritionally acceptable for infants under the age of one year (as opposed to cow's milk, goat's milk, or follow-on formula). As a policy basic framework, the International Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes, adopted by the WHO's World Health Assembly in 1981, requires infant formula companies to preface their product information with statements that breastfeeding is the best way of feeding babies and that a substitute should only be used after consultation with health professionals. An upswing in breastfeeding in many countries has been accompanied by a deferment in the average age of introduction of baby foods (including cow's milk), resulting in both increased breastfeeding and increased use of infant formula between the ages of 3- and 12-months.A 2001 World Health Organization (WHO) report found that infant formula prepared in accordance with applicable Codex Alimentarius standards was a safe complementary food and a suitable breast milk substitute. In balancing the risks, such as cases where the mother is infected with HIV, a decision to use infant formula versus exclusive breastfeeding may be made based on alternatives that satisfy the “AFASS” (Acceptable, Feasible, Affordable, Sustainable and Safe) principles. As a policy basic framework, the International Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes, adopted by the WHO's World Health Assembly in 1981, requires infant formula companies to preface their product information with statements that breastfeeding is the best way of feeding babies and that a substitute should only be used after consultation with health professionals. Due to the increased risk of death without breastfeeding in many areas in the developing world, the World Health Organization recommends either exclusive breastfeeding or the provision of safe formula. 
Is minilaparoscopic inguinal hernia repair feasible? [SEP] As the two run at right angles to each other, this reduces the risk of later incisional hernia. Recent research has led to the development of natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES); however, numerous difficulties need to be overcome before a wider clinical application of NOTES is adopted, including complications such as the opening of hollow viscera, failed sutures, a lack of fully developed instrumentation, and the necessity of reliable cost-benefit analyses.Many surgeons have attempted to reduce incisional morbidity and improve cosmetic outcomes in laparoscopic appendectomy by using fewer and smaller ports. Additionally, reports in the literature indicate that minilaparoscopic appendectomy using 2– or 3-mm or even smaller instruments along with one 12-mm port minimizes pain and improves cosmesis. SILS has been shown to be feasible, reasonably safe, and cosmetically advantageous, compared to standard laparoscopy; however, this newer technique involves specialized instruments and is more difficult to learn because of a loss of triangulation, clashing of instruments, crossing of instruments (cross triangulation), and a lack of maneuverability. As the two run at right angles to each other, this reduces the risk of later incisional hernia. Recent research has led to the development of natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES); however, numerous difficulties need to be overcome before a wider clinical application of NOTES is adopted, including complications such as the opening of hollow viscera, failed sutures, a lack of fully developed instrumentation, and the necessity of reliable cost-benefit analyses.Many surgeons have attempted to reduce incisional morbidity and improve cosmetic outcomes in laparoscopic appendectomy by using fewer and smaller ports. Additionally, reports in the literature indicate that minilaparoscopic appendectomy using 2– or 3-mm or even smaller instruments along with one 12-mm port minimizes pain and improves cosmesis. SILS has been shown to be feasible, reasonably safe, and cosmetically advantageous, compared to standard laparoscopy; however, this newer technique involves specialized instruments and is more difficult to learn because of a loss of triangulation, clashing of instruments, crossing of instruments (cross triangulation), and a lack of maneuverability. 
Surgical treatment of prosthetic valve endocarditis in patients with double prostheses: is single-valve replacement safe? [SEP] The cumulative rate of prosthetic valve endocarditis is 1.5 to 3.0% at one year following valve replacement and 3 to 6% at five years, the risk being the greatest during the first six months after valve replacement. Prosthetic valve endocarditis arising within two months of valve surgery is generally the result of intra-operative contamination of the prosthesis or a bacteraemic post-operative complication. Epidemiologic evidence suggests that prosthetic valve endocarditis due to coagulase negative staphylococci that presents between 2 and 12 months after surgery is often nosocomial in origin but with a delayed onset.This short introduction may help to reflect on the various and sometimes opposing view-points concerning the 'origin' of prosthetic valve endocarditis. Valve type
Finally, the distinction between native-valve endocarditis and prosthetic-valve endocarditis is clinically important. Prosthetic valve endocarditis can be early (within 1 year of surgery) or late (> 1 year following valvular surgery). Early prosthetic valve endocarditis is usually due to intraoperative contamination or postoperative bacterial contamination which is usually nosocomial in nature. Late prosthetic valve endocarditis is usually due to community-acquired microorganisms.Prosthetic valve endocarditis is commonly caused by Staphylococcus epidermidis as it is capable of growing as a biofilm on plastic surfaces. Replacement of the valve with a mechanical or bioprosthetic artificial heart valve is necessary in certain situations:
Patients with significant valve stenosis or regurgitation causing heart failure
Evidence of hemodynamic compromise in the form of elevated end-diastolic left ventricular or left atrial pressure or moderate to severe pulmonary hypertension
Presence of intracardiac complications like paravalvular abscess, conduction defects or destructive penetrating lesions
Recurrent septic emboli despite appropriate antibiotic treatment
Large vegetations (> 10 mm)
Persistently positive blood cultures despite appropriate antibiotic treatment
Prosthetic valve dehiscence
Relapsing infection in the presence of a prosthetic valve
Abscess formation
Early closure of mitral valve
Infection caused by fungi or resistant Gram-negative bacteria.The guidelines were recently updated by both the American College of Cardiology and the European Society of Cardiology. 
Epidural analgesia for surgical treatment of peritoneal carcinomatosis: a risky technique? [SEP] Epidural anaesthesia causes a loss of sensation, including pain, by blocking the transmission of signals through nerve fibres in or near the spinal cord. For this reason, epidurals are commonly used for pain control during childbirth and surgery. Peritoneal carcinomatosis (PC) is intraperitoneal dissemination (carcinosis) of any form of cancer that does not originate from the peritoneum itself. "CT mimics of peritoneal carcinomatosis". "Peritoneal carcinomatosis from colorectal cancer". "Peritoneal carcinomatosis". "HIPEC in Peritoneal Metastasis of Gastric Origin: A Systematic Review of Regimens and Techniques". "Peritoneal carcinomatosis". 
Risk stratification in emergency surgical patients: is the APACHE II score a reliable marker of physiological impairment? [SEP] In 2016, a shortened sequential organ failure assessment score (SOFA score), known as the quick SOFA score (qSOFA), replaced the SIRS system of diagnosis. Severe sepsis is an infectious disease state associated with multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS)
Septic shock is severe sepsis plus persistently low blood pressure, despite the administration of intravenous fluids.In 2016 a new consensus was reached to replace screening by systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) with the sequential organ failure assessment (SOFA score) and the abbreviated version (qSOFA). The three criteria for the qSOFA score include a respiratory rate greater than or equal to 22 breaths per minute, systolic blood pressure 100 mmHg or less and altered mental status. Cardiovascular dysfunction (after fluid resuscitation with at least 40 mL/kg of crystalloid)
hypotension with blood pressure < 5th percentile for age or systolic blood pressure < 2 standard deviations below normal for age, or
vasopressor requirement, or
two of the following criteria:
unexplained metabolic acidosis with base deficit > 5 mEq/L
lactic acidosis: serum lactate 2 times the upper limit of normal
oliguria (urine output < 0.5 mL/kg/h)
prolonged capillary refill > 5 seconds
core to peripheral temperature difference > 3 °C
Respiratory dysfunction (in the absence of a cyanotic heart defect or a known chronic respiratory disease)
the ratio of the arterial partial-pressure of oxygen to the fraction of oxygen in the gases inspired (PaO2/FiO2) < 300 (the definition of acute lung injury), or
arterial partial-pressure of carbon dioxide (PaCO2) > 65 torr (20 mmHg) over baseline PaCO2 (evidence of hypercapnic respiratory failure), or
supplemental oxygen requirement of greater than FiO2 0.5 to maintain oxygen saturation ≥ 92%
Neurologic dysfunction
Glasgow Coma Score (GCS) ≤ 11, or
altered mental status with drop in GCS of 3 or more points in a person with developmental delay/intellectual disability
Hematologic dysfunction
platelet count < 80,000/mm3 or 50% drop from maximum in chronically thrombocytopenic, or
international normalized ratio (INR) > 2
Disseminated intravascular coagulation
Kidney dysfunction
serum creatinine ≥ 2 times the upper limit of normal for age or 2-fold increase in baseline creatinine in people with chronic kidney disease
Liver dysfunction (only applicable to infants > 1 month)
total serum bilirubin ≥ 4 mg/dL, or
alanine aminotransferase (ALT) ≥ 2 times the upper limit of normalConsensus definitions, however, continue to evolve, with the latest expanding the list of signs and symptoms of sepsis to reflect clinical bedside experience. Anesthesia
A target tidal volume of 6 mL/kg of predicted body weight (PBW) and a plateau pressure less than 30 cm H2O is recommended for those who require ventilation due to sepsis-induced severe ARDS. APACHE II factors in the person's age, underlying condition, and various physiologic variables to yield estimates of the risk of dying of severe sepsis. The Mortality in Emergency Department Sepsis (MEDS) score is simpler and useful in the emergency department environment.Some people may experience severe long-term cognitive decline following an episode of severe sepsis, but the absence of baseline neuropsychological data in most people with sepsis makes the incidence of this difficult to quantify or to study. Jurisdictions that use EMD typically assign a code of "alpha" (low priority), "bravo" (medium priority), "charlie" (requiring advanced life support), delta (high priority, requiring advanced life support) or "echo" (maximum possible priority, e.g., witnessed cardiac arrests) to each inbound request for service; these codes are then used to determine the appropriate level of response.Other systems (especially as regards major incidents) use objective measures to direct resource. 
Are physicians meeting the needs of family caregivers of the frail elderly? [SEP] A lot of research in this area is needed.Just as a child would see a pediatrician for medical care, an older patient should go to a geriatrician. Older patients have unique needs because of their often complex medical histories, numerous drugs they are taking, their social situations, possible problems with cognitive dysfunction related to age, and general diminution of organ function that occurs naturally in the older population. Regulations
In the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ensures that every Medicare and Medicaid beneficiary receives health care, both within health care settings such as nursing homes, and among health care settings during care transitions. seniors, and people with disabilities. A large portion of Medicare and Medicaid funding is used each year to cover nursing home care and services for the elderly and disabled. Nursing homes offer help with custodial care—like bathing, getting dressed, and eating—as well as skilled care given by a registered nurse and includes medical monitoring and treatments. Physical therapy
Some of the individuals that are housed in a nursing home need ongoing physical therapy. Medical needs
Nearly all residents in a nursing home have some type of medical need, ranging from basic care requirements to more specialized needs. 
Can nonproliferative breast disease and proliferative breast disease without atypia be distinguished by fine-needle aspiration cytology? [SEP] Benign proliferative breast disease is a group of noncancerous conditions that may increase the risk of developing breast cancer. References
External links
Benign proliferative breast disease entry in the public domain NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms This article incorporates public domain material from Dictionary of Cancer Terms. Diagnosis involves ruling out breast cancer. Diagnosis
This is an exclusion diagnosis, mostly done based on the clinical presentation after ruling out breast cancer. Biopsy or fine needle aspiration are rarely warranted.Fibrocystic breast disease is primarily diagnosed based on the symptoms, clinical breast exam and physical exam. A fine-needle aspiration biopsy is usually ordered when the doctor is almost certain that the lump is a cyst. Proliferative lesions also have approximately a two-fold risk: in particular, atypical hyperplasia which is associated with an increased risk of developing breast cancer. The relative risk associated with atypia was 4.24 (95 percent confidence interval, 3.26 to 5.41), as compared with a relative risk of 1.88 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.66 to 2.12) for proliferative changes without atypia and of 1.27 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.15 to 1.41) for nonproliferative lesions. 
Are Reviewers' Scores Influenced by Citations to Their Own Work? [SEP] Moreover, Ragone et al.,  have shown that there is a low correlation between peer review outcomes and the future impact measured by citations. These individuals usually refer to the opinion of one or more reviewers in making their decision. At least one study has found that reviewer disagreement is not common, but this study is also small and on only one journal.Traditionally, reviewers would often remain anonymous to the authors, but this standard varies both with time and with academic field. Even when the reviews are not public, they are still a matter of record and the reviewer's credibility depends upon how they represent themselves among their peers. Reviewers tend to be especially critical of conclusions that contradict their own views, and lenient towards those that match them. A theoretical model has been established whose simulations imply that peer review and over-competitive research funding foster mainstream opinion to monopoly.Criticisms of traditional anonymous peer review allege that it lacks accountability, can lead to abuse by reviewers, and may be biased and inconsistent.There have also been suggestions of gender bias in peer review, with male authors being likely to receive more favorable treatment. In a study published in 2012, this hypothesis was tested by evaluating the relative "impact" (using citation counts) of articles published in open access and subscription journals, on the grounds that members of the scientific community would presumably be less likely to cite substandard work, and that citation counts could therefore act as one indicator of whether or not the journal format indeed impacted peer review and the quality of published scholarship. See also
References
Further reading
"Peer review debate". 
Does the central venous pressure predict fluid responsiveness? [SEP] Central venous pressure (CVP) is the blood pressure in the venae cavae, near the right atrium of the heart. CVP has been, and often still is, used as a surrogate for preload, and changes in CVP in response to infusions of intravenous fluid have been used to predict volume-responsiveness (i.e. Central Venous Pressure and Pulmonary Capillary Wedge Monitoring
Cardiovascular Physiology
Central+Venous+Pressure at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) However, this number also can be elevated in the setting of impaired concentrating ability by the kidneys.Central venous pressure (CVP) is often used to assess volume status. The accuracy of pulse pressure variation also can be compromised in right heart failure, decreased lung or chest wall compliance, and high respiratory rates.Similar to examining pulse pressure variation, measuring respiratory variation in inferior vena cava diameter as a measure of volume responsiveness has only been validated in patients without spontaneous breaths or arrhythmias.Measuring the effect of passive leg raises on cardiac contractility by echo appears to be the most accurate measurement of volume responsiveness, although it is also subject to limitations.History and physical can often make the diagnosis of hypovolemic shock. Multiple modalities exist for measuring fluid responsiveness such as ultrasound, central venous pressure monitoring, and pulse pressure fluctuation as described above. Central venous pressure. The physiology of assessing fluid responsiveness via passive leg raise requires increasing systemic venous return without altering cardiac function - a form of functional hemodynamic monitoring.Several studies showed that this measure is a better predictor of response to rapid fluid loading than other tests such as respiratory variation in pulse pressure or echocardiographic markers.Placing the person in the Trendelenburg position, does not work since bloodvessels are highly compliant, and expand as result of the increased volume locally. 
Memory-provoked rCBF-SPECT as a diagnostic tool in Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] Detailed neuropsychological testing can reveal mild cognitive difficulties up to eight years before a person fulfills the clinical criteria for diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease does not affect all memory capacities equally. Systemic markers of the innate immune system are risk factors for late-onset Alzheimer's disease. Advanced medical imaging with computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and with single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) or positron emission tomography (PET), can be used to help exclude other cerebral pathology or subtypes of dementia. FDA-approved radiopharmaceutical diagnostic agents used in PET for Alzheimer's disease are florbetapir (2012), flutemetamol (2013), florbetaben (2014), and flortaucipir (2020). Delirium and depression can be common among individuals and are important to rule out.Psychological tests for depression are used, since depression can either be concurrent with Alzheimer's disease (see Depression of Alzheimer disease), an early sign of cognitive impairment, or even the cause.Due to low accuracy, the C-PIB-PET scan is not recommended as an early diagnostic tool or for predicting the development of Alzheimer's disease when people show signs of mild cognitive impairment (MCI). The use of 18F-FDG PET scans, as a single test, to identify people who may develop Alzheimer's disease is not supported by evidence. These criteria require that the presence of cognitive impairment, and a suspected dementia syndrome, be confirmed by neuropsychological testing for a clinical diagnosis of possible or probable Alzheimer's disease. 
Can we ease the financial burden of colonoscopy? [SEP] A provision of the Provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, effective August 1, 2012, states that all new health insurance plans must cover certain preventive services such as mammograms and colonoscopies without charging a deductible, co-pay or coinsurance. Women's Preventive Services – including: well-woman visits; gestational diabetes screening; human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA testing for women age 30 and older; sexually transmitted infection counseling; human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) screening and counseling; FDA-approved contraceptive methods and contraceptive counseling; breastfeeding support, supplies and counseling; and domestic violence screening and counseling – will be covered without cost sharing. The Act requires public state universities to offer mifepristone, the abortion pill, to female students at zero cost by January 1, 2023; funding for the program will be paid for through insurance and private grants with $200,000 to each University of California and California State University health clinic for training and equipment. United States: A provision of the Provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, effective August 1, 2012, states that all new health insurance plans must cover certain preventive services such as mammograms and colonoscopies without charging a deductible, co-pay or coinsurance. Women's Preventive Services – including: well-woman visits; gestational diabetes screening; human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA testing for women age 30 and older; sexually transmitted infection counseling; human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) screening and counseling; FDA-approved contraceptive methods and contraceptive counseling; breastfeeding support, supplies and counseling; and domestic violence screening and counseling – will be covered without cost sharing. The Act requires public state universities to offer mifepristone, the abortion pill, to female students at zero cost by January 1, 2023; funding for the program will be paid for through insurance and private grants with $200,000 to each University of California and California State University health clinic for training and equipment. United States, Colorado: In April 2022, Colorado passed the Reproductive Health Equity Act, which guarantees access to reproductive care and affirms the rights of pregnant women to continue or terminate a pregnancy. 23 July – children who underwent a colonoscopy between 17 May and 5 July were involved in a contamination scare at Our Lady's Children's Hospital, Crumlin. 
Is low birth weight a risk indicator for congenital cytomegalovirus infection? [SEP] Low birth weight (LBW) is defined by the World Health Organization as a birth weight of an
infant of 2,499 g (5 lb 8.1 oz) or less, regardless of gestational age. Classification
Birth weight may be classified as:
High birth weight (macrosomia): greater than 4,200 g (9 lb 4 oz)
Normal weight (term delivery): 2,500–4,200 g (5 lb 8 oz – 9 lb 4 oz)
Low birth weight: less than 2,500 g (5 lb 8 oz)
Very low birth weight: less than 1,500 g (3 lb 5 oz)
Extremely low birth weight: less than 1,000 g (2 lb 3 oz)

Causes
LBW is either caused by preterm birth (that is, a low gestational age at birth, commonly defined as younger than 37 weeks of gestation) or the infant being small for gestational age (that is, a slow prenatal growth rate), or a combination of both.In general, risk factors in the mother that may contribute to low birth weight include young ages, multiple pregnancies, previous LBW infants, poor nutrition, heart disease or hypertension, untreated celiac disease, substance use disorder, excessive alcohol use, and insufficient prenatal care. Infections during pregnancy that affect the fetus, such as rubella, cytomegalovirus, toxoplasmosis, and syphilis, may also affect the baby's weight. On an individual basis, LBW is an important predictor of newborn health and survival and is associated with higher risk of infant and childhood mortality.Low birth weight constitutes as sixty to eighty percent of the infant mortality rate in developing countries. Additionally, low birth weight has associations with cardiovascular diseases later in life, especially in cases of large increases in weight during childhood.Low birth rate is associated with schizoid personality disorder. A slow growth rate and preterm birth are the two factors that can cause a low birth weight. Low birth weight
Low birth weight increases an infants risk of long-term growth and cognitive and language deficits. "Effects of gestation and birth weight on the growth and development of very low birthweight small for gestational age infants: a matched group comparison". 
Is external palliative radiotherapy for gallbladder carcinoma effective? [SEP] Treatment results have demonstrated that the cancer-cure rates of brachytherapy are either comparable to surgery and external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) or are improved when used in combination with these techniques. Shorter treatment times and outpatient procedures can also help improve the efficiency of radiotherapy clinics.Brachytherapy can be used with the aim of curing the cancer in cases of small or locally advanced tumours, provided the cancer has not metastasized (spread to other parts of the body). Esophageal cancer
For esophageal cancer radiation treatment, brachytherapy is one option for effective treatment, involves definitive radiotherapy (boost) or palliative treatments. Definitive radiotherapy (boost) can deliver the dose precisely and palliative treatments can be given to relieve dysphagia. External beam therapy
The role of radiotherapy in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma has evolved as technological advancements in treatment delivery and imaging have provided a means for safe and effective radiotherapy delivery in a wide spectrum of HCC patients. In metastatic cases, radiotherapy can be used for palliative care. Proton therapy for unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma was associated with improved survival relative to photon-based radiation therapy which may be driven by decreased incidence of post-treatment liver decompensation and a number of randomized controlled trials are currently ongoing. A variety of interventional oncological treatments for tumors arise:

Liver cancer: primary liver tumors such as hepatocellular carcinoma or cholangiocarcinoma and liver metastases are often treated by procedures such as transarterial chemoembolization (TACE), Selective internal radiation therapy (SIRT/Y-90 radioembolization), portal vein embolization, transarterial/bland embolization, or image guided ablation (RFA, MWA, IRE, Cryoablation)
Lung cancer: lung metastases or inoperable primary lung cancer can be treated by interventional radiology procedures such as image guided ablation (cryoablation, microwave ablation and radiofrequency ablation).Cryoablation of lung cancer video demonstration: Cryoablation of a non-small cell lung cancer pleural invasion (www.mposium.com)
Kidney cancer: kidney tumors such as renal cell carcinoma can be treated with image guided ablation (RFA, MWA, cryotherapy) with similar results to partial nephrectomy. 
Is discordance in TEOAE and AABR outcomes predictable in newborns? [SEP] Transient-evoked OAEs (TEOAEs or TrOAEs) are evoked using a click (broad frequency range) or toneburst (brief duration pure tone) stimulus. It has been found that distortion-product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAE's) have provided the most information for detecting hearing loss in high frequencies when compared to transient-evoked otoacoustic emissions (TEOAE). Tympanometry
Acoustic reflex thresholds
Acoustic reflectometry
wide-band absorbance audiometry also called 3D tympanometry
Evoked potential audiometry
N1-P2 cortical audio evoked potential (CAEP) audiometry
ABR is a neurologic tests of auditory brainstem function in response to auditory (click) stimuli. In 1974, Hecox and Galambos showed that the ABR could be used for threshold estimation in adults and infants. ABR vs. ASSR
Similarities:

Both record bioelectric activity from electrodes arranged in similar recording arrays. ABR thresholds do not necessarily improve in the aided condition. ABR can be an inaccurate indicator of hearing aid benefit due to difficulty processing the appropriate amount of fidelity of the transient stimuli used to evoke a response. For late implanted children, the P1 waveforms were abnormal and had lower amplitudes when compared to normal waveform morphology. 
Chemical shift MRI: is there any contribution to morphologic evaluation of solid breast masses? [SEP] In nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy, the chemical shift is the resonant frequency of an atomic nucleus relative to a standard in a magnetic field. Often the position and number of chemical shifts are diagnostic of the structure of a molecule. The variations of nuclear magnetic resonance frequencies of the same kind of nucleus, due to variations in the electron distribution, is called the chemical shift. Thus, an NMR signal observed at a frequency 300 Hz higher than the signal from TMS, where the TMS resonance frequency is 300 MHz, has a chemical shift of:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              300
              
              
                
                  H
                  z
                
              
            
            
              300
              ×
              
                10
                
                  6
                
              
              
              
                
                  H
                  z
                
              
            
          
        
        =
        1
        ×
        
          10
          
            −
            6
          
        
        =
        1
        
        
          
            p
            p
            m
            
            .
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {300\,{\rm {Hz}}}{300\times 10^{6}\,{\rm {Hz}}}}=1\times 10^{-6}=1\,{\rm {ppm\,.}}} In proton NMR of methyl halides (CH3X) the chemical shift of the methyl protons increase in the order I < Br < Cl < F from 2.16 ppm to 4.26 ppm reflecting this trend. As is the case for NMR the chemical shift reflects the electron density at the atomic nucleus. "MRI: A Peer-Reviewed, Critical Introduction". The method of biopsy depends on the appearance, size and location of the breast mass. 
Do some U.S. states have higher/lower injury mortality rates than others? [SEP] Differences in measurement
The infant mortality rate correlates very strongly with, and is among the best predictors of, state failure. Additionally, infant mortality in southern states was consistently 2% higher than other states in the US across a 20-year period from 1985. Southern states also tend to perform worse in predictors for higher infant mortality, such as per capita income and poverty rate.In the latter half of the 20th century, a focus on greater access to medical care for women spurred declines in infant mortality in the United States. State courts conduct most civil and criminal trials, and federal courts handle designated crimes and appeals from the state criminal courts.As of 2020, the United States has an intentional homicide rate of 7 per 100,000 people. A 2013 study reproduced this finding, even after controlling for different underlying rates of suicidal behavior by states. Demographics of risk
Prevalence of homicide and violent crime is higher in statistical metropolitan areas of the U.S. than it is in non-metropolitan counties; the vast majority of the U.S. population lives in statistical metropolitan areas. The mortality rate for gunshot wounds to the heart is 84%, compared to 30% for people who suffer stab wounds to the heart.In the United States, states with higher gun ownership rates have higher rates of gun homicides and homicides overall, but not higher rates of non-gun homicides. Table
Data confidence varies greatly by state. 
Do European people with type 1 diabetes consume a high atherogenic diet? [SEP] Modifiable
Western pattern diet
Abdominal obesity
Insulin resistance
Diabetes
Dyslipidemia
Hypertension
Trans fat
Tobacco smoking
Bacterial infections
HIV/AIDS

Nonmodifiable
South Asian descent
Advanced age
Genetic abnormalities
Family history
Coronary anatomy and branch pattern

Lesser or uncertain
Thrombophilia
Saturated fat
Excessive carbohydrates
Elevated triglycerides
Systemic inflammation
Hyperinsulinemia
Sleep deprivation
Air pollution
Sedentary lifestyle
Arsenic poisoning
Alcohol
Chronic stress
Hypothyroidism
Periodontal disease

Dietary
The relation between dietary fat and atherosclerosis is controversial. Its levels have been associated with atherosclerosis in human studies and animal research suggest that there can be a causal relation. People with obesity are at increased risk of atherosclerosis of the coronary arteries. Diet
High dietary intakes of saturated fat, trans-fats and salt, and low intake of fruits, vegetables and fish are linked to cardiovascular risk, although whether all these associations indicate causes is disputed. There is evidence that higher consumption of sugar is associated with higher blood pressure and unfavorable blood lipids, and sugar intake also increases the risk of diabetes mellitus. Prospective observational studies show that in many populations lower intake of saturated fat coupled with higher intake of polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fat is associated with lower rates of CVD. A general 7% limit was recommended also by the American Heart Association (AHA) in 2006.The WHO/FAO report also recommended replacing fats so as to reduce the content of myristic and palmitic acids, specifically.The so-called Mediterranean diet, prevalent in many countries in the Mediterranean Sea area, includes more total fat than the diet of Northern European countries, but most of it is in the form of unsaturated fatty acids (specifically, monounsaturated and omega-3) from olive oil and fish, vegetables, and certain meats like lamb, while consumption of saturated fat is minimal in comparison. Diabetes: There is a growing concern that the risk of type 2 diabetes increases with trans fat consumption. 
Adults with mild intellectual disabilities: can their reading comprehension ability be improved? [SEP] Reading comprehension is the ability to process written text, understand its meaning, and to integrate with what the reader already knows. The use of effective comprehension strategies that provide specific instructions for developing and retaining comprehension skills, with intermittent feedback, has been found to improve reading comprehension across all ages, specifically those affected by mental disabilities.Reading different types of texts requires the use of different reading strategies and approaches. Applying methods to attain an overt phonemic awareness with intermittent practice has been found to improve reading in early ages, specifically those affected by mental disabilities. Comprehension strategies
Research studies on reading and comprehension have shown that highly proficient, effective readers utilize a number of different strategies to comprehend various types of texts, strategies that can also be used by less proficient readers in order to improve their comprehension. Self-Monitoring: Asking oneself questions about reading strategies, whether they are getting confused or having trouble paying attention. ReadWorks.org | The Solution to Reading Comprehension For example, if a student takes an academic test and it indicates that the student struggles with reading comprehension, parents can request speech and language support or classroom accommodations, such as extra time to complete reading and writing tasks. ", previous research conducted by Kincade and Beach (1996) indicates that proficient readers use specific comprehension strategies in their reading tasks, while poor readers do not (Pilonieta & Medina, 2009). 
Do antibiotics decrease post-tonsillectomy morbidity? [SEP] Tonsillectomy does not appear to affect long term immune function.Following the surgery ibuprofen and paracetamol (acetaminophen) may be used to treat postoperative pain. Medical uses
Tonsillectomy is mainly undertaken for sleep apnea and recurrent or chronic tonsillitis. Immune system
There is no evidence tonsillectomy affects long term immune function. More recent studies of coblation tonsillectomy indicate reduced pain and ostalgia; less intraoperative or postoperative complications; lesser incidence of delayed hemorrhage, more significantly in pediatric populations, less postoperative pain and early return to daily activities, fewer secondary infections of the tonsil bed and significantly lower rates of secondary hemorrhage. Many people are prescribed antibiotics following a tonsillectomy, however, the benefits and potential harms have not been well studied. In children with frequent episodes of tonsillitis, tonsillectomy modestly decreases the risk of future episodes.About 7.5% of people have a sore throat in any three-month period and 2% of people visit a doctor for tonsillitis each year. Treatment
Treatments to reduce the discomfort from tonsillitis include:
pain and fever reducing medications such as paracetamol (acetaminophen) and ibuprofen
warm salt water gargle, lozenges, honey, or warm liquidsThere are no antiviral medical treatments for virally caused tonsillitis. Antibiotics
If the tonsillitis is caused by group A streptococcus, then antibiotics are useful, with penicillin or amoxicillin being primary choices. 
Body diffusion-weighted MR imaging of uterine endometrial cancer: is it helpful in the detection of cancer in nonenhanced MR imaging? [SEP] Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DWI or DW-MRI) is the use of specific MRI sequences as well as software that generates images from the resulting data that uses the diffusion of water molecules to generate contrast in MR images. A variant of diffusion weighted imaging, diffusion spectrum imaging (DSI), was used in deriving the Connectome data sets; DSI is a variant of diffusion-weighted imaging that is sensitive to intra-voxel heterogeneities in diffusion directions caused by crossing fiber tracts and thus allows more accurate mapping of axonal trajectories than other diffusion imaging approaches.Diffusion-weighted images are very useful to diagnose vascular strokes in the brain. Mechanism
Diffusion imaging is an MRI method that produces in vivo magnetic resonance images of biological tissues sensitized with the local characteristics of molecular diffusion, generally water (but other moieties can also be investigated using MR spectroscopic approaches). In order to measure the tissue's complete diffusion profile, one needs to repeat the MR scans, applying different directions (and possibly strengths) of the diffusion gradient for each scan. The imaging of this property is an extension of diffusion MRI. Diagnosis of endometrial cancer is typically based on an endometrial biopsy. Diagnosis
Diagnosis of endometrial cancer is made first by a physical examination, endometrial biopsy, or dilation and curettage (removal of endometrial tissue; D&C). An MRI can be of some use in determining if the cancer has spread to the cervix or if it is an endocervical adenocarcinoma. 
Do inhaled steroids differ from cromones in terms of hospital admission rates for asthma in children? [SEP] Medication for asthma, croup, cystic fibrosis and some other conditions. In popular use, the term "steroids" often refers to anabolic steroids. Anabolic steroids are classified as Schedule III controlled substances in many countries due to their potential for abuse and adverse health effects.Health risks can be produced by long-term use or excessive doses of AAS. Cromoglicate is used as a mast cell stabilizer in allergic rhinitis, asthma and allergic conjunctivitis. Asthma that affects the upper respiratory tract. Treating children who have a non-specific chronic cough with asthma medications such as inhaled beta2-agonists (e.g., salbutamol) or inhaled corticosteroids does not improve the clinical symptoms. Codeine-based cough medications are contraindicated for children under 12 years old  due to the risk of respiratory suppression and the potential for opioid toxicity. There is insufficient evidence to determine if the following approaches are beneficial for treating chronic cough: Treating childhood obstructive sleep apnoea, modifying the indoor air quality, or treatment with inhaled cromones. 
Substance use and HIV-related sexual behaviors among US high school students: are they related? [SEP] Drug use is associated with risky sexual behaviors. The use of alcohol and illicit drugs greatly increases the risk of gonorrhea, chlamydia, trichomoniasis, hepatitis B, and HIV/AIDS. Epidemiology
According to the National Youth Behavior Risk Survey, 19% of all sexually active adolescents in the US consumed alcohol or used other drugs before their last sexual intercourse. Research indicates that alcohol can lead to risky sexual behavior including lack of condom use, sexual intercourse with a non-primary partner, as well as lower likelihood of using contraception in general.Among older age cohorts, a similar positive trend can be observed in risky sexual behavior when combined with alcohol use. References
External links
Drug Use and Sexual Behaviors Reported by Adults: United States, 1999–2002 Substance use includes risk factors that correlate to one's health that can include HIV/AIDS, Hepatitis B virus, and Hepatitis C virus. With an increase in the diagnosis of behavioral and attentional disorders for students, taking pharmaceutical drugs such as Vicodin and Adderall for pleasure has become a prevalent activity among adolescents: 9.9% of high school seniors report having abused prescription drugs within the past year.In the U.S., teenage alcohol use rose in the late 2000s and is currently stable at a moderate level. It has been demonstrated that adolescents who drink at least to some degree may be as much as sixteen times more likely than non-drinkers to use illicit drugs. 
Does sex influence the response to intravenous thrombolysis in ischemic stroke? [SEP] Some hemorrhagic strokes benefit from surgery. Ischemic strokes are caused by interruption of the blood supply to the brain, while hemorrhagic strokes result from the rupture of a blood vessel or an abnormal vascular structure. Giving thrombolytics (clot-busting) in such cases causes intracerebral bleeding 1 to 2% of the time, which is less than that of people with strokes. Further studies are needed to investigate a possible protective effect of aspirin against ischemic stroke in women. Incidence of ischemic stroke is ten times more frequent than haemorrhagic stroke.It is ranked after heart disease and before cancer. Men are 25% more likely to develop strokes than women, yet 60% of deaths from stroke occur in women. Since women live longer, they are older on average when they have their strokes and thus more often killed. Some risk factors for stroke apply only to women. 
Thrombosis prophylaxis in hospitalised medical patients: does prophylaxis in all patients make sense? [SEP] Other research suggested that anticoagulants in otherwise healthy patients undergoing a so-called fast track protocol with hospital stays under five days, might only be necessary while in the hospital. Emerging evidence supports the use of aspirin for venous thromboembolism prophylaxis. However, aspirin may not be appropriate in all cases, especially for patients who have additional risk factors for venous thromboembolisms or may have an inadequate response to aspirin.Some physicians and patients may consider having an ultrasonography for deep vein thrombosis after hip replacement. Combined with extra sanitary measures for those in contact with infected people, swab screening people admitted to hospitals has been found to be effective in minimizing the spread of MRSA in hospitals in the United States, Denmark, Finland, and the Netherlands. The reduction of such infections forms an important component of efforts to improve healthcare safety. Phage therapy has been used for years in MRSA in eastern countries, and studies are ongoing in western countries.A 2015 Cochrane systematic review aimed to assess the effectiveness of wearing gloves, gowns and masks to help stop the spread of MRSA in hospitals, however no eligible studies were identified for inclusion. A clinical trial, which has not as of 1 October 2021 been peer reviewed, suggests molnupiravir taken orally can reduce the risk of hospitalization and prevent death in patients diagnosed with COVID-19. Could such drugs be used to minimize the illness of COVID-19 infection in healthcare staff and people at high risk of developing severe illness?Enrolling people with COVID-19 infection is simplified by using data entries, including informed consent, on a WHO website. 
Do teleoncology models of care enable safe delivery of chemotherapy in rural towns? [SEP] Importantly, the use of drugs (whether chemotherapy, hormonal therapy or targeted therapy) constitutes systemic therapy for cancer in that they are introduced into the blood stream and are therefore in principle able to address cancer at any anatomic location in the body. : 55–59 All chemotherapy regimens require that the recipient be capable of undergoing the treatment. Delivery
Most chemotherapy is delivered intravenously, although a number of agents can be administered orally (e.g., melphalan, busulfan, capecitabine). The devices have different applications regarding duration of chemotherapy treatment, method of delivery and types of chemotherapeutic agent. : 94–95 Depending on the person, the cancer, the stage of cancer, the type of chemotherapy, and the dosage, intravenous chemotherapy may be given on either an inpatient or an outpatient basis. The main purpose of these approaches is to deliver a very high dose of chemotherapy to tumor sites without causing overwhelming systemic damage. When used in non-cancer setting, the treatment is still called "chemotherapy", and is often done in the same treatment centers used for people with cancer. This may include even rural towns. 
Does Paget's disease exist in India? [SEP] It often occurs in small outbreaks in nursery schools or kindergartens. Typically it occurs in children less than five years old but can occasionally occur in adults. Cause
The viruses that cause the disease are of the Picornaviridae family. In 2012 in Alabama, United States there was an outbreak of an unusual type of the disease. The illness is endemic to Kerala, India and gets its name because of the red and round blisters it causes, which look like tomatoes. PAD differs from peripheral veinous disease. negro disease). Rolland had authored an article in the Lancet during 1917 about a respiratory illness outbreak beginning in 1916 in Étaples, France. 
Is There an Additional Value of Using Somatostatin Receptor Subtype 2a Immunohistochemistry Compared to Somatostatin Receptor Scintigraphy Uptake in Predicting Gastroenteropancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumor Response? [SEP] Patients with neuroendocrine tumors that over-express the somatostatin receptor 2 have an improved prognosis. The somatostatin receptor 2 is also being looked at as a possible target in cancer treatment for its ability to inhibit tumor growth. Somatostatin 2 receptors have been found in concentration on the surface of tumor cells, particularly those associated with the neuroendocrine system where the overexpression of somatostatin can lead to many complications Due to this, these receptors are considered a prospective aid for the detection of tumors, especially in patients who present with conditions like hypothyroidism and Cushing's syndrome. A synthetic version of the somatostatin hormone, octreotide, has been successfully used in combination with radio-peptide tracers to locate adrenal gland tumors through scintigraphic imaging. The use of sstr2 and sstr5 as biomarkers to track the progress of and treat neuroendocrine tumors displaying circulating tumor cells is also being investigated due to these cells' somatostatin receptor gene expressivity. Therapeutic targeting
Most pituitary adenomas express SSTR2, but other somatostatin receptors are also found. This variant of the Somatostatin receptor was found with the use of immunohistochemistry. References
External links
Somatostatin+Receptor at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) 
Can vaginal pH be measured from the wet mount slide? [SEP] This test, called the whiff test, is performed by adding a small amount of potassium hydroxide to a microscope slide containing the vaginal discharge. To control bacterial growth, the vagina is normally slightly acidic with a pH of 3.8–4.2. A swab of the discharge is put onto litmus paper to check its acidity. The healthy vagina of a woman of child-bearing age is acidic, with a pH normally ranging between 3.8 and 4.5. Effects of aging and childbirth
Age and hormone levels significantly correlate with the pH of the vagina. Average vaginal pH is 7.0 in pre-pubertal girls. However, it is common practice to use the term "pH" for both types of measurement. Testing of pH via pH meters (pH-metry) is used in many applications ranging from laboratory experimentation to quality control. 
Does Molecular Genotype Provide Useful Information in the Management of Radioiodine Refractory Thyroid Cancers? [SEP] The genotype of an organism is its complete set of genetic material. Genotype can also be used to refer to the alleles or variants an individual carries in a particular gene or genetic location. Genotype and phenotype are not always directly correlated. In the example above, the three genotypes would be CC, CT and TT. Genotyping
Genotyping refers to the method used to determine an individual's genotype. There are a variety of techniques that can be used to assess genotype. Genotyping is important in research  of genes and gene variants associated with disease. That is, only a small fraction of an individual’s genotype is determined, such as with (epi)GBS (Genotyping by sequencing) or RADseq. 
Screening for gestational diabetes mellitus: are the criteria proposed by the international association of the Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Groups cost-effective? [SEP] Classification
Gestational diabetes is formally defined as "any degree of glucose intolerance with onset or first recognition during pregnancy". Routine screening of women with a glucose challenge test may find more women with gestational diabetes than only screening women with risk factors. The American Diabetes Association and the Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of Canada recommend routine screening unless the woman is low risk (this means the woman must be younger than 25 years and have a body mass index less than 27, with no personal, ethnic or family risk factors) The Canadian Diabetes Association and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists recommend universal screening. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force found there is insufficient evidence to recommend for or against routine screening, and a 2017 a Cochrane review found that there is not evidence to determine which screening method is best for women and their babies.Some pregnant women and careproviders choose to forgo routine screening due to the absence of risk factors, however this is not advised due to the large proportion of women who develop gestational diabetes despite having no risk factors present and the dangers to the mother and baby if gestational diabetes remains untreated. These were recommended by WHO 2013.According to these gestational diabetes mellitus should be diagnosed at any time in pregnancy if one of the following criteria are met, using a 75 g glucose OGTT:

Fasting blood glucose level ≥92 mg/dL (5.1 mmol/L)
1 hour blood glucose level ≥180 mg/dL (10 mmol/L)
2 hour blood glucose level ≥153 mg/dL (8.5 mmol/L)

Urinary glucose testing
Women with GDM may have high glucose levels in their urine (glucosuria). Diet and physical activity interventions designed to prevent excessive gestational weight gain reduce the rates of gestational diabetes. A large case-control study found that gestational diabetes was linked with a limited group of birth defects, and that this association was generally limited to women with a higher body mass index (≥ 25 kg/m2). References
External links

IDF Diabetes Atlas
International Diabetes Federation
National Institute of Child Health and Human Development – Am I at Risk for Gestational Diabetes? 
Are higher rates of depression in women accounted for by differential symptom reporting? [SEP] Lesbian women have a higher risk of depression because they are more likely to have been treated for depression and to have attempted or contemplated suicide than heterosexual women. Violence against women is a chronic stressor, so depression may occur when someone is no longer able to respond to the violence. Women from Europe reported higher scores of anhedonia, self-blaming, and anxiety, while women from the USA disclosed more severe insomnia, depressive feelings, and thoughts of self-harming. Among individuals reporting two or more races, the US prevalence is highest.Major depression is about twice as common in women as in men, although it is unclear why this is so, and whether factors unaccounted for are contributing to this. Patients with fibromyalgia are five times more likely to have major depression than the general population.Fibromyalgia and numerous chronic pain conditions frequently coexist. Dissociative disorders in general have a prevalence of 12.0%–13.8% for psychiatric outpatients.As of 2012, DID was diagnosed 5 to 9 times more common in women than men during young adulthood, although this may have been due to selection bias as men meeting DID diagnostic criteria were suspected to end up in the criminal justice system rather than hospitals. It is more common in women than men.Symptoms of trauma-related mental disorders have been documented since at least the time of the ancient Greeks. Ranking the countries by the male-only or female-only rates produces much the same result, but with less meaningfulness, as the score range in the single-sex rankings is much-reduced (4 for women, 3 for men, as compared with 14 for the overall score range), suggesting that the differences between female and male rates, within each country, is what drives the distinctions between the countries.As of 2017, the cross-national lifetime prevalence of PTSD was 3.9%, based on a survey were 5.6% had been exposed to trauma. 
Follow-up of patients with new cardiovascular implantable electronic devices: are experts' recommendations implemented in routine clinical practice? [SEP] Wearables, smartphones, and internet-based technologies have also shown the ability to monitor patients' cardiac data points, expanding the amount of data and the various settings AI models can use and potentially enabling earlier detection of cardiac events occurring outside of the hospital. A wearable device may allow for constant monitoring of a patient and the ability to notice changes that may be less distinguishable by humans. Electronic health records
Electronic health records (EHR) are crucial to the digitalization and information spread of the healthcare industry. Regulation
While research on the use of AI in healthcare aims to validate its efficacy in improving patient outcomes before its broader adoption, its use may nonetheless introduce several new types of risk to patients and healthcare providers, such as algorithmic bias, Do not resuscitate implications, and other machine morality issues. Echocardiography has become routinely used in the diagnosis, management, and follow-up of patients with any suspected or known heart diseases. The aim of such programs is to standardize the practice of echocardiography and to ensure that practitioners have the proper training prior to practicing echocardiography which will eventually limit inter-observer variability. The purpose of accreditation is to maintain quality and consistency across echocardiography labs in the United States. There are various types of medical implantable devices that are used for this purpose. 
Does limb-salvage surgery offer patients better quality of life and functional capacity than amputation? [SEP] Limb-sparing techniques, also known as limb-saving or limb-salvage techniques, are performed in order to preserve the look and function of limbs. Limb-sparing techniques are used to preserve limbs affected by trauma, arthritis, cancers such as high-grade bone sarcomas, and vascular conditions such as diabetic foot ulcers. As the techniques for chemotherapy, radiation, and diagnostic modalities improve, there has been a trend toward limb-sparing procedures to avoid amputation, which has been associated with a lower 5-year survival rate and cost-effectiveness compared to limb salvage in the long-run. This allows patients to have two fully functional feet, as opposed to losing one leg completely to amputation. Furthermore, it provides a better position for a prosthetic limb compared to amputation. Although about 90% of patients are able to have limb-salvage surgery, complications, particularly infection, prosthetic loosening and non-union, or local tumor recurrence may cause the need for further surgery or amputation.Mifamurtide is used after a patient has had surgery to remove the tumor and together with chemotherapy to kill remaining cancer cells to reduce the risk of cancer recurrence. Surgical techniques designed to save the leg (limb-sparing procedures) do not improve the prognosis.Some current studies indicate osteoclast inhibitors such as alendronate and pamidronate may have beneficial effects on the quality of life by reducing osteolysis, thus reducing the degree of pain, as well as the risk of pathological fractures. The cancer is generally less aggressive in cats than in dogs, so amputation alone can lead to a significant survival time in many affected cats, though post-amputation chemotherapy is recommended when a high grade is confirmed on histopathology. 
Serum angiotensin-converting enzyme and frequency of severe hypoglycaemia in Type 1 diabetes: does a relationship exist? [SEP] Angiotensin-converting enzyme (EC 3.4.15.1), or ACE, is a central component of the renin–angiotensin system (RAS), which controls blood pressure by regulating the volume of fluids in the body. Influence on athletic performance
The angiotensin converting enzyme gene has more than 160 polymorphisms described as of 2018.Studies have shown that different genotypes of angiotensin converting enzyme can lead to varying influence on athletic performance.The rs1799752 I/D polymorphism consists of either an insertion (I) or absence (D) of a 287 base pair alanine sequence in intron 16 of the gene. Angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are a class of medication used primarily for the treatment of high blood pressure and heart failure. ACE inhibitors inhibit the activity of angiotensin-converting enzyme, an important component of the renin–angiotensin system which converts angiotensin I to angiotensin II, and hydrolyses bradykinin. Other causes of hypoglycemia include severe illness, sepsis, kidney failure, liver disease, hormone deficiency, tumors such as insulinomas or non-B cell tumors, inborn errors of metabolism, several medications, and alcohol. Severe disease of many organ systems can cause hypoglycemia as a secondary problem. It is estimated that type 1 diabetics experience two mild, symptomatic episodes of hypoglycemia per week. Additionally, people with type 1 diabetes have at least one severe hypoglyemic episode per year, requiring treatment assistance. 
Cervical spine fractures in geriatric blunt trauma patients with low-energy mechanism: are clinical predictors adequate? [SEP] Causes
Considerable force is needed to cause a cervical fracture. A severe, sudden twist to the neck or a severe blow to the head or neck area can cause a cervical fracture. Although high energy trauma is often associated with cervical fractures in the younger population, low energy trauma is more common in the geriatric population. In addition, indirect signs of injury by the vertebral column are incongruities of the vertebral lines, and/or increased thickness of the prevertebral space:

Classification
There are proper names for several types of cervical fractures, including:

Fracture of C1, including Jefferson fracture
Fracture of C2, including Hangman's fracture
Flexion teardrop fracture – a fracture of the anteroinferior aspect of a cervical vertebraThe AO Foundation has developed a descriptive system for cervical fractures, the AOSpine subaxial cervical spine fracture classification system. Types
Cervical fracture
Fracture of C1, including Jefferson fracture
Fracture of C2, including Hangman's fracture
Flexion teardrop fracture – a fracture of the anteroinferior aspect of a cervical vertebra
Clay-shoveler fracture – fracture through the spinous process of a vertebra occurring at any of the lower cervical or upper thoracic vertebrae
Burst fracture – in which a vertebra breaks from a high-energy axial load
Compression fracture – a collapse of a vertebra, often resulting in the form of a wedge-shape due to larger compression anteriorly
Chance fracture – compression injury to the anterior portion of a vertebral body with concomitant distraction injury to posterior elements
Holdsworth fracture – an unstable fracture dislocation of the thoracolumbar junction of the spine
Distraction is where there is a pulling apart of the vertebrae. Thoracolumbar fracture
Vertebral fractures of the thoracic vertebrae,  lumbar vertebrae or sacrum are usually associated with major trauma and can cause spinal cord injury that results in a neurological deficit. In the United States, this population accounts for 14% of all traumatic injuries, of which a majority are just mainly from falls.Trauma is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality across all age groups, however, geriatric populations are unique compared to younger counterparts in the amount of existing health issues and inherent risk of disability and death. Falls
Because falls are the most common mechanism of injury in severely injured geriatric patients, the risk factors for geriatric trauma overlap significantly with those that predispose older adults to falls. 
Do microbiological factors account for poor pregnancy outcome among unmarried pregnant women in Poland? [SEP] Unintended pregnancy has been linked to numerous poor maternal and child health outcomes, regardless of the outcome of the pregnancy. Relationship status
In the US, women who are unmarried but live with their partners (cohabiting) have a higher rate of unintended pregnancy compared with both unmarried noncohabiting women (141 vs. 36–54 per 1,000) and married women (29 per 1,000). Regardless of the outcome of the pregnancy, unintended pregnancies have significant negative impacts on individual and public health. Patients with unintended pregnancies with preexisting medical comorbidities such as diabetes or autoimmune disease may not be able to optimize control of these conditions before becoming pregnant, which is often associated with poorer outcomes during the resulting pregnancy. Unintended pregnancies preclude chance to resolve sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) before pregnancy; untreated STDs maybe be associated with premature delivery or later infection of the newborn. Relationship stress
Women with unintended pregnancy are at increased risk of physical violence during pregnancy and report feeling greater relationship instability. Decreased bonding with infant
Unintended pregnancies have been associated with lower mother–child relationship quality. Poorer long-term developmental outcomes
Children born of unintended pregnancies are less likely to succeed in school, with significantly lower test scores, more likely to live in poverty and need public assistance, and more likely to have delinquent and criminal behavior. 
Should all patients be optimized to the same preoperative hemoglobin level to avoid transfusion in primary knee arthroplasty? [SEP] Before the surgery is performed, pre-operative tests are done: usually a complete blood count, electrolytes, APTT and PT to measure blood clotting, chest X-rays, ECG, and blood cross-matching for possible transfusion. About a month before the surgery, the patient may be prescribed supplemental iron to boost the hemoglobin in their blood system. Currently there is insufficient quality evidence to support the use of pre-operative physiotherapy in older adults undergoing total knee arthroplasty.Preoperative education is currently an important part of patient care. Tourniquet use
The current body of evidence suggests if a tourniquet is used in knee replacement surgery, it probably increases the risk of severe side effects and postoperative pain. Deep vein thrombosis
According to the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons (AAOS), deep vein thrombosis in the leg is "the most common complication of knee replacement surgery... prevention... may include periodic elevation of patient's legs, lower leg exercises to increase circulation, support stockings and medication to thin your blood." Promotion and execution of early ambulation on patients reduce the complications, as well as decrease length of stay and costs associated with further hospitalization.Multiple rehabilitation protocols may be used for recovery of total knee arthroplasty. Frequency
With 718,000 hospitalizations, knee arthroplasty accounted for 4.6% of all United States operating room procedures in 2011—making it one of the most common procedures performed during hospital stays. Knee arthroplasty was not among the top five most frequently performed OR procedures for stays paid by Medicaid or for uninsured stays.By 2030, the demand for primary total knee arthroplasty is projected to increase to 3.48 million surgeries performed annually in the U.S.

Fall risk after total knee arthroplasty
With osteoarthritis (OA) being the number one reason for total knee arthoplasty (TKA) surgery, it is important to understand that balance deficits significantly impact the quality of daily living in patients with knee OA and are also linked to greater risk of falling and poor mobility. 
Is there any relation between cervical cord plaques and discopathy in patients with multiple sclerosis? [SEP] Associated conditions
The sign suggests a lesion or compression of the upper cervical spinal cord or lower brainstem—usually dorsal columns of the cervical cord or caudal medulla.Although often considered a classic finding in multiple sclerosis, it can be caused by a number of conditions, including transverse myelitis, Behçet disease, osteogenesis imperfecta, trauma, radiation myelopathy, vitamin B12 deficiency (subacute combined degeneration), compression of the spinal cord in the neck from any cause such as cervical spondylosis, disc herniation, tumor, and Arnold–Chiari malformation. Multiple sclerosis (MS) is the most common demyelinating disease, in which the insulating covers of nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord are damaged. Evidence for a virus as a cause include the presence of oligoclonal bands in the brain and cerebrospinal fluid of most people with MS, the association of several viruses with human demyelinating encephalomyelitis, and the occurrence of demyelination in animals caused by some viral infections.Epstein-Barr herpes virus (EBV) can cause infectious mononucleosis and infects about 95% of adults. Further research on CVS as a biomarker for MS is ongoing.Brain atrophy is seen as an indicator of MS.Testing of cerebrospinal fluid obtained from a lumbar puncture can provide evidence of chronic inflammation in the central nervous system. Infectious diseases that may look similar to multiple sclerosis include HIV, Lyme disease, and Syphilis. These antibodies are abundant in approximately 20–25% of multiple sclerosis patients and worsen the autoimmune demyelination which leads consequently to an pathophysiologocal exacerbation of the disease. These antibodies are more related to the peripheral nervous demyelination, but they were also found in chronic progressive PPMS and combined central and peripheral demyelination (CCPD, which is considered another atypical MS presentation).In addition to the significance of auto-antibodies in MS, four different patterns of demyelination have been reported, opening the door to consider MS as a heterogeneous disease. Subjects with tumefactive multiple sclerosis display elevated levels of choline (Cho)/creatine ratio and increased lactate which is associated with demylinating diseases. 
Is the processing of affective prosody influenced by spatial attention? [SEP] Prosody
Right hemisphere damage can lead to aprosodia—the inability to produce or comprehend emotional prosody of language. Emotional prosody is typically conveyed and interpreted through changes in pitch, rhythm, or loudness (Leon et al., 2005). revealed statistically significant gains in the production of emotional prosody following treatment. The spatial cuing task asks participants to focus on a point located between two rectangles at which point a cue is presented, either in the form of one of the rectangles lighting up or some emotional stimuli appearing within one of the rectangles and this cue either directs attention toward or away from the actual location of the target stimuli. It is now accepted that the right hemisphere plays an important role in the processing of suprasegmental acoustic features like prosody, which is "the rhythmic and melodic variations in speech". There are two types of prosodic information: emotional prosody (right hemisphere), which is the emotional content of the speech, and linguistic prosody (left hemisphere), the syntactic and thematic structure of the speech.Most areas of speech processing develop in the second year of life in the dominant half (hemisphere) of the brain, which often (though not necessarily) corresponds to the opposite of the dominant hand. Ardila, A., Bernal, B. and Rosselli, M. "How localized are language brain areas? Pitch processing normally depends on the cognitive mechanisms that are usually used to process spatial representations.Those with congenital amusia show impaired performance on discrimination, identification and imitation of sentences with intonational differences in pitch direction in their final word. 
Is there a role for leukocyte and CRP measurements in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis in the elderly? [SEP] Appendicitis is inflammation of the appendix. Signs and symptoms
The presentation of acute appendicitis includes acute abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and fever. Blood and urine test
While there is no laboratory test specific for appendicitis, a complete blood count (CBC) is done to check for signs of infection. Due to its low sensitivity and specificity, on its own, WBC is not seen as a good indicator of appendicitis.A urinalysis generally does not show infection, but it is important for determining pregnancy status, especially the possibility of an ectopic pregnancy in women of childbearing age. Ultrasound
Abdominal ultrasonography, preferably with doppler sonography, is useful to detect appendicitis, especially in children. Scoring systems
Several scoring systems have been developed to try to identify people who are likely to have appendicitis. The possibility of peritonitis is the reason why acute appendicitis warrants rapid evaluation and treatment. Appendicitis is one of the most frequent diagnoses for emergency department visits resulting in hospitalization among children ages 5–17 years in the United States.Adults presenting to the emergency department with a known family history of appendicitis are more likely to have this disease than those without. 
Are bipolar disorders underdiagnosed in patients with depressive episodes? [SEP] In addition, certain features have been shown to increase the chances that depressed patients have a bipolar disorder, including atypical symptoms of depression like hypersomnia and hyperphagia, a family history of bipolar disorder, medication-induced hypomania, recurrent or psychotic depression, antidepressant refractory depression, and early or postpartum depression. Without presenting elevated mood, these individuals are commonly misdiagnosed with major depressive disorder. One reason for misdiagnosis is BPD has symptoms that coexist (comorbidity) with other disorders such as depression, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and bipolar disorder.According to critics of the diagnosis, BPD cannot be distinguishable from  negative affectivity when subjected to regression and factor analyses. It is especially common for people to be misdiagnosed with bipolar disorder when they have borderline personality disorder or vice versa. While frequently misdiagnosed as depression, differences have been noted in rate of cerebral blood flow.CFS is underdiagnosed in more than 80% of the people who have it; at the same time, it is often misdiagnosed as depression. Neuropsychiatric
Bipolar disorder
Bipolar disorder is frequently misdiagnosed as major depression, and is thus treated with antidepressants alone which is not only not efficacious it is often contraindicated as it may exacerbate hypomania, mania, or cycling between moods. ISBN 0-471-19262-7

External links
Strategies for Reducing the Misdiagnosis of Bipolar Depression-Charles M. Bowden M.D. There is evidence that both depression and anxiety disorders are underdiagnosed and undertreated in patients with epilepsy. 
Prognosis of low-tone sudden deafness - does it inevitably progress to Meniere's disease? [SEP] Depression or anxiety that the condition will worsen or progress to Meniere's disease.As with Meniere's disease, atypical, early, or mild cases may only present some symptoms. A 2009 study from Japan found that only about 10% of their diagnosed patients with sudden low-frequency hearing loss (SLFHL) went on to develop full Meniere's disease, and about 18% with recurring SLFHL developed Meniere's disease. 30% went on to have lasting hearing difficulty, reported from a ten-year follow-up.A 2018 study from Korea found the chance of progression to Meniere's disease of all participants with SLFHL to be 9.38% with an average progression time of 1.7±1.4 years, but when limited to patients with recurring symptoms "it was confirmed that about half (46.88%) of them progressed to Meniere's disease." Ménière's disease is characterized by sudden attacks of vertigo, lasting minutes to hours preceded by tinnitus, aural fullness, and fluctuating hearing loss. Sudden sensorineural hearing loss
Sudden sensorineural hearing loss (SSHL or SSNHL), commonly known as sudden deafness, occurs as an unexplained, rapid loss of hearing—usually in one ear—either at once or over several days. Depression or anxiety that the condition will worsen or progress to Meniere's disease.As with Meniere's disease, atypical, early, or mild cases may only present some symptoms. A 2009 study from Japan found that only about 10% of their diagnosed patients with sudden low-frequency hearing loss (SLFHL) went on to develop full Meniere's disease, and about 18% with recurring SLFHL developed Meniere's disease. 30% went on to have lasting hearing difficulty, reported from a ten-year follow-up.A 2018 study from Korea found the chance of progression to Meniere's disease of all participants with SLFHL to be 9.38% with an average progression time of 1.7±1.4 years, but when limited to patients with recurring symptoms "it was confirmed that about half (46.88%) of them progressed to Meniere's disease." 
Can pictorial warning labels on cigarette packages address smoking-related health disparities? [SEP] E-cigarette packages and advertisements require health warnings under US law, stating "WARNING: This product contains nicotine. E-cigarette advertisements with warnings could strengthen e-cigarette harm perceptions, and lower the likelihood of buying e-cigarettes. Public Health Consequences of E-Cigarettes (PDF). Explicit claims also have the disadvantage that they remind smokers of the health harms of the product. "Harm reduction" advertising
Some tobacco companies have sponsored ads that claim to discourage teen smoking. Gallery
See also
Advertising to children
Cigarette packets in Australia
Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps
Foundation for a Smoke-Free World
Framework Convention on Tobacco Control
History of nicotine marketing
Jeff Wigand – former tobacco company executive and whistleblower
Philip Morris v. Uruguay
Plain tobacco packaging
Tobacco marketing and African Americans
Tobacco packaging warning messages
Torches of Freedom
Tobacco usage in sport
Smoking ban

References
Further reading


== External links == Public Health Consequences of E-Cigarettes (PDF). "Tobacco Harm Reduction and Nicotine Containing Products: Research Priorities and Policy Directions". 
Does patient-prosthesis mismatch after aortic valve replacement affect survival and quality of life in elderly patients? [SEP] The survival curve of patients who undergo aortic valve replacements is slightly inferior to the curve of their corresponding healthy same-aged same sex population. Patient–prosthesis mismatch
When dealing with a small aortic annulus, the surgeon might have to insert a prosthetic aortic valve of small size, with an orifice too small in relation to the size of the patient (patient–prosthesis mismatch). "Aortic Valve Replacement with a Mechanical Cardiac Valve Prosthesis". The survival curve of patients who undergo aortic valve replacements is slightly inferior to the curve of their corresponding healthy same-aged same sex population. Patient–prosthesis mismatch
When dealing with a small aortic annulus, the surgeon might have to insert a prosthetic aortic valve of small size, with an orifice too small in relation to the size of the patient (patient–prosthesis mismatch). "Aortic Valve Replacement with a Mechanical Cardiac Valve Prosthesis". Patient–prosthesis mismatch
When dealing with a small aortic annulus, the surgeon might have to insert a prosthetic aortic valve of small size, with an orifice too small in relation to the size of the patient (patient–prosthesis mismatch). "Aortic Valve Replacement with a Mechanical Cardiac Valve Prosthesis". 
Is fear of anaphylactic shock discouraging surgeons from more widely adopting percutaneous and laparoscopic techniques in the treatment of liver hydatid cyst? [SEP] "Robotic hysterectomy" is a variant of laparoscopic surgery using special remotely controlled instruments that allow the surgeon finer control as well as three-dimensional magnified vision. Vaginal hysterectomy was shown to be superior to LAVH and some types of laparoscopic surgery causing fewer short- and long-term complications, more favorable effect on sexual experience with shorter recovery times and fewer costs.Laparoscopic surgery offers certain advantages when vaginal surgery is not possible but also has the disadvantage of significantly longer time required for the surgery.In one 2004 study conducted in the UK comparing abdominal (laparotomic) and laparoscopic techniques, laparoscopic surgery was found to cause longer operation time and a higher rate of major complications while offering much quicker healing. In another study conducted in 2014, laparoscopy was found to be "a safe alternative to laparotomy" in patients receiving total hysterectomy for endometrial cancer. Researchers concluded the procedure "offers markedly improved perioperative outcomes with a lower reoperation rate and fewer postoperative complications when the standard of care shifts from open surgery to laparoscopy in a university hospital".The abdominal technique is very often applied in difficult circumstances or when complications are expected. Given these circumstances the complication rate and time required for surgery compares very favorably with other techniques, however time required for healing is much longer.Hysterectomy by abdominal laparotomy is correlated with much higher incidence of intestinal adhesions than other techniques.Time required for completion of surgery in the eVAL trial is reported as follows:
abdominal 55.2 minutes average, range 19–155
vaginal 46.6 minutes average, range 14–168
laparoscopic (all variants) 82.5 minutes average, range 10–325 (combined data from both trial arms)Morcellation has been widely used especially in laparoscopic techniques and sometimes for the vaginal technique, but now appears to be associated with a considerable risk of spreading benign or malignant tumors. From 2010 to 2013, there were 12 percent fewer hysterectomies performed, and the types of hysterectomies were more minimally invasive in nature, reflected by a 17 percent increase in laparoscopic procedures. It also gives them more options in dealing with unexpected adverse events (e.g., uncontrolled bleeding) that may otherwise require creating a much larger incision and converting to a fully open surgical procedure.Conceptually, the laparoscopic approach is intended to minimise post-operative pain and speed up recovery times, while maintaining an enhanced visual field for surgeons. Disadvantages
While laparoscopic surgery is clearly advantageous in terms of patient outcomes, the procedure is more difficult from the surgeon's perspective when compared to conventional, open surgery:

Laparoscopic surgery requires pneumoperitoneum for adequate visualization and operative manipulation. 
Reporting and interpreting red blood cell morphology: is there discordance between clinical pathologists and clinicians? [SEP] Red blood cells (RBCs), also referred to as red cells, red blood corpuscles (in humans or other animals not having nucleus in red blood cells), haematids, erythroid cells  or erythrocytes (from Greek erythros 'red' and kytos 'hollow vessel', with -cyte translated as 'cell' in modern usage), are the most common type of blood cell and the vertebrate's principal means of delivering oxygen (O2) to the body tissues—via blood flow through the circulatory system. In humans, mature red blood cells are flexible biconcave disks. Nearly half of the blood's volume (40% to 45%) is red blood cells. Mammals
The red blood cells of mammals are typically shaped as biconcave disks: flattened and depressed in the center, with a dumbbell-shaped cross section, and a torus-shaped rim on the edge of the disk. Tests
Several blood tests involve red blood cells. This may reveal poikilocytosis, which are variations in red blood cell shape. History
The first person to describe red blood cells was the young Dutch biologist Jan Swammerdam, who had used an early microscope in 1658 to study the blood of a frog. The name "Red Blood Cells" with initial capitals indicates a standardized blood product in the United States. 
Does β-catenin have a role in pathogenesis of sebaceous cell carcinoma of the eyelid? [SEP] Mutations and overexpression of β-catenin are associated with many cancers, including hepatocellular carcinoma, colorectal carcinoma, lung cancer, malignant breast tumors, ovarian and endometrial cancer. Involvement in cancer
Beta-catenin is a proto-oncogene. Increased nuclear β-catenin levels have also been noted in basal cell carcinoma (BCC), head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), prostate cancer (CaP), pilomatrixoma (PTR) and medulloblastoma (MDB) These observations may or may not implicate a mutation in the β-catenin gene: other Wnt pathway components can also be faulty. The potential of β-catenin to change the previously epithelial phenotype of affected cells into an invasive, mesenchyme-like type contributes greatly to metastasis formation. In particular, catenins have been identified to be major players in aberrant epithelial cell layer growth associated with various types of cancer. Catenins are known to be associated with colorectal and ovarian cancer, and they have been identified in pilomatrixoma, medulloblastoma, pleomorphic adenomas, and malignant mesothelioma.While less is known about the exact mechanism of α-catenin, its presence in cancer is widely felt. β-catenin also likely plays a significant role in various forms of cancer development. The incidence of MTS in patients with sebaceous neoplasms as high as 14 to 50%.Besides mutations in mismatch repair genes, Wnt/beta-catenin signaling is known to be altered and play a significant role in the development of sebaceous tumors. 
Is ultrasound equal to X-ray in pediatric fracture diagnosis? [SEP] The usage of ultrasound to produce visual images for medicine is called medical ultrasonography or simply sonography, or echography. Uses
Sonography (ultrasonography) is widely used in medicine. It is an alternative or supplement to x-ray imaging in detecting fractures of the wrist, elbow and shoulder for patients up to 12 years (Fracture sonography). Because ultrasound imaging techniques do not employ ionizing radiation to generate images (unlike radiography, and CT scans), they are generally considered safer and are therefore more common in obstetrical imaging. X-ray
Chest X-ray is the most common method used for diagnosis, and may be used to confirm a diagnosis already made using clinical signs. Ultrasound
Pulmonary ultrasound, performed at the bedside or on the accident scene, is being explored as a diagnosis for pulmonary contusion. Conventional radiography
Conventional radiography is useful, both by itself and in conjunction with CT or MRI, for detecting complications of osteopenia (reduced bone mass; pre-osteoporosis), such as fractures; for differential diagnosis of osteopenia; or for follow-up examinations in specific clinical settings, such as soft tissue calcifications, secondary hyperparathyroidism, or osteomalacia in renal osteodystrophy. Some ultrasound devices can be used on the tibia. 
Measuring hospital mortality rates: are 30-day data enough? [SEP] Maternal mortality rate (MMRate) is the number of maternal deaths in a population divided by the number of women of reproductive age, usually expressed per 1,000 women.Lifetime risk of maternal death is a calculated prediction of a woman's risk of death after each consecutive pregnancy. While every other developed nation of the 14 analysed in 1990 shows a 2017 death rate of less than 10 deaths per every 100,000 live births, the US rate has risen to 26.4. In the US, each year about 11,300 newborns die within 24 hours of their birth, 50 per cent more first-day deaths than all other industrialised countries combined. Mortality
Several measures are commonly used to quantify mortality. Statistics
Hospitalizations
According to a statistical brief by the Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project (HCUP), there were 35.7 million hospitalizations in 2016, a significant decrease from the 38.6 million in 2011. If accurate, these figures would imply the death of an average 500 people per day, or 2.5% of Iraq's population during the period.An 11 October 2006 Washington Post article reports:

The survey was conducted between May 20 and July 10 [2006] by eight Iraqi physicians organized through Mustansiriya University in Baghdad. I think 150 is OK."A 2010 paper by Professor Michael Spagat entitled "Ethical and Data-Integrity Problems in the Second Lancet Survey of Mortality in Iraq" was published in the peer reviewed journal Defense & Peace Economics. An overview of many casualty estimates. 
Hearing loss: an unknown complication of pre-eclampsia? [SEP] Eclampsia
Eclampsia is the onset of seizures (convulsions) in a woman with pre-eclampsia. Pre-eclampsia is a disorder of pregnancy in which there is high blood pressure and either large amounts of protein in the urine or other organ dysfunction. Pre-eclampsia is routinely screened for during prenatal care. Trials using low-dose aspirin, fish oil, vitamin C and E, and calcium to reduce preeclampsia demonstrated some reduction in preterm birth only when low-dose aspirin was used. Neurological problems can include apnea of prematurity, hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE), retinopathy of prematurity (ROP), developmental disability, transient hyperammonemia, cerebral palsy, and intraventricular hemorrhage, the latter affecting 25% of babies born preterm, usually before 32 weeks of pregnancy. Up to 15% premature infants have significant hearing loss.As survival has improved, the focus of interventions directed at the newborn has shifted to reduce long-term disabilities, particularly those related to brain injury. During pregnancy their mother had pre-eclampsia, requiring birth by caesarean section. previous preeclampsia, multiple pregnancies, hypertension and diabetes). 
Is portable ultrasonography accurate in the evaluation of Schanz pin placement during extremity fracture fixation in austere environments? [SEP] An ultrasonic test of a joint can identify the existence of flaws, measure their size, and identify their location. Penis and scrotum
Scrotal ultrasonography is used in the evaluation of testicular pain, and can help identify solid masses.Ultrasound is an excellent method for the study of the penis, such as indicated in trauma, priapism, erectile dysfunction or suspected Peyronie's disease. It is an alternative or supplement to x-ray imaging in detecting fractures of the wrist, elbow and shoulder for patients up to 12 years (Fracture sonography). Weaknesses
Sonographic devices have trouble penetrating bone. As an alternative to internal fixation, wherein bone-stabilising mechanical components are surgically emplaced in the body of the patient, external fixation is used to stabilize bone tissues and soft tissues at a distance from the site of the injury. Lambotte was the first to use threaded pins, however, his device necessitated initial, open fracture reduction and then pin insertion and fixator placement. The fracture can be set in the proper anatomical configuration by adjusting the ball-and-socket joints. It is known that bearing weight through fracture by walking on it, for example, with the added support of the external fixator frame actually helps fractures to heal.The parts of an external fixator include:
Schanz pin
Connecting rods
Clamps

Indications
Stabilization of severe open fractures
Stabilization of infected nonunions
Correction of extremity malalignments and length discrepancies
Initial stabilization of soft tissue and bony disruption in poly trauma patients (damage control orthopaedics)
Closed fracture with associated severe soft tissue injuries
Severely comminuted diaphyseal and periarticular lesions
Temporary transarticular stabilization of severe soft tissue and ligamentous injuries
Pelvic ring disruptions
Certain pediatric fractures
Arthrodesis
Ligamentotaxis
Osteotomies
Open fractures that have significant soft tissue disruption (e.g., type II or III open fractures)
Soft tissue injury (e.g., burns)
Acetabular  and pelvic fractures
Severely comminuted and unstable fractures
Fractures that are associated with bony deficits
Limb-lengthening procedures
Fractures associated with infection or nonunion

Contraindications
Patient with compromised immune system
Non compliant patient who would not be able to ensure proper wire and pin care
Pre-existing internal fixation that prohibits proper wire or pin placement
Bone pathology precluding pin fixation

Complications
1.Damage to  soft-tissue  structures - Transfixing  pins or wires may injure nerves  or vessels,  or may tether ligaments and inhibit joint movement. 
Medical student education in emergency medicine: do students meet the national standards for clinical encounters of selected core conditions? [SEP] Although most contraindications apply only to manipulation of the affected region, some neurological signs indicate referral to emergency medical services; these include sudden and severe headache or neck pain unlike that previously experienced. General healthcare and emergency healthcare are stressed in training. Medical sergeants provide emergency, routine, and long-term medical care for detachment members and associated allied members and host-nation personnel. The medical-training phase includes a nationally accredited emergency medical technician paramedic program. Special Forces Medical Sergeants (18D) often work in both military and civilian Emergency Rooms in between deployments.Additionally, because one of the Special Forces soldier's primary mission is the instruction of other forces, they participate extensively in special operations training courses offered by other services and allied nations throughout their careers. The wording of this act requires that patients who present with a medical emergency must get "such treatment as may be required to stabilize the medical condition" before the patient is transferred to another facility. The National College Health Assessment has measured that 92.5% of college students reported being in "good, very good, or excellent health", however college students seem to battle serious problems with stress, depression, substance abuse, and a general lack of nutrition in comparison to other age groups and audiences. One recommendation is to improve medical student training by adding lectures, workshops, and supervised encounters with patients to teach interpersonal and communication skills as a core competency. 
A model of healing of Los Angeles grades C and D reflux oesophagitis: is there an optimal time of acid suppression for maximal healing? [SEP] Most organs will heal using a mixture of both mechanisms.Within surgery, healing is more often referred to as recovery, and postoperative recovery has historically been viewed simply as restitution of function and readiness for discharge. by enzymes or physical destruction), or its total collapse (as can happen in an infarct) cause healing to take place by repair. Genetics
Many genes play a role in healing. Tissue damaged by inflammation
After inflammation has damaged tissue (when combatting bacterial infection for example) and pro-inflammatory eicosanoids have completed their function, healing proceeds in 4 phases. Los Angeles: A History of the Future. Los Angeles A to Z: An Encyclopedia of the City and County. The Lakers, behind 38-year-old Finals MVP Abdul-Jabbar, recovered to defeat the Celtics in six games. Looking to make good on Riley's promise in the 1987–88 season, the Lakers took their seventh consecutive Pacific Division title with a 62–20 record. 
Gadofosveset-enhanced MR angiography of carotid arteries: does steady-state imaging improve accuracy of first-pass imaging? [SEP] Gadofosveset (trade names Vasovist, Ablavar) is a gadolinium-based MRI contrast agent. The manufacturer (Lantheus Medical) discontinued production in 2017 due to poor sales.Gadofosveset facilitates high-resolution magnetic resonance angiography. In anatomy, the left and right common carotid arteries (carotids) (English:  ) are arteries that supply the head and neck with oxygenated blood; they divide in the neck to form the external and internal carotid arteries. The left common carotid artery can be thought of as having two parts: a thoracic (chest) part and a cervical (neck) part. At the lower part of the neck the common carotid artery is very deeply seated, being covered by the integument, superficial fascia, the platysma muscle, deep cervical fascia, the sternocleidomastoid muscle, the sternohyoid, sternothyroid, and the omohyoid; in the upper part of its course it is more superficial, being covered merely by the integument, the superficial fascia, the platysma, deep cervical fascia, and medial margin of the sternocleidomastoid. Carotid stenosis may occur in patients with atherosclerosis. The internal carotid artery (Latin: arteria carotis interna) is an artery in the neck which supplies the anterior circulation of the brain.In human anatomy, the internal and external carotids arise from the common carotid arteries, where these bifurcate at cervical vertebrae C3 or C4. At its origin, the internal carotid artery is somewhat dilated. 
Sternal skin conductance: a reasonable surrogate for hot flash measurement? [SEP] The spark ignited hydrogen on the outer skin. Proponents of the static spark hypothesis point out that the airship's skin was not constructed in a way that allowed its charge to be distributed evenly throughout the craft. The skin was separated from the duralumin frame by non-conductive ramie cords which had been lightly covered in metal to improve conductivity but not very effectively, allowing a large difference in potential to form between the skin and the frame. Additionally, Dessler contends that the skin would also be electrically conductive in the wet and damp conditions before the fire.Critics also argue that port side witnesses on the field, as well as crew members stationed in the stern, saw a glow inside Cell 4 before any fire broke out of the skin, indicating that the fire began inside the airship or that after the hydrogen ignited, the invisible fire fed on the gas cell material. Absolutely pure water has a conductivity of 0.05501 μS/cm and a resistivity of 18.18 MΩ⋅cm at 25 °C, the most common reference temperature to which these measurements are compensated. These probes contain both conductivity and temperature sensors to enable accurate compensation for the very large temperature influence on the conductivity of pure waters. It is named after the eighteenth century French physicist Jean-Baptiste Biot (1774–1862), and gives a simple index of the ratio of the heat transfer resistances inside of and at the surface of a body. It was developed as a mathematical analog of electrical capacitance, although it also includes thermal analogs of electrical resistance as well. 
Elephant trunk in a small-calibre true lumen for chronic aortic dissection: cause of haemolytic anaemia? [SEP] Aortic dissection can quickly lead to death from insufficient blood flow to the heart or complete rupture of the aorta.AD is more common in those with a history of high blood pressure; a number of connective tissue diseases that affect blood vessel wall strength including Marfan syndrome and Ehlers–Danlos syndrome; a bicuspid aortic valve; and previous heart surgery. Myocardial infarction
Heart attack occurs in 1–2% of aortic dissections. The blood travels through the media, creating a false lumen (the true lumen is the normal conduit of blood in the aorta). Separating the false lumen from the true lumen is a layer of intimal tissue known as the intimal flap.The vast majority of aortic dissections originate with an intimal tear in either the ascending aorta (65%), the aortic arch (10%), or just distal to the ligamentum arteriosum in the descending thoracic aorta (20%).As blood flows down the false lumen, it may cause secondary tears in the intima. Since no direct connection exists between the true lumen and the false lumen in these cases, diagnosing an aortic dissection by aortography is difficult if the cause is an intramural hematoma. It includes DeBakey type III.The Stanford classification is useful as it follows clinical practice, as type A ascending aortic dissections generally require primary surgical treatment, whereas type B dissections generally are treated medically as initial treatment with surgery reserved for any complications.The main indication for surgical repair of type A dissections is the prevention of acute hemorrhagic pericardial tamponade due to leakage of blood through the dissected layers of the intrapericardial proximal aorta. These are more common with a history of Marfan syndrome or Ehlers-Danlos syndrome.The objective in the surgical management of aortic dissection is to resect (remove) the most severely damaged segments of the aorta and to obliterate the entry of blood into the false lumen (both at the initial intimal tear and any secondary tears along the vessel). "Type A Aortic Dissection". 
Does partial expander deflation exacerbate the adverse effects of radiotherapy in two-stage breast reconstruction? [SEP] Deflation may also aggravate recessions and lead to a deflationary spiral.Some economists argue that prolonged deflationary periods are related to the underlying of technological progress in an economy, because as productivity increases (TFP), the cost of goods decreases.Deflation usually happens when supply is high (when excess production occurs), when demand is low (when consumption decreases), or when the money supply decreases (sometimes in response to a contraction created from careless investment or a credit crunch) or because of a net capital outflow from the economy. Cutting factor prices fosters deflation. Consequently, deflation can be thought of as an effective increase in a loan's interest rate. Therefore, lowering rates may prove to be only a temporary palliative, aggravating an eventual debt deflation crisis. The Minister mentions the deflation as an item of data helpful to the arguments for a cut in certain benefits. In the case of Japan asset price deflation was a mean reversion or correction back to the price level that prevailed before the asset bubble. According to these economic schools, that stimulus money actually perpetuated the problem it was intended to cure.In November 2009, Japan returned to deflation, according to The Wall Street Journal. Other nonsurgical physical procedures, such as high-intensity radiation therapy, may cause burns and alterations in the skin. 
Should temperature be monitorized during kidney allograft preservation? [SEP] It is important to regularly monitor the new kidney's function by measuring serum creatinine and other labs; this should be done at least every three months.In 2018, an estimated 95,479 kidney transplants were performed worldwide, 36% of which came from living donors. Hypothermic pulsatile machine perfusion; using a machine to perfuse donor kidneys ex vivo with cold solution, rather than static cold storage, is associated with a lower incidence of delayed graft function. During procurement, organs that are being recovered are cooled and perfused with preservation solution. Organs are therefore fully drained of blood, flushed with cool preservation solution, and removed from the body. Inventing Temperature: Measurement and Scientific Progress. The ambient temperature (e.g. For infants, elderly, and those with significant health problems, a minimum 20 °C (68 °F) was recommended. In the sacrifices offered at the biblical Tabernacle and later on at the temple in Jerusalem, the priests were instructed to remove the kidneys and the adrenal gland covering the kidneys of the sheep, goat and cattle offerings, and to burn them on the altar, as the holy part of the "offering for God" never to be eaten. 
Can p53 alterations be used to predict tumour response to pre-operative chemo-radiotherapy in locally advanced rectal cancer? [SEP] p53, also known as Tumor protein P53, cellular tumor antigen p53 (UniProt name), or transformation-related protein 53 (TRP53) is a regulatory protein that is often mutated in human cancers. Suppression of p53 plays important roles in cancer stem cell phenotype, induced pluripotent stem cells and other stem cell roles and behaviors, such as blastema formation. Other
Apart from the cellular and molecular effects above, p53 has a tissue-level anticancer effect that works by inhibiting angiogenesis. Oncogenes also stimulate p53 activation, mediated by the protein p14ARF. Restoring endogenous normal p53 function holds some promise. Thus, pharmacological reactivation of p53 presents itself as a viable cancer treatment option. Recents studies show that p53 isoforms are differentially expressed in different human tissues, and the loss-of-function or gain-of-function mutations within the isoforms can cause tissue-specific cancer or provides cancer stem cell potential in different tissues. Traditionally, patient responses to new cancer treatments have been evaluated using two sets of criteria, the WHO criteria and the response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST). 
Is irritable bowel syndrome a diagnosis of exclusion? [SEP] Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a "disorder of gut-brain interaction" characterized by a group of symptoms that commonly include abdominal pain, abdominal bloating and changes in the consistency of bowel movements. Onset may be triggered by an intestinal infection ("post-infectious irritable bowel syndrome") or a stressful life event.Diagnosis is based on symptoms in the absence of worrisome features and once other potential conditions have been ruled out. Recent findings suggest that an allergy triggered peripheral immune mechanism may underlie the symptoms associated with abdominal pain in patients with irritable bowel syndrome. Diagnosis
No specific laboratory or imaging tests can diagnose irritable bowel syndrome. Conditions that may present similarly include celiac disease, bile acid malabsorption, colon cancer, and dyssynergic defecation.Ruling out parasitic infections, lactose intolerance, small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, and celiac disease is recommended before a diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome is made. Inflammatory bowel disease: IBS may be marginally associated with inflammatory bowel disease. Notes
References
External links

Irritable bowel syndrome at Curlie When symptoms are limited to gastrointestinal effects, there may be an overlap with wheat allergy, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), and (less likely) intolerance to FODMAPs.Proposed criteria for a diagnosis of NCGS suggest an improvement of gastrointestinal symptoms and extra-intestinal manifestations higher than 30% with a gluten-free diet (GFD), assessed through a rating scale, is needed to make a clinical diagnosis of NCGS. 
Is pelvic pain associated with defecatory symptoms in women with pelvic organ prolapse? [SEP] Pelvic pain and cramping. Poor appetite and early satiety when eating.Fecal incontinence to gas, liquid, solid stool, or mucus in the presence of obstructed defecation symptoms may indicate occult rectal prolapse (i.e., rectal intussusception), internal/external anal sphincter dysfunction, or descending perineum syndrome.Self-digitation (digital help) is the use of the digits (fingers) to apply pressure in order to achieve defecation. Patients with obstructed defecation appear to have impaired pelvic floor function. Symptoms are variable, depending on the severity and the location of the herniation, and may include incomplete evacuation of the rectum, heavy sensation in the pelvis, and constipation.Enterocoele may develop because of weakening pelvic floor, multiple pregnancies, hysterectomy, and long term chronic straining. The main symptoms of anal stenosis are difficult evacuation of stool, narrow stools, painful defecation, need for self-digitation to achieve defecation, bleeding from anal tears, and constipation. Pelvic pain is pain in the area of the pelvis. Pelvic inflammatory disease—pain caused by damage from infections. Chronic pelvic pain is a common condition with rate of dysmenorrhoea between 16.8 and 81%, dyspareunia between 8-21.8%, and noncyclical pain between 2.1 and 24%.According to the CDC, Chronic pelvic pain (CPP) accounted for approximately 9% of all visits to gynecologists in 2007. 
Does ibuprofen increase perioperative blood loss during hip arthroplasty? [SEP] Cardiovascular risk
Along with several other NSAIDs, chronic ibuprofen use has been found correlated with risk of progression to hypertension in women, though less than for acetaminophen, and myocardial infarction (heart attack), particularly among those chronically using higher doses. On 9 July 2015, the US FDA toughened warnings of increased heart attack and stroke risk associated with ibuprofen and related NSAIDs; the NSAID aspirin is not included in this warning. Interactions
Alcohol
Drinking alcohol when taking ibuprofen may increase the risk of stomach bleeding. Aspirin
According to the FDA, "ibuprofen can interfere with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose aspirin, potentially rendering aspirin less effective when used for cardioprotection and stroke prevention". Since ibuprofen has acidic properties and is also excreted in the urine, forced alkaline diuresis is theoretically beneficial. "The Ibuprofen Revolution". One of the most common causes of increased bleeding risk is exposure to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). NSAIDs inhibit the activation of platelets, and thereby increase the risk of bleeding. 
Laparoscopic-assisted ileocolic resections in patients with Crohn's disease: are abscesses, phlegmons, or recurrent disease contraindications? [SEP] "Perianal Crohn Disease: A New Scoring System to Evaluate and Predict Outcome of Surgical Intervention". "Redo ileocolic resection for recurrent Crohn's disease: A review and meta-analysis of surgical outcomes". "Risk factors and predictors of 30-day complications and conversion to open surgery after repeat ileocolic resection of Crohn's disease". Fecal incontinence may accompany perianal Crohn's disease. Complications
Intestinal damage
Crohn's disease can lead to several mechanical complications within the intestines, including obstruction, fistulae, and abscesses. "ACG Clinical Guideline: Management of Crohn's Disease in Adults". Between one-quarter and one-half of patients with ileo-anal pouches do have to manage occasional or chronic pouchitis.Surgery cannot cure Crohn's disease but may be needed to treat complications such as abscesses, strictures or fistulae. In Crohn's disease, surgery involves removing the worst inflamed segments of the intestine and connecting the healthy regions, but unfortunately, it does not cure Crohn's or eliminate the disease. 
Has the use of complementary and alternative medicine therapies by U.S. adults with chronic disease-related functional limitations changed from 2002 to 2007? [SEP] According to a national survey conducted in 2002, "36 percent of U.S. adults aged 18 years and over use some form of complementary and alternative medicine." Complementary Medicine: New Approaches to Good Practice. Complementary & Alternative Medicine: Legal Boundaries and Regulatory Perspectives. Committee on the Use of Complementary and Alternative Medicine by the American Public for the Board on Health Promotion and Disease Prevention, Institute of Medicine (2005). Complementary and Alternative Medicine in the United States. Sixth Report: Complementary and Alternative Medicine. "Development and classification of an operational definition of complementary and alternative medicine for the Cochrane Collaboration". Alternative Therapies in Health and Medicine. 
Is extended aortic replacement in acute type A dissection justifiable? [SEP] About 18% of individuals who present with an acute aortic dissection have a history of open-heart surgery. One such classification is based on chronicity and labels aortic dissections as hyperacute (<24 hours duration), acute (2–7 days), subacute (8–30 days), and chronic (>30 days). It includes DeBakey type III.The Stanford classification is useful as it follows clinical practice, as type A ascending aortic dissections generally require primary surgical treatment, whereas type B dissections generally are treated medically as initial treatment with surgery reserved for any complications.The main indication for surgical repair of type A dissections is the prevention of acute hemorrhagic pericardial tamponade due to leakage of blood through the dissected layers of the intrapericardial proximal aorta. For Stanford type A (ascending aortic) dissection, surgical management is superior to medical management. For uncomplicated Stanford type B (distal aortic) dissections (including abdominal aortic dissections), medical management is preferred over surgery. Complicated Stanford type B aortic dissections require surgical intervention after initiation of medical therapy.The risk of death due to aortic dissection is highest in the first few hours after the dissection begins, and decreases afterward. Surgical
Indications for the surgical treatment of aortic dissection include an acute proximal aortic dissection and an acute distal aortic dissection with one or more complications. "Type A Aortic Dissection". 
Is intensive monitoring during the first transfusion in pediatric patients necessary? [SEP] Blood transfusion is the process of transferring blood products into a person's circulation intravenously. Transfusions are used for various medical conditions to replace lost components of the blood. The advisory caution to use blood transfusion only with more severe anemia is in part due to evidence that outcomes are worsened if larger amounts are given. This enables management and investigation of any suspected transfusion related disease transmission or transfusion reaction. The first step before a transfusion is given is to type and screen the recipient's blood. Close monitoring and transfusions with platelets and plasma is indicated when necessary. Special populations
Neonate
To ensure the safety of blood transfusion to pediatric patients, hospitals are taking additional precautions to avoid infection and prefer to use specially tested pediatric blood units that are guaranteed negative for Cytomegalovirus. "Blood transfusion and the development of acute respiratory distress syndrome: more evidence that blood transfusion in the intensive care unit may not be benign". 
Effects of exercise training on heart rate and QT interval in healthy young individuals: are there gender differences? [SEP] Long-term endurance exercise that far exceeds the recommended amount of exercise (e.g., long-distance cycling or marathon running) appears to be associated with a modest increase in the risk of atrial fibrillation in middle-aged and elderly people. In both men and women, the practice of moderate exercise reduces the risk of AF progressively; intense sports may increase the risk of developing AF, as seen in athletes. Consistent moderate-intensity aerobic exercise, defined as achieving 3.0-5.9 METs of intensity, for at least 150 minutes per week may reduce the risk of developing new-onset atrial fibrillation. The effect of high-intensity interval training on reducing atrial fibrillation burden is unclear. Additionally, people should not engage in strenuous physical activity – to maintain a low heart rate and low blood pressure – for around six weeks. Heart failure
Testosterone replacement can significantly improve exercise capacity, muscle strength and reduce QT intervals in men with chronic heart failure (CHF). A similar 2012 review also found increased exercise capacity and reasoned the benefits generlizable to women. This also contributes to pulmonary hypertension, decreased exercise capacity, and arrhythmias. 
Is coeliac disease screening in risk groups justified? [SEP] In these people, the gluten-free diet is demonstrated as an effective treatment, but several studies show that about 79% of the people with coeliac disease have an incomplete recovery of the small bowel, despite a strict gluten-free diet. Rationale behind adoption of the diet
Coeliac disease
Coeliac disease (American English: celiac) (CD) is a chronic, immune-mediated, and mainly intestinal process, that appears in genetically predisposed people of all ages. Coeliac disease is not only a gastrointestinal disease, because it may affect several organs and cause an extensive variety of non-gastrointestinal symptoms, and most importantly, it may often be completely asymptomatic. Added difficulties for diagnosis are the fact that serological markers (anti-tissue transglutaminase [TG2]) are not always present, and many people with coeliac may have minor mucosal lesions, without atrophy of the intestinal villi.Coeliac disease affects approximately 1–2% of the general population all over the world and is on the increase, but most cases remain unrecognized, undiagnosed and untreated, exposing patients to the risk of long-term complications. Untreated coeliac disease may cause malabsorption, reduced quality of life, iron deficiency, osteoporosis, obstetric complications (stillbirth, intrauterine growth restriction, preterm birth, low birthweight, and small for gestational age), an increased risk of intestinal lymphomas and greater mortality. Coeliac disease is associated with some autoimmune diseases, such as diabetes mellitus type 1, thyroiditis, gluten ataxia, psoriasis, vitiligo, autoimmune hepatitis, dermatitis herpetiformis, primary sclerosing cholangitis, and more.Coeliac disease with "classic symptoms", which include gastrointestinal manifestations such as chronic diarrhea and abdominal distention, malabsorption, loss of appetite, and impaired growth, is currently the least common presentation form of the disease and affects predominantly to small children generally younger than two years of age.Coeliac disease with "non-classic symptoms" is the most common clinical type and occurs in older children (over two years old), adolescents and adults. It is characterized by milder or even absent gastrointestinal symptoms and a wide spectrum of non-intestinal manifestations that can involve any organ of the body, and very frequently may be completely asymptomatic both in children (at least in 43% of the cases) and adults.Following a lifelong gluten-free diet is the only medically-accepted treatment for people with coeliac disease. Local initiatives by clinical commissioning groups had already reduced the cost of gluten-free foods to the NHS by 39% between 2015 and 2017.Healthcare professionals recommend against undertaking a gluten-free diet as a form of self-diagnosis, because tests for coeliac disease are reliable only if the person has been consuming gluten recently. 
Analysis of the epidemiological pattern of Shigellosis in Barcelona between 1988 and 2012: Is it an emerging sexually transmitted infection? [SEP] Shigellosis is an infection of the intestines caused by Shigella bacteria. Cause
Bacteria
Shigellosis is caused by a bacterial infection with Shigella, a bacterium that is genetically similar to and was once classified as E. coli. Transmission
Shigella is transmitted through the fecal-oral route of individuals infected with the disease, whether or not they are exhibiting symptoms. Diagnosis
The diagnosis of shigellosis is made by isolating the organism from diarrheal fecal sample cultures. Shigella also causes about 580,000 cases annually among travelers and military personnel from industrialized countries.An estimated 500,000 cases of shigellosis occur annually in the United States. Shigellosis is a more common and serious condition in the developing world; fatality rates of shigellosis epidemics in developing countries can be 5–15%.Orthodox Jewish communities (OJCs) are a known risk group for shigellosis; Shigella sonnei is cyclically epidemic in these communities in Israel, with sporadic outbreaks occurring elsewhere in among these communities. Shigella species can cause shigellosis (bacillary dysentery). Shigellosis outbreaks in Asia, Latin America and Africa have had mortality rates of up to 20%. 
A patient with myelomeningocele: is untethering necessary prior to scoliosis correction? [SEP] Meningocele typically causes mild problems, with a sac of fluid present at the gap in the spine. In individuals with myelomeningocele, the unfused portion of the spinal column allows the spinal cord to protrude through an opening. Meningocele typically causes mild problems, with a sac of fluid present at the gap in the spine. In individuals with myelomeningocele, the unfused portion of the spinal column allows the spinal cord to protrude through an opening. Surgery
Surgery is usually recommended by orthopedists for curves with a high likelihood of progression (i.e., greater than 45–50° of magnitude), curves that would be cosmetically unacceptable as an adult, curves in people with spina bifida and cerebral palsy that interfere with sitting and care, and curves that affect physiological functions such as breathing.Surgery is indicated by the Society on Scoliosis Orthopaedic and Rehabilitation Treatment (SOSORT) at 45–50° and by the Scoliosis Research Society (SRS) at a Cobb angle of 45°. For non-idiopathic scoliosis (ie. Surgery
Surgery is usually recommended by orthopedists for curves with a high likelihood of progression (i.e., greater than 45 to 50° of magnitude), curves that would be cosmetically unacceptable as an adult, curves in patients with spina bifida and cerebral palsy that interfere with sitting and care, and curves that affect physiological functions such as breathing.Surgery for scoliosis is performed by a surgeon specializing in spine surgery. Surgery without fusion for growing children
Implants that aim to delay spinal fusion and to allow more spinal growth in young children is the gold standard for surgical treatment of early onset scoliosis. 
Is aerobic workload positively related to ambulatory blood pressure? [SEP] During each test, workload, heart rate, blood pressure, and respiratory gas exchange (oxygen consumption, carbon dioxide production, and minute volume) measurements were made. Blood pressure variability
24-hour, non-invasive ambulatory blood pressure (BP) monitoring allows estimates of cardiac risk factors including excessive BP variability or patterns of circadian variability known to increase risks of a cardiovascular event. As a result, "... ambulatory blood pressure predicts mortality significantly better than clinic blood pressure." References
External links
Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, Medical Journal of Australia Blood pressure is one of the vital signs—together with respiratory rate, heart rate, oxygen saturation, and body temperature—that healthcare professionals use in evaluating a patient's health. The variability in blood pressure and the better predictive value of ambulatory blood pressure measurements has led some authorities, such as the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) in the UK, to advocate for the use of ambulatory blood pressure as the preferred method for diagnosis of hypertension. Higher pressures increase heart workload and progression of unhealthy tissue growth (atheroma) that develops within the walls of arteries. Gravity affects blood pressure via hydrostatic forces (e.g., during standing), and valves in veins, breathing, and pumping from contraction of skeletal muscles also influence blood pressure, particularly in veins. 
PREVALENCE OF THE STREPTOCOCUS AGALACTIAE IN THE PREGNANT WOMAN FROM THE AUTONOMIC CITY OF MELILLA: IS CULTURE A DETERMINANT FACTOR? [SEP] Based on verbal autopsy reports from women in Nairobi slums, it was noted that most maternal deaths are directly attributed to complications such as haemorrhage, sepsis, eclampsia, or unsafe abortions. Other intermediate determinants include reproductive health behaviour, such as receiving antenatal care (a strong predictor of later use of formal, skilled care), and women's health and nutritional status. For example, despite the high MMR, many of the women are hesitant to seek delivery assistance under the care of trained birth attendants at these facilities. The Virgin Mary Monastery in the province of Giresun, Turkey. High rates of female fertility in Ghana in the 1980s exhibit, historically, that women's primary role was that of child-bearing. Health
Reproduction related cases are the cause of many health problems for women in Ghana. Abortion is the highest contributor to maternal mortality in Ghana. The rates between rural and urban areas of the country, however, vary greatly (89 and 33 per 1000 women, respectively). 
Is fluoroscopy essential for retrieval of lower ureteric stones? [SEP] Medical use
Fluoroscopy has become an important tool in medical imaging to render moving pictures during a surgery or any other procedure. Urology
In urology, fluoroscopy is used in retrograde pyelography and micturating cystourethrography to detect various abnormalities related to the urinary system. Gastrointestinal fluoroscopy
Fluoroscopy can be used to examine the digestive system using a substance that is opaque to X-rays (usually barium sulfate or gastrografin), which is introduced into the digestive system either by swallowing or as an enema. In lumbar puncture, fluoroscopy helps to guide where the needles of the spinal tap can go, and may reduce the number of attempts required for a successful lumbar puncture. Medical use
Fluoroscopy has become an important tool in medical imaging to render moving pictures during a surgery or any other procedure. Urology
In urology, fluoroscopy is used in retrograde pyelography and micturating cystourethrography to detect various abnormalities related to the urinary system. Gastrointestinal fluoroscopy
Fluoroscopy can be used to examine the digestive system using a substance that is opaque to X-rays (usually barium sulfate or gastrografin), which is introduced into the digestive system either by swallowing or as an enema. In lumbar puncture, fluoroscopy helps to guide where the needles of the spinal tap can go, and may reduce the number of attempts required for a successful lumbar puncture. 
Does the sequence of clamp application during open abdominal aortic aneurysm surgery influence distal embolisation? [SEP] Classification
Abdominal aortic aneurysms are commonly divided according to their size and symptomatology. A management protocol on the management of mycotic abdominal aortic aneurysm was recently published in the Annals of Vascular Surgery by Premnath et al. The aorta must be clamped during the repair, denying blood to the abdominal organs and sections of the spinal cord; this can cause a range of complications. Rarely, clotted blood which lines most aortic aneurysms can break off and result in an embolus.Aneurysms cannot be found on physical examination. Management
Surgery (open or endovascular) is the definitive treatment of an aortic aneurysm. A less invasive procedure (such as endovascular aneurysm repair) may be associated with fewer short-term risks to the patient (fewer peri-procedural complications) but secondary procedures may be necessary over long-term follow-up. For abdominal aneurysms, the current treatment guidelines for abdominal aortic aneurysms suggest elective surgical repair when the diameter of the aneurysm is greater than 5 cm (2 in). The aorta and its branching arteries are cross-clamped during open surgery. 
Are lower fasting plasma glucose levels at diagnosis of type 2 diabetes associated with improved outcomes? [SEP] Diagnosis of diabetes is by blood tests such as fasting plasma glucose, oral glucose tolerance test, or glycated hemoglobin (A1C).Type 2 diabetes is largely preventable by staying a normal weight, exercising regularly, and eating a healthy diet (high in fruits and vegetables and low in sugar and saturated fats). Diagnosis
The World Health Organization definition of diabetes (both type 1 and type 2) is for a single raised glucose reading with symptoms, otherwise raised values on two occasions, of either:
fasting plasma glucose ≥ 7.0 mmol/L (126 mg/dL)orwith a glucose tolerance test, two hours after the oral dose a plasma glucose ≥ 11.1 mmol/L (200 mg/dL)A random blood sugar of greater than 11.1 mmol/L (200 mg/dL) in association with typical symptoms or a glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) of ≥ 48 mmol/mol (≥ 6.5 DCCT %) is another method of diagnosing diabetes. Management
Management of type 2 diabetes focuses on lifestyle interventions, lowering other cardiovascular risk factors, and maintaining blood glucose levels in the normal range. Hypoglycemia is associated with adverse outcomes in older people with type 2 diabetes. Fasting glucose is helpful in identifying prediabetes when positive but has a risk of false negatives.World Health Organization (WHO) criteria for impaired fasting glucose differs from the American Diabetes Association (ADA) criteria, because the normal range of glucose is defined differently by each. Fasting plasma glucose levels 100 mg/dL (5.5 mmol/L) and higher have been shown to increase complication rates significantly, however, WHO opted to keep its upper limit of normal at under 110 mg/dL for fear of causing too many people to be diagnosed as having impaired fasting glucose, whereas the ADA lowered the upper limit of normal to a fasting plasma glucose under 100 mg/dL. Many people with type 2 diabetes have evidence of prediabetes (impaired fasting glucose and/or impaired glucose tolerance) before meeting the criteria for type 2 diabetes. There is broad consensus that when people with diabetes maintain tight glucose control – keeping the glucose levels in their blood within normal ranges – they experience fewer complications, such as kidney problems or eye problems. 
Do elderly patients call 911 when presented with clinical scenarios suggestive of acute stroke? [SEP] Management
A myocardial infarction requires immediate medical attention. Society and culture
Depictions of heart attacks in popular media often include collapsing or loss of consciousness which are not common symptoms; these depictions contribute to widespread misunderstanding about the symptoms of myocardial infarctions, which in turn contributes to people not getting care when they should. "Clinical Approach to Suspected Acute Myocardial Infarction". In 3–4% of cases (7.4% for those over age 65) symptoms are severe enough to cause hospitalisation. Of those who have had a stroke, 6–10% develop epilepsy. This has been attributed partly to better survival following strokes in the elderly. "What To Do If Someone Has A Seizure – First Aid Training – St John Ambulance". Audio recordings of 19 discussions about DNR status between doctors and patients in 2 US hospitals (San Francisco and Durham) in 2008-9 found that patients "mentioned risks, benefits, and outcomes of CPR," and doctors "explored preferences for short- versus long-term use of life-sustaining therapy." 
Cerebromediastinal tuberculosis in a child with a probable Say-Barber-Miller syndrome: a causative link? [SEP] Sa
Saa–Sal
Saal Bulas syndrome
Saal Greenstein syndrome
Sabinas brittle hair syndrome
Saccharopinuria
Sackey–Sakati–Aur syndrome
Sacral agenesis
Sacral defect anterior sacral meningocele
Sacral hemangiomas multiple congenital abnormalities
Sacral meningocele conotruncal heart defects
Sacral plexopathy
Sacrococcygeal dysgenesis association
Sadistic personality disorder
Saethre–Chotzen syndrome
Saito-Kuba-Tsuruta syndrome
Sakati syndrome
Salcedo syndrome
Salivary disorder
Salivary gland disorders
Salla disease
Sallis–Beighton syndrome
Salmonellosis (Salmonella infections)
Salti–Salem syndrome
Salice Disease

Sam–Say
Sammartino–Decreccio syndrome
Samson–Gardner syndrome
Samson–Viljoen syndrome
Sanderson–Fraser syndrome
Sandhaus–Ben Ami syndrome
Sandhoff disease
Sandrow–Sullivan–Steel syndrome
Sanfilippo syndrome
Santavuori disease
Santos–Mateus–Leal syndrome
SAPHO syndrome
Sarcoidosis, pulmonary
Sarcoidosis
Sarcoma, granulocytic
Sarcosinemia
Satoyoshi syndrome
Savisky syndrome
Saul–Wilkes–Stevenson syndrome
Say–Barber–Hobbs syndrome
Say–Barber–Miller syndrome
Say–Carpenter–syndrome
Say–Field–Coldwell syndrome
Say–Meyer syndrome

Sc
Sca
Scabies
Scab Face
SCAD deficiency
Scalp defects postaxial polydactyly
Scalp–ear–nipple syndrome
Scapuloiliac dysostosis
Scapuloperoneal myopathy
SCARF syndrome
Scarlet fever

Sch
Scha–Schm
Schaap–Taylor–Baraitser syndrome
Schaefer–Stein–Oshman syndrome
Schamberg's disease pigmentation disorder
Schamberg's disease
Scheie syndrome
Schereshevskij Turner
Scheuermann's disease
Schimke syndrome
Schindler disease
Schinzel–Giedion syndrome
Schinzel syndrome
Schinzel–Giedion midface retraction syndrome
Schisis association
Schistosomiasis
Schizencephaly
Schizoaffective disorder
Schizoid personality disorder
SchizophreniaSchizophrenia, genetic typesSchizophrenia intellectual disability deafness retinitis
Schizophreniform disorder
Schizotypal personality disorder
Schlegelberger–Grote syndrome
Schmidt syndrome
Schmitt Gillenwater Kelly syndrome

Schn–Schw
Schneckenbecken dysplasia
Schofer–Beetz–Bohl syndrome
Scholte–Begeer–Van Essen syndrome
Schraderman's disease
Schrander–Stumpel–Theunissen–Hulsmans syndrome
Schroer–Hammer–Mauldin syndrome
Upshaw–Schülman syndrome
Schwannoma, malignant
Schwannomatosis
Schwartz–Newark syndrome
Schwartz–Jampel syndrome
Schwartz–lelek syndrome
Schweitzer–Kemink–Malcolm syndrome

Sci–Scr
Sciatica
Scimitar syndrome
Scleredema
Scleroatonic myopathy
Sclerocornea, syndactyly, ambiguous genitalia
Scleroderma
Scleromyxedema
Sclerosing bone dysplasia mental retardation
Sclerosing cholangitis
Sclerosing lymphocytic lobulitis
Sclerosing mesenteritis
Sclerosteosis
Sclerotylosis
SCOT deficiency
Scott–Bryant–Graham syndrome
Scott syndrome
Scrapie

Scu
Scurvy

Sco
Scoliosis
Scoliosis as part of NF
Scoliosis with unilateral unsegmented bar
Scotoma

Se
Sea–Sei
Sea-blue histiocytosis
Seafood poisoning
Seasonal affective disorder
Seaver Cassidy syndrome
Sebocystomatosis
Secernentea Infections
Seckel like syndrome Majoor–Krakauer type
Seckel like syndrome type Buebel
Seckel syndrome 2
Seckel syndrome
Secondary pulmonary hypertension
Seemanova–Lesny syndrome
Seemanova syndrome type 2
Seghers syndrome
Segmental neurofibromatosis
Segmental vertebral anomalies
Seizures benign familial neonatal recessive form
Seizures mental retardation hair dysplasia

Sel–Seq
Selective mutism
Selenium poisoning
Self-defeating personality disorder
Selig–Benacerraf–Greene syndrome
Seminoma
Semmerkrot–Haraldsson–Weenaes syndrome
Sener syndrome
Sengers–Hamel–Otten syndrome
Senior syndrome
Senior–Løken syndrome
Sennetsu fever
Sensenbrenner syndrome
Sensorineural hearing loss
Sensory neuropathy type 1
Sensory processing disorder
Sensory neuropathy
Sensory radicular neuropathy recessive form
Senter syndrome
Seow–Najjar syndrome
Separation anxiety disorder
Sepsis
Septic shock
Septooptic dysplasia digital anomalies
Septo-optic dysplasia
Sequeiros–Sack syndrome

Ser–Sez
Seres–Santamaria–Arimany–Muniz syndrome
Serum sickness
Serious digitalis intoxication
Setleis syndrome
Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)
Severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID)
Severe infantile axonal neuropathy
Sex chromosome disorders
Sexual aversion disorder
Sexually transmitted disease
Sézary syndrome
Sézary's lymphoma

Sh
Sha–Shi
Shapiro syndrome
Shared psychotic disorder
Sharma–Kapoor–Ramji syndrome
Sharp syndrome
Shaver's disease
Sheehan syndrome
Shellfish poisoningShellfish poisoning, amnesic (ASP)
Shellfish poisoning, diarrheal (DSP)
Shellfish poisoning, neurotoxic (NSP)
Shellfish poisoning, paralytic (PSP)Shigellosis
Shingles
Shith–Filkins syndrome

Sho
Shock
Shokeir syndrome

Shor
Short b – Short r
Short bowel syndrome
Short broad great toe macrocranium
Short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency
Short limb dwarf lethal Colavita–Kozlowski type
Short limb dwarf lethal Mcalister–Crane type
Short limb dwarf oedema iris coloboma
Short limb dwarfism Al Gazali type
Short limbs abnormal face congenital heart disease
Short limbs subluxed knees cleft palate
Short QT syndrome
Short rib syndrome Beemer type
Short rib-polydactyly syndromeShort rib-polydactyly syndrome, Beermer type
Short rib-polydactyly syndrome, Majewski type
Short rib-polydactyly syndrome, Saldino-Noonan type
Short rib-polydactyly syndrome, Verma-Naumoff typeShort ribs craniosynostosis polysyndactyly

Short s
Short stature abnormal skin pigmentation mental retardation
Short stature Brussels type
Short stature contractures hypotonia
Short stature cranial hyperostosis hepatomegaly
Short stature deafness neutrophil dysfunction
Short stature dysmorphic face pelvic scapula dysplasia
Short stature heart defect craniofacial anomalies
Short stature hyperkaliemia acidosis
Short stature locking fingers
Short stature mental retardation eye anomalies
Short stature mental retardation eye defects
Short stature microcephaly heart defect
Short stature microcephaly seizures deafness
Short stature monodactylous ectrodactyly cleft palate
Short stature prognathism short femoral necks
Short stature Robin sequence cleft mandible hand anomalies clubfoot
Short stature talipes natal teeth
Short stature valvular heart disease
Short stature webbed neck heart disease
Short stature wormian bones dextrocardia
Short syndrome

Short t
Short tarsus absence of lower eyelashes

Shou
Shoulder and thorax deformity congenital heart disease
Shoulder girdle defect mental retardation familial

Shp–Shy
Shprintzen–Golberg craniosynostosis
Shprintzen syndrome
Shwachman syndrome
Shwachman–Bodian–Diamond syndrome
Shwartzman phenomenon
Shy–Drager syndrome

Si
Sia–Sim
Sialadenitis
Sialidosis type 1 and 3
Sialidosis
Sialuria, French type
Sickle cell anemia
Sideroblastic anemia, autosomal
Siderosis
Siegler–Brewer–Carey syndrome
Silengo–Lerone–Pelizzo syndrome
Silent sinus syndrome
Silicosiderosis
Silicosis
Sillence syndrome
Silver–Russell syndrome
Silvery hair syndrome
Simian B virus infection
Simosa–Penchaszadeh–Bustos syndrome
Simpson–Golabi–Behmel syndrome

Sin–Six
Singh–Chhaparwal–Dhanda syndrome
Single upper central incisor
Single ventricular heart
Singleton Merten syndrome
Sino-auricular heart block
Sinus cancer
Sinus histiocytosis
Sinus node disease and myopia
Sipple syndrome
Sirenomelia
Sitophobia
Sitosterolemia
Situs inversus totalis with cystic dysplasia of kidneys and pancreas
Situs inversus viscerum-cardiopathy
Situs inversus, X linked
Sixth nerve palsy

Sj–Sn
Sjögren–Larsson syndrome
Sjögren's syndrome
Skandaitis
Skeletal dysplasia brachydactyly
Skeletal dysplasia epilepsy short stature
Skeletal dysplasia orofacial anomalies
Skeletal dysplasia San diego type
Skeletal dysplasias
Skeleto cardiac syndrome with thrombocytopenia
Sketetal dysplasia coarse facies mental retardation
Skin peeling syndrome
Slavotinek Hurst syndrome
Sleepwalking disorder
Sly syndrome
Small cell lung cancer
Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth
Small intestinal fungal overgrowth
Small uncloven cell lymphoma
Smallpox
Smet–Fabry–Fryns syndrome
Smith–Fineman–Myers syndrome
Smith–Lemli-Opitz syndrome
Smith–Martin–Dodd syndrome
Smith–Magenis syndrome
Sneddon's syndrome

So
Sociophobia
Soft-tissue sarcoma
Sohval–Soffer syndrome
Somatization disorder
Somatostatinoma
Sommer–Hines syndrome
Sommer–Rathbun–Battles syndrome
Sommer–Young–Wee–Frye syndrome
Sondheimer syndrome
Sonoda syndrome
Sosby syndrome
Sotos syndrome
Southwestern Athabaskan genetic diseases

Sp
Spa
Spar
Sparse hair ptosis mental retardation

Spas
Spasm
Spasmodic dysphonia
Spasmodic torticollis

Spast
Spasti
Spastic a – Spastic d

Spastic angina with healthy coronary artery
Spastic ataxia Charlevoix–Saguenay type
Spastic diplegia infantile type
Spastic dysphoniaSpastic p

Spastic paraparesis deafness
Spastic paraparesis, infantile
Spastic paraparesis
Spastic paraplegia epilepsy mental retardation
Spastic paraplegia facial cutaneous lesions
Spastic paraplegia familial autosomal recessive form
Spastic paraplegia glaucoma precocious puberty
Spastic paraplegia mental retardation corpus callosum
Spastic paraplegia nephritis deafness
Spastic paraplegia neuropathy poikiloderma
Spastic paraplegia type 1, X-linked
Spastic paraplegia type 2, X-linked
Spastic paraplegia type 3, dominant
Spastic paraplegia type 4, dominant
Spastic paraplegia type 5A, recessive
Spastic paraplegia type 5B, recessive
Spastic paraplegia type 6, dominant
Spastic paraplegia, familial
Spastic paresis glaucoma mental retardation
Spastic quadriplegia retinitis pigmentosa mental retardation
Spasticity mental retardation
Spasticity multiple exostoses
Spatic paraparesis vitiligo premature graying

Spe–Sph
Specific phobia
Spellacy gibbs watts syndrome
Spermatogenesis arrest
Spherocytosis
Spherophakia brachymorphia syndrome
Sphingolipidosis

Spi
Spie
Spielmeyer–Vogt disease

Spin
Spina–Spine
Spina bifida
Spina bifida hypospadias
Spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy
Spinal atrophy ophthalmoplegia pyramidal syndrome
Spinal cord disorder
Spinal cord injury
Spinal cord neoplasm
Spinal dysostosis type Anhalt
Spinal muscular atrophy
Spinal muscular atrophy with congenital bone fractures
Spinal muscular atrophy with lower extremity predominance 1
Spinal muscular atrophy with lower extremity predominance 2
Spinal muscular atrophy with pontocerebellar hypoplasia
Spinal muscular atrophy with progressive myoclonic epilepsy
Spinal muscular atrophy with respiratory distress type 1
Spinal shock
Spine rigid cardiomyopathy

Spino
Spinocerebellar ataxia (multiple types)
Spinocerebellar ataxia amyotrophy deafness
Spinocerebellar ataxia dysmorphism
Spinocerebellar atrophy type 3
Spinocerebellar degeneration corneal dystrophy
Spinocerebellar degenerescence book type

Spir
Spirochetes disease
Spirurida infections

Spl
Spleen neoplasm
Splenic agenesis syndrome
Splenic flexure syndrome
Splenogonadal fusion limb defects micrognatia
Splenomegaly
Split hand deformity mandibulofacial dysostosis
Split hand split foot malformation autosomal reces
Split hand split foot mandibular hypoplasia
Split hand split foot-nystagmus syndrome
Split hand split foot X linked
Split hand urinary anomalies spina bifida
Split-hand deformity

Spo
Spon
Spona
Sponastrime dysplasia

Spond
Spondy
Spondyla–Spondyli

Spondylarthritis
Spondylarthropathies
Spondylarthropathy
SpondylitisSpondylo

Spondylo camptodactyly syndrome
Spondylo costal dysostosis dandy walker
Spondylocarpotarsal synostosis
Spondylocostal dysplasia dominant
Spondylodysplasia brachyolmia
Spondyloenchondrodysplasia
Spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia congenita, Iraqi
Spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia congenita, Strudw
Spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia joint laxity
Spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia
Spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia nephrotic syndrome
Spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia tarda progressive art
Spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia tarda
Spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia, congenital type
Spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia
Spondylohypoplasia arthrogryposis popliteal pteryg
Spondylometaphyseal dysplasia, 'corner fracture' t
Spondylometaphyseal dysplasia, Schmidt type
Spondylometaphyseal dysplasia, Sedaghatian type
Spondylometaphyseal dysplasia, X-linked
Spondylometaphyseal dysplasia
Spondyloperipheral dysplasia short ulna

Spong–Spont
Spongiform encephalopathy
Spongy degeneration of central nervous system
Spontaneous periodic hypothermia
Spontaneous pneumothorax familial type

Spor–Spot
Sporotrichosis
Spotted fever

Spr
Spranger schinzel yers syndrome
Sprengel deformity

Sq–Ss
Squamous cell carcinoma
SSADH (succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency)
SSPE (subacute sclerosing panencephalitis)

St
St. Anthony's fire

Sta–Ste
Stalker chitayat syndrome
Stampe sorensen syndrome
Staphylococcal infection
Staphylococcus aureus infection
Staphylococcus epidermidis infection
Staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome
Stargardt disease
Steatocystoma multiplex natal teeth
Steatocystoma multiplex
Steele–Richardson–Olszewski syndrome, atypical
Steinfeld syndrome
Stein–Leventhal syndrome
Sterility due to immotile flagella
Stern–Lubinsky–Durrie syndrome
Sternal cleft
Sternal cyst vascular anomalies
Sternal malformation vascular dysplasia association
Steroid dehydrogenase deficiency dental anomalies
Stevens–Johnson syndrome

Sti–Sto
Stickler syndromeStickler syndrome, type 1
Stickler syndrome, type 2
Stickler syndrome, type 3Stiff person syndrome
Stiff skin syndrome
Still's disease
Stimmler syndrome
Stimulant psychosis
Stoelinga–De Koomen–davis syndrome
Stoll–Alembik–Dott syndrome
Stoll–Alembik–Finck syndrome
Stoll–Geraudel–Chauvin syndrome
Stoll–Kieny–Dott syndrome
Stoll–Levy–Francfort syndrome
Stomach cancer, familial
Stomach cancer
Stomatitis
Storage pool platelet disease
Stormorken–Sjaastad–Langslet syndrome

Str–Stu
Strabismus
Stratton–Garcia–Young syndrome
Stratton–Parker syndrome
Streeter's dysplasia (Amniotic band syndrome)
Streptococcus, Group B
Strep throat
Striatonigral degeneration infantile
Strømme syndrome
Strongyloidiasis
Strudwick syndrome
Strumpell–Lorrain disease
Strychnine poisoning
Stuart factor deficiency, congenital
Stuccokeratosis
Sturge–Weber syndrome
Stuve–Wiedemann dysplasia
Stye
Stupidity

Su
Sub–Sum
Subacute cerebellar degeneration
Subacute sclerosing leucoencephalitis
Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis
Subaortic stenosis short stature syndrome
Subcortical laminar heterotopia
Subependymal nodular heterotopia
Subpulmonary stenosis
Subvalvular aortic stenosis
Succinate coenzyme Q reductase deficiency of
Succinic acidemia lactic acidosis congenital
Succinic acidemia
Succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency
Succinyl-CoA acetoacetate transferase deficiency
Sucrase-isomaltase deficiency
Sucrose intolerance
Sudden cardiac death
Sudden infant death syndrome
Sudden sniffing death syndrome
Sugarman syndrome
Sulfatidosis juvenile, Austin type
Sulfite and xanthine oxydase deficiency
Sulfite oxidase deficiency
Summitt syndrome

Sup–Sut
Superior mesenteric artery syndrome
Super mesozoic-dysentery complex
Supranuclear ocular palsy
Supraumbilical midabdominal raphe and facial cavernous hemangiomas
Suriphobia
Susac syndrome
Sutherland–Haan syndrome
Sutton disease II
Sutton disease II

Sw
Sweeley–Klionsky disease
Sweet syndrome
Swimmer's ear
Swyer James and McLeod Syndrome
Swyer syndrome
Sweatalitus disease
Swine influenza (H1F1)

Sy
Syb–Sym
Sybert–Smith syndrome
Sydenham's chorea
Symmetrical thalamic calcifications
Symphalangism brachydactyly craniosynostosis
Symphalangism brachydactyly
Symphalangism Cushing type
Symphalangism distal
Symphalangism familial proximal
Symphalangism short stature accessory testis
Symphalangism with multiple anomalies of hands and feet
Symphalangism, distal, with microdontia, dental pulp stones, and narrowed zygomatic arch

Syn
Sync–Syng
Syncamptodactyly scoliosis
Syncopal paroxysmal tachycardia
Syncopal tachyarythmia
Syncope
Syndactyly
Syndactyly between 4 and 5
Syndactyly cataract mental retardation
Syndactyly–Cenani–Lenz type
Syndactyly ectodermal dysplasia cleft lip palate hand foot
Syndactyly type 1 microcephaly mental retardation
Syndactyly type 2
Syndactyly type 3
Syndactyly type 5
Syndactyly-polydactyly-ear lobe syndrome
Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone
Syndrome X
Synechia
Synesthesia
Syngnathia cleft palate
Syngnathia multiple anomalies

Syno–Synp
Synostosis of talus and calcaneus short stature
Synovial cancer
Synovial osteochondromatosis
Synovial sarcoma
Synovialosarcoma
Synovitis acne pustulosis hyperostosis osteitis
Synovitis granulomatous uveitis cranial neuropathi
Synovitis
Synpolydactyly

Syp–Sys
Syphilis embryopathy
Syphilis
Syringobulbia
Syringocystadenoma papilliferum
Syringomas
Syringomas natal teeth oligodontia
Syringomelia hyperkeratosis
Syringomyelia
Systemic arterio-veinous fistula
Systemic carnitine deficiency
Systemic lupus erythematosus
Systemic mastocytosis
Systemic necrotizing angeitis
Systemic sclerosis It was similarly merged into autism spectrum disorder in the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-11) as of 2021.The exact cause of Asperger's is poorly understood. Causes
Hans Asperger described common traits among his patients' family members, especially fathers, and research supports this observation and suggests a genetic contribution to Asperger syndrome. Evidence for a genetic link is that AS tends to run in families where more family members have limited behavioral symptoms similar to AS (for example, some problems with social interaction, or with language and reading skills). There may be shared genes in which particular alleles make an individual vulnerable, and varying combinations result in differing severity and symptoms in each person with AS.A few ASD cases have been linked to exposure to teratogens (agents that cause birth defects) during the first eight weeks from conception. Mechanism
Asperger syndrome appears to result from developmental factors that affect many or all functional brain systems, as opposed to localized effects.Although the specific underpinnings of AS or factors that distinguish it from other ASDs are unknown, and no clear pathology common to individuals with AS has emerged, it is still possible that AS's mechanism is separate from other ASDs.Neuroanatomical studies and the associations with teratogens strongly suggest that the mechanism includes alteration of brain development soon after conception. and by Gillberg and Gillberg.Diagnosis is most commonly made between the ages of four and eleven. As a child, Asperger appears to have exhibited some features of the very condition named after him, such as remoteness and talent in language. 
Are virtual planning and guided surgery for head and neck reconstruction economically viable? [SEP] <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MAKO_Surgical_Corp.><https://www.linkedin.com/in/ronyabovitz/>
In 2005, a surgical technique was documented in canine and cadaveric models called the transoral robotic surgery (TORS) for the da Vinci robot surgical system as it was the only FDA-approved robot to perform head and neck surgery. Although VATS is the less expensive option, the robotic-assisted approach offers benefits such as 3D visualizations with seven degrees of freedom and improved dexterity while having equivalent perioperative outcomes. Higher expectations may explain higher rates of dissatisfaction and regret.Compared with other minimally invasive surgery approaches, robot-assisted surgery gives the surgeon better control over the surgical instruments and a better view of the surgical site. Following the CT scan, computer-assisted design technology such as interactive virtual surgical planning software, is used to design a surgical simulation. After the implementation of computer planning and surgical guides technique in microsurgical bone reconstruction, Hölzle dealt with the utilisation of meaningful clinical indications and improvement of these techniques. Mitchell, F. Hölzle: Medial approach for minimally-invasive harvesting of a deep circumflex iliac artery flap for reconstruction of the jaw using virtual surgical planning and CAD/CAM technology. (2018) 14 doi: 10.1002/rcs.1894
A. Modabber, A. Rauen, N. Ayoub, S.C. Möhlhenrich, F. Peters, K. 	Kniha, F. Hölzle, S. Raith: Evaluation of a novel algorithm for automating virtual surgical planning in mandibular reconstruction using fibula flaps. The treatment planning software enables multiple 2D images of the treatment site to be translated into a 3D 'virtual patient', within which the position of the applicators can be defined. 
Do overweight children necessarily make overweight adults? [SEP] Overweight children are also more likely to grow up to be overweight adults. Long-term effects
Children who are obese are likely to be obese as adults. One study showed that children who became obese as early as age 2 were more likely to be obese as adults. The results of a survey in the UK published in 2010 imply that children raised by their grandparents are more likely to be obese as adults than those raised by their parents. For example, one study found that approximately 80% of children who were overweight at aged 10–15 years were obese adults at age 25 years. Another study found that 25% of obese adults were overweight as children. The latter study also found that if overweight begins before 8 years of age, obesity in adulthood is likely to be more severe.A study has also found that tackling childhood obesity will not necessarily lead to eating disorders later in life.A review of secular trends in the number of overweight or obese children have come to the conclusion that prevalence had increased during the past two decades in the most industrialised countries, apart from Russia and Poland, and in several low-income countries, especially in urban areas. Today, two in three adults are considered overweight or obese, and one in six children aged 6–19 are considered obese. 
Biliary atresia: should all patients undergo a portoenterostomy? [SEP] Prognosis
Prognosis of this condition/procedure comprises the following:
If performed before 60 days of age, 80% of children achieve some bile drainage
Prognosis is progressively worse the later surgery is done
Post-operatively, cholangitis and malabsorption are common
Many children with biliary atresia will require liver transplantation despite the attempted surgical repair, although on occasion, it can be delayed until adulthood. The scan is also important to differentiate between neonatal hepatitis and biliary atresia, because an early surgical intervention in form of Kasai portoenterostomy or hepatoportoenterostomy can save the life of the baby as the chance of a successful operation after 3 months seriously decreases. Biliary atresia
Kelly conducted research on pediatric hepatic diseases with a particular focus on biliary atresia. She advocated centralizing the Kasai Portoenterostomy (a surgical procedure) for the treatment of Biliary Atresia in infants, citing its ability to greatly enhance bile drainage along with keeping serum bilirubin levels within range, thus improving the patient's quality of life.She evaluated the success ratio of kasai portoenterostomy and demonstrated a higher success and overall survival rate within children who were treated at high volume centers compared to those who were treated at low volume centers.She was also part of the team that analyzed the handling of Biliary Atresia patients in England and Wales from 1999 to 2002 in supra-regional centers. The frequency and outcome of biliary –  atresia in the UK and Ireland. Biliary atresia. This modification can be sufficient in treating neonatal complications.Biliary atresia requires urgent surgical intervention with intraoperative cholangiography. As of 2012, a patient in his fifties was known to be alive in Japan.While the procedure is not a definitive cure for biliary atresia and about half of patients require liver transplantation by the age of two, a 2015 article in The Journal of Pediatrics said that the international adoption of the procedure had "dramatically changed the outcome of biliary atresia." 
Does a history of unintended pregnancy lessen the likelihood of desire for sterilization reversal? [SEP] Forced sterilization
Compulsory or forced sterilization programs or government policy attempt to force people to undergo surgical sterilization without their freely given consent. Access to contraceptives may also yield lower fertility rates: having more children than expected constrains the individual from attaining their desired level of investment in child quantity and quality. However, while the punishment of "unplanned" pregnancy is a large fine, both forced abortion and forced sterilization can be charged with intentional assault, which is punished with up to ten years' imprisonment. This can lead to higher rates of unintended pregnancy, increased risk of HIV and other STIs, limited choice of contraceptive methods, and higher levels of unmet need for family planning. Infertility is an impaired ability to establish a clinical pregnancy and sterility is the permanent inability to establish a clinical pregnancy.The capacity for pregnancy depends on the reproductive system, its development and its variation, as well as on the condition of a person. Advancing maternal age and a woman's history of previous spontaneous abortions are the two leading factors associated with a greater risk of spontaneous abortion. Five years after seeking abortion services, women who gave birth after being denied an abortion reported worse health than women who had either first or second trimester abortions. Additional reasons include not being able or willing to raise a child conceived as a result of rape or incest. 
Does early discharge with nurse home visits affect adequacy of newborn metabolic screening? [SEP] Early postnatal hospital discharge generally refers to the postpartum hospital discharge of the mother and newborn within 48 hours. Health effects
The effects of early postnatal hospital discharge on mothers and newborns have been studied since the early 1960s when the first report on randomly controlled trial of early postnatal hospital discharge was published by Hellman and Palmer in 1962. Mothers
Breastfeeding
Mothers participating in early discharge programs which include home-based follow-up care have been found to have higher rates of breastfeeding at three months postpartum as well as exclusive breastfeeding compared to later discharged mothers. The length of postnatal hospital discharge has also been found to be a predictor of breastfeeding cessation, in which mothers discharged early were more likely to cease breastfeeding compared to mothers who were discharged at a conventional duration. Depression
Early postnatal hospital discharge may influence depression in mothers. Newborns
Morbidity
Although conclusions on the effects of early postnatal hospital discharge on morbidity of newborns remain unclear, it has been suggested that newborns discharged within 24 hours of birth are more likely to require readmission by one month compared to newborns discharged after 24 hours. It has also been suggested that there are higher rates of dehydration in early discharged newborns compared to newborns discharged later.In contrast, a systematic literature review has found no significant differences in complication rates, type and occurrence of newborn morbidities between newborns who were discharged early and those who were discharged later on. This position statement offers discharge readiness checklists for the newborn and mother, such as the need for a physical examination of the newborn during the first 24 to 72 hours after birth before they are discharged. 
Are stroke patients' reports of home blood pressure readings reliable? [SEP] Blood pressure is one of the vital signs—together with respiratory rate, heart rate, oxygen saturation, and body temperature—that healthcare professionals use in evaluating a patient's health. The variability in blood pressure and the better predictive value of ambulatory blood pressure measurements has led some authorities, such as the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) in the UK, to advocate for the use of ambulatory blood pressure as the preferred method for diagnosis of hypertension. While these findings are not perfect for diagnosing stroke, the fact that they can be evaluated relatively rapidly and easily make them very valuable in the acute setting. Misdiagnosis
Among people with ischemic strokes, misdiagnosis occurs 2 to 26% of the time. Blood pressure
High blood pressure accounts for 35–50% of stroke risk. Lowering blood pressure has been conclusively shown to prevent both ischemic and hemorrhagic strokes. Previous stroke or TIA
Keeping blood pressure below 140/90 mmHg is recommended. Validated instruments such as the Barthel scale may be used to assess the likelihood of a person who has had a stroke being able to manage at home with or without support subsequent to discharge from a hospital.Stroke rehabilitation should be started as quickly as possible and can last anywhere from a few days to over a year. 
Does increasing blood pH stimulate protein synthesis in dialysis patients? [SEP] A low-protein, low-salt diet may result in slower progression of CKD and reduction in proteinuria as well as controlling symptoms of advanced CKD to delay dialysis start. Protein supplementation
There is moderate-certainty evidence that regular consumption of oral protein-based nutritional supplements may increase serum albumin levels slightly in people with CKD, especially among those requiring hemodialysis or who are malnourished. parathyroid hormone) and; the toxic effects of dialysis itself (e.g. low blood pressure, congestive heart failure, shock, bleeding, dehydration) or by increased production of urea in the liver via a high protein diet or increased protein catabolism (e.g. Still, it is not certain that the symptoms currently associated with uremia are actually caused by excess urea, as one study showed that uremic symptoms were relieved by initiation of dialysis, even when urea was added to the dialysate to maintain the blood urea nitrogen level at approximately 90 mg per deciliter (that is, approximately 32 mmol per liter). In diabetes mellitus there is an association between increases in glycated hemoglobin levels and the appearance of proteinuria. Alteration in pH causes inhibition of lysosomal acidic proteases causing a diminished proteolysis effect. A 10- to 20-fold increase in renal clearance occurs when urine pH is increased from 5 to 8. 
Can T-cell deficiency affect spatial learning ability following toluene exposure? [SEP] [Growing evidence suggests that air pollution exposure may be associated with reduced IQ scores, impaired cognition, increased risk for psychiatric disorders such as depression and detrimental perinatal health.] The aromatic NMVOCs benzene, toluene and xylene are suspected carcinogens and may lead to leukemia with prolonged exposure. More studies have shown that air pollution exposure from traffic reduces lung function development in children and lung function may be compromised by air pollution even at low concentrations.It is believed that much like cystic fibrosis, by living in a more urban environment serious health hazards become more apparent. Prenatal exposure
Prenatal exposure to polluted air has been linked to a variety of neurodevelopmental disorders in children. Childhood indoor air pollution may negatively affect cognitive function and neurodevelopment. Researchers at the University of Rochester Medical Center found that early exposure to air pollution causes the same changes in the brain as autism and schizophrenia. It also showed that air pollution also affected short-term memory, learning ability, and impulsivity. Our findings add to the growing body of evidence that air pollution may play a role in autism, as well as in other neurodevelopmental disorders. 
Is there a relationship between homocysteine and vitiligo? [SEP] In the body, homocysteine can be recycled into methionine or converted into cysteine with the aid of vitamin B6, B9, and B12.High levels of homocysteine in the blood (hyperhomocysteinemia) is regarded as a marker of cardiovascular disease, likely working through atherogenesis, which can result in ischemic injury. Because of this "self-looping" reaction, homocysteine-containing peptides tend to cleave themselves by reactions generating oxidative stress.Homocysteine also acts as an allosteric antagonist at Dopamine D2 receptors.It has been proposed that both homocysteine and its thiolactone may have played a significant role in the appearance of life on the early Earth. Homocysteine levels
Homocysteine levels typically are higher in men than women, and increase with age.Common levels in Western populations are 10 to 12 μmol/L, and levels of 20 μmol/L are found in populations with low B-vitamin intakes or in the elderly (e.g., Rotterdam, Framingham).It is decreased with methyl folate trapping, where it is accompanied by decreased methylmalonic acid, increased folate, and a decrease in formiminoglutamic acid. This is the opposite of MTHFR C677T mutations, which result in an increase in homocysteine. Elevated homocysteine
Abnormally high levels of homocysteine in the serum, above 15 μmol/L, are a medical condition called hyperhomocysteinemia. Vitamin B12 deficiency, when coupled with high serum folate levels, has been found to increase overall homocysteine concentrations as well.Typically, hyperhomocysteinemia is managed with vitamin B6, vitamin B9, and vitamin B12 supplementation. Variations in genes that are part of the immune system or part of melanocytes have both been associated with vitiligo. Vitiligo however is a risk factor. 
Do dermatomyositis and polymyositis affect similar thigh muscles? [SEP] Dermatomyositis (DM) is a long-term inflammatory disorder which affects the skin and the muscles. Diagnosis
The diagnosis of dermatomyositis is based on five criteria, which are also used to differentially diagnose with respect to polymyositis:
Muscle weakness in both thighs or both upper arms
Using a blood test, finding higher levels of enzymes found in skeletal muscle, including creatinine kinase, aldolase, and glutamate oxaloacetate, pyruvate transaminases and lactate dehydrogenase
Using electromyography (testing of electric signalling in muscles), finding all three of: erratic, repetitive, high-frequency signals; short, low-energy signals between skeletal muscles and motor neurons that have multiple phases; and sharp activity when a needle is inserted into the muscle
Examining a muscle biopsy under a microscope and finding mononuclear white blood cells between the muscle cells, and finding abnormal muscle cell degeneration and regeneration, dying muscle cells, and muscle cells being consumed by other cells (phagocytosis)
Rashes typical of dermatomyositis, which include heliotrope rash, Gottron sign, and Gottron papulesThe fifth criterion is what differentiates dermatomyositis from polymyositis; the diagnosis is considered definite for dermatomyositis if three of items 1 through 4 are present in addition to 5, probable with any two in addition to 5, and possible if just one is present in addition to 5.Dermatomyositis is associated with autoantibodies, especially antinuclear antibodies (ANA). Around 80% of people with DM test positive for ANA and around 30% of people have myositis-specific autoantibodies which include antibodies to aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases (anti-synthetase antibodies), including antibodies against histidine—tRNA ligase (Anti-Jo1); antibodies to signal recognition particle (SRP); and anti-Mi-2 antibodies.Magnetic resonance imaging may be useful to guide muscle biopsy and to investigate involvement of internal organs; X-ray may be used to investigate joint involvement and calcifications.A given case of dermatomyositis may be classified as amyopathic dermatomyositis if only skin is affected and no muscle weakness for longer than 6 months is seen according to one 2016 review, or two years according to another. Classification
Dermatomyositis is a form of systemic connective tissue disorder, a class of diseases that often involves autoimmune dysfunction.It has also been classified as an idiopathic inflammatory myopathy, along with polymyositis, necrotizing autoimmune myositis, cancer-associated myositis, and sporadic inclusion body myositis.A form of this disorder that occurs prior to adulthood is known as juvenile dermatomyositis. Because they do not display inflammation as a primary symptom, they may in fact be similar, but different diseases to sporadic inclusion body myositis. Findings can vary even within the same muscle of an affected individual. They are dermatomyositis (DM) and polymyositis (PM) and all three illnesses were called idiopathic (of unknown origin) myositis or inflammatory myopathies.It appears that sIBM and polymyositis share some features, especially the initial sequence of immune system activation, however, polymyositis comes on over weeks or months, does not display the subsequent muscle degeneration and protein abnormalities as seen in IBM, and as well, polymyositis tends to respond well to treatments, IBM does not. Polymyositis that does not respond to treatment is likely IBM.Dermatomyositis shares a number of similar physical symptoms and histopathological traits as polymyositis, but exhibits a skin rash not seen in polymyositis or sIBM. 
Juvenile ankylosing spondylitis--is it the same disease as adult ankylosing spondylitis? [SEP] In this case, the arthritis is considered to be secondary to the main disease; these include:

Psoriasis
Reactive arthritis
Ehlers–Danlos syndrome
Iron overload
Hepatitis
Lyme disease
Sjögren's disease
Hashimoto's thyroiditis
Celiac disease
Non-celiac gluten sensitivity
Inflammatory bowel disease (including Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis)
Henoch–Schönlein purpura
Hyperimmunoglobulinemia D with recurrent fever
Sarcoidosis
Whipple's disease
TNF receptor associated periodic syndrome
Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (and many other vasculitis syndromes)
Familial Mediterranean fever
Systemic lupus erythematosus
An undifferentiated arthritis is an arthritis that does not fit into well-known clinical disease categories, possibly being an early stage of a definite rheumatic disease. Unlike rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis is most commonly a disease of the elderly. Epidemiology
Arthritis is predominantly a disease of the elderly, but children can also be affected by the disease. Axial spondyloarthritis (including ankylosing spondylitis) – this involves the spine, although an RA-like symmetrical small-joint polyarthritis may occur in the context of this condition. Primary fibromyalgia is idiopathic (cause unknown), whereas secondary fibromyalgia is in association with a known underlying disorder (such as Ankylosing spondylitis). Septic arthritis and/or acute hematogenous osteomyelitis usually occurs in children with no co-occurring health problems. The early signs and symptoms of septic arthritis in children and adolescents can be confused with limb injury. Acute exacerbation of juvenile idiopathic arthritis and transient synovitis of the hip both of which are non-septic conditions may mimic septic arthritis. 
Is Aspiration Thrombectomy Beneficial in Patients Undergoing Primary Percutaneous Coronary Intervention? [SEP] Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is a non-surgical procedure used to treat narrowing of the coronary arteries of the heart found in coronary artery disease. While balloon angioplasty is still done as a part of nearly all percutaneous coronary interventions, it is rarely the only procedure performed.Other procedures done during a percutaneous coronary intervention include:
Implantation of stents
Debulking strategies
Rotational atherectomy
Orbital atherectomy
Laser atherectomy
Brachytherapy (use of radioactive source to inhibit restenosis)
Coronary intravascular lithotripsy (IVL)The angioplasty procedure usually consists of most of the following steps and is performed by a team made up of physicians, physician assistants, nurse practitioners, nurses, radiographers, and endovascular specialists; all of whom have extensive and specialized training in these types of procedures. Thrombus aspiration
In primary PCI, angiography may demonstrate thrombus (blood clots) inside the coronary arteries. Various studies have been performed to determine whether aspirating these clots (thrombus aspiration or manual thrombectomy) is  beneficial. Usage
Percutaneous coronary angioplasty is one of the most common procedures performed during U.S. hospital stays; it accounted for 3.6% of all operating room procedures performed in 2011. 85% of patients in the medical therapy arm elected to have PCI at the end of the trial.The 2019 ISCHEMIA trial has confirmed that invasive procedures (PCI or CABG) do not reduce death or heart attacks compared to medical therapy alone for stable angina. References
External links
Q&A: Primary angioplasty, 18 Oct 2008
Percutaneous Coronary Intervention - Patient UK
Percutaneous Coronary Intervention - Medscape A pulmonary thrombectomy is an emergency surgical procedure used to remove blood clots from the pulmonary arteries. 
Can static foot posture measurements predict regional plantar surface area? [SEP] In addition to clinical applications, pedobarography continues to be used in the laboratory to understand the mechanisms governing human gait and posture.The use of pedobarographs in clinical settings is supported by researchers. According to Bowen, et al., "Pediobarograph measurements can be used to monitor and quantitatively assess the progressive changes of foot deformity over time. Static pedobarography  refers to the collection and analysis of time series pedobarographic data during postural (i.e. Gait patterns in children
Time and distance parameters of gait patterns are dependent on a child's age. Another difference includes the plantar contact area. Girls showed a smaller contact area in plantar loading patterns than boys in children with healthy feet. Foot and ankle motions: Saunders et al. showed relationship between angular displacement and motions of foot, ankle and knee. 
Can dentists recognize manipulated digital radiographs? [SEP] Forensic dentists may make their determinations by using radiographs, ante- and post-mortem photographs, and DNA analysis. The radiographs can present dental restorations as well as unique morphology for each individual. Dental patterns are unique due to the variety of treatments as well as growth for each individual, which creates a benefit in using them for human identificationPost-mortem radiographs can be taken at the scene or in a laboratory, the antemortem records are collected from dentists existing files and are used for comparison with the radiographs taken from the deceased unknown individual.It is important that dentists keep all radiographs stored properly since the original dental records will be used during this comparison. Computerized outlining of the incisal edges of the teeth in the ante-mortem and post-mortem photographs. There are methods emerging in forensic photography to analyze a digital image and determine if it has been altered. Digital imaging also benefits the medical world because it “allows the electronic transmission of images to third-party providers, referring dentists, consultants, and insurance carriers via a modem”. Interpretation of medical images is generally undertaken by a physician specialising in radiology known as a radiologist; however, this may be undertaken by any healthcare professional who is trained and certified in radiological clinical evaluation. Copyright Office Practices, "the Office will not register works produced by a machine or mere mechanical process that operates randomly or automatically without any creative input or intervention from a human author" including "Medical imaging produced by x-rays, ultrasounds, magnetic resonance imaging, or other diagnostic equipment." 
Is delayed gastric emptying following pancreaticoduodenectomy related to pylorus preservation? [SEP] Gastroparesis (gastro- from Ancient Greek γαστήρ – gaster, "stomach"; and -paresis, πάρεσις – "partial paralysis"), also called delayed gastric emptying, is a medical disorder consisting of weak muscular contractions (peristalsis) of the stomach, resulting in food and liquid remaining in the stomach for a prolonged period of time. Medically refractory gastroparesis may also be treated with a pyloromyotomy, which widens the gastric outlet by cutting the circular pylorus muscle. Surgical considerations
Pylorus-sparing pancreaticoduodenectomy
Clinical trials have failed to demonstrate significant survival benefits of total pancreatectomy, mostly because patients who submit to this operation tend to develop a particularly severe form of diabetes mellitus called brittle diabetes. In recent years the pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy (also known as Traverso-Longmire procedure/PPPD) has been gaining popularity, especially among European surgeons. The main advantage of this technique is that the pylorus, and thus normal gastric emptying, should in theory be preserved. There is conflicting data as to whether pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy is associated with increased likelihood of gastric emptying. In practice, it shows similar long-term survival as a Whipple's (pancreaticoduodenectomy + hemigastrectomy), but patients benefit from improved recovery of weight after a PPPD, so this should be performed when the tumour does not involve the stomach and the lymph nodes along the gastric curvatures are not enlarged.Compared to the standard Whipple procedure, the pylorus preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy technique is associated with shorter operation time and less intraoperative blood loss, requiring less blood transfusion. Delayed gastric emptying, normally defined as an inability to tolerate a regular diet by the end of the first post-op week and the requirement for nasogastric tube placement, occurs in approximately 17% of operations. 
Is Overexpression of Ki-67 a Prognostic Biomarker of Upper Tract Urinary Carcinoma? [SEP] High grade serous carcinoma accounts for 75% of all epithelial ovarian cancer. Conversely, negative prognostic factors – those that indicate a worse chance of survival – include rupture of the ovarian capsule during surgery, older age (over 45 years), mucinous type, stage IV, high histologic grade, clear-cell type, upper abdominal involvement, high CA-125 levels, the presence of tumor cells in the blood, and elevated cyclooxygenase-2.Expression of various mRNAs can also be prognostic for ovarian cancer. Antigen KI-67, also known as Ki-67, Ki-67 or MKI67 (Marker Of Proliferation Ki-67), is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MKI67 gene (antigen identified by monoclonal antibody Ki-67). Function
Antigen KI-67 is a nuclear protein that is associated with cellular proliferation and ribosomal RNA transcription. Use as a marker of proliferating cells
The Ki-67 protein (also known as MKI67) is a cellular marker for proliferation, and can be used in immunohistochemistry. Cellular content of Ki-67 protein markedly increases during cell progression through S phase of the cell cycle. In breast cancer Ki67 identifies a high proliferative subset of patients with ER-positive breast cancer who derive greater benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy

Antibody labeling
Ki-67 is an excellent marker to determine the growth fraction of a given cell population. The fraction of Ki-67-positive tumor cells (the Ki-67 labeling index) is often correlated with the clinical course of cancer. 
Does a delay in transfer to a rehabilitation unit for older people affect outcome after fracture of the proximal femur? [SEP] The recovery period may be 12 weeks or longer and may involve the use of mobility aids (e.g. They also have a higher risk of pneumonia after surgery.Fracturing or chipping of the polyethylene platform between the femoral and tibial components may be of concern. Fractures
Periprosthetic fractures are becoming more frequent with the aging patient population and can occur intraoperatively or postoperatively. Promotion and execution of early ambulation on patients reduce the complications, as well as decrease length of stay and costs associated with further hospitalization.Multiple rehabilitation protocols may be used for recovery of total knee arthroplasty. A Cochrane review concluded that early multidisciplinary rehabilitation programs may produce better results.Follow-up assessments are conducted to examine the need for revision surgery. Old people often have limited regenerative abilities and are more susceptible to illness and injury than younger adults. Falls: Old age increases the risk of injury from falls. In the United States, hospital discharge data from 2003 to 2011 shows that injury was the most common reason for hospitalization among patients aged 65+.Gerontologists note the lack of research regarding and the difficulty in defining frailty. 
Does the treatment of amblyopia normalise subfoveal choroidal thickness in amblyopic children? [SEP] Treatment in adulthood is usually much less effective.Amblyopia begins by the age of five. Pathophysiology
Amblyopia is a developmental problem in the brain, not any intrinsic, organic neurological problem in the eyeball (although organic problems can lead to amblyopia which can continue to exist after the organic problem has resolved by medical intervention). Diagnosis and treatment of amblyopia as early as possible is necessary to keep the vision loss to a minimum. In the UK, 90% of visual health appointments in the child concern amblyopia.Depending on the chosen criterion for diagnosis, 1–4% of the children have amblyopia. Treatment in adulthood is usually much less effective.Amblyopia begins by the age of five. Pathophysiology
Amblyopia is a developmental problem in the brain, not any intrinsic, organic neurological problem in the eyeball (although organic problems can lead to amblyopia which can continue to exist after the organic problem has resolved by medical intervention). Diagnosis and treatment of amblyopia as early as possible is necessary to keep the vision loss to a minimum. In the UK, 90% of visual health appointments in the child concern amblyopia.Depending on the chosen criterion for diagnosis, 1–4% of the children have amblyopia. 
A comparison of 500 prefilled textured saline breast implants versus 500 standard textured saline breast implants: is there a difference in deflation rates? [SEP] The follow-up report, Natrelle Saline-filled Breast Implants: a Prospective 10-year Study (2009) indicated rupture-deflation rates of 3–5 per cent at 3-years post-implantation, and 7–10 per cent rupture-deflation rates at 10-years post-implantation. In a study of his 4761 augmentation mammaplasty patients, Eisenberg reported that overfilling saline breast implants 10-13% significantly reduced the rupture-deflation rate to 1.83% at 8-years post-implantation. The study In vitro Deflation of Pre-filled Saline Breast Implants (2006) reported that the rates of deflation (filler leakage) of the pre-filled saline breast implant made it a second-choice prosthesis for corrective breast surgery. When compared to the results achieved with a silicone-gel breast implant, the saline implant can yield acceptable results, of increased breast-size, smoother hemisphere-contour, and realistic texture; yet, it is likelier to cause cosmetic problems, such as the rippling and the wrinkling of the breast-envelope skin, accelerated lower breast pole stretch, and technical problems, such as the presence of the implant being noticeable to the eye and to the touch. The follow-up report, Natrelle Saline-filled Breast Implants: a Prospective 10-year Study (2009) indicated rupture-deflation rates of 3–5 per cent at 3-years post-implantation, and 7–10 per cent rupture-deflation rates at 10-years post-implantation. In a study of his 4761 augmentation mammaplasty patients, Eisenberg reported that overfilling saline breast implants 10-13% significantly reduced the rupture-deflation rate to 1.83% at 8-years post-implantation. The study In vitro Deflation of Pre-filled Saline Breast Implants (2006) reported that the rates of deflation (filler leakage) of the pre-filled saline breast implant made it a second-choice prosthesis for corrective breast surgery. When compared to the results achieved with a silicone-gel breast implant, the saline implant can yield acceptable results, of increased breast-size, smoother hemisphere-contour, and realistic texture; yet, it is likelier to cause cosmetic problems, such as the rippling and the wrinkling of the breast-envelope skin, accelerated lower breast pole stretch, and technical problems, such as the presence of the implant being noticeable to the eye and to the touch. 
Do foreign bodies migrate through the body towards the heart? [SEP] Circulation
Due to their respiratory system's limited ability to deliver by diffusion, respiratory gases must be transported around the body. The heart is in a pericardial chamber, and blood passes through this chamber into the lumen of the heart through two pairs of ostia. During diastole, blood flows through the ostia from the pericardial sinus (the cavity containing the heart) into the heart. In addition to the pumping action of the heart, body movements also influence circulation. Respiration
Oxygen uptake occurs to an extent via simple diffusion through the entire body surface, with the coxal vesicles on the legs possibly being involved in some species. Sharp, small foreign bodies can penetrate the skin leaving little surface wound but causing internal injury and internal bleeding. Migration across the endothelium, known as transmigration, via the process of diapedesis: Chemokine gradients stimulate the adhered leukocytes to move between adjacent endothelial cells. A pathogen can gain access to the bloodstream through lymphatic drainage into the circulatory system. 
Is there a relationship between serum paraoxonase level and epicardial fat tissue thickness? [SEP] Paraoxonase 1 that is synthesized in the liver is then transported into the bloodstream, where it will associate with high-density lipoprotein (HDL). Paraoxonase 1 also plays an important role as an antioxidant in preventing the oxidation of low-density lipoproteins (LDL), a process that is directly involved in the development of atherosclerosis. Both paraoxonase 1 and 3 are bound to HDL and because of their similar properties as antioxidants, it is possible PON3 also plays a role in the prevention of LDL and HDL oxidation. Adipose tissue contains many small blood vessels. Epicardial fat
Epicardial adipose tissue (EAT) is a particular form of visceral fat deposited around the heart and found to be a metabolically active organ that generates various bioactive molecules, which might significantly affect cardiac function. Human fat tissue contains about 87% lipids.There is a constant flux of FFAs entering and leaving adipose tissue. Perivascular adipose tissue releases adipokines such as adiponectin that affect the contractile function of the vessels that they surround. Body fat percentage
Cellulite
Lipolysis
Lipodystrophy
Human fat used as pharmaceutical in traditional medicine
Obesity
Starvation
Steatosis (also called fatty change, fatty degeneration or adipose degeneration)
Stem cells
Subcutaneous fat
Bariatrics
Classification of obesity
Classification of childhood obesity
EPODE International Network, the world's largest obesity-prevention network
World Fit  A program of the United States Olympic Committee (USOC), and the United States Olympians and Paralympians Association (USOP)
Obesity and walking
Social stigma of obesity

References
Further reading
External links

Adipose tissue at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)
Adipose tissue photomicrographs 
Chemoradiation instead of surgery to treat mid and low rectal tumors: is it safe? [SEP] Chemoradiation can be concurrent  (together) or sequential (one after the other).The chemotherapy component can be or include a radiosensitizing agent.Chemoradiotherapy as neoadjuvant therapy before surgery has been shown to be effective in esophageal cancer. "Chemoradiotherapy in the treatment of cervical cancer". External links
Chemotherapy and chemoradiotherapy for rectal cancer. Now, newer minimally invasive surgical techniques through the mouth have improved outcomes; in high risk cases, this surgery is often followed by radiation and/or chemotherapy. They are associated with substantial postoperative morbidity, depending on extent of resection but compared to older techniques have shorter hospital stay, faster recovery, less pain, and less need for gastrostomy or tracheostomy, and less long-term effects, which are minimal in the absence of postoperative radiation (RT), or chemoradiation (CRT). Although chemoradiation became a treatment standard based on clinical trials and in particular, meta-analyses, a subsequent population based study of patients with OPC, indicated no advantage to the addition of chemotherapy to radiation in either HPV+OPC or HPV-OPC, and significant concerns about added toxicity.Chemotherapy also has a role, combined with radiation, in the postoperative setting (adjuvant therapy). Also the removal of a bulky tumour may allow reduced dosage to adjacent uninvolved pharyngeal structures and hence less effect on normal swallowing.The cancer outcomes (local control, regional control, and survival) for transoral resection followed by adjuvant therapy are comparable to primary chemoradiation, so that treatment decisions depend more on treatment-related morbidity, functional outcome, and quality of life. Costs are difficult to estimate but one US study, based on estimates of 25% of all OPC patients receiving surgery alone and 75% surgery followed by adjuvant therapy, using the criteria of the NCCN, found that this approach was less expensive than primary chemoradiation.Early stage disease is associated with a relatively favourable outcome, for which single modality therapy is recommended, the choice depending on tumour location and accessibility. 
Is calibration the cause of variation in liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry testosterone measurement? [SEP] In measurement technology and metrology, calibration is the comparison of measurement values delivered by a device under test with those of a calibration standard of known accuracy. Basically, the purpose of calibration is for maintaining the quality of measurement as well as to ensure the proper working of particular instrument. Multiple point calibrations are also used. There may be specific connection techniques between the standard and the device being calibrated that may influence the calibration. In analytical chemistry, a calibration curve, also known as a standard curve, is a general method for determining the concentration of a substance in an unknown sample by comparing the unknown to a set of standard samples of known concentration. Liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry (LC–MS) is an analytical chemistry technique that combines the physical separation capabilities of liquid chromatography (or HPLC) with the mass analysis capabilities of mass spectrometry (MS). Tandem mass spectrometry, also known as MS/MS or MS2, is a technique in instrumental analysis where two or more mass analyzers are coupled together using an additional reaction step to increase their abilities to analyse chemical samples. Greatly differing amounts of testosterone prenatally, at puberty, and throughout life account for a share of biological differences between males and females. 
Are complex coronary lesions more frequent in patients with diabetes mellitus? [SEP] People with diabetes are at higher risk of cerebrovascular disease. Diabetics have higher rates of cardiovascular disease and higher rates of high blood pressure. If a female has diabetes, she is more likely to develop heart disease than a male with diabetes.Coronary heart diseases are 2 to 5 times more common among middle-aged men than women. The Pathobiological Determinants of Atherosclerosis in Youth (PDAY) study demonstrated that intimal lesions appear in all the aortas and more than half of the right coronary arteries of youths aged 7–9 years.Obesity and diabetes mellitus are linked to cardiovascular disease, as are a history of chronic kidney disease and hypercholesterolaemia. In fact, cardiovascular disease is the most life-threatening of the diabetic complications and diabetics are two- to four-fold more likely to die of cardiovascular-related causes than nondiabetics. For example, in longstanding diabetes mellitus, the extent to which coronary artery disease is an independent comorbidity versus a diabetic complication is not easy to measure, because both diseases are quite multivariate and there are likely aspects of both simultaneity and consequence. More than 60% of asthmatic patients complained of concurrent arthritis, 20% complained of cardiac problems and 16% had type 2 diabetes.In patients with chronic kidney disease (renal insufficiency) the frequency of coronary heart disease is 22% higher and new coronary events 3.4 times higher compared to patients without kidney function disorders. Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
Psoriasis patients are at increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) (~1.5 odds ratio). 
Are variations in the use of carotid endarterectomy explained by population Need? [SEP] For people with symptomatic carotid stenosis, carotid endarterectomy is associated with fewer perioperative deaths or strokes than carotid artery stenting. "Carotid stenting versus endarterectomy in patients undergoing reintervention after prior carotid endarterectomy". "Carotid stenting versus endarterectomy in patients undergoing reintervention after prior carotid endarterectomy". "Accuracy of administrative data versus clinical data to evaluate carotid endarterectomy and carotid stenting." "In-hospital vs postdischarge adverse events following carotid endarterectomy." "The impact of Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services high-risk criteria on outcome after carotid endarterectomy and carotid artery stenting in the SVS Vascular Registry." "Carotid artery stenting has increased rates of postprocedure stroke, death, and resource utilization than does carotid endarterectomy in the United States, 2005". "Carotid endarterectomy was performed with lower stroke and death rates than carotid artery stenting in the United States in 2003 and 2004". 
Are there effects of intrauterine cocaine exposure on delinquency during early adolescence? [SEP] A 2012 systematic review found although it was difficult to draw firm conclusions, there was some evidence that prenatal exposure to cannabis was associated with "deficits in language, attention, areas of cognitive performance, and delinquent behavior in adolescence". Use of cocaine increases the overall risk of death and intravenous use particularly increases the risk of trauma and infectious diseases such as blood infections and HIV. Studies show that prenatal cocaine exposure (independent of other effects such as, for example, alcohol, tobacco, or physical environment) has no appreciable effect on childhood growth and development. Using sophisticated technologies, scientists are now finding that exposure to cocaine during fetal development may lead to subtle, yet significant, later deficits in some children, including deficits in some aspects of cognitive performance, information-processing, and attention to tasks—abilities that are important for success in school. There are also warnings about the threat of breastfeeding: The March of Dimes said "it is likely that cocaine will reach the baby through breast milk," and advises the following regarding cocaine use during pregnancy:

Cocaine use during pregnancy can affect a pregnant woman and her unborn baby in many ways. As a result, cocaine-exposed babies are more likely than unexposed babies to be born with low birth weight (less than 5.5 lb or 2.5 kg). Some studies suggest that cocaine-exposed babies are at increased risk of birth defects, including urinary tract defects and, possibly, heart defects. Cocaine also may cause an unborn baby to have a stroke, irreversible brain damage, or a heart attack. 
Is expert breast pathology assessment necessary for the management of ductal carcinoma in situ ? [SEP] Diagnosis
Most types of breast cancer are easy to diagnose by microscopic analysis of a sample – or biopsy – of the affected area of the breast. Also, there are types of breast cancer that require specialized lab exams. The two most commonly used screening methods, physical examination of the breasts by a healthcare provider and mammography, can offer an approximate likelihood that a lump is cancer, and may also detect some other lesions, such as a simple cyst. Together, physical examination of the breasts, mammography, and FNAC can be used to diagnose breast cancer with a good degree of accuracy. Very often the results of physical examination by a healthcare provider, mammography, and additional tests that may be performed in special circumstances (such as imaging by ultrasound or MRI) are sufficient to warrant excisional biopsy as the definitive diagnostic and primary treatment method. Carcinoma in situ is growth of low-grade cancerous or precancerous cells within a particular tissue compartment such as the mammary duct without invasion of the surrounding tissue. A clinical or self breast exam involves feeling the breast for lumps or other abnormalities. Diagnosis occurs via the same modalities as other breast cancers. 
Thoracic and thoracoabdominal aneurysm repair: is reimplantation of spinal cord arteries a waste of time? [SEP] A thoracoabdominal aortic repair is a more extensive operation than either an isolated infrarenal or thoracic aortic repair. This can lead to inadequate blood supply to the spinal cord, resulting in paraplegia, when repairing thoracic aneurysms. Techniques to limit ischemia
A number of techniques exist for maintaining perfusion to the viscera and spinal cord during open thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm repair, including left heart bypass, balloon perfusion catheter placement in the visceral arteries, selective spinal drainage and cold crystalloid renal perfusion. However, with evolving surgical strategies, identification of predictors, and use of various adjuncts over the years, the incidence of spinal cord injury after thoracic/thoracoabdominal aortic repair has declined. Staged repair of thoracic and thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms using the elephant trunk technique: a consecutive series of 215 first stage and 120 complete repairs. Thoracic and thoracoabdominal aneurysm repair: is reimplantation of spinal cord arteries a waste of time? PMID 12963181
Griepp RB, Ergin MA, Galla JD, Lansman S, Khan N, Quintana C, McCollough J, Bodian C. Looking for the artery of Adamkiewicz: a quest to minimize paraplegia after operations for aneurysms of the descending thoracic and thoracoabdominal aorta. Spinal cord injury related to aortic repair occurs due to impaired blood flow to the spine after coverage of blood vessels, important to the blood circulation of the spine, namely intercostal- and lumbar arteries. 
Is year of radical prostatectomy a predictor of outcome in prostate cancer? [SEP] In addition to the use of routinely available preoperative clinical-pathological variables such as PSA, biopsy Gleason score (ISUP grade group), and clinical T-stage, the PREDICT Prostate tool also includes the impact of patient characteristics (age and comorbidity status) and radical treatment (radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy) on survival. The UCSF Cancer of the Prostate Risk Assessment (CAPRA) score predicts both pathologic status and recurrence after surgery. More recently, it has been shown to predict metastasis and mortality following prostatectomy, radiation therapy, watchful waiting, or androgen deprivation therapy. When compared with observation and palliative treatment, radical prostatectomy probably reduces the risk of dying for any reason, including dying from prostate cancer. Between radical prostatectomy and active monitoring, the risk of dying for any reason, including from prostate cancer, is likely the same. Men with prostate cancer whose PSA level increased by more than 2.0 ng per milliliter during the year before the diagnosis of prostate cancer have a higher risk of death from prostate cancer despite undergoing radical prostatectomy. Functional outcomes and quality of life after treatment for localized prostate cancer
At 15 years after treatment (radiotherapy or surgery) of localized prostate cancer diagnosed in 1994–1995, declines in urinary, sexual, and bowel function were common. Comparative outcomes of surgery and observation for prostate cancer
The Scandinavian Prostate Cancer Group Study 4 (SPCG-4) cited previously, compared radical prostatectomy to watchful waiting among men (mean age 65 years) with localized prostate cancer diagnosed in the era prior to PSA screening. 
Does health information exchange reduce redundant imaging? [SEP] The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) of 1996 requires the adoption of national standards for electronic health care transactions and national identifiers for providers, health insurance plans, and employers. "This also made healthcare workers and systems more aware of social media as a place people were getting health information about the pandemic:"During the COVID-19 pandemic, social media use has accelerated to the point of becoming a ubiquitous part of modern healthcare systems. One key function is to exchange information, i.e. It often happens simultaneously with verbal communication and helps optimize the exchange through emphasis and illustration or by adding additional information. A closely related approach is to focus on information and see interpersonal communication as an attempt to reduce uncertainty about others and external events. They include the invention of telegraphs and telephones, which made it even easier and faster to transmit information from one location to another without the need to transport written documents. This way, information could be shared almost instantly everywhere around the globe. All of those basically boil down to the ever-increasing amount of electronic data exchanged per time unit. 
Is decompressive surgery effective for spinal cord sarcoidosis accompanied with compressive cervical myelopathy? [SEP] Complications
Complications of spinal cord injuries include pulmonary edema, respiratory failure, neurogenic shock, and paralysis below the injury site. Acute SCI merits treatment in an intensive care unit, especially injuries to the cervical spinal cord. Surgeons may opt to put traction on the spine to remove pressure from the spinal cord by putting dislocated vertebrae back into alignment, but herniation of intervertebral disks may prevent this technique from relieving pressure. The diagnosis should only be made after excluding other possible causes of similar symptoms such as tuberculosis.Sarcoidosis may resolve without any treatment within a few years. Myelopathy, that is spinal cord involvement, occurs in about 16–43% of neurosarcoidosis cases and is often associated with the poorest prognosis of the neurosarcoidosis subtypes. Whereas facial nerve palsies and acute meningitis due to sarcoidosis tend to have the most favourable prognosis, another common finding in sarcoidosis with neurological involvement is autonomic or sensory small-fiber neuropathy. Symptoms
People with sarcoidosis may have a range of symptoms that do not correspond with objective physical evidence of disease but that still decrease quality of life.Physical therapy, rehabilitation, and counseling can help avoid deconditioning,: 733  and improve social participation, psychological well-being, and activity levels. : 733 Treatments for symptomatic neuropathic pain in sarcoidosis patients is similar to that for other causes, and include antidepressants, anticonvulsants and prolonged-release opioids, however, only 30 to 60% of patients experience limited pain relief. 
Endovenous laser ablation in the treatment of small saphenous varicose veins: does site of access influence early outcomes? [SEP] People with varicose veins should now be investigated using lower limbs venous ultrasonography. The overall effectiveness compared to stripping, radiofrequency ablation treatment, or endovenous laser therapy is not clear and there is no strong evidence to suggest that CHIVA is superior to stripping, radiofrequency ablation, or endovenous laser therapy for recurrence of varicose veins. Sclerotherapy can also be performed using foamed sclerosants under ultrasound guidance to treat larger varicose veins, including the great saphenous and small saphenous veins.There is some evidence that sclerotherapy is a safe and may be an effective treatment option for improving the cosmetic appearance, reducing residual varicose veins, improving the quality of life, and reducing symptoms that may be present due to the varicose veins. Endovenous thermal ablation
There are three kinds of endovenous thermal ablation treatment possible: laser, radiofrequency, and steam.The Australian Medical Services Advisory Committee (MSAC) in 2008 determined that endovenous laser treatment/ablation (ELA) for varicose veins "appears to be more effective in the short term, and at least as effective overall, as the comparative procedure of junction ligation and vein stripping for the treatment of varicose veins." People with varicose veins should now be investigated using lower limbs venous ultrasonography. The overall effectiveness compared to stripping, radiofrequency ablation treatment, or endovenous laser therapy is not clear and there is no strong evidence to suggest that CHIVA is superior to stripping, radiofrequency ablation, or endovenous laser therapy for recurrence of varicose veins. Endovenous thermal ablation
There are three kinds of endovenous thermal ablation treatment possible: laser, radiofrequency, and steam.The Australian Medical Services Advisory Committee (MSAC) in 2008 determined that endovenous laser treatment/ablation (ELA) for varicose veins "appears to be more effective in the short term, and at least as effective overall, as the comparative procedure of junction ligation and vein stripping for the treatment of varicose veins." Clinical significance
Varicose veins
The small saphenous vein may become varicose. 
Is a pressor necessary during aortic perfusion and oxygenation therapy of cardiac arrest? [SEP] Patients at risk of ongoing ischemia undergo PCI to restore blood flow and thus oxygen delivery to the struggling heart. With cardiopulmonary bypass machine (on-pump)
The intubated patient is brought to the operating theater. Purse string sutures are placed in the aorta to prepare the insertions of the cannula into the aorta, and a catheter which temporarily arrests the heart using a solution high in potassium. Deoxygenated blood arriving to the heart from veins is forwarded to the CBP machine to get oxygenated, then delivered to the aorta to keep the rest of the body saturated. Before operation, an intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP) might be inserted to relieve some of the burden of pumping blood, effectively reducing the amount of oxygen needed by myocardium. Manual of Perioperative Care in Adult Cardiac Surgery. Some individuals may experience chest pain, shortness of breath, or nausea before cardiac arrest. The heart requires a continuous supply of oxygen to function and survive, much like any other tissue or organ of the body. 
Do people who were passive smokers during childhood have increased risk of long-term work disability? [SEP] Lung cancer: passive smoking is a risk factor for lung cancer. Passive smoking is strongly associated with an increased risk of stroke, and this increased risk is disproportionately high at low levels of exposure. Risk of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
According to a 2015 review, passive smoking may increase the risk of tuberculosis infection and accelerate the progression of the disease, but the evidence remains weak. A 2014 systematic review and meta-analysis found that passive smoking was associated with a slightly increased risk of allergic diseases among children and adolescents; the evidence for an association was weaker for adults. Skin conditions: A 2016 systematic review and meta-analysis found that passive smoking was associated with a higher rate of atopic dermatitis. Sleep disordered breathing: Most studies have found a significant association between passive smoking and sleep disordered breathing in children, but further studies are needed to determine whether this association is causal. Workers particularly at risk of exposure include those in installation repair and maintenance, construction and extraction, and transportation.Much research has come from studies of nonsmokers who are married to a smoker. The US Surgeon General, in his 2006 report, estimated that living or working in a place where smoking is permitted increases the non-smokers' risk of developing heart disease by 25–30% and lung cancer by 20–30%.Similarly, children who are exposed to environmental tobacco smoke are shown to experience a range of adverse effects and a higher risk of becoming smokers later in life. 
Is the covering of the resection margin after distal pancreatectomy advantageous? [SEP] A resection margin or surgical margin is the margin of apparently non-tumorous tissue around a tumor that has been surgically removed, called "resected", in surgical oncology. The resection is an attempt to remove a cancer tumor so that no portion of the malignant growth extends past the edges or margin of the removed tumor and surrounding tissue. : sections 5-6

Definition
Surgical margin in a surgery report defines the visible margin or free edge of "normal" tissue seen by the surgeon with the naked eye. References
Further reading
External links
Surgical Considerations: Margins The resection margin is the edge of the removed tissue; it is important that this shows free of cancerous cells on examination by a pathologist. Many other surgeons feel that since they will have to make a larger incision for specimen removal anyway, they might as well use this incision to have their hand in the operative field during the procedure to aid as a retractor, dissector, and to be able to feel differing tissue densities (palpate), as they would in open surgery. Based on numerous prospective randomized controlled trials, the approach has proven to be beneficial in reducing post-operative morbidities such as wound infections and incisional hernias (especially in morbidly obese patients), and is now deemed safe when applied to surgery for cancers such as cancer of colon. Smaller incision, which reduces pain and shortens recovery time, as well as resulting in less post-operative scarring. 
Does treatment duration affect outcome after radiotherapy for prostate cancer? [SEP] Thus, as with every form of treatment, radiation therapy is not without its side effects. If the pain continues with these two options, the doctor might recommended radiation therapy. Shorter treatment times and outpatient procedures can also help improve the efficiency of radiotherapy clinics.Brachytherapy can be used with the aim of curing the cancer in cases of small or locally advanced tumours, provided the cancer has not metastasized (spread to other parts of the body). HDR brachytherapy as a boost for prostate cancer also means that the EBRT course can be shorter than when EBRT is used alone. Patients may also feel fatigued for a short period following treatment.Brachytherapy treatment for cervical or prostate cancer can cause acute and transient urinary symptoms such as urinary retention, urinary incontinence or painful urination (dysuria). For example, urinary and digestive problems may persist as a result of brachytherapy for cervical or prostate cancer, and may require ongoing management.Brachytherapy for prostate cancer may cause erectile dysfunction in approximately 15–30% of patients. 20  Importantly, the risk of erectile dysfunction after brachytherapy is less than after radical prostatectomy.Brachytherapy for breast or skin cancer may cause scar tissue to form around the treatment area. Permanent brachytherapy is most commonly used in the treatment of prostate cancer. 
Is the urinary biomarkers assessment a non-invasive approach to tubular lesions of the solitary kidney? [SEP] However, the advances of diagnostic modalities are able to incidentally diagnose a great proportion of patients with renal lesions that may appear to be small in size and of benign state. The Bosniak classification system for cystic renal lesions classifies them into groups that are benign and those that need surgical resection, based on specific imaging features.The main imaging tests performed in order to identify renal cell carcinoma are pelvic and abdominal CT scans, ultrasound tests of the kidneys (ultrasonography), MRI scans, intravenous pyelogram (IVP) or renal angiography. Among these main diagnostic tests, other radiologic tests such as excretory urography, positron-emission tomography (PET) scanning, ultrasonography, arteriography, venography, and bone scanning can also be used to aid in the evaluation of staging renal masses and to differentiate non-malignant tumours from malignant tumours. Ultrasound
Ultrasonographic examination can be useful in evaluating questionable asymptomatic kidney tumours and cystic renal lesions if computed tomography imaging is inconclusive. Essentially, ultrasound tests can determine whether the composition of the kidney mass is mainly solid or filled with fluid.A percutaneous biopsy can be performed by a radiologist using ultrasound or computed tomography to guide sampling of the tumour for the purpose of diagnosis by pathology. In cases of known metastases, surgical resection of the kidney ("cytoreductive nephrectomy") may improve survival, as well as resection of a solitary metastatic lesion. Other non-invasive urine based tests include the CertNDx Bladder Cancer Assay, which detects FGFR3 mutation and Urine Bladder Cancer test (UBC), which is a sandwich ELISA for Cytokeratin 8/18 fragment. Biomarkers fared better when used in combination with urine cytology than when used alone. 
Is there a role for fondaparinux in perioperative bridging? [SEP] Fondaparinux (trade name Arixtra) is an anticoagulant medication chemically related to low molecular weight heparins. Medical uses
Clinically, it is used for the prevention of deep vein thrombosis in patients who have had orthopedic surgery as well as for the treatment of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism.Fondaparinux is similar to enoxaparin in reducing the risk of ischemic events at nine days, but it substantially reduces major bleeding and improves long-term mortality and morbidity.It has been investigated for use in conjunction with streptokinase. Comparison to other agents
One potential advantage of fondaparinux over LMWH or unfractionated heparin is that the risk for heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is substantially lower. Furthermore, there have been case reports of fondaparinux being used to anti-coagulate patients with established HIT as it has no affinity for PF4. Pharmacology
Mechanism of action
Fondaparinux is a synthetic pentasaccharide factor Xa inhibitor. Fondaparinux binds antithrombin and accelerates its inhibition of factor Xa. reported an effective and scalable one-pot synthesis of Fondaparinux.The sequence of monosaccharides is D-GlcNS6S-α-(1,4)-D-GlcA-β-(1,4)-D-GlcNS3,6S-α-(1,4)-L-IdoA2S-α-(1,4)-D-GlcNS6S-OMe, as shown in the following structure:

References
External links
"Fondaparinux". Perioperative nursing is a nursing specialty that works with patients who are having operative or other invasive procedures. 
Motor performance in chronic low back pain: is there an influence of pain-related cognitions? [SEP] Pain
As people age, they experience more health problems, and most health problems associated with aging carry a substantial burden of pain; therefore, between 25% and 50% of older adults experience persistent pain. Pain is often overlooked in older adults and, when screened for, is often poorly assessed, especially among those with dementia, since they become incapable of informing others of their pain. Persistent pain can lead to decreased ambulation, depressed mood, sleep disturbances, impaired appetite, and exacerbation of cognitive impairment and pain-related interference with activity is a factor contributing to falls in the elderly.Although persistent pain in people with dementia is difficult to communicate, diagnose, and treat, failure to address persistent pain has profound functional, psychosocial and quality of life implications for this vulnerable population. In chronic opioid users, such as those on Chronic Opioid Analgesic Therapy (COAT) for managing severe, chronic pain, behavioural testing has shown normal functioning on perception, cognition, coordination and behaviour in most cases. For instance, in one study, people with chronic pain who are less capable of moving around perceived given distances as further than healthy people did. Sport
Embodied cognitive perspectives can inform and impact motor skill research in the fields of sport and sport psychology. Additionally, chronic pain has been reported to significantly reduce the volume of grey matter in the brain globally, and more specifically at the prefrontal cortex and right thalamus. Similar results have been reported for phantom limb pain, chronic low back pain and carpal tunnel syndrome. 
Patient comprehension of emergency department care and instructions: are patients aware of when they do not understand? [SEP] Patients with low health literacy understand less about their medical conditions and treatments and overall report worse health status.Various interventions, such as simplifying information and illustrations, avoiding jargon, using "teach-back" methods, and encouraging patients' questions, have improved health behaviors in persons with low health literacy. Patients and consumers in general need to understand concepts that professionals often refer to in technical terms. Factors that contribute to health literacy
Many factors determine the health literacy level of health education materials or interventions: readability of the text, the patient's current state of health, language barriers between the clinician and patient, cultural appropriateness of the materials, format and style, sentence structure, use of illustrations, and numerous other factors.A study of 69,000 patients conducted in 1995 by two US hospitals found that between 26% and 60% of patients could not understand medication directions, a standard informed consent form, or materials about scheduling an appointment. Physicians and nurses are a source of patient comprehension and compliance studies. This knowledge gap arises from both patients being unable to understand information presented to them and hospitals' inadequate efforts and materials to address these literacy gaps. These populations have a higher risk of hospitalization, longer hospital stays, are less likely to comply with treatment, are more likely to make errors with medication, and are more ill when they initially seek medical care.The mismatch between a clinician's communication of content and a patient's ability to understand that content can lead to medication errors and adverse medical outcomes. Intervention
In order to be understood by patients with insufficient health literacy, health professionals must intervene to provide clear and concise information that can be more easily understood. Due to the common overestimations of health literacy levels of patients, the education of health literacy topics and training in the identification of low health literacy in patients may be able to create significant positive change in the understanding of health messages. 
Can mandibular depiction be improved by changing the thickness of double-oblique computed tomography images? [SEP] At its junction with the posterior border is the angle of the mandible, which may be either inverted or everted and is marked by rough, oblique ridges on each side, for the attachment of the masseter laterally, and the medial pterygoid muscle medially; the stylomandibular ligament is attached to the angle between these muscles. The region where the lower border meets the posterior border is the angle of the mandible, often called the gonial angle. The condyloid process is thicker than the coronoid, and consists of two portions: the mandibular condyle, and the constricted portion which supports it, the neck. The mental protuberance is more pronounced in males but can be visualized and palpated in females.Rarely, a bifid inferior alveolar nerve may be present, in which case a second mandibular foramen, more inferiorly placed, exists and can be detected by noting a doubled mandibular canal on a radiograph. It allows for divisions of the mandibular nerve and blood vessels to pass through. It allows for divisions of the mandibular nerve and blood vessels to pass through. "A study of the position of the mandibular foramen in the adult human mandible". "Statistical evaluation of the position of the mandibular foramen". 
Adjuvant radiation of stage III thymoma: is it necessary? [SEP] Adjuvant chemotherapy and radiation therapy
If the tumor can be removed surgically, people may receive adjuvant chemotherapy or radiation therapy after the operation to improve the chances of cure. the tumor has been totally excised), adjuvant therapy is of uncertain benefit. However, if the tumor tissue margins are positive, indicating that the tumor was not completely removed via surgery, then adjuvant therapy with radiation and possibly chemotherapy is generally recommended based on the available data. This may be followed by radiotherapy for those at risk of local recurrence or systemic adjuvant medical therapy for those at risk of distant metastasis. Patient with locally advanced invasive breast cancer may be offered neoadjuvant systemic therapy and evaluated for tumor response prior to surgery, radiation, and adjuvant therapy.Prophylactic treatment may be an option for those with genetic predisposition to breast cancer. This technique allows for a higher, local dose of radiation to be delivered directly to the tumor while sparing normal healthy tissue. Surgical treatments are typically followed by adjuvant, usually platinum-based, chemotherapy. Chemotherapy is also used as an adjuvant therapy following surgery to kill remaining cancer cells in patients with stage IIA, IIB and IIIA NSCLC. 
Inhibin: a new circulating marker of hydatidiform mole? [SEP] It also has been used as a marker for ovarian cancer.Inhibin B may be used as a marker of spermatogenesis function and male infertility. Inhibin, alpha, also known as INHA, is a protein which in humans is encoded by the INHA  gene. Inhibin has been shown to regulate gonadal stromal cell proliferation negatively and to have tumour-suppressor activity. Furthermore, because expression in gonadal and various extragonadal tissues may vary severalfold in a tissue-specific fashion, it is proposed that inhibin may be both a growth/differentiation factor and a hormone. Inhibin has been shown to regulate gonadal stromal cell proliferation negatively and to have tumour-suppressor activity. Because expression in gonadal and various extragonadal tissues may vary severalfold in a tissue-specific fashion, it is proposed that inhibin may be both a growth/differentiation factor and a hormone. Tissue distribution
Sections of testicular tissue from rat revealed positive immunoreactivity against anti-inhibin intensely appeared in Leydig cells. Recently, additional inhibin specific binding proteins were identified in inhibin target tissues, including pituitary and Leydig cells. 
Is the fibronectin-aggrecan complex present in cervical disk disease? [SEP] Fragments of fibronectin can attract neutrophils and stimulate MMP expression from chondrocytes. Disc herniation is frequently associated with age-related degeneration of the outer ring, known as the annulus fibrosus, but is normally triggered by trauma or straining by lifting or twisting. Disc degeneration occurs both in degenerative disc disease and aging. With degeneration, the disc components – the nucleus pulposus and annulus fibrosus – become exposed to altered loads. If the fissures reach the periphery of the annulus, the nuclear material can pass through as a disc herniation.Mutations in several genes have been implicated in intervertebral disc degeneration. Cervical disc herniation
Cervical disc herniations occur in the neck, most often between the fifth and sixth (C5–6) and the sixth and seventh (C6–7) cervical vertebral bodies. A number of different conditions of the cervical (neck) spinal column cause similar clinical signs. These conditions may include malformation of the vertebrae, intervertebral disc protrusion, and disease of the interspinal ligaments, ligamenta flava, and articular facets of the vertebrae. 
Does peritoneal dialysis affect halitosis in patients with end-stage renal disease? [SEP] Peritoneal dialysis (PD) is a type of dialysis which uses the peritoneum in a person's abdomen as the membrane through which fluid and dissolved substances are exchanged with the blood. Peritoneal dialysis has better outcomes than hemodialysis during the first couple of years. Medical uses
Peritoneal dialysis is a method of renal replacement therapy for needing maintenance therapy for late stage chronic kidney disease. Complications
Peritoneal Dialysis-Related Peritonitis
A common cause of peritonitis is touch contamination, e.g. Peritoneal dialysis is less efficient than hemodialysis, but because it is carried out for a longer period of time the net effect in terms of removal of waste products and of salt and water are similar to hemodialysis. However, advanced periodontal disease is a common cause of severe halitosis. Conditions of the tonsils that may be associated with halitosis include chronic caseous tonsillitis (cheese-like material can be exuded from the tonsillar crypt orifi), tonsillolithiasis (tonsil stones), and less commonly peritonsillar abscess, actinomycosis, fungating malignancies, chondroid choristoma, and inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor. Halitosis is often claimed to be a symptom of "candida hypersensitivity syndrome" or related diseases, and is claimed to be treatable with antifungal medications or alternative medications  to treat fungal infections. 
Can elevated troponin I levels predict complicated clinical course and inhospital mortality in patients with acute pulmonary embolism? [SEP] The higher the troponin I level in asymptomatic individuals, the higher the likelihood if subclinical myocardial injury. Reductions in troponin I levels proved to reduce the risk of future CVD.- High sensitive troponin I used as a screening tool to assess a person's cardiovascular risk and has the potential to reduce the growing cost burden of the healthcare system.The efficiency of  the new test has been confirmed by data collected by international studies with the participation of more than 100,000 subjects.The ability of high sensitive troponin I to identify individual's cardiovascular risk in asymptomatic people enables physicians to use it in outpatient/ambulatory practice during preventive check-ups, complex health examinations, or examinations of patients with known risk factors. Measurements of cardiac-specific troponins I and T are extensively used as diagnostic and prognostic indicators in the management of myocardial infarction and acute coronary syndrome. Blood troponin levels may be used as a diagnostic marker for stroke or other myocardial injury that is ongoing, although the sensitivity of this measurement is low. After a myocardial infarction troponins may remain high for up to 2 weeks.Cardiac troponins are a marker of all heart muscle damage, not just myocardial infarction, which is the most severe form of heart disorder. Of course, patients with COPD exacerbations might also have concurrent myocardial infarction or pulmonary embolism, so care has to be taken to attribute increased troponin levels to COPD. .In 2020, it was found that patients with severe COVID-19 had higher troponin I levels compared to those with milder disease. Prognostic use
Elevated troponin levels are prognostically important in many of the conditions in which they are used for diagnosis.In a community-based cohort study indicating the importance of silent cardiac damage, troponin I has been shown to predict mortality and first coronary heart disease event in men free from cardiovascular disease at baseline. 
Is transurethral catheterisation the ideal method of bladder drainage? [SEP] In urinary catheterization a latex, polyurethane, or silicone tube known as a urinary catheter is inserted into the bladder through the urethra to allow urine to drain from the bladder for collection. Indications
Common indications for urinary catheterization include acute or chronic urinary retention (which can damage the kidneys) from conditions such as benign prostatic hyperplasia, orthopedic procedures that may limit a patient's movement, the need for accurate monitoring of input and output (such as in an ICU), urinary incontinence that may compromise the ability to heal wounds, and the effects of various surgical interventions involving the bladder, prostate, or bowel. For patients with neurogenic bladder due to spinal cord injury, intermittent catheterization (IC) is a standard method for bladder emptying. Self-catheterization
Intermittent urinary catheterization is used to relieve the bladder in people with urinary retention. TURP is thought to be the most effective approach for improving urinary symptoms and urinary flow, however, this surgical procedure may be associated with complications in up to 20% of men. In urinary catheterization a latex, polyurethane, or silicone tube known as a urinary catheter is inserted into the bladder through the urethra to allow urine to drain from the bladder for collection. Indications
Common indications for urinary catheterization include acute or chronic urinary retention (which can damage the kidneys) from conditions such as benign prostatic hyperplasia, orthopedic procedures that may limit a patient's movement, the need for accurate monitoring of input and output (such as in an ICU), urinary incontinence that may compromise the ability to heal wounds, and the effects of various surgical interventions involving the bladder, prostate, or bowel. For patients with neurogenic bladder due to spinal cord injury, intermittent catheterization (IC) is a standard method for bladder emptying. 
The colour of pain: can patients use colour to describe osteoarthritis pain? [SEP] This is one of the joints where most humans develop osteoarthritis with age. Signs and symptoms
The symptom that brings people with TMC OA to the doctor is pain. This is a syndrome of chronic pain with changes of temperature and colour of the skin. Colour Doppler ultrasound reveals structural tendon changes, with vascularity and hypo-echoic areas that correspond to the areas of pain in the extensor origin. Glaucoma
Hyperemesis gravidarum
Infection [pyelonephritis, meningitis]

Heart valve auscultation sites
"All patients take meds":
Reading from top left:
Aortic
Pulmonary
Tricuspid
Mitral

Glasgow coma scale: components and numbers
Scale types is 3 V's:
Visual response
Verbal response
Vibratory (motor) response Scale scores are 4,5,6:
Scale of 4: see so much more
Scale of 5: talking jive
Scale of 6: feels the pricks (if testing motor by pain withdrawal)

Mental state examination: stages in order
"Assessed mental state to be positively clinically unremarkable":
Appearance and behaviour [observe state, clothing...]
Mood [recent spirit]
Speech [rate, form, content]
Thinking [thoughts, perceptions]
Behavioural abnormalities
Perception abnormalities
Cognition [time, place, age...]
Understanding of condition [ideas, expectations, concerns]

History
SAMPLE history
Signs and symptoms
Allergies
Medications
Past medical history, injuries, illnesses
Last meal/intake
Events leading up to the injury and/or illness
OPQRST history
Onset of symptoms
Provocation/pallitive
Quality or character of pain
Region of pain or radiation
Signs, symptoms and severity
Time of onset, duration, intensity

Orthopaedic assessment
CLORIDE FPP
Character: sharp or dull pain
Location: region (joint) of origin
Onset: sudden vs. gradual
Radiation:
Intensity: how severe (scale 1–10), impact on ADLs (activities of daily living), is it getting better, worse or staying the same? Duration: acute vs. chronic
Events associated: falls, morning stiffness, swelling, redness, joint clicking or locking, muscle cramps, muscle wasting, movement limitation, weakness, numbness or tingling, fever, chills, trauma (mechanism of injury), occupation activities, sports, repetitive movements
Frequency: intermittent vs. constant, have you ever had this pain before? Pain history checklist
SOCRATES:
Site
Onset
Character
Radiation
Alleviating factors/ associated symptoms
Timing (duration, frequency)
Exacerbating factors
Severity
Alternatively, signs and symptoms with the 'S'
PLOTRADIO
Past history
Location
Onset/offset
Type/character (of pain)
Radiation
Aggravating/alleviating factors
Duration
Intensity
Other associated symptoms

Abdominal swelling causes
9 F's:
Fat
Feces
Fluid
Flatus
Fetus
Full-sized tumors
Full bladder
Fibroids
False pregnancy

Head trauma: rapid neuro exam
12 P's
Psychological (mental) status
Pupils: size, symmetry, reaction
Paired ocular movements
Papilloedema
Pressure (BP, increased ICP)
Pulse and rate
Paralysis, paresis
Pyramidal signs
Pin prick sensory response
Pee (incontinent)
Patellar reflex
Ptosis

Ocular bobbing vs. dipping
"Breakfast is fast, dinner is slow, both go down":
Bobbing is fast
Dipping is slow
In both, the initial movement is down. Many medical diagrams also use blue to show veins, and red to show arteries, which contributes to this misconception. 
Inpatient Pediatric Tonsillectomy: Does Hospital Type Affect Cost and Outcomes of Care? [SEP] In 2019, the American Academy of Otolaryngology & Head and Neck Surgery (AAO-HNS) recommended:Caregivers and patients who meet the appropriate criteria for tonsillectomy as described here should be advised of only modest anticipated benefits of tonsillectomy, as weighed against the natural history of resolution with watchful waiting, as well as the risk of surgical morbidity and complications and the unknown risk of general anesthesia exposure in children [younger than] four years of age. The role of tonsillectomy as an option in managing children with recurrent throat infection means that there is a substantial role for shared decision making with the child's caregiver and primary care clinician.Many cases of the sore throat have other causes than tonsillitis and tonsillectomy is therefore not indicated for those cases. The main reasons for either keeping a person in hospital, or readmitting them after tonsillectomy are uncontrolled pain, vomiting, fever, or bleeding. Tonsillectomy appears to be more painful in adults than children. In 2019, the American Academy of Otolaryngology & Head and Neck Surgery (AAO-HNS) recommended:Caregivers and patients who meet the appropriate criteria for tonsillectomy as described here should be advised of only modest anticipated benefits of tonsillectomy, as weighed against the natural history of resolution with watchful waiting, as well as the risk of surgical morbidity and complications and the unknown risk of general anesthesia exposure in children [younger than] four years of age. The role of tonsillectomy as an option in managing children with recurrent throat infection means that there is a substantial role for shared decision making with the child's caregiver and primary care clinician.Many cases of the sore throat have other causes than tonsillitis and tonsillectomy is therefore not indicated for those cases. The main reasons for either keeping a person in hospital, or readmitting them after tonsillectomy are uncontrolled pain, vomiting, fever, or bleeding. Tonsillectomy appears to be more painful in adults than children. 
Does anterior laxity of the uninjured knee influence clinical outcomes of ACL reconstruction? [SEP] They may also experience instability in the knee once they resume walking and other activities, as the ligament can no longer stabilize the knee joint and keep the tibia from sliding forward.Reduced range of motion of the knee and tenderness along the joint line are also common signs of an acute ACL injury. Force applied to a less stiff knee is more likely to result in ACL tears.In addition, the quadriceps femoris muscle is an antagonist to the ACL. For some, the ACL may heal without surgery during the rehabilitation process (i.e. This method is less invasive and is proven to result in less pain from surgery, less time in the hospital, and quicker recovery times than "open" surgery (in which a long incision is made down the front of the knee and the joint is opened and exposed).Young athletes or anyone opting for ACL surgery should consider delaying their surgery and completing a 4-6 week prehabilitation program. ACL injury used to be a career-ending injury for competitive athletes; however, in recent years ACL reconstruction surgery followed by physical therapy has allowed many athletes to return to their pre-injury level of performance.Long term complications of ACL injury include early onset arthritis of the knee and/or re-tearing the ligament. Loose or lax ligaments in turn are not capable of supporting joints as effectively as healthy ones, making the affected individual prone to further injury as well as compensation for the weakness using other parts of the body. An advantage to having lax ligaments and joints is the ability to withstand pain from hyperextension; however, this is also a disadvantage as a lack of perceived pain can prevent a person from removing the ligament from insult, leading to ligament damage. Minor tears of the anterior cruciate ligament may heal over time, but a torn ACL requires surgery. 
Is the type of remission after a major depressive episode an important risk factor to relapses in a 4-year follow up? [SEP] Antidepressant medication treatment is usually continued for 16 to 20 weeks after remission, to minimize the chance of recurrence, and even up to one year of continuation is recommended. Current guidelines recommend continuing antidepressants for four to six months after remission to prevent relapse. Evidence from many randomized controlled trials indicates continuing antidepressant medications after recovery can reduce the chance of relapse by 70% (41% on placebo vs. 18% on antidepressant). Generally, within four years of an episode, around 60% of patients will relapse into another episode. Otherwise, patients will relapse into depression. However, it is clear that residual symptoms are powerful predictors of relapse, with relapse rates three to six times higher in people with residual symptoms than in those, who experience full remission. Repeated relapse is linked to an increased risk of suicidal behavior. Relapse: An individual who is in remission from BN and EDNOS (Eating Disorder Not Otherwise Specified) is at a high risk of falling back into the habit of self-harm. 
Prostate-specific antigen and free prostate-specific antigen in the early detection of prostate cancer: do combination tests improve detection? [SEP] PSA is not uniquely an indicator of prostate cancer, but may also detect prostatitis or benign prostatic hyperplasia. Screening
Prostate cancer screening searches for cancers in those without symptoms. Prostate cancer screening is the screening process used to detect undiagnosed prostate cancer in men without signs or symptoms. The second screening tool is the measurement of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) in the blood. A 2013 Cochrane review concluded PSA screening results in "no statistically significant difference in prostate cancer-specific mortality...". PSA is not a unique indicator of prostate cancer, but may also detect prostatitis or benign prostatic hyperplasia.A 2018 United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) draft adjusted the prior opposition to PSA screening. A PSA test cannot 'prove' the existence of prostate cancer by itself; varying levels of the antigen can be due to other causes. Thus, PSA screening is advocated by some as a means of detecting high-risk, potentially lethal prostate cancer, with the understanding that lower-risk disease, if discovered, often does not need treatment and may be amenable to active surveillance.Screening for prostate cancer is controversial because of cost and uncertain long-term benefits to patients. 
Can homemade alcohol (Raksi) be useful for preserving dead bodies? [SEP] Almost all janajati communities have their own traditional methods of brewing alcohol. Raksi (traditional distilled alcohol), jaand (rice beer), tongba (millet beer) and chyaang are the most well-known. Ailaa and thwon (alcohol made from rice) are the alcoholic beverages of Kathmandu, found in all the local bhattis (alcohol serving eateries). Chhyaang, tongba (fermented millet or barley) and raksi are alcoholic beverages from other parts of Nepal which are found in Kathmandu. The importance of the Bagmati also lies in the fact that Hindus are cremated on its banks, and Kirants are buried in the hills by its side. According to the Nepali Hindu tradition, the dead body must be dipped three times into the Bagmati before cremation. Many relatives who join the funeral procession also take bath in the Bagmati or sprinkle the holy water on their bodies at the end of cremation as the Bagmati is believed to purify people spiritually. "/"If you don't have enough money [for raksi], you will even sell your wife. 
Do elderly cancer patients have different care needs compared with younger ones? [SEP] Elderly care emphasizes the social and personal requirements of senior citizens who wish to age with dignity while needing assistance with daily activities and with healthcare. This care may benefit those who are managing multiple chronic conditions or experiencing significant age-related complications that threaten quality of daily life. Scope
Differences between adult and geriatric medicine
Geriatric providers receive specialized training in caring for elderly patients and promoting healthy aging. Elderly patients can receive care related to medication management, pain management, psychiatric and memory care, rehabilitation, long-term nursing care, nutrition and different forms of therapy including physical, occupational and speech. Therefore, geriatric individuals require specialized pharmacological care that is informed by these age-related changes. Geriatric oncology. Older age indicates a worse prognosis. Older women are more likely to present with advanced ovarian cancer. 
Is breast cancer survival improving? [SEP] In general survival rates are improving, although more so for some cancers than others. Researchers attribute the reduction in breast cancer mortality to improved treatment, including the increased use in adjuvant chemotherapy. Improvements in cancer therapy
The improvement in survival rates for many cancers in the last half century is due to improved understanding about the causes of cancer and the availability of new treatment options, which are continually evolving. Metastatic breast cancer has a less favorable prognosis. Overall, as a result of awareness, breast cancers are being detected at an earlier, more treatable stage. Because the prognosis for breast cancer was at this stage relatively favorable, compared to the prognosis for other cancers, breast cancer as cause of death among women was 13.9% of all cancer deaths. The improved survival rate made breast cancer the most prevalent cancer in the world. Bone
Roughly 70% of all patients living with advanced breast cancer have bone metastases Very often bone metastases can be successfully managed for a long time. 
Can common carotid intima media thickness serve as an indicator of both cardiovascular phenotype and risk among black Africans? [SEP] Although carotid IMT is predictive of future cardiovascular events, the usefulness of measuring change in carotid IMT over time is disputed, as meta-analyses have not found that change in carotid IMT is predictive of cardiovascular events. IMT measurements of the far (deeper) wall, by ultrasound, are generally considered more reliable than measurements performed on the near (more superficial) wall; although measurement of both near and far wall IMT has also been advocated.Carotid IMT has been used in many epidemiological and clinical studies and these have shown associations with several risk factors, including type 2 diabetes, familial hypercholesterolemia, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), triglycerides, rheumatoid arthritis, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and air pollution. Since the 1990s, some clinical trials of lifestyle and pharmaceutical interventions have also used carotid artery IMT as a surrogate endpoint for evaluating the regression and/or progression of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease; however the appropriateness of carotid IMT in this context is uncertain. Although carotid intima–media thickness is strongly associated with atherosclerosis, thickening of the intima–media may not always be due to atherosclerosis. References

Various Newscasts on Carotid IMT (Intima Media Thickness)
Bortel L (2005). "Carotid artery wall thickness: comparison between sonography and multi-detector row CT angiography". There are studies in the bioengineering literature that have looked into characterizing the geometric structure of the common carotid artery from both  qualitative and mathematical (quantitative) standpoints.The average diameters of the common carotids in adult males and females are 6.5 mm and 6.1 mm respectively. The intima-media thickness of the carotid artery wall is a marker of subclinical atherosclerosis, it increases with age and with long-term exposure to particulate air pollution. 
Delayed diagnosis of anorectal malformations: are current guidelines sufficient? [SEP] An imperforate anus or anorectal malformations (ARMs) are birth defects in which the rectum is malformed. Types
There are other forms of anorectal malformations though imperforate anus is most common. Presentation
There are several forms of imperforate anus and anorectal malformations. Diagnosis
When an infant is born with an anorectal malformation, it is usually detected quickly as it is a very obvious defect. There are two main categories of anorectal malformations: those that require a protective colostomy and those that do not. While many surgical techniques to definitively repair anorectal malformations have been described, the posterior sagittal approach (PSARP) has become the most popular. Anorectal anomalies are congenital malformations of the anus and rectum. It affects boys and girls with similar frequency.Examples of anorectal anomalies include:
Anal stenosis
Proctitis
Anal bleeding
Anal fistula

See also
Imperforate anus


== References == 
Is being small for gestational age a risk factor for retinopathy of prematurity? [SEP] Premature infants are at greater risk for cerebral palsy, delays in development, hearing problems and problems with their vision. Neurological problems can include apnea of prematurity, hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE), retinopathy of prematurity (ROP), developmental disability, transient hyperammonemia, cerebral palsy, and intraventricular hemorrhage, the latter affecting 25% of babies born preterm, usually before 32 weeks of pregnancy. Risk factors
The major risk factors for developing diabetic retinopathy are duration of diabetes, poor blood sugar control, and to a lesser extent high blood pressure. Children are an exception—regardless of duration of diabetes, children rarely experience sight-threatening retinopathy; however, puberty can accelerate retinopathy progression. Pregnancy can also accelerate the progression of diabetic retinopathy (although women with gestational diabetes are not at risk).Both chronically high blood sugar (measured by a high HbA1c) and highly variable blood sugar are associated with developing diabetic retinopathy. Neurodevelopmental
Ophthalmic
Neurological and respiratory complications frequently accompany severe ROP.Preterm birth and low birth weight is associated with visual perceptual impairment and suboptimal face recognition skills, also known as face blindness.Risks

Increased rates of cerebral palsy, epilepsy, autism, depression, anxiety, bipolar disorder, and nonaffective psychosis, schizoid personality disorder, ADHD and eating disorders
Learning disabilities and other functioning issues may not appear until second grade and middle school years.Reduced risk of anti-social behavior, risk-taking behaviors, and substance use disorders
More learning disabilities, struggles with mathematics and need more school services than full-terms. Complications of extreme prematurity may include intracranial hemorrhage, chronic bronchopulmonary dysplasia (see Infant respiratory distress syndrome), or retinopathy of prematurity. Candidiasis is associated with retinopathy, prematurity and negative neurodevelopmental consequences. 
Comparative safety of infliximab and etanercept on the risk of serious infections: does the association vary by patient characteristics? [SEP] TNF-α Inhibitor treatments (infliximab, adalimumab, certolizumab, natalizumab, and etanercept) are thought to be the cause of this rare disease. It has been also suggested that antibiotics change the enteric flora, and their continuous use may pose the risk of overgrowth with pathogens such as Clostridium difficile.Medications used to treat the symptoms of Crohn's disease include 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) formulations, prednisone, immunomodulators such as azathioprine (given as the prodrug for 6-mercaptopurine), methotrexate, and anti-TNF therapies and monoclonal antibodies, such as infliximab, adalimumab, certolizumab, vedolizumab, ustekinumab, natalizumab,risankizumab-rzaa, and upadacitinib Hydrocortisone should be used in severe attacks of Crohn's disease. Fistulizing disease
Maintenance of remission after surgery for Crohn's disease
A combination of azathioprine and infliximab treatment may be more effective than a single dose of infliximab to induce steroid-free remission for people with active Crohn's disease.Azathioprine treatment may lead to rare but life-threatening side effects. Biologic therapies
Infliximab
Infliximab (trade name Remicade, among others) is a mouse-human chimeric antibody that targets tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα), a cytokine in the inflammatory response. Adalimumab
Adalimumab, like infliximab, is an antibody that targets tumor necrosis factor. Based on these studies, Ustekinumab appears to be safe, but the implications of longer-term drug administration needs to be studied. Experimental treatments with Infliximab or other anti-TNF infusions may prove helpful. TNF inhibitors may have equivalent effectiveness with etanercept appearing to be the safest. 
Fast foods - are they a risk factor for asthma? [SEP] Food allergens account for about 90% of all allergic reactions. Due to their fat content, fast foods are implicated in poor health and various serious health issues such as obesity and cardiovascular diseases. Additionally, there is strong empirical evidence showing that fast foods are also detrimental to appetite, respiratory system function, and central nervous system function (Schlosser). In particular many fast foods are high in saturated fats which are widely held to be a risk factor in heart disease. A five-year study conducted in Singapore showed that frequent fast food consumers (more than two times per week) had a significant increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes and an increased risk of death from coronary heart disease, when compared to non-consumers. Fast-food consumption was prevalent in both males and females, in all racial/ethnic groups, and in all regions of the country.Additionally, in the study children who ate fast food, compared to those who did not, tended to consume more total fat, carbohydrates, and sugar-sweetened beverages. After reviewing these test results, the researchers concluded that consumption of fast food by children seems to have a negative effect on an individual's diet, in ways that could significantly increase the risk for obesity. Proximity of fast food locations
A study of students who live within a half mile from fast food locations have been reported to consume fewer amounts of fruit and vegetables, consume more soda, and are more likely to be overweight. 
Can magnetic resonance-ultrasound fusion biopsy improve cancer detection in enlarged prostates? [SEP] Prostate biopsy is a procedure in which small hollow needle-core samples are removed from a man's prostate gland to be examined for the presence of prostate cancer. MRI-guided targeted biopsy
Since the mid-1980s, TRUS biopsy has been used to diagnose prostate cancer in essentially a blind fashion because prostate cancer cannot be seen on ultrasound due to poor soft tissue resolution. However, multi-parametric magnetic resonance imaging (mpMRI) has since about 2005 been used to better identify and characterize prostate cancer. Many prostate cancers missed by conventional biopsy are detectable by MRI-guided targeted biopsy. In fact, a side-by-side comparison of TRUS versus MRI-guided targeted biopsy that was conducted as a prospective, investigator-blinded study demonstrated that MRI-guided biopsy improved detection of significant prostate cancer by 17.7%, and decreased the diagnosis of insignificant or low-risk disease by 89.4%.Two methods of MRI-guided, or "targeted" prostate biopsy, are available: (1) direct "in-bore" biopsy within the MRI tube, and (2) fusion biopsy using a device that fuses stored MRI with real-time ultrasound (MRI-US). Visual or cognitive MRI-US fusion have been described.When MRI is used alone to guide prostate biopsy, it is done by an interventional radiologist. Correlation between biopsy and final pathology is improved between MRI-guided biopsy as compared to TRUS.In the fusion MRI-US prostate biopsy, a prostate MRI is performed before biopsy and then, at the time of biopsy, the MRI images are fused to the ultrasound images to guide the urologist to the suspicious targets. Fusion MRI-US biopsies can be achieved in an office setting with a variety of devices.MRI-guided prostate biopsy appears to be superior to standard TRUS-biopsy in prostate cancer detection. 
Does normothermic normokalemic simultaneous antegrade/retrograde perfusion improve myocardial oxygenation and energy metabolism for hypertrophied hearts? [SEP] The most widely used technique involves machine perfusion of the organ at either hypothermic (4-10 °C) or normothermic (37 °C) temperatures. Hypothermic perfusion of kidneys is a relatively widespread practice. For the heart normothermic preservation has been used in which the heart is provided with warm oxygenated blood and so continues to beat ex-vivo during its preservation. For the liver, hypothermic and normothermic techniques are being used with evidence to suggest that both may be beneficial.There is ongoing research and development to improve machine perfusion and alternative approaches such as novel cryoprotectant solvents to improve organ viability and availability – such as by increasing preservation durations. References
External links
Overview at anaesthesiauk.com
ventilation-perfusion+ratio at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)
Nosek, Thomas M. "Section 4/4ch4/s4ch4_24". Focal destruction of myocytes explains the myocardial pump failure. This can involve the use of inotropes, or medications that make the heart contract with greater force, as well as antiarrhythmic drugs such as adenosine or carvedilol. In people with myocarditis severe enough to cause cardiac arrest, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) is used to adequately pump blood and provide oxygen if needed. 
Are there progressive brain changes in schizophrenia? [SEP] Studies have tended to show various subtle average differences in the volume of certain areas of brain structure between people with and without diagnoses of schizophrenia, although it has become increasingly clear that no single pathological neuropsychological or structural neuroanatomic profile exists. Morphometry
Structural imaging studies have consistently reported differences in the size and structure of certain brain areas in schizophrenia. Together, this indicates that extensive changes do occur in the brains of people with schizophrenia. The average volumetric changes in these studies are however close to the limit of detection by MRI methods, so it remains to be determined whether schizophrenia is a neurodegenerative process that begins at about the time of symptom onset, or whether it is better characterised as a neurodevelopmental process that produces abnormal brain volumes at an early age. Such abnormalities usually present in the form of loss of volume.Most schizophrenia studies have found average reduced volume of the left medial temporal lobe and left superior temporal gyrus, and half of studies have revealed deficits in certain areas of the frontal gyrus, parahippocampal gyrus and temporal gyrus. Moreover, one study decomposed cortical volume into its constituent parts, cortical surface area and cortical thickness, and reported widespread cortical volume reduction in schizophrenia, mainly driven by cortical thinning, but also reduced cortical surface area in smaller frontal, temporal, parietal and occipital cortical regions.CT scans of the brains of people with schizophrenia show several pathologies. Additionally, the brains have widened sulci as compared to normal brains, also with increased CSF volumes and reduced brain volume.Using machine learning, two neuroanatomical subtypes of schizophrenia have been described. Summary
People with schizophrenia have differences in the anterior cingulate gyrus when compared with controls. 
Does concept mapping enhance learning outcome of nursing students? [SEP] Transformative learning develops autonomous thinking. ), Learning as transformation. "Perspective transformation in RN-to-BSN distance education". Journal of Nursing Education. Understanding and Promoting Transformative Learning: A Guide for Educators of Adults. Bringing transformative learning to life. Learning as Transformation: Critical Perspectives on a Theory in Progress. Taylor, Edward W. The Theory and Practice of Transformative Learning: A Critical Review. 
Is the Androgen Deficiency of Aging Men (ADAM) questionnaire useful for the screening of partial androgenic deficiency of aging men? [SEP] Androgen deficiency is a medical condition characterized by insufficient androgenic activity in the body. Old age may also be a factor in the development of hypoandrogenism, as androgen levels decline with age. Diagnosis
Diagnosis of androgenic deficiency in males is based on symptoms together with at least two measurements of testosterone done first thing in the morning after a period of not eating. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) stated in 2015 that neither the benefits nor the safety of testosterone have been established for low testosterone levels due to aging. The insensitivity to androgens is therefore clinically significant only when it occurs in genetic males, (i.e. Not every mutation of the AR gene results in androgen insensitivity; one particular mutation occurs in 8 to 14% of genetic males, and is thought to adversely affect only a small number of individuals when other genetic factors are present. Diagnosis
The phenotypes that result from the insensitivity to androgens are not unique to AIS, thus the diagnosis of AIS requires thorough exclusion of other causes. The study of male reproduction and associated organs is called andrology. 
Does the Transmissible Liability Index (TLI) assessed in late childhood predict suicidal symptoms at young adulthood? [SEP] The strongest risk factors for severe illness are obesity, complications of diabetes, anxiety disorders, and the total number of conditions.During the start of the COVID-19 pandemic it was  not clear whether young people were less likely to be infected, or less likely to develop symptoms and be tested. For comparison, the IFR for middle-aged adults is two orders of magnitude higher than the annualised risk of a fatal automobile accident and much higher than the risk of dying from seasonal influenza.In December 2020, a systematic review and meta-analysis estimated that population-weighted IFR was 0.5% to 1% in some countries (France, Netherlands, New Zealand, and Portugal), 1% to 2% in other countries (Australia, England, Lithuania, and Spain), and about 2.5% in Italy. In 3–4% of cases (7.4% for those over age 65) symptoms are severe enough to cause hospitalization. The Higher Education Policy Institute reported that around 63% of students claimed worsened mental health as a result of the pandemic. TLI may refer to:

Thallium(I) iodide, a Thallium compound
Transport Layer Interface, a networking application programming interface. Tseng Laboratories, Inc., the full corporate name of Tseng Labs
Tall Latte index, an economic index based on the cost of a cup of Starbucks coffee
Taipei Language Institute, an institute for teaching Mandarin Chinese founded in 1956
The Lonely Island, an American comedy troupe
The Living Infinite
Trophic level index, an index used in New Zealand for measuring the nutrient content of a lake
Term Life Insurance
Temporal light interference, undesired degradation or malfunction of an equipment or system caused by light modulations Divorce
Children at the threshold of adolescence in the nine-to-twelve-year-old group would seem to have particular vulnerabilities to parental separation. Children from the age of seven forward were considered responsible for their actions. 
Are there gender differences in the reasons why African Americans delay in seeking medical help for symptoms of an acute myocardial infarction? [SEP] The imprisonment rate for black females (88 per 100,000 black female residents) was 1.8 times as high as for white females (49 per 100,000 white female residents), while the imprisonment rate for black males (2,272 per 100,000 black male residents) was 5.8 times as high as for white males (392 per 100,000 white male residents). According to the ACLU, “More than half of the women in prisons and jails (56%) are incarcerated for drug or property offenses, and Black women are two times as likely to be incarcerated as white women.” Black women tend to receive longer sentences and harsher punishments than white women for committing the same crimes. In a study of sentencing in the United States in 1984, David B. Mustard found that males received 12 percent longer prison terms than females after "controlling for the offense level, criminal history, district, and offense type," and noted that "females receive even shorter sentences relative to men than whites relative to blacks." Sex differences
COVID‑19 case fatality rates are higher among men than women in most countries. Later reviews in June 2020 indicated that there is no significant difference in susceptibility or in CFR between genders. Sex-based immunological differences, lesser prevalence of smoking in women and men developing co-morbid conditions such as hypertension at a younger age than women could have contributed to the higher mortality in men. Ethnic differences
In the US, a greater proportion of deaths due to COVID‑19 have occurred among African Americans and other minority groups. According to a study conducted in 2020, it was observed that the unadjusted odds ratio of mortality among male (6.1%) patients was more than twice the ratio for female patients (2.6%) in Japan (Edakubo & Fushimi). 
Does histologic chorioamnionitis correspond to clinical chorioamnionitis? [SEP] Chorioamnionitis, also known as intra-amniotic infection (IAI), is inflammation of the fetal membranes (amnion and chorion), usually due to bacterial infection. Signs and symptoms
The signs and symptoms of clinical chorioamnionitis include fever, leukocytosis (>15,000 cells/mm³), maternal (>100 bpm) or fetal (>160 bpm) tachycardia, uterine tenderness and preterm rupture of membranes. Microorganisms
Bacterial, viral, and even fungal infections can cause chorioamnionitis. Diagnosis
Pathologic
Chorioamnionitis is diagnosed from a histologic (tissue) examination of the fetal membranes. Confirmed histologic chorioamnionitis without any clinical symptoms is termed subclinical chorioamnionitis and is more common than symptomatic clinical chorioamnionitis.Infiltration of the chorionic plate by neutrophils is diagnostic of (mild) chorioamnionitis. Outcomes
Chorioamnionitis has possible associations with numerous neonatal conditions. Furthermore, histological chorioamnionitis may increase the likelihood of newborn necrotizing enterocolitis, where one or more sections of the bowel die. Compared to infants with clinical chorioamnionitis, it appears cerebral palsy may occur at a higher rate for those with histologic chorioamnionitis. 
Are lifetime prevalence of impetigo, molluscum and herpes infection really increased in children having atopic dermatitis? [SEP] Infection with the parasitic mite Demodex is associated with the development of acne. Skin disorders such as perioral dermatitis and keratosis pilaris can appear similar to acne but tend to occur more frequently in childhood. Dermatology's association with sexually transmitted infections, especially syphilis, contributed to the stigma.Another psychological complication of acne vulgaris is acne excoriée, which occurs when a person persistently picks and scratches pimples, irrespective of the severity of their acne. These reinforced the idea amongst dermatologists that bacterial growth on the skin plays an important role in causing acne. 58%) higher in people with psoriasis than those without the condition; these odds are even higher with severe cases of psoriasis. 31%) higher in people with mild psoriasis and 1.63 times ( i.e. 63%) higher in people with severe psoriasis. The risk for development of non-melanoma skin cancers is also increased. 
Does sonographic needle guidance affect the clinical outcome of intraarticular injections? [SEP] Given the complexity of hip and groin anatomy and clinical conditions, imaging-guided injections are useful both for the diagnostic workup and treatment. General principles for ultrasound-guided injection
Usual standards for musculoskeletal interventional procedures apply include review of previous imaging, informed consent and appropriate local anesthetic. A 20-gauge 3.5 inch regular cutting back spinal needle is directed in-plane under real time ultrasound guidance into the anterior capsular recess. Fluoroscopic-guidance was the mainstay imaging-guidance hip injection, but ultrasound-guidance is becoming increasingly prevalent due to its accuracy with visualization of soft tissue and neurovascular structures, less associated cost and no ionizing radiation exposure or risk of contrast agent reactions. In addition, a recent meta-analysis revealed that ultrasound-guided hip joint injections were significantly more accurate than landmark-guided intra-articular hip injections (accuracies were 100%, 95%CI 98–100%; 72%, 95%CI 56–85%, respectively).To date, many trials examining efficacy of intra-articular corticosteroid injection for osteoarthritis, either under fluoroscopy or ultrasound-guidance, have revealed short-term improvement of hip pain, though no reliable predictors of response to intra-articular corticosteroid injections have been identified. While it has been shown that no significant difference in terms of effectiveness between fluoroscopy and ultrasound-guided corticosteroid hip injection, it has been reported that ultrasound-guided injections were less painful and preferred by patients. 22–24G needles are sufficed for most injections.As an example, ultrasound-guided hip joint injection can be considered when symptoms persist despite initial treatment options such as activity modification, analgesia and physical therapy. Joint injections
Local drug delivery by intra-articular injection may be more effective and safer in terms of increased bioavailability, less systemic exposure and reduced adverse events. 
Pancreas retransplantation:  a second chance for diabetic patients? [SEP] Because of its role in the regulation of blood sugar, the pancreas is also a key organ in diabetes mellitus. The function of the pancreas in diabetes has been known since at least 1889, with its role in insulin production identified in 1921. An experimental procedure to treat type 1 diabetes is pancreas transplantation or isolated transplantation of islet cells to supply a person with functioning beta cells. The pancreas : an integrated textbook of basic science, medicine, and surgery (third ed.). Surgery may be performed on the pancreas in such cases, whether in hope of a cure or to alleviate symptoms. Another example is attempted piscine–primate (fish to non-human primate) transplant of pancreatic islets. Diabetes is due to either the pancreas not producing enough insulin, or the cells of the body not responding properly to the insulin produced. It is recommended that this option be considered in those who are unable to get both their weight and blood sugar under control.A pancreas transplant is occasionally considered for people with type 1 diabetes who have severe complications of their disease, including end stage kidney disease requiring kidney transplantation. 
Factors determining the survival of nasopharyngeal carcinoma with lung metastasis alone: does combined modality treatment benefit? [SEP] Signs of nasopharyngeal cancer may appear as headaches, a sore throat, and trouble hearing, breathing, or speaking. Additionally, type 2 and type 3 may be followed with an influx of inflammatory cells, including lymphocytes, plasma cells, and eosinophils, generating the term lymphoepithelioma.Nasopharyngeal carcinoma, also known as nasopharyngeal cancer, is classified as a malignant neoplasm, or cancer, arising from the mucosal epithelium of the nasopharynx, most often within the lateral nasopharyngeal recess or fossa of Rosenmüller (a recess behind the entrance of the eustachian tube opening). Staging
Staging of nasopharyngeal carcinoma is based on clinical and radiologic examination. The expression of EBV latent proteins within undifferentiated nasopharyngeal carcinoma can be potentially exploited for immune-based therapies. Generally, there are three different types or treatment methods that can be used for patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma. See also
Endoscopic nasopharyngectomy
Lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma

References
External links

Cancer Management Handbook: Head and Neck Tumors
Clinically reviewed nasopharyngeal cancer information for patients from Cancer Research UK Nasopharynageal cancer / Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC)
A systematic review found evidence that light drinking may decrease the risk of nasopharyngeal carcinoma whereas high intake of alcohol may increase the risk. Once a cancer has metastasized it may still be treated with radiosurgery, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, biological therapy, hormone therapy, surgery, or a combination of these interventions ("multimodal therapy"). 
Do viral infections have a role in benign paroxysmal positional vertigo? [SEP] Vertigo typically indicates a problem in a part of the vestibular system. In vestibular neuritis the onset of vertigo is sudden, and the nystagmus occurs even when the person has not been moving. Any cause of inflammation such as common cold, influenza, and bacterial infections may cause transient vertigo if it involves the inner ear, as may chemical insults (e.g., aminoglycosides) or physical trauma (e.g., skull fractures). The balance disorder associated with central lesions causing vertigo is often so severe that many people are unable to stand or walk.A number of conditions that involve the central nervous system may lead to vertigo including:  lesions caused by infarctions or hemorrhage, tumors present in the cerebellopontine angle such as a vestibular schwannoma or cerebellar tumors, epilepsy, cervical spine disorders such as cervical spondylosis, degenerative ataxia disorders, migraine headaches, lateral medullary syndrome, Chiari malformation, multiple sclerosis, parkinsonism, as well as cerebral dysfunction. Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo
Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is the most common vestibular disorder and occurs when loose calcium carbonate debris has broken off of the otoconial membrane and enters a semicircular canal thereby creating the sensation of motion. People with BPPV may experience brief periods of vertigo, usually under a minute, which occur with change in the position.This is the most common cause of vertigo. Vestibular neuritis
Vestibular neuritis presents with severe vertigo with associated nausea, vomiting, and generalized imbalance and is believed to be caused by a viral infection of the inner ear, although several theories have been put forward and the cause remains uncertain. See also
References
External links

"Dizziness and Vertigo". 
Does the enteral feeding advancement affect short-term outcomes in very low birth weight infants? [SEP] Children suffering malnutrition in Colombia weighed less than those living in upper class conditions at the age of 36 months (11.88 kg compared to 14 kg), similarly, malnourished children were shorter than well-nourished children, again at 36 months (85.3 cm in malnourished children; 94 cm in well-nourished children 
Malnutrition during the first 1000 days of a child's life can cause irreversible physical and mental stunting. Neonatology and NICUs have greatly increased the survival of very low birth-weight and extremely premature infants. Nutrition interventions targeted at infants aged 0–5 months first encourages early initiation of breastfeeding. Proper prenatal nutrition is responsible for this small prevalence of low birthweight infants. Enteral nutrition (administering nutrition using a feeding tube) is started within 24 to 48 hours of admission with feeding targets increased every week. Consistently described risk factors include formula feeding, intestinal dysbiosis, low birth weight, and prematurity. A 2012 policy by the American Academy of Pediatrics recommended feeding preterm infants human milk, finding "significant short- and long-term beneficial effects," including reducing the rate of NEC by a factor of one-half to three-quarters.Small amounts of oral feeds of human milk starting as soon as possible, while the infant is being primarily fed intravenously, primes the immature gut to mature and become ready to receive greater intake by mouth. Not beginning feeding an infant by mouth for more than 4 days does not appear to have protective benefits. 
Is late-night salivary cortisol a better screening test for possible cortisol excess than standard screening tests in obese patients with Type 2 diabetes? [SEP] Night eating syndrome, which is characterized by nocturnal hyperphagia (consumption of 25% or more of the total daily calories after the evening meal) with nocturnal ingestions, insomnia, loss of morning appetite and depression. PCOS has been associated with binge eating and bulimic behavior.Other possible manifestations are dry lips, burning tongue, parotid gland swelling, and temporomandibular disorders. Women with eating disorders have greater body dissatisfaction. Circulating levels of both hormones are an important factor in weight control. Diagnosis
According to Pritts and Susman "The medical history is the most powerful tool for diagnosing eating disorders". It also intends early identification of an eating disorder before it is too late to treat. These factors can induce chronic stress, which result in high cortisol levels. Excess cortisol is associated with unfavorable health outcomes, such as hypertension, diabetes, osteoporosis, and increased risk of infections.It is uncertain whether poverty induces depression or depression causes poverty. 
Does psychological distress predict disability? [SEP] Mental distress can potentially lead to a change of behavior, affect a person's emotions in a negative way, and affect their relationships with the people around them. Mental distress is a psychological condition. References
Further reading
External links
Mental Distress Changes It is usually associated with distress or impairment in important areas of functioning. According to DSM-IV, a mental disorder is a psychological syndrome or pattern that is associated with distress (e.g. Disability
Some disorders may be very limited in their functional effects, while others may involve substantial disability and support needs. A belief or experience can sometimes be shown to produce distress or disability—the ordinary standard for judging mental disorders. In clinical psychiatry, persistent distress and disability indicate an internal disorder requiring treatment; but in another context, that same distress and disability can be seen as an indicator of emotional struggle and the need to address social and structural problems. 
Does preloading with colloids prevent hemodynamic changes when neurosurgical patients are subsequently changed to the seated position? [SEP] Advantages of preloading include the following: maintain axial and radial position for accurate displacements of angular movements; increase bearing rigidity; prevent sliding or gyroscope-like movements, especially with high acceleration or rotation rates; maintain relative position of bearing elements. Preloading methods include position preload and constant pressure preload. In the particular case for bearings and fasteners, preload reduces or cancels backlash or dead zones. Intravenous therapy
Colloid solutions used in intravenous therapy belong to a major group of volume expanders, and can be used for intravenous fluid replacement. Colloids preserve a high colloid osmotic pressure in the blood, and therefore, they should theoretically preferentially increase the intravascular volume, whereas other types of volume expanders called crystalloids also increase the interstitial volume and intracellular volume. In choosing a fluid, however, it must be assured that when mixed, the remaining blood behaves in the microcirculation as in the original blood fluid, retaining all its properties of viscosity.In presenting what volume of ANH should be applied one study suggests a mathematical model of ANH which calculates the maximum possible RCM savings using ANH, given the patients weight Hi and Hm.To maintain the normovolemia, the withdrawal of autologous blood must be simultaneously replaced by a suitable hemodilute. A colloid is a fluid containing particles that are large enough to exert an oncotic pressure across the micro-vascular membrane. This facilitates blood perfusion to the brain. 
Does continuous intravenous infusion of low-concentration epinephrine impair uterine blood flow in pregnant ewes? [SEP] Although sufficient data strongly recommends adrenaline infusions as a viable treatment, more trials are needed to conclusively determine that these infusions will successfully reduce morbidity and mortality rates among preterm, cardiovascularly compromised infants.Epinephrine can also be used to treat open-angle glaucoma, as it has been found to lower the outflow of aqueous humor in the eye. Epinephrine, also known as adrenaline, is a medication and hormone. While the safety of its use during pregnancy and breastfeeding is unclear, the benefits to the mother must be taken into account.Epinephrine is normally produced by both the adrenal glands and a small number of neurons in the brain, where it acts as a neurotransmitter. Medical uses
Epinephrine is used to treat a number of conditions, including cardiac arrest, anaphylaxis, and superficial bleeding. Regular epinephrine, however, works equally well. While epinephrine does increase aortic, cerebral, and carotid circulation pressure, it lowers carotid blood flow and end-tidal CO2 or ETCO2 levels. It appears that epinephrine may improve macrocirculation at the expense of the capillary beds where perfusion takes place. References
External links
"Epinephrine". 
Is there a first night effect on sleep bruxism? [SEP] Dental damage may be similar in both types, but the symptoms of sleep bruxism tend to be worse on waking and improve during the course of the day, and the symptoms of awake bruxism may not be present at all on waking, and then worsen over the day. It is possible for sleep bruxism to occur as early as the first year of life – after the first teeth (deciduous incisors) erupt into the mouth, and the overall prevalence in children is about 14–20%. The symptoms of sleep bruxism are usually most intense immediately after waking, and then slowly abate, and the symptoms of a grinding habit which occurs mainly while awake tend to worsen through the day, and may not be present on waking. One study reported that sleep arousals which were experimentally induced with sensory stimulation in sleeping bruxists triggered episodes of sleep bruxism. Initial reports have suggested that episodes of sleep bruxism may be accompanied by gastroesophageal reflux, decreased esophageal pH (acidity), swallowing, and decreased salivary flow. Genetic factors
Some research suggests that there may be a degree of inherited susceptibility to develop sleep bruxism. If the greatest reduction in movement occurs upon waking then this may indicate that there is concomitant sleep bruxism. This may confirm the presence of sleep bruxism if it was in doubt. 
Does menopausal transition affect the quality of life? [SEP] Signs and symptoms
During early menopause transition, the menstrual cycles remain regular but the interval between cycles begins to lengthen. During the menopausal transition and after menopause, women can experience a wide range of symptoms. Menopausal transition
Poor sleep quality, sleep fragmentation and increased awakenings are common complaints during the menopausal transition. Sleep during the menopausal transition is furthermore influenced by pain disorders and specifically by comorbid physical and psychiatric conditions. Menopause. There are a number of symptoms connected to menopause, most of which can affect the quality of life of a woman involved in this stage of her life. The hormonal changes that take place during the menopausal transition have been suggested to affect women's sexual response through several mechanisms, some more conclusive than others. Despite the apparent negative impact that menopause can have on sexuality and sexual functioning, sexual confidence and well-being can improve with age and menopausal status. 
Can clinicians use the PHQ-9 to assess depression in people with vision loss? [SEP] The 9-question Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) is a diagnostic tool introduced in 2001 to screen adult patients in a primary care setting for the presence and severity of depression. Primary care providers frequently use the PHQ-9 to screen for depression in patients. The PHQ-9 can be used to diagnose Major Depressive Syndrome, but Major Depressive Disorder must be diagnosed using additional clinical information (e.g. existence of past manic/hypomanic episode, bereavement, other mental disorder, effects of a medication or illness).Clinicians may also use the PHQ-9 to evaluate treatments given for depression. Applications
The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence endorsed the PHQ-9 for measuring depression severity and responsiveness to treatment in adults in a primary care setting. The Veterans Administration, Department of Defense, and Kaiser Permanente adopted the PHQ-9 as a standard measure for depression screening. The PHQ-9 is also the most commonly used depression measure in the United Kingdom's National Health Service, which requires providers to use a depression screening instrument when treating depression.Studies found the PHQ-9 is also useful for screening for depression in psychiatric clinics. 9-item depression scale
The PHQ-9 (DEP-9 in some sources), a tool specific to depression, scores each of the 9 DSM-IV related criteria based on the mood module from the original PRIME-MD. 
Should all human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients with end-stage renal disease be excluded from transplantation? [SEP] While it is not possible to identify prospectively all patients needing transmission-based precautions, certain clinical syndromes and conditions carry a sufficiently high risk to warrant their use empirically while confirmatory tests are pending. Kidney disease
People with kidney failure have a 10 to 30-fold increase in risk of getting TB. People with kidney disease who are being given immunosuppressive medications or are being considered for transplant should be considered for treatment of latent tuberculosis if appropriate. Aminoglycosides (STM, capreomycin and amikacin) should be avoided in patients with mild to severe kidney problems because of the increased risk of damage to the kidneys. If a person has end-stage kidney disease and has no useful remaining kidney function, then aminoglycosides can be used, but only if drug levels can be easily measured (often only amikacin levels can be measured). In mild kidney impairment, no change needs to be made in dosing any of the other drugs routinely used in the treatment of TB. HIV
In patients with HIV, treatment for the HIV should be delayed until TB treatment is completed, if possible. HIV positive and patients currently or previously treated for tuberculosis were excluded. 
Is the 7th TNM edition suitable for biological predictor in early gastric cancer? [SEP] Staging
Staging is based on the TNM staging system, which classifies the amount of tumor invasion (T), involvement of lymph nodes (N), and distant metastasis (M). As with most other forms of cancer, tumor staging is based on the TNM system which considers how much the initial tumor has spread and the presence of metastases in lymph nodes and more distant organs. People with a tumor that has not breached the muscularis mucosa (TNM stage Tis, N0, M0) have a five-year survival rate of 100%, while those with invasive cancer of T1 (within the submucosal layer) or T2 (within the muscular layer) have an average five-year survival rate of approximately 90%. Classification
WHO
The World Health Organization (WHO) classification scheme places neuroendocrine tumors into three main categories, which emphasize the tumor grade rather than the anatomical origin:
well-differentiated neuroendocrine tumors, further subdivided into tumors with benign and those with uncertain behavior
well-differentiated (low grade) neuroendocrine carcinomas with low-grade malignant behavior
poorly differentiated (high grade) neuroendocrine carcinomas, which are the large cell neuroendocrine and small cell carcinomas.Additionally, the WHO scheme recognizes mixed tumors with both neuroendocrine and epithelial carcinoma features, such as goblet cell cancer, a rare gastrointestinal tract tumor.Placing a given tumor into one of these categories depends on well-defined histological features: size, lymphovascular invasion, mitotic count, Ki-67 labelling index, invasion of adjacent organs, presence of metastases and whether they produce hormones.The WHO grading from 2022 endorses a three-tiered grading system for most NETs, in particular NETs of the gastrointestinal or pancreaticobiliary tract, as well as NETs of the upper aerodigestive tract and the salivary glands. The following grading scheme is currently recommended for all gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasms by the World Health Organization:

If mitotic count and Ki-67 are discordant, the figure which gives the highest grade is used. G3 neoplasms are called neuroendocrine carcinomas (NECs).It has been proposed that the current G3 category be further separated into histologically well-differentiated and poorly-differentiated neoplasms to better reflect prognosis. For example, gastric NEC and mixed adenoneuroendocrine cancers are staged as primary carcinoma of the stomach.TNM staging of gastroenteropancreatic Grade 1 and Grade 2 neuroendocrine tumors are as follows:

Signs and symptoms
Gastroenteropancreatic
Conceptually, there are two main types of NET within the gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (GEP-NET) category: those which arise from the gastrointestinal (GI) system and those that arise from the pancreas. Gastrointestinal neuroendocrine tumors
Most gastrointestinal carcinoid tumors tend not to respond to chemotherapy agents, showing 10 to 20% response rates that are typically less than 6 months. 
Does growth hormone replacement therapy reduce mortality in adults with growth hormone deficiency? [SEP] Growth hormone deficiency (GHD), or human growth hormone deficiency, is a medical condition resulting from not enough growth hormone (GH). Adults
GH supplementation is not recommended medically for the physiologic age-related decline in GH/IGF secretion. Adults
GH treatment can confer a number of measurable benefits to severely GH-deficient adults, such as enhanced energy and strength, and improved bone density. HGH deficiency in adults
The Endocrine Society has recommended that adult patients diagnosed with growth hormone deficiency (GHd) be administered an individualized GH treatment regimen. "GH replacement therapy can provide a number of measurable benefits to GH-deficient adults. These include improved bone density, increased muscle mass, decrease of adipose tissue, faster hair and nail growth, strengthened immune system, increased circulatory system, and improved blood lipid levels, but long term mortality benefit has not yet been demonstrated.A peer-reviewed article published in 2010 indicates that "Growth hormone (GH) replacement unequivocally benefits growth, body composition, cardiovascular risk factors and quality of life. The reason is unknown, but GH is now rarely used in ICU patients unless they have severe growth hormone deficiency.GH treatment usually decreases insulin sensitivity, but some studies showed no evidence for increased diabetes incidence in GH-treated adult hypopituitary patients.In past it was believed that GH treatment could increase the cancer risk; a large study recently concluded that "With relatively short follow-up, the overall primary cancer risk in 6840 patients receiving GH as adults was not increased. However, as adults in their 30s and 40s, these people, who had been children with growth hormone deficiency, were now adults with growth hormone deficiency and had more than their share of common adult problems: reduced physical, mental, and social energy, excess adipose and diminished muscle, diminished libido, poor bone density, higher cholesterol levels, and higher rates of cardiovascular disease. 
Attaining negative margins in breast-conservation operations: is there a consensus among breast surgeons? [SEP] References
Further reading
External links
Surgical Considerations: Margins Breast-conserving surgery (BCS) refers to an operation that aims to remove breast cancer while avoiding a mastectomy. This page reviews the history of this operation, important considerations in decision making and patient selection, and the emerging field of oncoplastic breast conservation surgery. Breast conserving surgery at National Breast and Ovarian Cancer Centre www.nbocc.org Revision and reconstruction: to revise (correct) the outcome of a previous breast reconstruction surgery. Because the body resorbs some of the injected fat grafts (volume loss), compensative over-filling aids in obtaining a satisfactory breast outcome for the patient; thus the transplantation of large-volume fat grafts greater than required, because only 25–50 percent of the fat graft survives at 1-year post-transplantation.The correct technique maximizes fat graft survival by minimizing cellular trauma during the liposuction harvesting and the centrifugal refinement, and by injecting the fat in small aliquots (equal measures), not clumps (too-large measures). Revision and reconstruction: to revise (correct) the outcome of a previous breast reconstruction surgery. Because the body resorbs some of the injected fat grafts (volume loss), compensative over-filling aids in obtaining a satisfactory breast outcome for the patient; thus the transplantation of large-volume fat grafts greater than required, because only 25–50 percent of the fat graft survives at 1-year post-transplantation.The correct technique maximizes fat graft survival by minimizing cellular trauma during the liposuction harvesting and the centrifugal refinement, and by injecting the fat in small aliquots (equal measures), not clumps (too-large measures). 
Can serum be used for analyzing the EGFR mutation status in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer? [SEP] Blood tests for alpha-fetoprotein, karyotype, human chorionic gonadotropin, and liver function are used to diagnose germ cell tumor and potential co-occurring gonadal dysgenesis. For women with stromal cancers, tests for hormones like estrogen, testosterone, and inhibin are sometimes helpful. The fragmentation of cfDNA is altered in the plasma of cancer patients. Researchers have used liquid biopsy to monitor tumor load, treatment response and disease progression in cancer patients by measuring rare mutations in circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) in a variety of biological fluids from patients including blood, urine and cerebrospinal fluid. This reduced time to results has been used by physicians to expedite treatments tailored to biopsy data.In 2016, a prospective trial using dPCR at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute authenticated the clinical benefit of liquid biopsy as a predictive diagnostic tool for patients with non-small-cell lung cancer. The application of liquid biopsy tests have also been studied in patients with breast, colorectal, gynecologic, and bladder cancers to monitor both the disease load and the tumor’s response to treatment. The assessment of ucfDNA is not limited to urological cancer only, but also applies to non-urological cancer and diseases. Screening and testing with ucfDNA are able to detect specific tumor DNA or DNA mutations, indicating its potential for non-invasive diagnosis and personalized screening. 
Do Web-based and clinic samples of gay men living with HIV differ on self-reported physical and psychological symptoms? [SEP] Same-sex relationships are similarly affected by the HIV/AIDS status in domestic violence. This same report states that 26% of gay men, 37% of bisexual men, and 29% of heterosexual men experienced domestic violence in their lifetime. In 2014, national surveys indicated that anywhere from 25 to 50% of gay and bisexual males have experienced physical violence from a partner. One study focusing on Hispanic men indicated that gay men are less likely to have been perpetrators or victims of domestic violence than heterosexual men but that bisexual men are more likely to have been both. Particularly, sexual stressors and an HIV/AIDS status have emerged as significant differences in same-sex partner violence. A National Institute of Health (NIH) analysis conducted with data collected at a community health center in the United States compared transgender and cisgender adult patients on various possible health disparities. A nationwide survey of military personnel in 2015 found that 17.2% of transgender veterans reported experiencing MSA, and nearly two times more transgender men (30%) had a MSA experience when compared to transgender women (15.2%). Family and community support were correlated with far lower rates of suicide attempts and of major psychological distress.A study conducted on transgender women of color in San Francisco has shown a higher correlation between transphobia and risk of transgender women engaging in HIV risk behavior. 
Are patients with diabetes receiving the same message from dietitians and nurses? [SEP] A certified diabetes educator (CDE) is a health care professional who is specialized and certified to teach people with diabetes how to manage their condition.The CDE is an asset for those who need to learn the tools and skills necessary to control their blood sugar and avoid long-term complications due to hyperglycemia. Typically the CDE is also a nurse, dietitian, clinical nutrition professional, exercise physiologist, pharmacist, or social worker who has further specialized in diabetes education and care management. Certification
In the US, certification is awarded by the National Certification Board for Diabetes Educators.In Canada, certification is awarded by the Canadian Diabetes Educator Certification Board (CDECB). The Diabetes Nurse Educator (DNE) and Certified Lay Educator (CLE) are the equivalent of the CDE in the Philippines. These patients received advice from nurse tele-carers on medication, diet and lifestyle, how to monitor their condition and look out for signs of deterioration, helping them stay healthy for as long as possible. Medical nutrition therapy is done by dietitians and is prescribed for diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, weight and eating disorders, allergies, malnutrition, and neoplastic diseases. Nurses support patients in reducing medical risk factors such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol and diabetes. A dietitian helps create a healthy eating plan. 
Preparing patients at high risk of falls for discharge home after rehabilitation: Do we meet the guidelines? [SEP] Adult trauma patients in expansion states experienced a 13.7 percentage point reduction in uninsured rates compared to adult trauma patients in non-expansion states, and an accompanying 7.4 percentage point increase in discharge to rehabilitation. Following Medicaid expansion and dependent coverage expansion, young adults hospitalized for acute traumatic injury in Maryland experienced a 60% increase in rehabilitation, 25% reduction in mortality, and a 29.8% reduction in failure-to-rescue. Post-discharge provider appointment and telephone follow-up interventions have been shown to reduce 30-day readmission rates among general medical-surgical inpatients. Reductions in 60, 90, and 180 post-discharge day readmission rates due to transition-of-care interventions have also been demonstrated, and a reduction in 30-day mortality has been suggested. Total joint arthroplasty bundles as part of the Bundled Payments for Care Improvement initiative have been shown to reduce discharge to inpatient rehabilitation facilities and post-acute care facilities, decrease hospital length of stay by 18% without sacrificing quality of care, and reduce the rate of total joint arthroplasty readmissions, half of which were due to surgical complications. The patient-centered medical home (PCMH) payment and care model, a team-based approach to population health management that risk-stratifies patients and provides focused care management and outreach to high-risk patients, has been shown to improve diabetes outcomes. The Royal College of Physicians surveyed doctors across the UK, with two-thirds maintaining patient safety had deteriorated during the year to 2018: 80% feared they would be unable to provide safe patient care in the coming year while 84% felt increased pressure on the NHS was demoralising the workforce. In August 2016, Baker launched an improved version of the state's prescription monitoring program and expanded the state's core competencies program in prevention and management of prescription drug misuse to advanced practice nursing and physician assistant programs, as well as to training programs for employees at community health centers, and the following month, Baker announced a statewide medication disposal program at Walgreens pharmacies. 
Expression of c-kit protooncogen in hepatitis B virus-induced chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma: has it a diagnostic role? [SEP] The infection may be entirely asymptomatic and may go unrecognized.Chronic infection with hepatitis B virus may be asymptomatic or may be associated with chronic inflammation of the liver (chronic hepatitis), leading to cirrhosis over a period of several years. This type of infection dramatically increases the incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC; liver cancer). Across Europe, hepatitis B and C cause approximately 50% of hepatocellular carcinomas. Mechanisms
Hepatitis B virus primarily interferes with the functions of the liver by replicating in hepatocytes. The hepatitis C virus is the cause of hepatitis C and some cancers such as liver cancer (hepatocellular carcinoma, abbreviated HCC) and lymphomas in humans. Chronic hepatitis B causes liver inflammation and injury that over several decades can lead to cirrhosis. Pathogenesis
Hepatocellular carcinoma, like any other cancer, develops when epigenetic alterations and mutations affecting the cellular machinery cause the cell to replicate at a higher rate and/or result in the cell avoiding apoptosis.In particular, chronic infections of hepatitis B and/or C can aid the development of hepatocellular carcinoma by repeatedly causing the body's own immune system to attack the liver cells, some of which are infected by the virus, others merely bystanders. The combined high prevalence of rates of aflatoxin and hepatitis B in settings such as  China and West Africa has led to relatively high rates of hepatocellular carcinoma in these regions. 
Longer term quality of life and outcome in stroke patients: is the Barthel index alone an adequate measure of outcome? [SEP] The symptoms of a stroke can be permanent. A scoring system called ROSIER (recognition of stroke in the emergency room) is recommended for this purpose; it is based on features from the medical history and physical examination. It can give a standard score on e.g., the NIH stroke scale. Validated instruments such as the Barthel scale may be used to assess the likelihood of a person who has had a stroke being able to manage at home with or without support subsequent to discharge from a hospital.Stroke rehabilitation should be started as quickly as possible and can last anywhere from a few days to over a year. Yoga
Based on low quality evidence, it is currently uncertain whether yoga has a significant benefit for stroke rehabilitation on measures of quality of life, balance, strength, endurance, pain, and disability scores. Self-management
A stroke can affect the ability to live independently and with quality. A 2016 review reported that these programs improve the quality of life after stroke, without negative effects. See also
References
Further reading
External links

Stroke at Curlie
DRAGON Score for Post-Thrombolysis Archived 2020-10-27 at the Wayback Machine
THRIVE score for stroke outcome Archived 2016-09-13 at the Wayback Machine
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke 
Do women residents delay childbearing due to perceived career threats? [SEP] People in such places tend to have children later and fewer of them. While it is not unusual for men to marry late because they are expected to have established themselves before getting married and to be the primary breadwinner, one major reason why women are marrying later is because higher education eliminates the need to get married for economic survival.At the 2019 Forbes Global CEO Conference, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said that one of the top issues facing his country is finding the right demographic balance. If women were merely delaying childbirth, the fertility of women in their 20s would decline while that of women in their 30s would rise. NRS explained that economic insecurity and the postponement of motherhood, which often means having fewer children, are among the reasons why. At the same time, many women are choosing delay childbearing or are choosing a childless life altogether. More and more women are realizing that having children is an option they can ignore in favor of economic or educational opportunities; some worry that a woman's career might stall if she chooses to have children. Globally, gender equality is associated with lower fertility.In the early 2020s, as many as one in five American adults do not want to have children, with some reporting they had made their decision early on. For women in such places, the opportunity cost of having a child was higher. 
Do general practitioner hospitals reduce the utilisation of general hospital beds? [SEP] This included about 8,000 hospital beds. In 2000 the country counted one hospital bed per 4,900 population and more than 27,000 people per primary health care facility. In the public sector, the Ministry of Health operates 1,245 primary health care centers and 27 hospitals, accounting for 37 percent of all hospital beds in the country; the military's Royal Medical Services runs 11 hospitals, providing 24 percent of all beds; and the Jordan University Hospital accounts for 3 percent of total beds in the country. In 2001 there were about 1,700 hospitals, of which about 40 percent were government-run and 60 percent private, with a total of about 85,000 beds, or about one bed per 900 people. The number of state hospital beds reportedly fell between 1995 and 2001, while the population had an 18 percent increase, but the opening of new hospitals in 2002 caused the number of hospital beds to double. The number of hospital beds, like that in other EU countries, has undergone a major decline since 1980, from around 40,000 to about 23,000 in 1998/99. Establishment
In 1979 across the whole UK there were about 2,750 NHS hospitals with about 480,000 beds, accounting for about 70% of total NHS expenditure. Physicians and hospital beds per 1000 inhabitants vs Health Care Spending in 2008 for OECD Countries. 
Some aspects of social exclusion: do they influence suicide mortality? [SEP] A large body of literature suggests that individuals who experience isolation in their lives are more vulnerable to suicide than those who have strong social ties with others. A study found social isolation to be among the most common risk factors identified by Australian men who attempt suicide. Professor Ian Hickie of the University of Sydney said that social isolation was perhaps the most important factor contributing to male suicide attempts. Isolation and health and mortality
Social isolation and loneliness in older adults is associated with an increased risk for poor mental and physical health and increased mortality. There is an increased risk for early mortality in individuals experiencing social isolation compared to those who are not socially isolated. Social isolation has also been found to be associated with poor mental health including increased risk for depression, cognitive decline, anxiety, and substance use. Other risk factors include social isolation, immigration related to social adversity and racial discrimination, family dysfunction, unemployment, and poor housing conditions. Social problems, such as long-term unemployment, poverty, homelessness, exploitation, stigmatization and victimization are common consequences, and lead to social exclusion.There is a higher than average suicide rate associated with schizophrenia estimated at 5% to 6%, most often occurring in the period following onset or first hospital admission. 
Does parity increase insulin resistance during pregnancy? [SEP] It can also decrease maternal tissue sensitivity to insulin, resulting in gestational diabetes. This contributes to insulin resistance of pregnancy and possibly striae. Maternal insulin resistance can lead to gestational diabetes. Upon becoming pregnant, the placenta produces human placental lactogen (HPL), a hormone with counter-regulatory actions leading to increased blood glucose levels. As the fetus grows and weight is gained throughout the pregnancy, the body produces more hormones which may cause insulin resistance and the need for more insulin. During delivery, which is equivalent to exercise, insulin needs to be reduced again or hyperglycemia can occur. Many may need extra insulin during pregnancy to reach their blood sugar target. Insulin is not harmful for the baby. 
Informed consent for total hip arthroplasty: does a written information sheet improve recall by patients? [SEP] Informed consent is a principle in medical ethics and medical law and media studies, that a patient must have sufficient information and understanding before making decisions about their medical care. Informed consent requires a clear appreciation and understanding of the facts, implications, and consequences of an action. Arguably, this is "sufficient consent" rather than "informed consent." Informed consent in these jurisdictions requires healthcare providers to disclose significant risks, as well as risks of particular importance to that patient. Significantly, causation must be shown: That had the individual been made aware of the risk he would not have proceeded with the operation (or perhaps with that surgeon).Optimal establishment of an informed consent requires adaptation to cultural or other individual factors of the patient. Obtaining informed consents
To document that informed consent has been given for a procedure, healthcare organisations have traditionally used paper-based consent forms on which the procedure and its risks and benefits are noted, and is signed by both patient and clinician. Informed consent is documented by means of a written, signed, and dated informed consent form. Hip replacement is one of the most common orthopaedic operations, though patient satisfaction varies widely. 
Is gastric cancer different in Korea and the United States? [SEP] Japan and South Korea, two countries that have high rates of the disease, screen for stomach cancer.A Mediterranean diet lowers the risk of stomach cancer, as does the stopping of smoking. In the United States, five-year survival is 31.5%, while in South Korea it is over 65% and Japan over 70%, partly due to screening efforts.Globally, stomach cancer is the fifth-leading type of cancer and the third-leading cause of death from cancer, making up 7% of cases and 9% of deaths. Stomach cancer occurs most commonly in East Asia and Eastern Europe. The highest rate of stomach cancer was in Mongolia, at 28 cases per 100,000 people.In the United Kingdom, stomach cancer is the 15th-most common cancer (around 7,100 people were diagnosed with stomach cancer in 2011), and it is the 10th-most common cause of cancer-related deaths (around 4,800 people died in 2012).Incidence and mortality rates of gastric cancer vary greatly in Africa. Gastric cancer, though present, is relatively low when compared to countries with high incidence like Japan and China. There is significant geographic variation in the rates of different gastrointestinal cancers. Worldwide, the incidence of each type is about the same, but in developed countries like North America and Europe adenocarcinoma is the more common.Cancer of the esophagus is often detected late inasmuch as there are typically no early symptoms. Eastern Asia (China, Japan, Korea, Mongolia) is a high-risk area for gastric cancer, and North America, Australia, New Zealand and western and northern Africa are areas with low risk. 
Do we need imaging to diagnose appendicitis in children? [SEP] Abdomen and pelvis
CT is an accurate technique for diagnosis of abdominal diseases like Crohn's disease, GIT bleeding, and diagnosis and staging of cancer, as well as follow-up after cancer treatment to assess response. It is commonly used to investigate acute abdominal pain.Non-enhanced computed tomography is today the gold standard for diagnosing urinary stones. Shortening of the scanning time to around 1 second, eliminating the strict need for the subject to remain still or be sedated, is one of the main reasons for the large increase in the pediatric population (especially for the diagnosis of appendicitis). If the results are positive, the patient is referred for anatomic imaging with a CT or MR scan. For example, "Patient M" presents to his local emergency room for abdominal pain and a CT is ordered to rule-out appendicitis; however, the radiologist notes there is a 3.5 centimeter right adrenal mass.While there has not been a consensus on if CT or MR is the preferred imaging modality in pheochromocytoma, each method has its associated strengths and weaknesses. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is another option for imaging the small bowel as well as looking for complications, though it is more expensive and less readily available. She underwent an operation for appendicitis at the age of five. abdominal computed tomography, abdominal X-rays) and an examination with a camera inserted into the rectum (sigmoidoscopy, colonoscopy).An important investigation in the assessment of colitis is biopsy. 
Discharging patients earlier from Winnipeg hospitals: does it adversely affect quality of care? [SEP] They have seven years less life expectancy than the overall Canadian population and almost twice as many infant deaths. Racism in health care and environmental racism
Institutional racism impacts health care accessibility within non-white minority communities by creating health disparities among racial groups. Thomson Airways Flight 133: The December 31 flight from Manchester to the Dominican Republic was delayed in taking off for three hours, allowing many passengers extra time to consume more alcohol. One hour into a July 6, 2010, WestJet flight from Calgary to Halifax, Barbara Morton, 47, of St. John's, Newfoundland, left her seat and told a flight attendant she was experiencing morphine withdrawal and was going to open the cabin door. WestJet Flight 706: The June 14 flight from Vancouver to Toronto, during the COVID-19 pandemic, diverted to Winnipeg due to an unruly passenger. Convoy to Ottawa
The first convoy departed Prince Rupert on January 22, arriving in Prince George in the evening. "During this first weekend of protest in Ottawa, the city's COVID-19 wastewater signal indicated a sharp increase in COVID-19 cases, suggesting a possible link between the gathering of protesters and the spread of COVID-19.A January 31 press conference was held at an undisclosed location, open only to invited right-wing outlets.The House of Commons resumed on January 31, after the holiday break.On January 31, Ottawa Paramedics announced that protesters had thrown rocks at an ambulance over the course of the weekend and called paramedics racial slurs. One was hospitalized and later released. 
Does the distribution of health care benefits in Kenya meet the principles of universal coverage? [SEP] The government provides universal health care. Universality states that all citizens must have access to health care services, without any form of discrimination, regarding skin color, income, social status, gender or any other variable. Philippines
Since 1995, PhilHealth has aimed for universal healthcare coverage through a governmental health insurance scheme. The system promises equal access to health care for all citizens, and the population coverage had reached 99% by the end of 2004. Universal health care is provided through three programs: the civil service welfare system for civil servants and their families, Social Security for private employees, and the Universal Coverage scheme theoretically available to all other Thai nationals. There are many other policies aiming at improving the health system and health care provision in Tanzania. In Tanzania a lot of health policies have established a clear objective of attaining primary healthcare for all. The Pan American Health Organization/World Health Organization (PAHO/WHO) proposes the Strategy for Universal Access to Health and Universal Health Coverage to improve health outcomes and other basic objectives of health systems based on the right of each person to receive the best standard of health, without exposing people to financial difficulties through nursing intervention. 
Cholesterol screening in school children: is family history reliable to choose the ones to screen? [SEP] People born in the US between 1945 and 1965 should be screened once (unless they have other exposure risks).Screening consists of a blood test that detects anti-hepatitis C virus antibody. The process integrates:

Interpretation of family and medical histories to assess the chance of disease occurrence or recurrence
Education about inheritance, testing, management, prevention, resources
Counseling to promote informed choices, adaptation to the risk or condition and support in reaching out to relatives that are also at risk

History
The practice of advising people about inherited traits began around the turn of the 20th century, shortly after William Bateson suggested that the new medical and biological study of heredity be called "genetics". This is done by identifying patients with known or suspected heritable cardiovascular diseases and promoting cascade family screening or testing of at-risk relatives. Genetic counselors take a family history and assess for hereditary risk, or risk that can be passed down from generation to generation. If indicated, they can coordinate genetic testing, typically via blood or saliva sample, to evaluate for hereditary cancer risk. Personalized medical management and cancer screening recommendations can be provided based on results of genetic testing and/or the family history of cancer. Pharmacogenetics may be used in the near future by public health practitioners to determine the best candidates for certain drugs, thereby reducing much of the guesswork in prescribing drugs. Newborn genetic screening is a promising area in public health genomics that appears poised to capitalize on the public health goal of disease prevention as a primary form of treatment. 
Bony defects in chronic anterior posttraumatic dislocation of the shoulder: Is there a correlation between humeral and glenoidal lesions? [SEP] The human shoulder is made up of three bones: the clavicle (collarbone), the scapula (shoulder blade), and the humerus (upper arm bone) as well as associated muscles, ligaments and tendons. The articulations between the bones of the shoulder make up the shoulder joints. The shoulder joint, also known as the glenohumeral joint, is the major joint of the shoulder, but can more broadly include the acromioclavicular joint. The main joint of the shoulder is the shoulder joint (or glenohumeral joint), between the humerus and the glenoid process of the scapular. Joint
The shoulder joint (also known as the glenohumeral joint) is the main joint of the shoulder. Clinical significance
The shoulder is the most mobile and potentially unstable joint in the body. Fracture
Fractures of shoulder bones can include clavicular fractures, scapular fractures, and fractures of the upper humerus. recommend starting scanning with conventional x-rays taken from at least two planes, since this method gives a wide first impression and even has the chance of exposing any frequent shoulder pathologies, i.e., decompensated rotator cuff tears, tendinitis calcarea, dislocations, fractures, usures, and/or osteophytes. 
Do parents recall and understand children's weight status information after BMI screening? [SEP] They may consider their children to be "emotionally priceless" and may not engage with them and believe they are giving the child it's personal space. Research has shown that this parenting style can lead to "greater under-eating behaviors, risky cyber behaviors, substance use, and depressive symptoms among adolescents." Parent training
Parent psychosocial health can have a significant impact on the parent-child relationship. Triple P focus on equipping parents with the information they need to increase confidence and self-sufficiency in managing their children's behavior. Parental reports of ethnic-racial socialization influence are influenced by “intentions,” so child reports tend to be more accurate.Among other conclusions derived from this meta-analysis, cultural socialization and self-perceptions had a small positive correlation. Physically, one may not see symptoms or indications of a disorder, but the child may be affected emotionally. Parents also teach their children health, hygiene, and eating habits through instruction and by example. Do Parents Matter? 
Does ambulatory process of care predict health-related quality of life outcomes for patients with chronic disease? [SEP] Encouraging those with chronic conditions to continue with their outpatient (ambulatory) medical care and attend scheduled medical appointments may help improve outcomes and reduce medical costs due to missed appointments. In specific:
Disease management improved "clinical processes of care" (e.g., adherence to evidence-based guidelines) for congestive heart failure, coronary artery disease, diabetes, and depression. Disease management increased patient satisfaction and health-related quality of life in congestive heart failure and depression, but the evidence was insufficient for the other diseases studied.A subsequent letter to the editor claimed that disease management might nevertheless "satisfy buyers today, even if academics remain unconvinced".A 2008 systematic review and meta-analysis concluded that disease management for COPD "modestly improved exercise capacity, health-related quality of life, and hospital admissions, but not all-cause mortality". Disease management: a systems approach to improving patient outcomes. The health care professional's guide to disease management: patient-centered care for the 21st century. Changing patient behavior: improving outcomes in health and disease management. Chronic disease management. Center for Managing Chronic Disease. 
Does perspective-taking increase patient satisfaction in medical encounters? [SEP] the outcome of treatment), the doctor–patient relationship seems to have a "small, but statistically significant impact on healthcare outcomes". Patient-centered communication, which involves asking open-ended questions, having a warm disposition, encouraging emotional expression, and demonstrating interest in the patient's life, has been shown to positively affect the doctor–patient relationship. Additionally, this type of communication has been shown to decrease other negative attitudes or assumptions the patient might have about doctors or healthcare as a whole, and has even been shown to improve treatment compliance. Medical mistrust negatively impacts the doctor–patient relationship, as a patient who has little faith in their physician is less likey to listen to their advice, follow their treatment plans, and feel comfortable disclosing information about themselves. Some forms of communication by the physician, such as self-disclosure and patient-centered communication, have been shown to decrease medical mistrust in patients.Medical mistrust has been shown to be greater for minority group patients, and is associated with decreased compliance, which can contribute to poorer health outcomes. Turn-taking and conversational dominance
Researchers have studied the doctor–patient relationship using the theory of conversation analysis. And fifth, patients want to be participants in medical decision-making; they want providers to ask them what they want.An example of how body language affects patient perception of care is that the time spent with the patient in the emergency department is perceived as longer if the doctor sits down during the encounter. Providers can improve patient interactions through motivational interviewing and active listening. 
Is first-line single-agent mitoxantrone in the treatment of high-risk metastatic breast cancer patients as effective as combination chemotherapy? [SEP] Breast cancer
Docetaxel and paclitaxel have comparable efficacy metastatic breast cancer but paclitaxel has less severe side effects. This led to the identification of the mitoxantrone which is classed as an anthracenedione compound and is used in the clinic for the management of various cancers. Clinical implications
Results from a recent meta-analysis provide evidence that breast cancer patients with either duplication of centromere 17 or aberrations in TOP2A, the gene coding for topoisomerase-IIα, benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy that incorporates anthracyclines. The combination of Epirubicin and tamoxifen lead to an increase survival in node-positive postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive breast tumours. Advanced breast cancer
First-line therapy
Epirubicin monotherapy was shown to be therapeutically equivalent to doxorubicin monotherapy in patients who had to receive previous chemotherapy for advanced breast cancer. Second-line therapy
Patients with advanced breast cancer who experience disease progression after first-line therapy may respond to subsequent chemotherapy regimens; however, response rates and durations are generally lower than those seen after initial treatment with these regimens (FEC and FAC). Equimolar doses of epirubicin and doxorubicin have been shown to be therapeutically equivalent in patients with metastatic breast cancer. Additionally the administration of more dose intensive epirubicin-containing regimens to patients with metastatic breast cancer has been associated with improved response rates, but not increased overall survival. 
Are patients with Werlhof's disease at increased risk for bleeding complications when undergoing cardiac surgery? [SEP] Refractory ITP (not responsive to conventional treatment or constant relapsing after splenectomy) requires treatment to reduce the risk of clinically significant bleeding. An ITP patient with an extremely low count is vulnerable to internal bleeding caused by blunt abdominal trauma, as might be experienced in a motor vehicle crash. Bleeding time is usually prolonged in ITP patients. Nevertheless, in the case of an ITP patient already scheduled for surgery who has a dangerously low platelet count and has experienced a poor response to other treatments, IVIg can rapidly increase platelet counts, and can also help reduce the risk of major bleeding by transiently increasing platelet counts. The procedure is potentially risky in ITP cases due to the increased possibility of significant bleeding during surgery. Prognosis
In general patients with acute ITP will only rarely have life-threatening bleeding. The risk of neonatal thrombocytopenia is increased with:
Mothers with a history of splenectomy for ITP
Mothers who had a previous infant affected with ITP
Gestational (maternal) platelet count less than 100,000/uLIt is recommended that pregnant women with thrombocytopenia or a previous diagnosis of ITP should be tested for serum antiplatelet antibodies. The name "Werlhof's disease" was used more widely before the current descriptive name became more popular. 
Is neck pain associated with worse health-related quality of life 6 months later? [SEP] "Symptoms have been present at a similar level for at least 3 months." The study concluded that while most patient's fibromyalgia symptoms endure, the severity of their pain tends to reduce over time.Baseline depressive symptoms in adolescents appear to predict worse pain at follow-up periods. Pain elsewhere, such as the teeth or neck. Chronic neck pain. There is a poor correlation between TMD pain severity and evidence of tissue pathology.Generally, degenerative joint changes are associated with greater pain. Related conditions that are also claimed to be treatable by chiropractic include tension headaches and neck pain. However, the persistent pain symptoms, psychological discomfort, physical disability and functional limitations may detriment quality of life. However, several areas of the head and neck do have pain receptors and can thus sense pain. 
Does oral α-galactosidase relieve irritable bowel symptoms? [SEP] It contains the enzyme alpha-galactosidase (α-GAL). In some cases, the symptoms are relieved by bowel movements. Three RCTs showed a significant improvement in Irritable Bowel Syndrome – Severity Scoring System, while 1 RCT showed a significant improvement only in symptoms of constipation. Because of their serotonergic effect, SSRIs have been studied in IBS, especially for people who are constipation predominant. Other agents
Magnesium aluminum silicates and alverine citrate drugs can be effective for IBS.Rifaximin may be useful as a treatment for IBS symptoms, including abdominal bloating and flatulence, although relief of abdominal distension is delayed. A probiotic yeast called Saccharomyces boulardii has some evidence of effectiveness in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome.Certain probiotics have different effects on certain symptoms of IBS. A comprehensive meta-analysis using twelve random trials resulted that the use of peppermint oil is an effective therapy for adults with irritable bowel syndrome.Research into cannabinoids as treatment for IBS is limited. Notes
References
External links

Irritable bowel syndrome at Curlie 
Is there a connection between sublingual varices and hypertension? [SEP] Esophageal varices are extremely dilated sub-mucosal veins in the lower third of the esophagus. The small blood vessels in these areas become distended, becoming more thin-walled, and appear as varicosities.In situations where portal pressures increase, such as with cirrhosis, there is dilation of veins in the anastomosis, leading to esophageal varices. Splenic vein thrombosis is a rare condition that causes esophageal varices without a raised portal pressure. Treatment of these types of varices may differ. : portal hypertension). varices) is an abnormally dilated vessel with a tortuous course. The increased peripheral resistance in established hypertension is mainly attributable to structural narrowing of small arteries and arterioles, although a reduction in the number or density of capillaries may also contribute.It is not clear whether or not vasoconstriction of arteriolar blood vessels plays a role in hypertension. These mechanisms are not mutually exclusive and it is likely that both contribute to some extent in most cases of essential hypertension. 
Can CT predict the level of CSF block in tuberculous hydrocephalus? [SEP] Significant changes in pressure during the procedure can indicate tumors or spinal blockage resulting in a large pool of CSF, or hydrocephalus associated with large volumes of CSF. Very high levels of protein may indicate tuberculous meningitis or spinal block. Tuberculosis of the central nervous system
Central nervous system tuberculosis takes two major forms: tuberculous meningitis and tuberculoma.Tuberculosis may affect the central nervous system (meninges, brain or spinal cord) in which case it is called TB meningitis, TB cerebritis, and TB myelitis respectively; the standard treatment is 12 months of drugs (2HREZ/10HR) and steroid are mandatory.Diagnosis is difficult as CSF culture is positive in less than half of cases, and therefore a large proportion of cases are treated on the basis of clinical suspicion alone. The CSF of patients with treated TB meningitis is commonly abnormal even at 12 months; the rate of resolution of the abnormality bears no correlation with clinical progress or outcome, and is not an indication for extending or repeating treatment; repeated sampling of CSF by lumbar puncture to monitor treatment progress should therefore not be done.Although TB meningitis and TB cerebritis are classified together, the experience of many clinicians is that their progression and response to treatment is not the same. "The History, Development and Impact of Computed Imaging in Neurological Diagnosis and Neurosurgery: CT, MRI, and DTI". Hydrocephalus is an abnormal accumulation of CSF in the ventricles of the brain. Hydrocephalus without obstruction associated with normal CSF pressure may also occur. Medical imaging such as CT scans and MRI scans can be used to investigate for a presumed CSF leak when no obvious leak is found but low CSF pressure is identified. 
MR arthrography of the shoulder: do we need local anesthesia? [SEP] Use
Shoulder arthrography can be used to study tears of the rotator cuff, glenoid labrum and biceps. MR arthrography is most often used in evaluation of the hip and acetabular labrum, of the shoulder rotator cuff and glenoid labrum, and less often in the wrist. Therapeutic arthrograms often distend the joint with cortisone and lidocaine, with a common site being the shoulder. Use
Shoulder arthrography can be used to study tears of the rotator cuff, glenoid labrum and biceps. MR arthrography is most often used in evaluation of the hip and acetabular labrum, of the shoulder rotator cuff and glenoid labrum, and less often in the wrist. Therapeutic arthrograms often distend the joint with cortisone and lidocaine, with a common site being the shoulder. To examine the shoulder, the patient should lay down with the concerned arm is in lateral rotation. Local anesthesia is any technique to induce the absence of sensation in a specific part of the body, generally for the aim of inducing local analgesia, i.e. 
Does cognitive function predict frequency compressed speech recognition in listeners with normal hearing and normal cognition? [SEP] Speech perception is the process by which the sounds of language are heard, interpreted, and understood. Speech perception research has applications in building computer systems that can recognize speech, in improving speech recognition for hearing- and language-impaired listeners, and in foreign-language teaching. Neurophysiological methods were introduced into speech perception research for several reasons:

Behavioral responses may reflect late, conscious processes and be affected by other systems such as orthography, and thus they may mask speaker's ability to recognize sounds based on lower-level acoustic distributions. Speech mode hypothesis
Speech mode hypothesis is the idea that the perception of speech requires the use of specialized mental processing. Strong version – listening to speech engages specialized speech mechanisms for perceiving speech.Three important experimental paradigms have evolved in the search to find evidence for the speech mode hypothesis. Research into speech perception also has applications in building computer systems that can recognize speech, as well as improving speech recognition for hearing- and language-impaired listeners.Speech perception is categorical, in that people put the sounds they hear into categories rather than perceiving them as a spectrum. Various studies have shown that despite normal audiograms, children with known auditory interhemispheric transfer deficits have particular difficulty localizing sound and understanding speech in noise.The CC of the human brain is relatively slow to mature with its size continuing to increase until the fourth decade of life. Music training leads to superior understanding of speech in noise across age groups and musical experience protects against age-related degradation in neural timing. 
Should cavitation in proximal surfaces be reported in cone beam computed tomography examination? [SEP] Cavitation is a significant cause of wear in some engineering contexts. Cavitation damage
Cavitation is usually an undesirable occurrence. This is cavitation. To overcome cavitation:
Increase suction pressure if possible. Control valves
Cavitation can occur in control valves. For cavitation in the engineering field, visit [1]
Kornfelt, M. (1944). "On the destructive action of cavitation". "Nonthermal issues: Cavitation—Its nature, detection and measurement;". 
Do supervised colorectal trainees differ from consultants in terms of quality of TME surgery? [SEP] They are also called upon to staff surgical intensive care units or trauma intensive care units.All general surgeons are trained in emergency surgery. General surgeons that are trained today are expected to be proficient in laparoscopic procedures. Colorectal surgery
General surgeons treat a wide variety of major and minor colon and rectal diseases including inflammatory bowel diseases (such as ulcerative colitis or Crohn's disease), diverticulitis, colon and rectal cancer, gastrointestinal bleeding and hemorrhoids. In many communities, they are the only surgeon trained to do this. The importance of training surgeons who sub-specialize in cancer surgery lies in evidence, supported by a number of clinical trials, that outcomes in surgical cancer care are positively associated to surgeon volume (i.e., the more cancer cases a surgeon treats, the more proficient he or she becomes, and his or her patients experience improved survival rates as a result). Subject-matter expert vs. consultant
According to Institute of Management Consultants USA, "The value of a consultant [as compared to a subject-matter expert (SME)] is to be able to correctly diagnose and effectively transform an often ill-defined problem and apply information, resources and processes to create a workable and usable solution. Another differentiation would be that a consultant sells advice, whereas an expert sells their expertise. A consultant differs from a temporary worker insofar as she or he has, as detailed above, a highly specialized career and domain knowledge. 
Affect-regulated exercise intensity: does training at an intensity that feels 'good' improve physical health? [SEP] Exercise with the correct amount of intensity, duration, and frequency can produce a significant amount of improvement. Studies have shown that exercising at a higher intensity can have the effect of increasing cardiac benefits for humans when compared with exercising at a low or moderate level. Benefits of Exercise on Mental health include ... A desire to experience euphoria; exercise may be increased as tolerance of the euphoric state increases. Exercising through trauma and despite physical injuries.Key differences between healthy and addictive levels of exercise include the presence of withdrawal symptoms when exercise is stopped as well as the addictive properties exercise may have leading to a dependence on exercise.Those who succumb to exercise addiction may experience overtraining, which is best defined as a “condition of poor adaptation to a chronic period of excessive stress caused by a physical exertion, resulting in the development of the syndrome, compromising the health and sports performance”.Overtraining includes one or more of the following:
Persistent muscle soreness
Elevated resting heart rate
Increased susceptibility to infections
Increased incidence of injuries
Insomnia
Decreased appetite
Weight loss
Impaired performance
Decreased motor coordination and force productionExercise addiction may also lead to mood disturbances. The Catecholamine Hypothesis: Exercise releases catecholamines, a group of substances in bloodstream (usually in response to emotional/physical stress) which regulate our mood, attention, and movement as well as endocrine and cardiovascular responses that are linked to stress levels in our body. Such high levels of endorphin production means the brain will have to down-regulate endorphin production, essentially “manipulating” the individual to believe that the exercise must be performed daily in order to maintain the new natural balance in the brain.Griffiths' findings suggest that once exercise occurs at high frequencies, it must be maintained in a similar manner and is very difficult to break the pattern. Regular physical activity has also been shown to reduce emotional distress and improve emotional control. 
Do socioeconomic differences in mortality persist after retirement? [SEP] Statistical findings
Mortality
Despite having lower socioeconomic status, higher rates of disability, obesity, cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes, most Hispanic groups, excepting Puerto Ricans, demonstrate lower or equal levels of mortality to their non-Hispanic White counterparts. This mortality advantage most commonly found among middle-aged and elderly Hispanics. Low socioeconomic status is correlated with increased rates of morbidity and mortality. Socioeconomic gap in healthcare
It has been previously documented that one's socioeconomic status significantly impacts their health. Another recent study re-assessed this relationship and found similar results that demonstrated that people with higher levels of education or income experience longer life expectancies and health-adjusted life expectancies. As a result, the researchers found that age, rural or urban residence, and place of care were better predictors of disparity.However, another study found that the gaps in COVID incidence and mortality cannot be explained by population age or sex distribution. One of these categories of inequalities is the social inequalities manifested through differences in COVID-19 mortality based on class, gender, and origin. Yet the policy has also led to population aging. 
Women with synchronous primary cancers of the endometrium and ovary: do they have Lynch syndrome? [SEP] Diseases related with endometrium
Chorionic tissue can result in marked endometrial changes, known as an Arias-Stella reaction, that have an appearance similar to cancer. Historically, this change was diagnosed as endometrial cancer and it is important only in so far as it should not be misdiagnosed as cancer. Endometrial hyperplasia
Endometrial cancer is the most common cancer of the human female genital tract. Endometrial protection
Estrogens stimulate endometrial proliferation and carcinogenesis. However, both entities could coexist and the endometrial tissue within the myometrium could harbor endometrioid adenocarcinoma, with potentially deep myometrial invasion. Polycystic ovary syndrome, or polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS), is the most common endocrine disorder in women of reproductive age. But there are also manifestations of mental health problems, such as anxiety, depression, and eating disorders.A diagnosis of PCOS suggests an increased risk of the following:

Endometrial hyperplasia and endometrial cancer (cancer of the uterine lining) are possible, due to overaccumulation of uterine lining, and also lack of progesterone, resulting in prolonged stimulation of uterine cells by estrogen. Current understanding of the pathogenesis of the syndrome suggests, however, that it is a complex multigenic disorder.Due to the scarcity of large-scale screening studies, the prevalence of endometrial abnormalities in PCOS remains unknown, though women with the condition may be at increased risk for endometrial hyperplasia and carcinoma as well as menstrual dysfunction and infertility. 
Can emergency physicians accurately and reliably assess acute vertigo in the emergency department? [SEP] The clinical features of altitude sickness include: sleep problems, dizziness, headache and oedema. If a patient is alert and is not vomiting, oral rehydration therapy may be instituted, but patients who are vomiting or are delirious must be hydrated with intravenous (IV) therapy. In treating such individuals, the WHO recommends urgent intervention if uveitis is suspected; this consists mainly of prednisone (a corticosteroid). Treatment, in the case of acute labyrinthitis (inner ear disorder), should be given within 10 days of the onset of symptoms and prochlorperazine, a vestibular sedative, may be administered for vertigo. The researchers suggested that this information could help to assess the efficacy of proposed treatments more accurately in non-randomised clinical trials.Ebola control is hindered by the fact that current diagnostic tests require specialised equipment and highly trained personnel. This should not be interpreted as failure of therapy and is a common reason for patients (and their physicians) to panic unnecessarily. If the patient is asymptomatic and the elevation is not excessive then no action need be taken; some experts suggest a cut-off of four times the upper limit of normal, but there is no evidence to support this particular number over and above any other number. Patients can become very suddenly unwell and access to intensive care facilities must be available. 
Orthostatic myoclonus: an underrecognized cause of unsteadiness? [SEP] Often it feels like a spinning or swaying movement. Objective vertigo describes when the person has the sensation that stationary objects in the environment are moving. Central pathology can cause disequilibrium, which is the sensation of being off balance. The balance disorder associated with central lesions causing vertigo is often so severe that many people are unable to stand or walk.A number of conditions that involve the central nervous system may lead to vertigo including:  lesions caused by infarctions or hemorrhage, tumors present in the cerebellopontine angle such as a vestibular schwannoma or cerebellar tumors, epilepsy, cervical spine disorders such as cervical spondylosis, degenerative ataxia disorders, migraine headaches, lateral medullary syndrome, Chiari malformation, multiple sclerosis, parkinsonism, as well as cerebral dysfunction. It is commonly associated with nausea or vomiting, unsteadiness (postural instability), falls, changes to a person's thoughts, and difficulties in walking. It is caused by a mismatch between visual input and vestibular sensation. Vertebrobasilar insufficiency
Vertebrobasilar insufficiency, notably Bow Hunter's syndrome, is a rare cause of positional vertigo, especially when vertigo is triggered by rotation of the head. See also
References
External links

"Dizziness and Vertigo". 
Is the cell death in mesial temporal sclerosis apoptotic? [SEP] Apoptosis
Apoptosis is the process of programmed cell death (PCD) that may occur in multicellular organisms. There is some evidence that certain symptoms of "apoptosis" such as endonuclease activation can be spuriously induced without engaging a genetic cascade, however, presumably true apoptosis and programmed cell death must be genetically mediated. Ischemic cell death, or oncosis, is a form of accidental, or passive cell death that is often considered a lethal injury. It is the most common mode of cell death in cancer cells exposed to ionizing radiation and many other anti-cancer treatments.Immunogenic cell death or immunogenic apoptosis is a form of cell death caused by some cytostatic agents such as anthracyclines, oxaliplatin and bortezomib, or radiotherapy and photodynamic therapy (PDT).Pyroptosis is a highly inflammatory form of programmed cell death that occurs most frequently upon infection with intracellular pathogens and is likely to form part of the antimicrobial response in myeloid cells.PANoptosis is a unique inflammatory cell death pathway that integrates components from other cell death pathways. Programmed cell death (PCD; sometimes referred to as cellular suicide) is the death of a cell as a result of events inside of a cell, such as apoptosis or autophagy. Types
Apoptosis or Type I cell-death. Autophagic or Type II cell-death. Apoptosis
Apoptosis is the process of programmed cell death (PCD) that may occur in multicellular organisms. 
Contrast-enhanced MR imaging of hand and finger joints in patients with early rheumatoid arthritis: do we really need a full dose of gadobenate dimeglumine for assessing synovial enhancement at 3 T? [SEP] Dynamic susceptibility contrast
In Dynamic susceptibility contrast MR imaging (DSC-MRI, or simply DSC), Gadolinium contrast agent (Gd) is injected (usually intravenously) and a time series of fast T2*-weighted images is acquired. Interaction with the gadolinium (Gd) contrast agent (commonly a gadolinium ion chelate) causes the relaxation time of water protons to decrease, and therefore images acquired after gadolinium injection display higher signal in T1-weighted images indicating the present of the agent. The most commonly used compounds for contrast enhancement are gadolinium-based contrast agents (GBCAs). MRI contrast agents can be classified by their:

chemical composition
administration route
magnetic properties
biodistribution and applications:
Extracellular fluid agents (intravenous contrast agents)
Blood pool agents (intravascular contrast agents)
Organ specific agents (gastrointestinal contrast agents and hepatobiliary contrast agents)
Active targeting/cell labeling agents (tumor-specific agents)
Responsive (smart or bioactivated) agents
pH-sensitive agents

Gadolinium(III)
Gadolinium(III) containing MRI contrast agents (often termed simply "gado" or "gad") are the most commonly used for enhancement of vessels in MR angiography or for brain tumor enhancement associated with the degradation of the blood–brain barrier (BBB). Free Gd3+ has a median lethal dose of 0.34 mmol/kg (IV, mouse) or 100–200 mg/kg, but the LD50 is increased by a factor of 31 when Gd3+ is chelated.The spectrum of adverse drug reactions is greater with GBCA than with iodinated contrast agents (Radiocontrast agents). "In magnetic resonance imaging in pregnancy, gadolinium contrast agents in the first trimester is associated with a slightly increased risk of a childhood diagnosis of several forms of rheumatism, inflammatory disorders, or infiltrative skin conditions, according to a retrospective study including 397 infants prenatally exposed to gadolinium contrast. The autoimmune disease rheumatoid arthritis can affect the hand, particularly the joints of the fingers. The fingers are commonly affected by diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and gout. 
Does laparoscopic cholecystectomy influence peri-sinusoidal cell activity? [SEP] Cholecystectomy can be performed either laparoscopically, or via an open surgical technique.The surgery is usually successful in relieving symptoms, but up to 10 percent of people may continue to experience similar symptoms after cholecystectomy, a condition called postcholecystectomy syndrome. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy has a higher risk of bile duct injury than the open approach, with injury to bile ducts occurring in 0.3% to 0.5% of laparoscopic cases and 0.1% to 0.2% of open cases. In laparoscopic cholecystectomy, approximately 25–30% of biliary injuries are identified during the operation; the rest become apparent in the early post-operative period.Damage to the bile ducts is very serious because it causes leakage of bile into the abdomen. If the surgeon has problems identifying anatomical structures, they might need to convert from laparoscopic to open cholecystectomy.Peroperative Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangio-Pancreaticography (ERCP)/ Laparo-endoscopic rendezvous (LERV) technique
CBDS are found in 10-15% of patients during cholecystectomy when intraoperative cholangiography (IOC) is routinely performed. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy
Laparoscopic cholecystectomy uses several (usually 4) small incisions in the abdomen to allow the insertion of operating ports, small cylindrical tubes approximately 5 to 10 mm in diameter, through which surgical instruments are placed into the abdominal cavity. Laparoscopic surgery is thought to have fewer complications, shorter hospital stay, and quicker recovery than open cholecystectomy. Considerations
Pregnancy
It is generally safe for pregnant women to undergo laparoscopic cholecystectomy during any trimester of pregnancy. Laparoscopic technique
Erich Mühe performed the first laparoscopic cholecystectomy on September 12, 1985, in Böblingen, Germany. 
Does case-mix based reimbursement stimulate the development of process-oriented care delivery? [SEP] Case mix index (CMI) within health care and medicine, is a relative value assigned to a diagnosis-related group of patients in a medical care environment. Case mix, also casemix and patient mix, is a term used within healthcare as a synonym for cohort; essentially, a case mix groups statistically related patients. Whilst a case mix will often include a condition or diagnosis, as well as any treatment received; it can also include demographics, such as gender or age, and a specific time range.Conditions and treatments are often captured using a medical classification system, such as ICD-10, in a process called clinical coding. Background
Prior to the introduction of nationally consistent Activity Based Funding (ABF) by the Commonwealth Government, Casemix based funding was the key funding model used in Australian health care services for reimbursement of the cost of patient care. Risks and opportunities
Casemix systems and in particular DRG systems mean that a lump sum is paid based on a diagnosis (and maybe particular treatment aspects). Classification systems
The casemix system introduces a kind of Activity Based Costing to the health profession. This is especially relevant in health insurance, due to urgency, high costs, and administrative procedures which may cause a healthcare provider to incur costs pending reimbursement by a private or public provider (in the US, e.g., Medicare or a Health Reimbursement Account). Segments of the healthcare industry, such as medical device manufacturers, rely on reimbursement for income and produce resources assisting their customers (hospitals, physicians, etc.) 
Risky sexual behavior among college students With ADHD: is the mother-child relationship protective? [SEP] Teenage pregnancy and risky sexual behaviors may appear in adolescence. Sexual assault among teenagers has been shown to lead to an increase in mental health problems, social exclusion and worse school performance. In a 2012 systematic review, cognitive behavior therapy showed potential in treating the adverse consequences of child sexual abuse.Major factors that affect both the pathology and response to treatment include the type and severity of the sexual act, its frequency, the age at which it occurred, and the child's family of origin. More research is needed.Sexual abuse is associated with many sub-clinical behavioral issues as well, including re-victimization in the teenage years, a bipolar-like switching between sexual compulsion and shut-down, and distorted thinking on the subject of sexual abuse (for instance, that it is common and happens to everyone). Child marriage in the United States is allowed in the majority of states as long as parental consent or judicial approval (typically for pregnancy) is given.In US schools, according to the United States Department of Education, "nearly 9.6% of students are targets of educator sexual misconduct sometime during their school career." An American Travesty: Legal Responses to Adolescent Sexual Offending. Meanwhile, teenagers are increasingly turning to pornography as a source of information on sexuality, especially what to do during a sexual encounter, as teachers tend to focus on contraception. He also has severe ADHD, even by demigod standards. 
Rotator cuff tear--an occupational disease? [SEP] Rotator Cuff Tendinopathy (Tendinitis, bursitis, impingement syndrome, and rotator cuff tears)
Anatomy
The "rotator cuff" is a group of four tendons that blend together as they attach to the upper end of the arm bone (humerus). Pathology
The rotator cuff tendons degenerate with age. Sports involving overuse of the shoulder and occupations requiring frequent overhead reaching are other potential causes of irritation to the rotator cuff or bursa and may lead to inflammation and impingement. Rotator cuff tear
The most commonly affected tendon is that of the supraspinatus muscle. Defects in the rotator cuff can come from an injury (cuff tear) or from degeneration (cuff wear). It is not useful in other types of tendonitis.For a rotator cuff tear, tentative evidence suggests exercise may reduce pain in the short-term. References

This article contains and extends text from the public domain document "Questions and Answers about Shoulder Problems", NIH Publication No. Injury to the rotator cuff Is a result of trauma and old age, complete and partial tears are more frequent in older patients caused by degeneration of the tendons. 
Is there a need for pelvic CT scan in cases of renal cell carcinoma? [SEP] The main diagnostic tools for detecting renal cell carcinoma are ultrasound, computed tomography (CT) scanning and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the kidneys. The Bosniak classification system for cystic renal lesions classifies them into groups that are benign and those that need surgical resection, based on specific imaging features.The main imaging tests performed in order to identify renal cell carcinoma are pelvic and abdominal CT scans, ultrasound tests of the kidneys (ultrasonography), MRI scans, intravenous pyelogram (IVP) or renal angiography. Computed tomography
Contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) scanning is routinely used to determine the stage of the renal cell carcinoma in the abdominal and pelvic regions. However this is not routinely performed because when the typical imaging features of renal cell carcinoma are present, the possibility of an incorrectly negative result together with the risk of a medical complication to the patient may make it unfavourable from a risk-benefit perspective. This radiologic test is important in diagnosing renal cell carcinoma as an aid for examining blood vessels in the kidneys. If a concerning lesion is seen, a flexible camera may be inserted into the ureters, called ureteroscopy, in order to view the lesion and take a biopsy, and a CT scan will be performed of other body parts (a CT scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis) to look for additional metastatic lesions. However, all masses that are not clearly simple cysts should be further evaluated and confirmed by alternate imaging techniques.Computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen administered with and without IV contrast is the ideal imaging to diagnose and stage kidney cancer. MRI can also evaluate the inferior vena cava if the mass is suspected to extend outside the kidney.Since the lungs are the most common organ for kidney cancer to spread to, a chest X-ray or CT scan may be ordered based on the person's risk for metastatic disease. 
Prognostic factors for cervical spondylotic amyotrophy: are signs of spinal cord involvement associated with the neurological prognosis? [SEP] While a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is often normal in people with early-stage ALS, it can reveal evidence of other problems that may be causing the symptoms, such as a spinal cord tumor, multiple sclerosis, a herniated disc in the neck, syringomyelia, or cervical spondylosis.Based on the person's symptoms and findings from the examination and from these tests, the physician may order tests on blood and urine samples to eliminate the possibility of other diseases, as well as routine laboratory tests. Because the prognosis of ALS and closely related subtypes of motor neuron disease are generally poor, neurologists may carry out investigations to evaluate and exclude other diagnostic possibilities. Rheumatoid disease of the spine can lead to myelopathy. Axial spondyloarthritis (including ankylosing spondylitis) – this involves the spine, although an RA-like symmetrical small-joint polyarthritis may occur in the context of this condition. While a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is often normal in people with early-stage ALS, it can reveal evidence of other problems that may be causing the symptoms, such as a spinal cord tumor, multiple sclerosis, a herniated disc in the neck, syringomyelia, or cervical spondylosis.Based on the person's symptoms and findings from the examination and from these tests, the physician may order tests on blood and urine samples to eliminate the possibility of other diseases, as well as routine laboratory tests. Because the prognosis of ALS and closely related subtypes of motor neuron disease are generally poor, neurologists may carry out investigations to evaluate and exclude other diagnostic possibilities. SCI may occur in intervertebral disc disease, and spinal cord vascular disease. But it was not until Aulus Cornelius Celsus, born 30 BC, noted that a cervical injury resulted in rapid death that the spinal cord itself was implicated in the condition. 
Parasacral sciatic nerve block: does the elicited motor response predict the success rate? [SEP] Also called ideomotor response (or ideomotor reflex) and abbreviated to IMR, it is a concept in hypnosis and psychological research. The effects of automatic writing, dowsing, facilitated communication, applied kinesiology, and ouija boards have been attributed to the phenomenon.The associated term "ideo-dynamic response" (or "reflex") applies to a wider domain, and extends to the description of all bodily reactions (including ideo-motor and ideo-sensory responses) caused in a similar manner by certain ideas, e.g., the salivation often caused by imagining sucking a lemon, which is a secretory response. His decision was based upon suggestions made to Carpenter (in 1854) by their friend in common, Daniel Noble, that the activity that Carpenter was describing would be more accurately understood in its wider applications (viz., wider than pendulums and ouija boards) if it were to denominated the "ideo-dynamic principle":In order that I may do full justice to two esteemed friends, I beg to state, in connection with this term monoideo-dynamics, that, several years ago, Dr. W. B. Carpenter introduced the term ideo-motor to characterise the reflex or automatic muscular motions which arise merely from ideas associated with motion existing in the mind, without any conscious effort of volition. In this opinion I quite concurred, because I was well aware that an idea could arrest as well as excite motion automatically, not only in the muscles of voluntary motion, but also as regards the condition of every other function of the body. Eye movement
1 – Watches or follows
0 – Fails to watch or follow

Best motor response
2 – Localizes painful stimulus (patient's ability to remove stimuli)
1 – Withdraws limb from painful stimulus
0 – No response or inappropriate response

Best verbal response
2 – Cries appropriately with pain, or, if verbal, speaks
1 – Moan or abnormal cry with pain
0 – No vocal response to pain

References
External links
Article on Dr Taylor and the Blantyre Malaria Project It may be viewed as the opposite of failure. In probability
The fields of probability and statistics often study situations where events are labeled as "successes" or "failures". "Success!" 
Is Bare-Metal Stent Implantation Still Justifiable in High Bleeding Risk Patients Undergoing Percutaneous Coronary Intervention? [SEP] A bare-metal stent is a stent made of thin, uncoated (bare) metal wire that has been formed into a mesh-like tube. The first stents licensed for use in cardiac arteries were bare metal – often 316L stainless steel. More recent "second generation" bare-metal stents have been made of cobalt chromium alloy. While plastic stents were first used to treat gastrointestinal conditions of the esophagus, gastroduodenum, biliary ducts, and colon, bare-metal stent advancements led to their use for these conditions starting in the 1990s.Drug-eluting stents are often preferred over bare-metal stents because the latter carry a higher risk of restenosis, the growth of tissue into the stent resulting in vessel narrowing. Examples
Stainless steel: R stent (OrbusNeich), Genous Bio-engineered R stent (OrbusNeich), (J&J, Cordis) BxVelocity, (Medtronic) Express2, Matrix Stent (Sahajanand Medical technologies)
Cobalt-chromium alloy: Vision (Abbott Vascular); MP35N Driver stent (Medtronic)
Platinum chromium alloy: Omega BMS (Boston Scientific)

See also
Angioplasty
Coronary stent
Percutaneous coronary intervention


== References == "Stent" is also used as a verb to describe the placement of such a device, particularly when a disease such as atherosclerosis has pathologically narrowed a structure such as an artery. A stent is different from a shunt. See also
References
External links

Coronary Stent
Drug-Eluting Stents — Angioplasty.Org
Cardiovascular and Interventional Radiological Society of Europe
The Cardiovascular Forum
Stent for Life Initiative 
Ovarian torsion in children: is oophorectomy necessary? [SEP] Those at very high risk may have their ovaries removed as a preventive measure. The growing mass may cause pain if ovarian torsion develops. Children
In adolescents or children with ovarian tumors, symptoms can include severe abdominal pain, irritation of the peritoneum, or bleeding. The risk of developing ovarian cancer is reduced in women who have had tubal ligation (colloquially known as having one's "tubes tied"), both ovaries removed, or hysterectomy (an operation in which the uterus is removed). Serum alpha-fetoprotein, neuron-specific enolase, and lactate dehydrogenase can be measured in young girls and adolescents with suspected ovarian tumors as younger women with ovarian cancer are more likely to have malignant germ cell tumors.A physical examination, including a pelvic examination, and a pelvic ultrasound (transvaginal or otherwise) are both essential for diagnosis: physical examination may reveal increased abdominal girth and/or ascites (fluid within the abdominal cavity), while pelvic examination may reveal an ovarian or abdominal mass. However, like sex cord tumors, they can cause ovarian torsion or hemorrhage and, in children, isosexual precocious puberty. Prevention
Women with strong genetic risk for ovarian cancer may consider the surgical removal of their ovaries as a preventive measure. In children or adolescents with ovarian cancer, surgeons typically attempt to preserve one ovary to allow for the completion of puberty, but if the cancer has spread, this is not always possible. 
Does minimal access major surgery in the newborn hurt less? [SEP] While all methods are beneficial financially, the use of copper IUDs resulted in the greatest savings.The total medical cost for a pregnancy, delivery and care of a newborn in the United States is on average $21,000 for a vaginal delivery and $31,000 for a caesarean delivery as of 2012. The procedure has no health benefits, and can cause severe bleeding and problems urinating, cysts, infections, and complications in childbirth and increased risk of newborn deaths. Infants with more motor experience have been shown to belly crawl and crawl sooner. Not all infants go through the stages of belly crawling. However, some researchers conclude that inducing TI in rabbits is appropriate for certain medical procedures, as it holds less risk than anesthesia. She suffered cuts and torn ligaments to her wrist and hands after riding and was taken to a nearby hospital to have surgery on her left hand. First, nociception is required. The key issue is the distinction between nociception and pain. 
Does aerobic fitness influence microvascular function in healthy adults at risk of developing Type 2 diabetes? [SEP] Slightly reduced depression may also be observed, especially if aerobic exercises are used as additional treatment for patients with a hematological malignancy 
Reduces the risk for diabetes (One meta-analysis has shown, from multiple conducted studies, that aerobic exercise does help lower Hb A1Clevels for type 2 diabetics.) Moderates the risk of death due to cardiovascular problems
Reduces risk for heart disease, blood clots, and stroke
Lowers total cholesterol
Raises high-density lipoprotein
Promotes weight loss
Prevents bone lossLowers inflammation
Prevents vascular dysfunction 
Improves Episodic memoryHigh-impact aerobic activities (such as jogging or using a skipping rope) can:

Stimulate bone growth
Reduce the risk of osteoporosis for both men and women

Disadvantages
Some drawbacks of aerobic exercise include:

Overuse injuries because of repetitive, high-impact exercise such as distance running
Not an effective form of fat loss. For aerobic exercise to be beneficial, it must raise the heart rate and cause perspiration. Aerobic exercise, which improves cardiorespiratory fitness and increase stamina, involves movement that increases the heart rate to improve the body's oxygen consumption. Engaging in a physical activity raises blood pressure. The more physical activity, the easier this process becomes, resulting in a fitter cardiovascular profile. Regular physical activity is a factor that helps reduce an individual's blood pressure and improves cholesterol levels, two key components that correlate with heart disease and type 2 diabetes. Inflammation
Studies have shown an association between increased physical activity and reduced inflammation. 
Are high flow nasal cannulae noisier than bubble CPAP for preterm infants? [SEP] Bubble CPAP is a non-invasive ventilation strategy for newborns with infant respiratory distress syndrome (IRDS). demonstrated that providing CPAP using an anesthesia bag improved oxygenation in preterm infants with respiratory distress syndrome. Subsequently, Jen-Tien Wung at Children's Hospital of New York, Columbia University developed the bubble CPAP system using short nasal prongs. This study first identified the Columbia approach of using bubble CPAP in the delivery room as a possible strategy to reduce the incidence of BPD as compared to mechanical ventilation. Nursing care
The successful application of bubble CPAP requires elaborate nursing care. CPAP application to preterm neonates with respiratory distress is associated with a reduction in respiratory failure, mechanical ventilation and mortality. This is used for babies who can still breathe but need some respiratory support. Neonatal ventilators (bubble CPAP, HFJV, HFOV)—Designed with the preterm neonate in mind, these are a specialized subset of ICU ventilators that are designed to deliver smaller volumes and pressures to these patients. 
Nutritional assessment of gluten-free diet. Is gluten-free diet deficient in some nutrient? [SEP] As tobacco smoking and high alcohol intake have been linked with osteoporosis, smoking cessation and moderation of alcohol intake are commonly recommended as ways to help prevent it.In people with coeliac disease adherence to a gluten-free diet decreases the risk of developing osteoporosis and increases bone density. Celiac Disease can decrease absorption of nutrients in the small intestine such as calcium, and a gluten-free diet can help people with Celiac Disease to revert to normal absorption in the gut.About 22 million women and 5.5 million men in the European Union had osteoporosis in 2010. Minerals
Deficiency or excess of essential minerals (e.g. Deficiencies and treatments
Glutamate is a nutrient that is extremely difficult to be deficient in, as, being an amino acid, it is found in every food that contains protein. Deficiency can also be caused by inadequate dietary intake such as with the diets of vegetarians, and vegans, and in the malnourished. In some people, vitamin B12 deficiency may persist despite treatment with a gluten-free diet and require supplementation. Breast milk of healthy human mothers who eat gluten-containing foods presents high levels of non-degraded gliadin (the main gluten protein). Gluten-related disorders: untreated celiac disease and non-celiac gluten sensitivity. 
Standardizing care in medical oncology: are Web-based systems the answer? [SEP] In conclusion, all of them agreed or strongly agreed that providing health information on the Internet should be utilized.Collected information at different times, by different participants or systems could frequently lead to issues of misunderstanding, dis-comparing or dis-exchanging. Patient-Centered Approach Incorporating Transparency to Users, 4. Further, telepalliative care may enable more efficient utilization of healthcare resources, promotes collaboration between different levels of healthcare and makes healthcare professionals more responsive to changes in patients' condition.Challenging aspects of the use of telehealth in palliative care have also been described. Transition to mainstream
Traditional use of telehealth services has been for specialist treatment. Health care quality and barriers to adoption
A scientific review indicates that, in general, outcomes of telemedicine are or can be as good as in-person care with health care use staying similar. Nonclinical uses
Distance education including continuing medical education, grand rounds, and patient education
administrative uses including meetings among telehealth networks, supervision, and presentations
research on telehealth
online information and health data management
healthcare system integration
asset identification, listing, and patient to asset matching, and movement
overall healthcare system management
patient movement and remote admission
Physical distancing to prevent transmission of communicable diseases

Limitations and restrictions
While many branches of medicine have wanted to fully embrace telehealth for a long time, there are certain risks and barriers which bar the full amalgamation of telehealth into best practice. Although it is predicted that telehealth will replace many consultations and other health interactions, it cannot yet fully replace a physical examination, this is particularly so in diagnostics, rehabilitation or mental health.The benefits posed by telehealth challenge the normative means of healthcare delivery set in both legislation and practice. Early forms of telemedicine achieved with telephone and radio have been supplemented with videotelephony, advanced diagnostic methods supported by distributed client/server applications, and additionally with telemedical devices to support in-home care.In the 21st century, with the advent of the internet, portable devices and other such digital devices are taking a transformative role in healthcare and its delivery. 
Antiretroviral therapy related adverse effects: Can sub-Saharan Africa cope with the new "test and treat" policy of the World Health Organization? [SEP] Use of traditional African medicines as antivirals instead of using specific antiretroviral drugs, is especially a risk with HIV.Cultural expectations play an important role in treatment as a 1985 study amongst the Mende people of Sierra Leone showed that treatment decisions were made "largely on traditional notions of the efficacy of a medicine of a particular color, consistency, taste, size and reputed success in treating analogous illnesses". Sub-Saharan Africa is the region most affected by HIV. On the other hand, Uganda, Zambia, Senegal, and most recently Botswana have begun intervention and educational measures to slow the spread of HIV, and Uganda has succeeded in actually reducing its HIV infection rate.During COVID-19, some countries in South and East Africa were able to set up treatment sites that provided 1.8 million individuals with a larger supply of antiretroviral (ART) medication that could sustain them for longer than the typical 3 months. The low participation of antiretroviral therapy (ART) increases not only the number of AIDS-related deaths but the risk of mother-to-baby HIV infections, in which the MENA (24.7%) shows relatively high rates compared to other regions, for example, southern Africa (10%), Asia and the Pacific (17%). Rapid initiation of antiretroviral therapy within one week of diagnosis appear to improve treatment outcomes in low and medium-income settings and is recommend for newly diagnosed HIV patients. Even though cost is an important issue with some medications, 47% of those who needed them were taking them in low- and middle-income countries as of 2010, and the rate of adherence is similar in low-income and high-income countries.Specific adverse events are related to the antiretroviral agent taken. Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS. In those taking the antiretroviral treatment, there was found to be a 63% decrease in the risk of acquiring HIV, as compared to those receiving the placebo.The HIV-1 virus has proved to be tenacious, inserting its genome permanently into patients' DNA, forcing patients to take a lifelong drug regimen to control the virus and prevent a fresh attack. 
Are the elderly with oropharyngeal carcinoma undertreated? [SEP] Oropharyngeal cancer (OPC), also known as oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (OPSCC) and tonsil cancer, is a disease in which abnormal cells with the potential to both grow locally and spread to other parts of the body are found in the oral cavity, in the tissue of the part of the throat (oropharynx) that includes the base of the tongue, the tonsils, the soft palate, and the walls of the pharynx.The two types of oropharyngeal cancers are HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancer, which is caused by an oral human papillomavirus infection; and HPV-negative oropharyngeal cancer, which is linked to use of alcohol, tobacco, or both.Oropharyngeal cancer is diagnosed by biopsy of observed abnormal tissue in the throat. Signs and symptoms
The signs and symptoms of oropharyngeal cancer may include:
A sore throat that persists for over 2 weeks
Throat pain or difficulty swallowing
Unexplained rapid weight loss
Voice changes (more hoarse)
Ear pain
A lump in the back of the throat or mouth
A lump in the neck
A dull pain behind the sternum
Persistent cough
Breathing problems
Hoarseness or other changes in the voice

Risk factors
The risk factors that can increase the risk of developing oropharyngeal cancer are:

Major
Performing open-mouthed kissing or oral/mouth-genital sex on a person(s) with a human papillomavirus infection (HPV); there are nearly 200 distinct human papillomaviruses (HPVs), and many HPV types are carcinogenic. Prognosis
People with HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancer tend to have higher survival rates. The prognosis for people with oropharyngeal cancer depends on the age and health of the person and the stage of the disease. Management
Traditionally, oropharyngeal cancer has been managed through combination of surgery and radiotherapy. Consequently, less intensive (de-intensification) use of radiotherapy or chemotherapy, as well as specific therapy, is under investigation, enrolling HPV+OPC in clinical trials to preserve disease control and minimise morbidity in selected groups based on modified TNM staging and smoking status.HPV+ cancer of the oropharynx are staged as (AJCC 8th ed. Comparison with HPV-negative oropharyngeal cancer
Tumor HPV status is strongly associated with positive therapeutic response and survival compared with HPV-negative cancer, independent of the treatment modality chosen and even after adjustment for stage. See also
HPV-associated oropharyngeal cancer awareness and prevention

Notes
References
Bibliography


== External links == 
Preoperative staging of patients with liver metastases of colorectal carcinoma. Does PET/CT really add something to multidetector CT? [SEP] Definitive staging can only be done after surgery and histopathology of colorectal carcinoma. Preoperative staging of rectal cancers may be done with endoscopic ultrasound. Adjunct staging of metastasis include abdominal ultrasound, MRI, CT, PET scanning, and other imaging studies. PET/MR as a novel modality has shown promising results in preoperative staging with fair feasibility and good correlation in comparison to PET/CT. Liver metastases
US examination is required to detect liver metastases in patients with oncologic history. Medical imaging
A colorectal cancer is sometimes initially discovered on CT scan.Presence of metastases is determined by a CT scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis. For other abnormalities, the colonoscopy can be repeated after 1 year.Routine PET or ultrasound scanning, chest X-rays, complete blood count or liver function tests are not recommended.For people who have undergone curative surgery or adjuvant therapy (or both) to treat non-metastatic colorectal cancer, intense surveillance and close follow-up have not been shown to provide additional survival benefits. A clinical classification (cTNM) is done at diagnosis and is based on MRI and CT, and a pathological TNM (pTNM) classification is performed after surgery.The most common metastasis sites for colorectal cancer are the liver, the lung and the peritoneum. 
Can myometrial electrical activity identify patients in preterm labor? [SEP] Doppler ultrasonography also serves to differentiate the static fluid within myometrial cysts from flowing blood within vessels.The junction zone (JZ), or a small distinct hormone-dependent region at the endometrial-myometrial interface, may be assessed by three-dimensional transvaginal ultrasound (3D TVUS) and MRI. Symptoms of preterm labor include uterine contractions which occur more often than every ten minutes and/or the leaking of fluid from the vagina before 37 weeks. Signs and symptoms
Signs and symptoms of preterm labor include four or more uterine contractions in one hour. Also, vaginal bleeding in the third trimester, heavy pressure in the pelvis, or abdominal or back pain could be indicators that a preterm birth is about to occur. In one investigation comparing this test to fetal fibronectin testing and cervical length measurement via transvaginal ultrasound, the test for PAMG-1 (commercially known as the PartoSure test) has been reported to be the single best predictor of imminent spontaneous delivery within 7 days of a patient presenting with signs, symptoms, or complaints of preterm labor. The use of personal at home uterine monitoring devices to detect contractions and possible preterm births in women at higher risk of having a preterm baby have been suggested. Routine ultrasound examination of the length of the cervix may identify women at risk of preterm labour and tentative evidence suggests ultrasound measurement of the length of the cervix in those with preterm labor can help adjust management and results in the extension of pregnancy by about four days. Preterm cervical shortening is linked to preterm birth and can be detected by ultrasonography. 
Schizophrenia patients with high intelligence: A clinically distinct sub-type of schizophrenia? [SEP] The diagnosis of schizophrenia, a psychotic disorder, is based on criteria in either the American Psychiatric Association's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, or the World Health Organization's International Classification of Diseases (ICD). Distinct symptomatic sub types of schizophrenia groups show distinct patterns of SNP variations, reflecting the heterogeneous nature of the disease. Studies also suggest there is a genetic overlap between schizophrenia and other psychiatric disorders, such as autism spectrum disorders, attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder, bipolar disorder, and major depressive disorder. Stroke, multiple sclerosis, hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, and dementias such as Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease, frontotemporal dementia, and the Lewy body dementias may also be associated with schizophrenia-like psychotic symptoms. Schizophrenia
Individuals diagnosed with schizophrenia can show deficits in theory of mind. Clinical significance
Schizophrenia
Schizophrenia may be partially attributed to a lack in activity in the frontal lobe. Schizophrenia
Abnormal activity in the PCC has been linked to schizophrenia, a mental disorder with common symptoms such as hallucinations, delusions, disorganized thinking, and a lack of emotional intelligence. These abnormalities may contribute to psychotic symptoms of some persons with schizophrenia. 
Is ankle/arm pressure predictive for cardiovascular mortality in older patients living in nursing homes? [SEP] Other risk factors include high blood cholesterol, tobacco smoking, obesity, diabetes mellitus, a previous TIA, end-stage kidney disease, and atrial fibrillation. The risk of silent strokes increases with age, but they may also affect younger adults and children, especially those with acute anemia. Blood pressure
High blood pressure accounts for 35–50% of stroke risk. Even people older than 80 years and those with isolated systolic hypertension benefit from antihypertensive therapy. Previous stroke or TIA
Keeping blood pressure below 140/90 mmHg is recommended. Interventions for age-related visual problems in patients with stroke
With the prevalence of vision problems increasing with age in stroke patients, the overall effect of interventions for age-related visual problems is currently uncertain. Advanced age is one of the most significant stroke risk factors. While there is a lot of variation in how CP affects people, it has been found that "independent gross motor functional ability is a very strong determinant of life expectancy". 
Is nasogastric decompression useful in prevention of leaks after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy? [SEP] Nasogastric intubation is a medical process involving the insertion of a plastic tube (nasogastric tube or NG tube) through the nose, down the oesophagus, and down into the stomach. Nasogastric aspiration is mainly used to remove gastrointestinal secretions and swallowed air in patients with gastrointestinal obstructions. Nasogastric aspiration can also be used in poisoning situations when a potentially toxic liquid has been ingested, for preparation before surgery under anaesthesia, and to extract samples of gastric liquid for analysis.If the tube is to be used for continuous drainage, it is usually appended to a collector bag placed below the level of the patient's stomach; gravity empties the stomach's contents. ).A small flexible tube (nasogastric tube) may be inserted through the nose into the stomach to help decompress the dilated bowel. Sleeve gastrectomy or vertical sleeve gastrectomy, is a surgical weight-loss procedure, typically performed laparoscopically, in which approximately 75 - 85% of the stomach is removed, along the greater curvature, which leaves a cylindrical, or "sleeve"-shaped stomach the size of a banana. In many cases, sleeve gastrectomy is as effective as gastric bypass surgery, including improvements in glucose homeostasis before substantial weight loss has occurred. Recent data suggested that an ESG can safely be performed after the surgical sleeve gastrectomy (sometimes referred to as a “revisional ESG”), with total body weight loss of approximately 16-18% at 12 months. James, T. W., Reddy, S., Vulpis, T. & McGowan, C. E. Endoscopic Sleeve Gastroplasty Is Feasible, Safe, and Effective in a Non-academic Setting: Short-Term Outcomes from a Community Gastroenterology Practice. 
The objective structured clinical examination: can physician-examiners participate from a distance? [SEP] A clinical officer may, with respect to patients - examine, diagnose, order laboratory and imaging investigations, prescribe treatment and perform procedures as per their scope of training. A clinical officer observes, interviews and examines sick and healthy individuals in all specialties to determine and document their health status and applies relevant pathological, radiological, psychiatric and community health techniques, procedures and findings needed to classify diseases and related health problems and to establish a provisional or final diagnosis upon which to prescribe, initiate, carry out or terminate treatment or therapy based on their specialized knowledge, skills and experience in clinical pharmacology, use of clinical guidelines, best practices and disease patterns as well as individual patient and community characteristics while being actively pharmacovigilant to prevent, identify, minimize and manage drug reactions, drug errors, side effects and poisoning, overdiagnosis, overscreening, overtreatment and futile care. Scope of practice
A clinical officer takes the Hippocratic oath and, depending on jurisdiction, may be registered by the same statutory board as physicians (in the southern countries such as Zambia and Malawi) or a separate board (in the eastern countries such as Kenya and Uganda). As gazetted officers all registered clinical officers are legally authorized to prepare, sign, issue and keep safe custody of official state documents such as medical examination reports, sick notes, postmortem examination reports and death certificates and to appear in courts of law as expert witnesses. After permanent certification, among other things, PAs diagnose and treat illnesses, conduct physical examinations, counsel individuals on preventative health issues, and order and interpret laboratory tests. In order to legally practice medicine as a PA one must sit and pass a state exam administered by the medical board. It allows long-distance patient and clinician contact, care, advice, reminders, education, intervention, monitoring, and remote admissions. In-office testing
As part of clinical decision-making, a simple, minimally invasive, in-office procedure, the rotator cuff impingement test, may be performed. 
CPAP therapy in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and obstructive sleep apnea: does it offer a better quality of life and sleep? [SEP] CPAP therapy is highly effective for managing obstructive sleep apnea. CPAP has been shown to be 100% effective at eliminating obstructive sleep apneas in the majority of people who use the therapy according to the recommendations of their physician. In addition, a meta-analysis showed that CPAP therapy may reduce erectile dysfunction symptoms in male patients with obstructive sleep apnea. CPAP treatment can be highly effective in treatment of obstructive sleep apnea. With proper use, CPAP improves outcomes. Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is the most effective treatment for severe obstructive sleep apnea, but oral appliances are considered a first-line approach equal to CPAP for mild to moderate sleep apnea, according to the American Academy of Sleep Medicine (AASM) parameters of care. While CPAP is more effective for sleep apnea than oral appliances, oral appliances do improve sleepiness and quality of life and are often better tolerated than CPAP. Treatment
The management of obstructive sleep apnea was improved with the introduction of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP), first described in 1981 by Colin Sullivan and associates in Sydney, Australia. 
Does open access endoscopy close the door to an adequately informed patient? [SEP] An endoscopy is a procedure used in medicine to look inside the body. There are many types of endoscopies. Applications
Health care providers can use endoscopy to review any of the following body parts:

The gastrointestinal tract (GI tract):
oesophagus, stomach and duodenum (esophagogastroduodenoscopy)
small intestine (enteroscopy)
large intestine/colon (colonoscopy, sigmoidoscopy)
Magnification endoscopy
bile duct
endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), duodenoscope-assisted cholangiopancreatoscopy, intraoperative cholangioscopy
rectum (rectoscopy) and anus (anoscopy), both also referred to as (proctoscopy)
The respiratory tract
The nose (rhinoscopy)
The upper respiratory tract (laryngoscopy)
The lower respiratory tract (bronchoscopy)
The ear (otoscope)
The urinary tract (cystoscopy)
The female reproductive system (gynoscopy)
The cervix (colposcopy)
The uterus (hysteroscopy)
The fallopian tubes (falloposcopy)
Normally closed body cavities (through a small incision):
The abdominal or pelvic cavity (laparoscopy)
The interior of a joint (arthroscopy)
Organs of the chest (thoracoscopy and mediastinoscopy)Endoscopy is used for many procedures:

During pregnancy
The amnion (amnioscopy)
The fetus (fetoscopy)
Plastic surgery
Panendoscopy (or triple endoscopy)
Combines laryngoscopy, esophagoscopy, and bronchoscopy
Orthopedic surgery
Hand surgery, such as endoscopic carpal tunnel release
Knee surgery, such as anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction
Epidural space (Epiduroscopy)
Bursae (Bursectomy)
Endodontic surgery
Maxillary sinus surgery
Apicoectomy
Endoscopic endonasal surgery
Endoscopic spinal surgeryAn endoscopy is a simple procedure that allows a doctor to look inside human bodies using an instrument called an endoscope. Standard endoscopy can be more uncomfortable for a patient, can be more prone to puncturing the digestive tract walls, and is not able to access the middle portion of the small intestine. Side effects
Capsule endoscopy is considered to be a very safe method for gastrointestinal tract examination. Investigations include endoscopy. This is given until endoscopy can be arranged. The patient is prepared for emergency endoscopy, which is typically done in a operating theatre. 
Is hypoalbuminemia an independent prognostic factor in patients with gastric cancer? [SEP] Hypoalbuminemia (or hypoalbuminaemia) is a medical sign in which the level of albumin in the blood is low. If present, hypoalbuminemia is generally considered to be a sign of advanced hepatic cirrhosis, or irreversible damage to the liver. In chronic kidney disease, hypoalbuminemia is an indicator of frailty, which is itself associated with complications, mental distress, quality of life impairment, resource utilization, and mortality. References
External links
Treating Hypoalbuminemia In Critically Ill Patients Hypoalbuminemia is common in critically ill patients. Infections
Helicobacter pylori infection is an essential risk factor in 65–80% of gastric cancers, but only 2% of people with H. pylori infections develop stomach cancer. Since 1% to 3% of infected individuals are likely to develop gastric cancer, H. pylori-induced gastric cancer is the third highest cause of worldwide cancer mortality as of 2018.Infection by H. pylori causes no symptoms in about 80% of those infected. Because of the usual lack of symptoms, when gastric cancer is finally diagnosed it is often fairly advanced. 
Can the postoperative pain level be predicted preoperatively? [SEP] After surgery, optimal pain management and infection control is important. Anesthesia & Analgesia. Post-operation
Anxiety has also been proven to cause higher analgesic and anaesthetic requirement, postoperative pain, and prolonged hospital stay.Irving L. Janis separates the effects of preoperative anxiety on postoperative reactions into three levels:
Low anxiety: The defenses of denial and other reassurances that were created to ward off the worry and apprehension preoperatively are not effective long-term. While pain is expected after surgery, there is growing evidence that pain may be inadequately treated in many people in the acute period immediately after surgery. There is insufficient evidence to determine if giving opioid pain medication pre-emptively (before surgery) reduces postoperative pain the amount of medication needed after surgery.Postoperative recovery has been defined as an energy‐requiring process to decrease physical symptoms, reach a level of emotional well‐being, regain functions, and re‐establish activities. For patients with continued pain after surgery which is not due to the above complications or conditions, interventional pain physicians speak of the need to identify the "pain generator" i.e. Surgical pain
Pain following surgery can be significant, and many people require strong pain medications such as opioids. There is some low-certainty evidence that starting NSAID painkiller medications in adults early, before surgery, may help reduce post-operative pain, and also reduce the dose or quantity of opioid medications required after surgery. 
Proliferative index obtained by DNA image cytometry. Does it add prognostic information in Auer IV breast cancer? [SEP] Consequently, the evaluation of a tumor proliferative index (or growth fraction) has clinical significance in characterizing many solid tumors and hematologic malignancies. Immunohistochemical evaluation
The immunohistochemical detection of proliferation related proteins such as Ki-67 and proliferating cell nuclear antigen is a commonly used method to determine the proliferation index. Diagnostic role of proliferation index
The various methods of characterizing the proliferation index have found roles in both the diagnostic and prognostic evaluation of tumors. Among solid tumors, the clinical significance of the proliferation index on breast cancer has been extensively studied. Mitotic counting has also been shown in multiple studies to have prognostic value in breast cancer, where a lower count of mitotic cells correlates with a more favorable outcome, and thus has been incorporated into part of the histological grading system. The Ki-67 labelling index has also been found to have prognostic significance where in many clinical practice guidelines, evaluation of Ki-67 in newly diagnosed invasive breast carcinomas is recommended. Additionally, the tumor proliferation index has been used to predict the response to systemic chemotherapies in patients who are receiving neoadjuvant systemic therapy where patients who have tumors with high tumor proliferative index respond better to systemic cytotoxic therapies than those who have tumors with a low tumor proliferative index. Methodology
Disease and prognostic indicators
Prognostic scoring is also used for cancer outcome predictions. 
Does skin care frequency affect the severity of incontinence-associated dermatitis in critically ill patients? [SEP] In addition to turning and re-positioning the person in the bed or wheelchair, eating a balanced diet with adequate protein and keeping the skin free from exposure to urine and stool is important.The rate of pressure ulcers in hospital settings is high; the prevalence in European hospitals ranges from 8.3% to 23%, and the prevalence was 26% in Canadian healthcare settings from 1990 to 2003. Skin care is also important because damaged skin does not tolerate pressure. These skin wounds should be classified as Incontinence Associated Dermatitis. Skin care is a routine daily procedure in many settings, such as skin that is either too dry or too moist, and prevention of dermatitis and prevention of skin injuries.Skin care is a part of the treatment of wound healing, radiation therapy and some medications. Diaper dermatitis with secondary bacterial or fungal involvement tends to spread to concave surfaces (i.e. In adults with incontinence (fecal, urinary, or both), the rash is sometimes called incontinence-associated dermatitis (IAD).The term diaper candidiasis is used when a fungal origin is identified. A prevalence of 8.39% among non-institutionalized U.S adults between 2005 and 2010 has been reported, and among institutionalized elders figures come close to 50%.Fecal incontinence has three main consequences: local reactions of the perianal skin and urinary tract, including maceration (softening and whitening of the skin due to continuous moisture), urinary tract infections, or decubitus ulcers (pressure sores); a financial expense for individuals (due to the cost of medication and incontinence products, and loss of productivity), employers (days off), and medical insurers and society generally (health care costs, unemployment); and an associated decrease in quality of life. More than 50% of hospitalized seriously ill patients rated bladder or fecal incontinence as "worse than death". 
Is primary angioplasty an acceptable alternative to thrombolysis? [SEP] Angioplasty carried out shortly after an MI has a risk of causing a stroke, but this is less than the risk of a stroke following thrombolytic drug therapy.As with any procedure involving the heart, complications can sometimes, though rarely, cause death. 85% of patients in the medical therapy arm elected to have PCI at the end of the trial.The 2019 ISCHEMIA trial has confirmed that invasive procedures (PCI or CABG) do not reduce death or heart attacks compared to medical therapy alone for stable angina. References
External links
Q&A: Primary angioplasty, 18 Oct 2008
Percutaneous Coronary Intervention - Patient UK
Percutaneous Coronary Intervention - Medscape Research
As of 2017, angioplasty and stents were under preliminary clinical research to determine the possible therapeutic advantages of these procedures in comparison to therapy with statins, antithrombotics, or antihypertensive drugs. Interventions
Thrombolysis is the injection of an enzyme into the veins to dissolve blood clots, and while this treatment has been proven effective against the life-threatening emergency clots of stroke and heart attacks, randomized controlled trials have not established a net benefit in those with acute proximal DVT. Thrombolysis and thrombectomy are used in cases of arterial thrombosis or embolism. For chronic limb threatening ischemia the ACCF/AHA guidelines recommend balloon angioplasty only for people with a life expectancy of 2 years or less or those who do not have an autogenous vein available. After the GUSTO studies, rt-PA became the thrombolytic drug of choice for most of the cardiologists in the Western world and would save the lives of many tens of thousands of heart attack patients.Nowadays, cardiologists agree that timely performed percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), also known as 'angioplasty’ and ‘stenting', is the preferred strategy to treat acute myocardial infarction instead of thrombolysis. 
Should HIV-infected patients be screened for silent myocardial ischaemia using gated myocardial perfusion SPECT? [SEP] Since donors may therefore be unaware of their infection, donor blood and blood products used in medicine and medical research are routinely screened for HIV.HIV-1 testing is initially done using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to detect antibodies to HIV-1. Specimens with a non-reactive result from the initial ELISA are considered HIV-negative, unless new exposure to an infected partner or partner of unknown HIV status has occurred. Only specimens that are repeatedly reactive by ELISA and positive by IFA or PCR or reactive by western blot are considered HIV-positive and indicative of HIV infection. Thus, it is recommended that HIV be considered in people presenting with an unexplained fever who may have risk factors for the infection. In low-income countries, only half of transfusions may be appropriately screened (as of 2008), and it is estimated that up to 15% of HIV infections in these areas come from transfusion of infected blood and blood products, representing between 5% and 10% of global infections. HIV screening is recommended by the United States Preventive Services Task Force for all people 15 years to 65 years of age, including all pregnant women. In addition to improving current disease, treatment with antiretrovirals reduces the risk of developing additional opportunistic infections.Adults and adolescents who are living with HIV (even on anti-retroviral therapy) with no evidence of active tuberculosis in settings with high tuberculosis burden should receive isoniazid preventive therapy (IPT); the tuberculin skin test can be used to help decide if IPT is needed. Children with HIV may benefit from screening for tuberculosis. 
Does the aggressive use of polyvalent antivenin for rattlesnake bites result in serious acute side effects? [SEP] Its venom contains primarily taicatoxin, a highly potent neurotoxin known to cause hemolytic and coagulopathic reactions.The venom affects the nervous system and the blood's ability to clot, and bite victims may experience headache, nausea and vomiting, collapse, convulsions (especially in children), paralysis, internal bleeding, myolysis (destruction of muscle tissue) and kidney damage. Bites by the Philippine cobra produce a distinctive clinical picture characterized by severe neurotoxicity of rapid onset and minimal local tissue damage. The most common subspecies of Mojave rattlesnake (type A) has venom that is considered to be one of the most debilitating and potentially deadly of all North American snakes, although chances for survival are very good if medical attention is sought as soon as possible after a bite. Based on median LD50 values in lab mice, venom A from subspecies A Mojave rattlesnakes is more than ten times as toxic as venom B, from type B Mohave green rattlesnakes which lacks Mojave toxin.Medical treatment as soon as possible after a bite is critical to a positive outcome, dramatically increasing chances for survival. Risk to life and limb is still significant, as with all rattlesnakes, if not treated as soon as possible after a bite. Medical uses
Antivenom is used to treat certain venomous bites and stings. Rattlesnakes are the leading contributor to snakebite injuries in North America, but rarely bite unless provoked or threatened; if treated promptly, the bites are seldom fatal. A lack of edema or erythema in the area of the bite after eight hours indicates a lack of envenomation for most rattlesnake bites.Common symptoms include swelling, severe pain, tingling, weakness, anxiety, nausea and vomiting, hemorrhaging, perspiration, and (rarely) heart failure. 
Do resident's leadership skills relate to ratings of technical skill? [SEP] The headquarters employs a professional staff of over 100 and is led by the CAP executive director (analogous to a corporate chief operating officer), who reports to the board of governors. Because of this, it is not uncommon for senior members commanding groups and squadrons to have members of superior grades serving under them. Additionally, senior members with specific civilian professional qualifications may be awarded grades based on their professional qualifications. Examples include FAA Certified Flight Instructors, Certified Ground Instructors, attorneys, medical professionals, Certified Public Accountants, clergy, and licensed educators or administrators who are often promoted directly to second lieutenant, first lieutenant or captain, after completion of Level 2, Part one of Senior Member training. These awards include:

Membership Ribbon
Leadership Award
Benjamin O. Davis Jr. Award. Cadets are given many opportunities to lead and to follow; they may hold leadership positions at squadron and wing activities and are often involved in planning these activities. Cadets may complete paperwork, command other cadets, and teach at weekly meetings and at weekend and summer events. Activities include classroom courses, physical training, leadership development, and drill & ceremonies. 
The FOOTSTEP self-management foot care programme: are rheumatoid arthritis patients physically able to participate? [SEP] Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a long-term autoimmune disorder that primarily affects joints. Occupational therapy has a positive role to play in improving functional ability in people with rheumatoid arthritis. Physical activity promotion according to the public health recommendations should be an integral part of standard care for people with RA and other arthritic diseases. RA is a chronic disease, and although rarely, a spontaneous remission may occur, the natural course is almost invariably one of the persistent symptoms, waxing and waning in intensity, and a progressive deterioration of joint structures leading to deformations and disability.There is an association between periodontitis and rheumatoid arthritis (RA), hypothesised to lead to enhanced generation of RA-related autoantibodies. One meta-analysis found that vitamin D levels are low in people with rheumatoid arthritis and that vitamin D status correlates inversely with prevalence of rheumatoid arthritis, suggesting that vitamin D deficiency is associated with susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis.The fibroblast-like synoviocytes have a prominent role in the pathogenic processes of the rheumatic joints, and therapies that target these cells are emerging as promising therapeutic tools, raising hope for future applications in rheumatoid arthritis.Possible links with intestinal barrier dysfunction are investigated. Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disorder that often affects the hands and feet. More than 20 million individuals with arthritis have severe limitations in function on a daily basis. Arthritis can make it difficult for individuals to be physically active and some become home bound. 
CYP2D6*4 allele and breast cancer risk: is there any association? [SEP] It is less certain whether hormonal contraceptives could increase the already high rates of breast cancer in women with mutations in the breast cancer susceptibility genes BRCA1 or BRCA2.Breast feeding reduces the risk of several types of cancers, including breast cancer. In those with a first degree relative with the disease the risk of breast cancer between the age of 40 and 50 is double that of the general population.In less than 5% of cases, genetics plays a more significant role by causing a hereditary breast–ovarian cancer syndrome. These mutations account for up to 90% of the total genetic influence with a risk of breast cancer of 60–80% in those affected. Diabetes mellitus might also increase the risk of breast cancer. Autoimmune diseases such as lupus erythematosus seem also to increase the risk for the acquisition of breast cancer.The major causes of sporadic breast cancer are associated with hormone levels. This implicates environmental and other causes as triggers for breast cancers. Alternatives, such as pollution prevention, are largely ignored.As the majority of women with breast cancer have no risk factors other than sex and age, the environmental breast cancer movement suspects pollution as a significant cause, possibly from pesticides, plastics, and industrial runoff in ground water. "Panel Finds Few Clear Environmental Links to Breast Cancer". 
Does base deficit predict mortality in patients with severe traumatic brain injury? [SEP] Primary and secondary injury
A large percentage of the people killed by brain trauma do not die right away but rather days to weeks after the event; rather than improving after being hospitalized, some 40% of TBI patients deteriorate. During treatment monitoring continues for signs of deterioration such as a decreasing level of consciousness.Traumatic brain injury may cause a range of serious coincidental complications that include cardiac arrhythmias and neurogenic pulmonary edema. The presence of brain edema on the initial CT scan of those with traumatic brain injuries is an independent prognostic indicator of in-hospital death. Moderate/severe brain injuries
Cognitive symptoms include confusion, aggressive, abnormal behavior, slurred speech, and coma or other disorders of consciousness. Brain injuries often create impairment or disability that can vary greatly in severity. Moderate/severe brain injuries
Cognitive symptoms include confusion, aggressiveness, abnormal behavior, slurred speech, and coma or other disorders of consciousness. Brain injuries often create impairment or disability that can vary greatly in severity. Glasgow coma scale score 13 to 15, loss of consciousness for less than 30 minutes, and memory loss for less than 24 hours may be used to rule out moderate or severe traumatic brain injuries. 
Does increased use of private health care reduce the demand for NHS care? [SEP] Private medical care is available for those who can afford it. Private inpatient care forms about 3–4% of all inpatient care. In addition to the public-sector, there is a large private health care market. Private health care has continued parallel to the NHS, paid for largely by private insurance. Private health care has continued parallel to the NHS, paid for largely by private insurance: it is used by about 8% of the population, generally as an add-on to NHS services. The Act has also become associated with the perception of increased private provision of NHS services. The involvement of private companies regularly draws the suspicion of NHS staff, the media and the public.Outsourcing and privatisation has increased in recent years, with NHS spending to the private sector rose from £4.1 billion in 2009–10 to £8.7 billion in 2015–16. A 14 October 2008 article in The Daily Telegraph stated: "An NHS trust has spent more than £12,000 on private treatment for hospital staff because its own waiting times are too long." 
Does confined placental mosaicism account for adverse perinatal outcomes in IVF pregnancies? [SEP] This may contribute to pre-eclampsia and other pregnancy complications. Adverse pregnancy situations, such as those involving maternal diabetes or obesity, can increase or decrease levels of nutrient transporters in the placenta potentially resulting in overgrowth or restricted growth of the fetus. Deterioration in placental functioning, referred to as placental insufficiency, may be related to mother-to-child transmission of some infectious diseases. hPL values increase with multiple pregnancies, intact molar pregnancy, diabetes and Rh incompatibility. Clinical significance
Numerous pathologies can affect the placenta. Genetic mosaicism can result from many different mechanisms including chromosome nondisjunction, anaphase lag, and endoreplication. Anaphase lagging is the most common way by which mosaicism arises in the preimplantation embryo. Trisomies, monosomies, and related conditions
The most common form of mosaicism found through prenatal diagnosis involves trisomies. 
Utility of unenhanced fat-suppressed T1-weighted MRI in children with sickle cell disease -- can it differentiate bone infarcts from acute osteomyelitis? [SEP] Similarly, it is limited in distinguishing avascular necrosis from osteomyelitis in sickle cell anemia.Nuclear medicine scans can be a helpful adjunct to MRI in patients who have metallic hardware that limits or prevents effective magnetic resonance. Antibiotics by mouth and by intravenous appear similar.Due to insufficient evidence it is unclear what the best antibiotic treatment is for osteomyelitis in people with sickle cell disease as of 2019.Initial first-line antibiotic choice is determined by the patient's history and regional differences in common infective organisms. Similarly, it is limited in distinguishing avascular necrosis from osteomyelitis in sickle cell anemia.Nuclear medicine scans can be a helpful adjunct to MRI in patients who have metallic hardware that limits or prevents effective magnetic resonance. Antibiotics by mouth and by intravenous appear similar.Due to insufficient evidence it is unclear what the best antibiotic treatment is for osteomyelitis in people with sickle cell disease as of 2019.Initial first-line antibiotic choice is determined by the patient's history and regional differences in common infective organisms. Stroke prevention
Transcranial Doppler ultrasound (TCD) can detect children with sickle cell that have a high risk for stroke. One review of medical records, by hematologist Dr. Julie Kanter at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, showed that on average only 48.4 percent of children with sickle cell get the recommended ultrasound test.A 1994 NIH study showed that children at risk for strokes who received blood transfusions had an annual stroke rate of less than 1 percent, whereas those children who did not receive blood transfusions had a 10 percent stroke rate per year. Avascular necrosis
When treating avascular necrosis of the bone in people with sickle cell disease, the aim of treatment is to reduce or stop the pain and maintain joint mobility. One trial focused on analyzing bone marrow samples from patients with sickle cell anemia. 
Cancer of the buccal mucosa: are margins and T-stage accurate predictors of local control? [SEP] For example, mass effects from lung cancer can block the bronchus resulting in cough or pneumonia; esophageal cancer can cause narrowing of the esophagus, making it difficult or painful to swallow; and colorectal cancer may lead to narrowing or blockages in the bowel, affecting bowel habits. Size is not a factor in staging unless the cancer is invasive. Classification
Oral mucosa can be divided into three main categories based on function and histology:

Lining mucosa, nonkeratinized stratified squamous epithelium, found almost everywhere else in the oral cavity, including the:
Alveolar mucosa, the lining between the buccal and labial mucosae. Buccal mucosa, the inside lining of the cheeks; part of the lining mucosa. They most frequently occur on the buccal mucosa (inner cheek) along the occlusal line where the teeth meet and the gingivae (the mucosa which covers the gums); reactive nodules occurring here are specifically categorised as epulides instead of polyps. Malignant Neoplasms of oral mucosa- SarcomasConnective tissue malignancies, sarcomas, are rare in the oral mucosa. See Oral Cancer. Mechanism of action
The buccal mucosa, along with the gingival and sublingual mucosa, is part of the oral mucosa. 
Can mass drug administration lead to the sustainable control of schistosomiasis? [SEP] For example, treatment for schistosomiasis costs US$0.20 per child per year. Schistosomiasis
There are over 200 million cases of schistosomiasis. Mass deworming treatment with praziquantel, better access to safe water, sanitation, and health education can all be used to prevent schistosomiasis. In a meta-analysis, safe water was associated with significantly reduced odds of Schistosoma infection, and adequate sanitation was associated with significantly lower odds of infection with both S. mansoni and S. haematobium. Pharmaceutical market
Biotechnology companies in the developing world have targeted neglected tropical diseases due to a need to improve global health.Mass drug administration is considered a possible method for eradication, especially for lymphatic filariasis, onchocerciasis, and trachoma, although drug resistance is a potential problem. Merck KGaA pledged to give 200 million tablets of praziquantel, the only cure for schistosomiasis, over 10 years. The cost of treating a child for infection of soil-transmitted helminths and schistosomes (some of the main causes of neglected diseases) is less than US$0.50 per year when administered as part of school-based mass deworming by Deworm the World. The efforts of the Schistosomiasis Control Initiative to combat neglected diseases include the use of rapid-impact packages: supplying schools with packages including four or five drugs, and training teachers in how to administer them.Health Action International based in Amsterdam worked with the WHO to get snakebite envenoming on the list of neglected tropical diseases. 
Can D-dimer become a new diagnostic parameter for acute appendicitis? [SEP] Blood investigations – complete blood count, kidney function tests, liver function, serum calcium, serum amylase and lipase
Imaging – A triple phase abdominal CT and abdominal ultrasound are together considered the gold standard for the evaluation of acute pancreatitis. Differential diagnosis
The differential diagnosis includes:
Perforated peptic ulcer
Biliary colic
Acute cholecystitis
Pneumonia
Pleuritic pain
Myocardial infarction

Biochemical
Elevated serum amylase and lipase levels, in combination with severe abdominal pain, often trigger the initial diagnosis of acute pancreatitis. Imaging is indicated during the initial presentation if:

the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis is uncertain
there is abdominal distension and tenderness, fever >102 F (38,9 C), or leukocytosis
there is a Ranson score > 3 or APACHE score > 8
there is no improvement after 72 hours of conservative medical therapy
there has been an acute change in status: fever, pain, or shockCT is recommended as a delayed assessment tool in the following situations:

acute change in status
to determine therapeutic response after surgery or interventional radiologic procedure
before discharge in patients with severe acute pancreatitisAbdominal CT should not be performed before the first 12 hours of onset of symptoms as early CT (<12 hours) may result in equivocal or normal findings. The appendix can sometimes be seen when inflamed (e.g. : appendicitis) and ultrasound is the initial imaging choice, avoiding radiation if possible, although it frequently needs to be followed by other imaging methods such as CT. Endoanal ultrasound is used particularly in the investigation of anorectal symptoms such as fecal incontinence or obstructed defecation. This is generally reserved for women presenting with signs of an acute abdomen and hypovolemic shock. Culdocentesis will differentiate hemoperitoneum (ruptured ectopic pregnancy or hemorrhagic cyst) from pelvic sepsis (salpingitis, ruptured pelvic abscess, or ruptured appendix).Pelvic and vaginal ultrasounds are helpful in the diagnosis of PID. Bloody diarrhea and abdominal pain may be more prominent features in severe disease. 
Is there a relationship between rheumatoid arthritis and periodontal disease? [SEP] Rheumatoid arthritis. Periodontal medicine
At the 1990s' emergence of epidemiological associations between dental infections and systemic diseases, American dentistry scholars have been cautious, some seeking successful intervention to confirm causality. In a paper winning an Indian prize, they clarify "that the oral cavity can act as the site of origin for dissemination of pathogenic organisms to distant body sites, especially in immunocompromised hosts", especially those "suffering from malignancies, diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis", or "undergoing other immunosuppressive treatment", and that "uncontrolled advanced periodontitis" "presents a substantial infectious burden for the entire body by releasing bacteria, bacterial toxins, and other inflammatory mediators into the bloodstream that then affect the other parts of the body", this altogether "a paradigm shift in thinking about the directionality of oral and systemic associations". Periodontitis
Alcohol Consumption is associated with a higher risk of periodontitis, an inflammatory disease of the gums around the teeth. There was also found to be a dose-response relationship in which the risk of periodontitis increased by 0.4% for each 1g/day in alcohol consumption. One explanation is the weakening of neutrophil activity by alcohol consumption which potentially leads to bacterial overgrowth and increased bacterial penetration subsequently leading to periodontal inflammation and periodontal disease. P. endodontalis has been linked to endodontic infections as well as other systemic illnesses such rheumatoid arthritis and cardiovascular disease. Autoimmune diseases
OPN has been implicated in pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis. 
Do clinical variables predict pathologic radiographs in the first episode of wheezing? [SEP] Grunting and nasal flaring may be other useful signs in children less than five years old.Lack of wheezing is an indicator of Mycoplasma pneumoniae in children with pneumonia, but as an indicator it is not accurate enough to decide whether or not macrolide treatment should be used. Imaging
A chest radiograph is frequently used in diagnosis. If a person is sufficiently sick to require hospitalization, a chest radiograph is recommended. Complications such as pleural effusion may also be found on chest radiographs. It presents with a hyperinflated chest, expiratory wheeze and low oxygen. There are frequently wheezes and crackles on breathing in and out. Patients often initially have normal lung function on pulmonary function testing and have normal chest radiographs. There may be "cardiac asthma" or wheezing. 
Globulomaxillary cysts--do they really exist? [SEP] The globulomaxillary cyst is a cyst that appears between a maxillary lateral incisor and the adjacent canine. The globulomaxillary cyst often causes the roots of adjacent teeth to diverge. Gingival cyst, also known as Epstein's pearl, is a type of cysts of the jaws that originates from the dental lamina and is found in the mouth parts. It is a superficial cyst in the alveolar mucosa. Babies
Gingival (alveolar) cysts of infants are mostly found in groups, but are frequently found as single nodules. Specifically, they emerge when the process of formation extends into the abnormal sites to form small keratinized cysts. As their name suggests, they are basically mucus-lined cysts and they can also occur in the paranasal sinuses, most commonly the frontal sinuses, the frontoethmoidal region, and the maxillary sinus. Smaller cysts may be removed by laser treatment, but larger cysts may have to be removed surgically. 
MiraLAX vs. Golytely: is there a significant difference in the adenoma detection rate? [SEP] Macrogol (with brand names such as Laxido,  GoLytely and Miralax) is the generic name for polyethylene glycol used as a laxative. An adenoma is a benign tumor of epithelial tissue with glandular origin, glandular characteristics, or both. Although adenomas are benign, they should be treated as pre-cancerous. Most adenomas do not transform. Approximately 20–25% of adenomas do not secrete any readily identifiable active hormones ('non-functioning tumors') yet they are still sometimes referred to as 'chromophobic'. Treatment
Treatment options depend on the type of tumor and on its size:

Prolactinomas are most often treated with cabergoline or bromocriptine (both dopamine agonists), which decrease tumor size as well as alleviates symptoms, followed by serial imaging to detect any increase in size. Unlike prolactinomas, thyrotrophic adenomas characteristically respond poorly to dopamine agonist treatment. Somatotrophic adenomas respond to octreotide or lanreotide, which are long-acting somatostatin analogs. 
Does government assistance improve utilization of eye care services by low-income individuals? [SEP] The drop in uninsured rates due to expanded Medicaid has broadened access to care among low-income adults, with post-ACA studies indicating an improvement in affordability, access to doctors, and usual sources of care.A study using national data from the Health Reform Monitoring Survey determined that unmet need due to cost and inability to pay medical bills significantly decreased among low-income (up to 138% FPL) and moderate-income (139-199% FPL) adults, with unmet need due to cost decreasing by approximately 11 percentage points among low-income adults by the second enrollment period. Importantly, issues with cost-related unmet medical needs, skipped medications, paying medical bills, and annual out-of-pocket spending have been significantly reduced among low-income adults in Medicaid expansion states compared to non-expansion states.As well, expanded Medicaid has led to a 6.6% increase in physician visits by low-income adults, as well as increased usage of preventative care such as dental visits and cancer screenings among childless, low-income adults. A 2017 study found that personal experience with public health insurance programs led to greater support for the Affordable Care Act, most prominently among Republicans and low-information voters. Many governments in higher-income countries provide subsidies for child care programs for the benefit of low-income families or parents in general. For example, California's Public Health Care Systems are only 6% of the hospitals in the state, yet provide care for 38% of all hospital care of uninsured in California- 123,000 of which are homeless, and 3.6 million of which live below the federal poverty line.One way in which the US has been addressing this need for a social safety net (other than formally/state recognized safety net hospitals) is through the advent of Free Clinics, an example of a Federally Qualified Health Center. Public health care coverage
Public programs provide the primary source of coverage for most seniors and also low-income children and families who meet certain eligibility requirements. Some states have additional programs for low-income individuals. The government provides premium subsidies to lower- to middle-income residents, the elderly and new policyholders transitioning from cheaper policies. 
Does telmisartan prevent hepatic fibrosis in rats with alloxan-induced diabetes? [SEP] It is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist and works by blocking the effects of angiotensin II.Telmisartan was patented in 1991 and came into medical use in 1999. Medical uses
Telmisartan is used to treat high blood pressure, heart failure, and diabetic kidney disease. In addition to blocking the renin–angiotensin system, telmisartan acts as a selective modulator of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR-γ), a central regulator of insulin and glucose metabolism. It is believed that telmisartan's dual mode of action may provide protective benefits against the vascular and renal damage caused by diabetes and cardiovascular disease (CVD).Telmisartan's activity at the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor delta (PPAR-δ) receptor has prompted speculation around its potential as a sport doping agent as an alternative to GW 501516. "Effects of the angiotensin-receptor blocker telmisartan on cardiovascular events in high-risk patients intolerant to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: a randomised controlled trial". Biological effects
Alloxan is a toxic glucose analogue, which selectively destroys insulin-producing cells in the pancreas (that is, beta cells) when administered to rodents and many other animal species. Studies suggests that alloxan does not cause diabetes in humans. Furthermore, alloxan inhibits glucokinase, a SH-containing protein essential for insulin secretion induced by glucose.Most studies have shown that alloxan is not toxic to the human beta-cell, even in very high doses, probably because of differing glucose uptake mechanisms in humans and rodents.Alloxan is, however, toxic to the liver and the kidneys in high doses. 
Two-year follow-up survey of patients with allergic contact dermatitis from an occupational cohort: is the prognosis dependent on the omnipresence of the allergen? [SEP] Surveying has been an element in the development of the human environment since the beginning of recorded history. An as-built survey is also known as a 'works as executed survey'. Mortgage survey:  A mortgage survey or physical survey is a simple survey that delineates land boundaries and building locations. Lot boundaries established by cadastral surveys may stand for hundreds of years without modification. They represent the survey industry worldwide. The cadastral survey branch of the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) conducts most cadastral surveys in the United States. In states organized per the Public Land Survey System (PLSS), surveyors must carry out BLM cadastral surveys under that system. Surveyors – Occupational Employment Statistics
Public Land Survey System Foundation (2009), Manual of Surveying Instructions For the Survey of the Public Lands of the United States 
Can calprotectin predict relapse risk in inflammatory bowel disease? [SEP] Gluten sensitivity was reported in 23.6% and 27.3% of Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis patients, respectively.A diet high in protein, particularly animal protein, and/or high in sugar may be associated with increased risk of inflammatory bowel disease and relapses. Fecal calprotectin is useful as an initial investigation, which may suggest the possibility of IBD, as this test is sensitive but not specific for IBD. Differential diagnosis
Other diseases may cause an increased excretion of fecal calprotectin, such as infectious diarrhea, untreated celiac disease, necrotizing enterocolitis, intestinal cystic fibrosis and neoplastic pediatric tumor cells.Conditions with similar symptoms as Crohn's disease includes intestinal tuberculosis, Behçet's disease, ulcerative colitis, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug enteropathy, irritable bowel syndrome and coeliac disease.Conditions with similar symptoms as ulcerative colitis includes acute self-limiting colitis, amebic colitis, schistosomiasis, Crohn's disease, colon cancer, irritable bowel syndrome, intestinal tuberculosis and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug enteropathy.Liver function tests are often elevated in inflammatory bowel disease, and are often mild and generally return spontaneously to normal levels. A Cochrane review in 2020 did not find clear evidence of improved remission likelihood, nor lower adverse events, in people with Crohn's disease, following probiotic treatment.For ulcerative colitis, there is low-certainty evidence that probiotic supplements may increase the probability of clinical remission. Fecal calprotectin is elevated in inflammatory conditions affecting the colon, and is useful in distinguishing irritable bowel syndrome (noninflammatory) from a flare in inflammatory bowel disease. Fecal calprotectin is 88% sensitive and 79% specific for the diagnosis of ulcerative colitis. If the fecal calprotectin is low, the likelihood of inflammatory bowel disease are less than 1 percent. In 2018, tofacitinib was approved for treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in the United States, the first oral medication indicated for long term use in this condition. 
Can nurse-led preoperative education reduce anxiety and postoperative complications of patients undergoing cardiac surgery? [SEP] Melatonin has been shown to have a similar effect in reducing perioperative anxiety in adult patients compared to benzodiazepine.Another example of anaesthetic premedication is the preoperative administration of beta adrenergic antagonists, which  reduce the burden of arrhythmias after cardiac surgery. A review from 2018 examined perioperative anesthesia interventions and their impact on anesthesia-related mortality. Preoperative care refers to health care provided before a surgical operation. Immediately before surgery the person's body is prepared, perhaps by washing with an antiseptic, and whenever possible their anxiety is addressed to make them comfortable. Addressing anxiety
Playing calming music to patients immediately before surgery has a beneficial effect in addressing anxiety about the surgery. See also
Prehabilitation

References
External links
Preoperative care in the Surgery Encyclopedia Postoperative care
After completion of surgery, the person is transferred to the post anesthesia care unit and closely monitored. There is insufficient evidence to determine if giving opioid pain medication pre-emptively (before surgery) reduces postoperative pain the amount of medication needed after surgery.Postoperative recovery has been defined as an energy‐requiring process to decrease physical symptoms, reach a level of emotional well‐being, regain functions, and re‐establish activities. 
Is there a discrepancy between patient and physician quality of life assessment? [SEP] Furthermore, the relationship between patient satisfaction and healthcare utilization, expenditures, clinically meaningful measures, and the evaluation of outcomes is complex, not well defined, and only beginning to be explored.A report released in April 2008 by the Foundation for Child Development, which studied the period from 1994 through 2006, found mixed results for the health of children in the US Mortality rates for children ages 1 through 4 dropped by a third, and the percentage of children with elevated blood lead levels dropped by 84%. System efficiency and equity
Variations in the efficiency of healthcare delivery can cause variations in outcomes. Variations in provider practices
The treatment given to a patient can vary significantly depending on which healthcare providers they use. For example, a Harris Interactive survey of California physicians found that:

Four of every ten physicians report that their patients have had problems with coordination of their care in the last 12 months. Some 20% of doctors report having their patients repeat tests because of an inability to locate the results during a scheduled visit.According to an article in The New York Times, the relationship between doctors and patients is deteriorating. Doctors may focus on diagnosis and treatment, while patients may be more interested in wellness and being listened to by their doctors.Many primary care physicians no longer see their patients while they are in the hospital; instead, hospitalists are used. •	contribute to patient assessments. However, the systemic issues facing physicians often cause deep distress because the patients are suffering despite the physician's best efforts. 
Impact of MPH programs: contributing to health system strengthening in low- and middle-income countries? [SEP] Monitoring and measuring healthcare in Canada
Health Canada, under the direction of the Health Minister, is the ministry responsible for overseeing Canada's healthcare, including its public policies and implementations. The study notes that supporting physician leadership and facilitating engagement of the care providers could reap great gains in efficiency. Additionally, the study suggested facilitating the exchange of information and interaction between health providers and government figures as well as flexible funding would also contribute to the improvement and solve the problem of differences in regional care by allowing regions to determine the needs of their general populace and meet those needs more efficiently by allowing target-specific allocation of funds.For 24 years, the CIHI has produced an annual detailed report updating "National Health Expenditure Trends" which includes data tables with the most recent report published in January 2021. Higher education is often thought to lead to greater health literacy, resulting in the adoption of healthier lifestyles.Longer, more complex pathways can also be used to explain potential relationships between socioeconomic status and health outcomes. The study notes that supporting primary care and focusing on social accountability training in medical schools will help ensure the sustainability of the healthcare system's response to refugees. The report was published in the Journal of Geriatric Internal Medicine.There are government avenues which provide resources for the development of healthcare for homeless people. In the United States, the Bureau of Primary Health Care has a program that provides grants to fund the delivery of healthcare to homeless people. Many nonprofit and religious organizations provide healthcare services to homeless people. 
Is diffusion-weighted imaging a significant indicator of the development of vascularization in hypovascular hepatocellular lesions? [SEP] Water molecule diffusion patterns can therefore reveal microscopic details about tissue architecture, either normal or in a diseased state. A variant of diffusion weighted imaging, diffusion spectrum imaging (DSI), was used in deriving the Connectome data sets; DSI is a variant of diffusion-weighted imaging that is sensitive to intra-voxel heterogeneities in diffusion directions caused by crossing fiber tracts and thus allows more accurate mapping of axonal trajectories than other diffusion imaging approaches.Diffusion-weighted images are very useful to diagnose vascular strokes in the brain. Clinically, trace-weighted images have proven to be very useful to diagnose vascular strokes in the brain, by early detection (within a couple of minutes) of the hypoxic edema.More extended DTI scans derive neural tract directional information from the data using 3D or multidimensional vector algorithms based on six or more gradient directions, sufficient to compute the diffusion tensor. Mechanism
Diffusion imaging is an MRI method that produces in vivo magnetic resonance images of biological tissues sensitized with the local characteristics of molecular diffusion, generally water (but other moieties can also be investigated using MR spectroscopic approaches). It is possible to calculate "pure" diffusion maps (or more exactly ADC maps where the ADC is the sole source of contrast) by collecting images with at least 2 different values, 
  
    
      
        
          b
          
            1
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle b_{1}}
   and 
  
    
      
        
          b
          
            2
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle b_{2}}
  , of the b factor according to:

  
    
      
        
          A
          D
          C
        
        (
        x
        ,
        y
        ,
        z
        )
        =
        ln
        ⁡
        [
        
          S
          
            2
          
        
        (
        x
        ,
        y
        ,
        z
        )
        
          /
        
        
          S
          
            1
          
        
        (
        x
        ,
        y
        ,
        z
        )
        ]
        
          /
        
        (
        
          b
          
            1
          
        
        −
        
          b
          
            2
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathrm {ADC} (x,y,z)=\ln[S_{2}(x,y,z)/S_{1}(x,y,z)]/(b_{1}-b_{2})}
  Although this ADC concept has been extremely successful, especially for clinical applications, it has been challenged recently, as new, more comprehensive models of diffusion in biological tissues have been introduced. Some more specialized diffusion MRI techniques such as diffusion kurtosis imaging (DKI) have also been shown to predict the response of cancer patients to chemotherapy treatment.The principal application is in the imaging of white matter where the location, orientation, and anisotropy of the tracts can be measured. The imaging of this property is an extension of diffusion MRI. Stroke and hemorrhage
Diffusion weighted imaging offers a powerful means to detect acute stroke. 
Are failures of anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction associated with steep posterior tibial slopes? [SEP] Anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACL reconstruction) is a surgical tissue graft replacement of the anterior cruciate ligament, located in the knee, to restore its function after an injury. Background
The Anterior Cruciate Ligament is the ligament that keeps the knee stable. Anterior Cruciate Ligament damage is a very common injury, especially among athletes. Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction (ACL) surgery is a common intervention. The anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is one of a pair of cruciate ligaments (the other being the posterior cruciate ligament) in the human knee. The anterior cruciate ligament is one of the four main ligaments of the knee, providing 85% of the restraining force to anterior tibial displacement at 30 and 90° of knee flexion. The size of the anterior cruciate ligament is often the most reported difference. Other factors that could contribute to higher risks of ACL tears in women include patient weight and height, the size and depth of the intercondylar notch, the diameter of the ACL, the magnitude of the tibial slope, the volume of the tibial spines, the convexity of the lateral tibiofemoral articular surfaces, and the concavity of the medial tibial plateau. 
Does evidence-based practice improve patient outcomes? [SEP] Evidence-based practices have been gaining ground since the formal introduction of evidence-based medicine in 1992 and have spread to the allied health professions, education, management, law, public policy, architecture, and other fields. The goal of evidence-based practice is to eliminate unsound or outdated practices in favor of more-effective ones by shifting the basis for decision making from tradition, intuition, and unsystematic experience to firmly grounded scientific research. Use of the term rapidly expanded to include a previously described approach that emphasized the use of evidence in the design of guidelines and policies that apply to groups of patients and populations ("evidence-based practice policies").Whether applied to medical education, decisions about individuals, guidelines and policies applied to populations, or administration of health services in general, evidence-based medicine advocates that to the greatest extent possible, decisions and policies should be based on evidence, not just the beliefs of practitioners, experts, or administrators. By sharing the results of evidence-based practice process, others may benefit. Evidence-based nursing in an attempt to facilitate the management of the growing literature and technology accessible to healthcare providers that can potentially improve patient care and their outcomes. These practices affect patient outcomes. There appears to have been some attempt to incorporate evidence-based practices. Evidence-based Policy and Practice in the Public Services. 
Multidisciplinary decisions in breast cancer: does the patient receive what the team has recommended? [SEP] Breast cancer management takes different approaches depending on physical and biological characteristics of the disease, as well as the age, over-all health and personal preferences of the patient. Management of breast cancer is undertaken by a multidisciplinary team, including medical-, radiation-, and surgical- oncologists, and is guided by national and international guidelines. Staging
Staging breast cancer is the initial step to help physicians determine the most appropriate course of treatment. However, mastectomy may be the preferred treatment in certain instances:

Two or more tumors exist in different areas of the breast (a "multifocal" cancer)
The breast has previously received radiotherapy
The tumor is large relative to the size of the breast
The patient has had scleroderma or another disease of the connective tissue, which can complicate radiotherapy
The patient lives in an area where radiotherapy is inaccessible
The patient wishes to avoid systemic therapy
The patient is apprehensive about the risk of local recurrence after lumpectomySpecific types of mastectomy can also include: skin-sparing, nipple-sparing, subcutaneous, and prophylactic. Once the diagnosis is made, further tests are done to determine if the cancer has spread beyond the breast and which treatments are most likely to be effective.The balance of benefits versus harms of breast cancer screening is controversial. In those in whom the cancer has spread to other parts of the body, treatments are mostly aimed at improving quality of life and comfort.Outcomes for breast cancer vary depending on the cancer type, the extent of disease, and the person's age. Management
The management of breast cancer depends on various factors, including the stage of the cancer and the person's age. Patients with multiple primary breast tumours may receive treatments such as chemotherapy, radiotherapy and breast reconstruction surgery for the same indications as other breast cancer patients. 
Does quilting suture prevent seroma in abdominoplasty? [SEP] Quilting sutures reduce the risk of the skin–fat layer's separating from the deeper muscle layer, and having the separation fill up with fluid, by physically holding those layers together. (In abdominoplasty, sitting upright with the knees bent and hips flexed will cause pressure across the lower abdomen and a tendency to seroma formation. Quilting (inserting interrupted deep stitches in the wound) after mastectomy probably significantly reduces seroma formation. Quilting sutures reduce the risk of the skin–fat layer's separating from the deeper muscle layer, and having the separation fill up with fluid, by physically holding those layers together. (In abdominoplasty, sitting upright with the knees bent and hips flexed will cause pressure across the lower abdomen and a tendency to seroma formation. Quilting (inserting interrupted deep stitches in the wound) after mastectomy probably significantly reduces seroma formation. Quilting sutures reduce the risk of the skin–fat layer's separating from the deeper muscle layer, and having the separation fill up with fluid, by physically holding those layers together. Quilting (inserting interrupted deep stitches in the wound) after mastectomy probably significantly reduces seroma formation. 
Does feeding tube insertion and its timing improve survival? [SEP] A secondary option for people who cannot swallow effectively is to consider gastrostomy feeding tube placement as a way to give nutrition. However, in bringing comfort and maintaining functional status while lowering risk of aspiration pneumonia and death, assistance with oral feeding is at least as good as tube feeding. Tube-feeding is associated with agitation, increased use of physical and chemical restraints and worsening pressure ulcers. Tube feedings may cause fluid overload, diarrhea, abdominal pain, local complications, less human interaction and may increase the risk of aspiration.Benefits in those with advanced dementia has not been shown. The risks of using tube feeding include agitation, rejection by the person (pulling out the tube, or otherwise physical or chemical immobilization to prevent them from doing this), or developing pressure ulcers. Achieving partial or full enteral feeding (delivery of nutrients through a feeding tube) is chosen as the best approach to provide nutrition for a person who is contraindicated for oral intake or unable to tolerate orally in the first seven days of sepsis when compared to intravenous nutrition. Although these dual-chamber models are usually more expensive, timing the contractions of the atria to precede that of the ventricles improves the pumping efficiency of the heart and can be useful in congestive heart failure. The condition may improve with time, but in the interim, a nasogastric tube may be inserted, enabling liquid food to be given directly into the stomach. 
Does prostate morphology affect outcomes after holmium laser enucleation? [SEP] (See also: Surgery for benign prostatic hyperplasia). Surgery
Surgery to remove the prostate is called prostatectomy, and is usually done as a treatment for cancer limited to the prostate, or prostatic enlargement. Complications that might develop because of surgery include urinary incontinence and erectile dysfunction because of damage to nerves during the operation, particularly if a cancer is very close to nerves. The penis length may change if the part of the urethra within the prostate is also removed. Damage to nearby tissue during surgery can result in erectile dysfunction and urinary incontinence. Radiotherapy and surgery appear to result in similar outcomes with respect to bowel, erectile and urinary function after five years.Successful radiotherapy causes a drop in PSA levels due to destruction of the tumor, while prostatectomy causes PSA to drop to undetectable levels. Predict Prostate is endorsed for use as a decision aid for prostate cancer by the UK National Institute for Health and Care Excellence No evidence shows that either surgery or beam radiation has an advantage over the other in this regard. It is also being considered for usage in the enucleation of the prostate. 
Do acute changes in heart rate by isoproterenol affect aortic stiffness in patients with hypertension? [SEP] High blood pressure medications are used to block these receptors and so reduce the heart rate. Faster heart rate may accompany increased production of inflammation molecules and increased production of reactive oxygen species in cardiovascular system, in addition to increased mechanical stress to the heart. Pharmacology
The adverse effects of isoprenaline are also related to the drug's cardiovascular effects. Isoprenaline can produce tachycardia (an elevated heart rate), which predisposes people who take it to cardiac arrhythmias. Its agonist effects at TAAR1 provide it with pharmacodynamic effects that resemble those of the endogenous trace amines, like tyramine.Isoprenaline's effects on the cardiovascular system (non-selective) relate to its actions on cardiac β1 receptors and β2 receptors on smooth muscle within the tunica media of arterioles. Isoprenaline has positive inotropic and chronotropic effects on the heart. β2 adrenoceptor stimulation in arteriolar smooth muscle induces vasodilation. Its inotropic and chronotropic effects elevate systolic blood pressure, while its vasodilatory effects tend to lower diastolic blood pressure. 
"Occult" posttraumatic lesions of the knee: can magnetic resonance substitute for diagnostic arthroscopy? [SEP] See also
References
External links
 Media related to Knee at Wikimedia Commons An advantage of MRI is that no ionizing radiation is used and so it is recommended over CT when either approach could yield the same diagnostic information. The procedures are more commonly performed to treat meniscus injury and to perform anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction.While knee arthroscopy is commonly used for partial meniscectomy (trimming a torn meniscus) on middle aged to older adults with knee pain, the claimed positive results seem to lack scientific evidence. Many studies have shown the outcomes from knee arthroscopic surgery for osteoarthritis and degenerative meniscal tears are no better than the outcomes from placebo (fake) surgery or other treatments (such as exercise therapy).During an average knee arthroscopy, a small fiberoptic camera (the arthroscope) is inserted into the joint through a small incision, about 4 mm (1/8 inch) width. Knee osteoarthritis
The BMJ Rapid Recommendations group makes a strong recommendation against arthroscopy for osteoarthritis on the basis that there is high quality evidence that there is no lasting benefit and less than 15% of people have a small short-term benefit. History
Professor Kenji Takagi in Tokyo has traditionally been credited with performing the first arthroscopic examination of a knee joint, in 1919. He published several papers in the 1920s about his use of arthroscopy of the knee for diagnostic purposes. However, relying on arthroscopic findings in the setting of an unclear preoperative diagnosis yields limited diagnostic benefit. 
Could ESC (Electronic Stability Control) change the way we drive? [SEP] Electronic traction control (2003–present)
AdvanceTrac electronic stability control was introduced for the 2003 model year as an optional extra on the second generation Ford Expedition (U222). Electronic stability control (ESC) can reduce the speed of the car and activate individual brakes to prevent understeer and oversteer. In conjunction with other car safety technologies, such as anti-lock braking and traction control, the ESC can safely help drivers maintain control of the car in unforeseen situations. Electronic Stability Control (ESC) (also known for Mercedes-Benz proprietary Electronic Stability Program (ESP), Acceleration Slip Regulation (ASR) and Electronic differential lock (EDL)). The Vehicle Dynamic Control (VDC), also can be changed for three different modes: "R-mode" to use during fast driving conditions such as on track and dragstrip, which lowers the traction control sensitivity but doesn't turn off the electronic stability control (ESC) fully, "Normal-mode" for daily driver use, and "Off-mode" which turns off the electronic stability control entirely. Electronic stability control
Electronic stability control (ESC) is a computerized technology that improves the safety of a vehicle's stability by attempting to detect and prevent skids. When ESC detects loss of steering control, the system applies individual brakes to help "steer" the vehicle where the driver wants to go. Tiff conducts an investigation into the advantages of electronic stability control (ESC) and Jonny Smith recommends some used cars with ESC fitted as standard. 
The insertion allele of the ACE gene I/D polymorphism. A candidate gene for insulin resistance? [SEP] ACE is a central component of the renin–angiotensin system (RAS), which controls blood pressure by regulating the volume of fluids in the body. Genetics
The ACE gene, ACE, encodes two isozymes. It is assumed that ACE can degrade beta-amyloid in brain blood vessels and therefore help prevent the progression of the disease.A negative correlation between the ACE1 D-allele frequency and the prevalence and mortality of COVID-19 has been established. Elevated levels of ACE are also found in leprosy, hyperthyroidism, acute hepatitis, primary biliary cirrhosis, diabetes mellitus, multiple myeloma, osteoarthritis, amyloidosis, Gaucher disease, pneumoconiosis, histoplasmosis and miliary tuberculosis. The DD genotype is associated with higher plasma levels of the ACE protein, the DI genotype with intermediate levels, and II with lower levels. During physical exercise, due to higher levels of the ACE for D-allele carriers, hence higher capacity to produce angiotensin II, the blood pressure will increase sooner than for I-allele carriers. Therefore, D-allele carriers have a 10% increased risk of cardiovascular diseases. On the other hand, I-allele carriers usually show an increased maximal heart rate due to lower ACE levels, higher maximum oxygen uptake and therefore show an enhanced endurance performance. 
Do ventricular arrhythmias in athletes subside over time? [SEP] Some types of arrhythmias have no symptoms. Ventricular arrhythmias include ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. However, some asymptomatic arrhythmias are associated with adverse events. This can be accomplished in an electrophysiology study, an endovascular procedure that uses a catheter to "listen" to the electrical activity from within the heart, additionally if the source of the arrhythmias is found, often the abnormal cells can be ablated and the arrhythmia can be permanently corrected. In athletes, however, the resting heart rate can be as slow as 40 beats per minute, and be considered normal.The term sinus arrhythmia refers to a normal phenomenon of alternating mild acceleration and slowing of the heart rate that occurs with breathing in and out respectively. Bradycardias may also be present in the normally functioning heart of endurance athletes or other well-conditioned persons. They are relatively rare and can result from the action of anti-arrhythmic drugs, or after depolarizations. Re-entry ventricular arrhythmia is a type of paroxysmal tachycardia occurring in the  ventricle where the cause of the arrhythmia is due to the electric signal not completing the normal circuit, but rather an alternative circuit looping back upon itself. 
Does ethnicity affect where people with cancer die? [SEP] Health
1983 research of breast cancer rates in Birmingham, England found that whites in the United Kingdom had significantly higher rates of the disease than black and Asian people who had migrated to the country. African Americans are about 20% more likely to get colorectal cancer and about 40% more likely to die from it than most other groups. Black Americans often experience greater obstacles to cancer prevention, detection, treatment, and survival, including systemic racial disparities that are complex and go beyond the obvious connection to cancer. Women of Icelandic descent, European Jewish descent/Ashkenazi Jewish descent, and Hungarian descent are at higher risk for epithelial ovarian cancer. White women are at a 30–40% higher risk for ovarian cancer when compared to Black women and Hispanic women, likely due to socioeconomic factors; white women tend to have fewer children and different rates of gynecologic surgeries that affect risk for ovarian cancer.Tentative evidence suggests that talc, pesticides, and herbicides increase the risk of ovarian cancer. Health disparities in breast cancer
There are ethnic disparities in the mortality rates for breast cancer as well as in breast cancer treatment. Breast cancer is the most prevalent cancer affecting women of every ethnic group in the United States. The ratio of lung cancer cases in men to women varies considerably by geography, from as high as nearly 12:1 in Belarus, to 1:1 in Brazil, likely due to differences in smoking patterns.Lung cancer risk is influenced by environmental exposure, namely cigarette smoking, as well as occupational risks in mining, shipbuilding, petroleum refining, and occupations that involve asbestos exposure. 
Are patients with serious mental illness more likely to be admitted to nursing homes with more deficiencies in care? [SEP] According to the Institute of Medicine, between 1993 and 2003, emergency room visits in the US grew by 26%, while in the same period, the number of emergency departments declined by 425.Mentally ill patients present a unique challenge for emergency departments and hospitals. It is estimated that less than half of all people with mental illnesses receive treatment (or specifically, an ongoing, much needed, and managed care; where medication alone, cannot easily remove mental conditions) due to factors such as stigma and lack of access to care, including a shortage of mental health professionals. However, mental disorder is thought by most psychiatrists to cover schizophrenia, anorexia nervosa, major depression, bipolar disorder and other similar illnesses, learning disability and personality disorders. In a community-based population examining individuals after an episode of severe infection (though not specifically delirium), these persons acquired more functional limitations (i.e., required more assistance with their care needs) than those not experiencing infection. In prospective studies, people hospitalised from any cause appear to be at greater risk of dementia and faster trajectories of cognitive decline, but these studies did not specifically look at delirium. Among other psychiatric comorbidities, depression (36.7%) was found to be the most common mental illness followed by neurotic, stress related and somatoform disorders (13.8%) and Alcohol dependence syndrome (12.9%). The patients admitted to mental hospitals belong primarily to the following two diagnostic groups: Schizophrenia, schizotypal and delusional disorders (34%) and Mood [affective] disorders (21%). Some studies report that malnutrition is prevalent in nursing homes, with up to 58% of residents suffering from it, which can lead to the difficulty of identifying anorexia. 
Does an additional antirotation U-Blade (RC) lag screw improve treatment of AO/OTA 31 A1-3 fractures with gamma 3 nail? [SEP] "A comparison of the proximal femoral nail antirotation device and dynamic hip screw in the treatment of unstable pertrochanteric fracture". The Müller AO Classification of fractures is a system for classifying bone fractures initially published in 1987 by the AO Foundation as a method of categorizing injuries according to therognosis of the patient's anatomical and functional outcome. "AO" is an initialism for the German "Arbeitsgemeinschaft für Osteosynthesefragen", the predecessor of the AO Foundation. It is one of the few complete fracture classification systems to remain in use today after validation. Comprehensive classification of the long bones
The English language version of the system allows consistent in detail description of a fracture in defined terminology by creating a 5-element alphanumeric code:

Localisation
First, each fracture is given 2 numbers to describe which bone it affects, and where in the bone:

Type
Each fracture is next given a letter (A, B or C) to describe the joint involvement of the fracture:

The exceptions to this step include:

Groups & Subgroups
Finally, the fracture is given 2 further numbers to denote the fracture pattern and geometry. For segment 2 (diaphyseal) fractures:

For segment 1 and 3 (epiphyseal and metaphyseal) fractures:

Subgroups are then used to describe the fractures in terms of displacement (versus apposition, which is the degree to which the parts are in contact with each other), rotation, angulation and shortening. AO pediatric comprehensive classification of long bone fractures
A pediatric version of the long-bone classification was published in 2006 to further classify fractures of immature bone and so the effects on future growth:

OTA/AO Classification unifying extension
The Orthopaedic Trauma Association Committee for Coding and Classification initially published their classification system covering the whole skeleton in 1996. In 2006 they published a revision, unifying the Muller/AO and OTA systems into a single alphanumeric classification, which has been further updated in 2018:

References
External links
AO Surgery Reference 
The Omega-3 Index: a new risk factor for death from coronary heart disease? [SEP] Evidence also suggests that the Mediterranean diet and a high fiber diet lower the risk.The consumption of trans fat (commonly found in hydrogenated products such as margarine) has been shown to cause a precursor to atherosclerosis and increase the risk of coronary artery disease.Evidence does not support a beneficial role for omega-3 fatty acid supplementation in preventing cardiovascular disease (including myocardial infarction and sudden cardiac death). There is conflicting evidence concerning whether dietary supplements of omega-3 fatty acids (a type of polysaturated fat in oily fish) added to diet improve cardiovascular risk.The benefits of recommending a low-salt diet in people with high or normal blood pressure are not clear. The World Health Organization estimated in 2004, that 12.2% of worldwide deaths were from ischemic heart disease; with it being the leading cause of death in high- or middle-income countries and second only to lower respiratory infections in lower-income countries. The American Heart Association also has diet recommendations aimed at preventing cardiovascular disease.Additionally, marine-derived omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) have been promoted for preventing sudden cardiac death due to their postulated ability to lower triglyceride levels, prevent arrhythmias, decrease platelet aggregation, and lower blood pressure. According to a systematic review published in 2012, omega-3 PUFA supplementation is not associated with a lower risk of sudden cardiac death. The relationships are accepted as causal, including by many government and medical organizations.A 2017 review by the AHA estimated that replacement of saturated fat with polyunsaturated fat in the American diet could reduce the risk of cardiovascular diseases by 30%.The consumption of saturated fat is generally considered a risk factor for dyslipidemia—abnormal blood lipid levels, including high total cholesterol, high levels of triglycerides, high levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL, "bad" cholesterol) or low levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL, "good" cholesterol). The Harvard School of Public Health advises that replacing TFAs and saturated fats with cis monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats is beneficial for health.Consuming trans fats has been shown to increase the risk of coronary artery disease in part by raising levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL, often termed "bad cholesterol"), lowering levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL, often termed "good cholesterol"), increasing triglycerides in the bloodstream and promoting systemic inflammation.The primary health risk identified for trans fat consumption is an elevated risk of coronary artery disease (CAD). Omega-three and omega-six fatty acids
The ω−3 fatty acids have received substantial attention. 
May mean platelet volume levels be a predictor in the diagnosis of pelvic inflammatory disease? [SEP] Serum alpha-fetoprotein, neuron-specific enolase, and lactate dehydrogenase can be measured in young girls and adolescents with suspected ovarian tumors as younger women with ovarian cancer are more likely to have malignant germ cell tumors.A physical examination, including a pelvic examination, and a pelvic ultrasound (transvaginal or otherwise) are both essential for diagnosis: physical examination may reveal increased abdominal girth and/or ascites (fluid within the abdominal cavity), while pelvic examination may reveal an ovarian or abdominal mass. Another indicator may be the presence of a pleural effusion, which can be noted on auscultation.When an ovarian malignancy is included in a list of diagnostic possibilities, a limited number of laboratory tests are indicated. A complete blood count and serum electrolyte test is usually obtained; when an ovarian cancer is present, these tests often show a high number of platelets (20–25% of patients) and low blood sodium levels due to chemical signals secreted by the tumor. An RMI score of over 200 or 250 is generally felt to indicate high risk for ovarian cancer.The RMI is calculated as:

RMI = ultrasound score × menopausal score x CA-125 level in U/ml.Two methods can be used to determine the ultrasound score and menopausal score, with the resultant scores being referred to as RMI 1 and RMI 2, respectively, depending on what method is used. Inflammation
There are some indications that pelvic inflammatory disease may be associated with ovarian cancer, especially in non-western countries. It may be due to the inflammatory process present with pelvic inflammatory disease. The most common PNSs seen in people with RCC are: high blood calcium levels, high red blood cell count, high platelet count and secondary amyloidosis. Inconsistencies with platelet counts are also common amongst these cancer patients and further coagulation tests, including erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) should be considered. 
Do cytokine concentrations in pancreatic juice predict the presence of pancreatic diseases? [SEP] Type 1 diabetes only occurs when pancreatic beta-cell function is impaired. With a reduced response to insulin, the beta cells of the pancreas secrete increasing amounts of insulin in response to the continued high blood glucose levels resulting in hyperinsulinemia. To compensate for the increased blood glucose levels, fetal pancreatic beta cells can undergo hyperplasia. Pancreatic cancer
Trans fats

Link to obesity
Often, individuals get metabolically (internally) sick before showing signs of obesity. Specifically cytokines secreted by adipose tissue directly affect the insulin signalling cascade, and thus insulin secretion. Diagnosis is often made by checking normal levels of glucose that exceed 1.7 mmol/L (30 mg/dL) when 1 mg of glucagon is administered IM or IV. The arsenic reported in 2012 in fruit juice and rice by Consumer Reports was primarily inorganic arsenic. A 2017 study found a variety of flavoring initiated inflammatory cytokines in lung cell cultures, of which acetoin and maltol were among the most strongest. 
Does the sex of acute stroke patients influence the effectiveness of rt-PA? [SEP] Some hemorrhagic strokes benefit from surgery. Imaging
For diagnosing ischemic (blockage) stroke in the emergency setting:
CT scans (without contrast enhancements)
sensitivity= 16% (less than 10% within first 3 hours of symptom onset)
specificity= 96%MRI scan
sensitivity= 83%
specificity= 98%For diagnosing hemorrhagic stroke in the emergency setting:

CT scans (without contrast enhancements)
sensitivity= 89%
specificity= 100%MRI scan
sensitivity= 81%
specificity= 100%For detecting chronic hemorrhages, an MRI scan is more sensitive.For the assessment of stable stroke, nuclear medicine scans such as single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography–computed tomography (PET/CT) may be helpful. Even so, the AHA/ASA guidelines state that starting intravenous tPA in possible mimics is preferred to delaying treatment for additional testing.Women, African-Americans, Hispanic-Americans, Asian and Pacific Islanders are more often misdiagnosed for a condition other than stroke when in fact having a stroke. Further studies are needed to investigate a possible protective effect of aspirin against ischemic stroke in women. Thrombolysis
Thrombolysis, such as with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA), in acute ischemic stroke, when given within three hours of symptom onset, results in an overall benefit of 10% with respect to living without disability. Physical therapy is sometimes suggested for people who experience sexual dysfunction following a stroke. Men are 25% more likely to develop strokes than women, yet 60% of deaths from stroke occur in women. Some risk factors for stroke apply only to women. 
Are head and neck specific quality of life measures necessary? [SEP] However, several areas of the head and neck do have pain receptors and can thus sense pain. The CAPE-V is used in a similar manner, rating of the dimensions of voice quality on a subjective scale from 0–100, and using this to determine an overall severity score.In the presence of neural lesions with unknown cause, a thorough ENT endoscopy with additional imaging techniques (computed tomography (CT) of the chest, particularly in the case of left-sided paralyses, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the neck including the base of the skull and the brain, ultrasound examination of the neck) are performed to exclude tumors along the laryngeal nerves. This technique is used when a victim has a suspected head, neck, or spinal injury. The test is intended to detect any blockage in the salivary gland ducts (i.e. Dental care
Preventive dental treatment is also necessary (and often overlooked by the patient), as the lack of saliva associated with xerostomia creates an ideal environment for the proliferation of bacteria that cause cavities. Attachment to the neck dam is critical to diver safety and a reliable locking mechanism is needed to ensure that it is not inadvertently released during a dive. Various national standards for breathing air quality may apply. Some divers can put on their own helmet, but it is usual for the topside crew to do most of the locking on to the neck dam, and check that there are no obvious faults with the seal.There are a series of pre-dive checks which are done after the diver is locked into the helmet, and before he is committed to the water. 
Diabetes mellitus among Swedish art glass workers--an effect of arsenic exposure? [SEP] Exposure at work is a common cause of lead poisoning in adults with certain occupations at particular risk. In addition, lead miners and smelters, plumbers and fitters, auto mechanics, glass manufacturers, construction workers, battery manufacturers and recyclers, firing range workers, and plastic manufacturers are at risk for lead exposure. Occupational exposure to lead increases the risk of cardiovascular disease, in particular: stroke, and high blood pressure. In 1656 the German physician Samuel Stockhausen recognized dust and fumes containing lead compounds as the cause of disease, called since ancient Roman times morbi metallici, that were known to afflict miners, smelter workers, potters, and others whose work exposed them to the metal.The painter Caravaggio might have died of lead poisoning. The composer Beethoven, a heavy wine drinker, had elevated lead levels (as later detected in his hair) possibly due to this; the cause of his death is controversial, but lead poisoning is a contender as a factor.With the Industrial Revolution in the 19th century, lead poisoning became common in the work setting. Midcentury ceramicist Carol Janeway provides a case history of lead poisoning in an artist using lead glazes in decorating tiles in the 1940s; her monograph suggests that other artists' potential for lead poisoning be investigated, for example Vally Wieselthier and Dora Carrington. Diabetes also increases the risk of having glaucoma, cataracts, and other eye problems. Occupational hazards
Occupational hazards encountered by glaziers include the risks of being cut by glass or tools and falling from scaffolds or ladders or lead exposure from old lead paint on  antique windows. 
Does SYNTAX score predict in-hospital outcomes in patients with ST elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention? [SEP] In linguistics, syntax () is the study of how words and morphemes combine to form larger units such as phrases and sentences. Central concerns of syntax include word order, grammatical relations, hierarchical sentence structure (constituency), agreement, the nature of crosslinguistic variation, and the relationship between form and meaning (semantics). Etymology
The word syntax comes from Ancient Greek roots: σύνταξις "coordination", which consists of σύν syn, "together", and τάξις táxis, "ordering". Sequencing of subject, verb, and object
One basic description of a language's syntax is the sequence in which the subject (S), verb (V), and object (O) usually appear in sentences. The central role of syntax within theoretical linguistics became clear only in the 20th century, which could reasonably be called the "century of syntactic theory" as far as linguistics is concerned. This has led to widespread copyright strikes by Douglas Martens against any artist using the noun "syntax" in their name. This issue has not been solved as of yet.Jan Burton has told rumors of trying to reform Syntax with Mike Tournier in 2022. When the U.S. Institute of Medicine’s groundbreaking 1999 report, To Err Is Human, found up to 98,000 hospital patients die from preventable medical errors in the U.S. each year, early efforts focused on inpatient safety. 
Is micro-computed tomography reliable to determine the microstructure of the maxillary alveolar bone? [SEP] It is similar to tomography and X-ray computed tomography. Micro-CT has applications both in medical imaging and in industrial computed tomography. The alveolar process () or alveolar bone is the thickened ridge of bone that contains the tooth sockets on the jaw bones (in humans, the maxilla and the mandible). Structure
On the maxilla, the alveolar process is a ridge on the inferior surface, making up the thickest part of the bone. Sharpey's fibres in alveolar bone proper are inserted at a right angle (just as with the cemental surface); they are fewer in number, but thicker in diameter than those found in cementum.The supporting alveolar bone consists of both cortical (compact) bone and trabecular bone. The cortical bone consists of plates on the facial and lingual surfaces of the alveolar bone. The trabecular bone consists of cancellous bone that is located between the alveolar bone proper and the cortical plates.The alveolar structure is a dynamic tissue which provides the jawbone with some degree of flexibility and resilience for the embedded teeth as they encounter numerous multi-directional forces. For the implant placement to be successful, there needs to be enough alveolar bone to support and stabilize the dental implant. 
Does use of hydrophilic guidewires significantly improve technical success rates of peripheral PTA? [SEP] Guiding catheters (catheters that guides angioplasty balloons and stents) is made up of polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) innermost layer which is lubricious, followed by stainless steel braid wire outer layer which helps to provide support for the catheter and prevent kinking while travelling through blood vessels, and Nylon elastomer outermost layer which provides extra support for the catheter and preserve the curvature of the catheter while passing through tortuous vessels.To enhance ease of insertion, some catheters have a lubricious surface coating to lessen friction. Guide Wires
Guide wires are an example of an application for biomedical coatings. Guide wires are used in coronary angioplasty to correct the effects of coronary artery disease, a disease that allows plaque build up on the walls of the arteries. Guide wires are commonly made from stainless steel or Nitinol and require polymer coatings as a surface modification to reduce friction in the arteries. Hydrophilic Coatings
Hydrophilic coatings can reduce friction in the arteries by up to 83% when compared to bare wires due to their high surface energy. Guide wires with hydrophilic coatings have increased trackability and are not very thrombogenic; however the low coefficient of friction increases the risk of the wire slipping and perforating the artery. Hydrophobic Coatings
Teflon and Silicone are commonly used hydrophobic coatings for coronary guide wires. Hydrophobic coatings maintain tactile sensation in the artery, giving doctors full control of the wire at all times and reducing the risk of perforation; though, the coatings are more thrombogenic than hydrophilic coatings. 
Does frozen section alter surgical management of multinodular thyroid disease? [SEP] See also
Frozen tissue array

References
External links
JAMA patient page on frozen section procedure Thyroid surgery may also be performed to remove a thyroid nodule or to reduce the size of a goiter if it obstructs nearby structures or for cosmetic reasons. In contrast, finding that a substantial section of the thyroid is inactive ("cold") may indicate an area of non-functioning tissue, such as thyroid cancer. Thyroid tissue may be obtained for biopsy by fine needle aspiration (FNA) or by surgery.Fine needle aspiration has the advantage of being a brief, safe, outpatient procedure that is safer and less expensive than surgery and does not leave a visible scar. Surgery
Thyroid surgery is performed for a variety of reasons. A large majority of the thyroid may be removed (subtotal thyroidectomy) to treat the hyperthyroidism of Graves' disease, or to remove a goiter that is unsightly or impinges on vital structures.A complete thyroidectomy of the entire thyroid, including associated lymph nodes, is the preferred treatment for thyroid cancer. Higher than normal doses are often administered to prevent recurrence.If the thyroid gland must be removed surgically, care must be taken to avoid damage to adjacent structures, the parathyroid glands and the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Thyroid surgeons or otolaryngologists are responsible for the surgical management of thyroid disease. 
Could chest wall rigidity be a factor in rapid death from illicit fentanyl abuse? [SEP] Since 2018, fentanyl and its analogues have been responsible for most drug overdose deaths in the United States, causing over 71,238 deaths in 2021. Reduced sedation, losing a useful early warning sign of opioid toxicity and resulting in levels closer to respiratory-depressant levels.Another related complication of fentanyl overdoses includes the so-called wooden chest syndrome, which quickly induces complete respiratory failure by paralyzing the thoracic muscles, explained in more detail in the Muscle rigidity section below. Heart and blood vessels
Bradycardia: Fentanyl decreases the heart rate by increasing vagal nerve tone in the brainstem, which increases the parasympathetic drive. Muscle rigidity
If high boluses of fentanyl are administered quickly, muscle rigidity of the vocal cords can make bag-mask ventilation very difficult. Wooden chest syndrome
A prominent idiosyncratic adverse effect of fentanyl also includes a sudden onset of rigidity of the abdominal muscles and the diaphragm, which induces respiratory failure; this is seen with high doses and is known as wooden chest syndrome. The syndrome is believed to be the main cause of death as a result of fentanyl overdoses.Wooden chest syndrome is reversed by naloxone and is believed to be caused by a release of noradrenaline, which activates α-adrenergic receptors and also possibly via an activation of cholinergic receptors.Wooden chest syndrome is unique to the most powerful opioids—which today comprise fentanyl and its analogs—while other less-powerful opioids like heroin produce mild rigidity of the respiratory muscles to a much lesser degree. The effects being reported in these cases, including rapid heartbeat, hyperventilation and chills, were not symptoms of a fentanyl overdose, and were more commonly associated with a panic attack.A 2021 paper expressed concern that these physical fears over fentanyl may inhibit effective emergency response to overdoses by causing responding officers to spend additional time on unnecessary precautions, and that the media coverage could also perpetuate a wider social stigma that people who use drugs are dangerous to be around. References
Further reading
External links

Fentanyl (Report). 
Is severe pain immediately after spinal augmentation a predictor of long-term outcomes? [SEP] The first stage is characterised by abdominal cramping or back pain that typically lasts half a minute and occurs every 10 to 30 minutes. Since the pain of childbirth correlates with contractions, the pain becomes more frequent and strong as the labour progresses. Various methods may help with pain, such as relaxation techniques, opioids, and spinal blocks. Crowning may be experienced as an intense stretching and burning. The first stage is characterised by abdominal cramping or back pain that typically lasts around half a minute and occurs every 10 to 30 minutes. Epidural analgesia is a generally safe and effective method of relieving pain in labour, but has been associated with longer labour, more operative intervention (particularly instrument delivery), and increases in cost. Augmentation
Augmentation is the process of stimulating the uterus to increase the intensity and duration of contractions after labour has begun. Women experienced less severe perineal trauma, less posterior perineal trauma, less suturing and fewer healing complications at seven days with no difference in occurrence of pain, urinary incontinence, painful sex or severe vaginal/perineal trauma after birth. 
Can computerised tomography replace bone scintigraphy in detecting bone metastases from breast cancer? [SEP] A combination of X-ray, CT and MRI scans may be most sensitive in the diagnosis of cancerous bone metastasis. Radionuclide Bone Scan
A radionuclide bone scan or scintigraphy can identify bone metastasis. Bone scans are more sensitive and can identify lesions earlier than plain radiographs. CT Scan
A CT scan can detect bone metastases before they present with symptoms in patients diagnosed with tumors that are high-risk for spread to the bone. MRI
MRIs can be used to detect bone metastasis with a sensitivity of 82-100% and a specificity of 73-100%. Bone
Roughly 70% of all patients living with advanced breast cancer have bone metastases Very often bone metastases can be successfully managed for a long time. Workup
In the detection of bone metastases, skeletal scintigraphy (bone scan) is very sensitive and is recommended as the first imaging study in asymptomatic individuals with suspected breast-cancer metastases. The bones are a very common site of metastatic disease from breast cancer, and bone metastases can cause severe pain, hypercalcemia and pathologic fracture. 
Does obesity impact the pattern and outcome of trauma in children? [SEP] Cigarette burns or scald injuries may also prompt evaluation for child physical abuse.The long-term impact of child abuse and neglect on physical health and development can be:

Shaken baby syndrome. The World Health Organization summarizes the study as: "childhood maltreatment and household dysfunction contribute to the development – decades later – of the chronic diseases that are the most common causes of death and disability in the United States... A strong relationship was seen between the number of adverse experiences (including physical and sexual abuse in childhood) and self-reports of cigarette smoking, obesity, physical inactivity, alcoholism, drug abuse, depression, attempted suicide, sexual promiscuity and sexually transmitted diseases in later life. Health outcomes due to ACEs
Childhood
With one in four children experiencing or witnessing a potentially traumatic event, the relationship between ACEs and poor health outcomes has been established for years. Children who have faced trauma encounter more learning challenges in school and higher levels of stress internally. An underlying thesis of the ACE Study is that stressful or traumatic childhood experiences have negative neurodevelopmental impacts that persist over the lifespan and that increase the risk of a variety of health and social problems.The ACE Study was based at Kaiser Permanente's San Diego Health Appraisal Clinic, a primary care clinic where each year more than 50,000 adult members of the Kaiser Permanente Health Maintenance Organization receive an annual, standardized, biopsychosocial medical examination. Environmental influences
Child maltreatment
Child abuse which encompasses physical, psychological, and sexual abuse, as well as neglect, has been shown to approximately triple the risk of an eating disorder. Those who report physical or sexual maltreatment as a child are at an increased risk of developing an eating disorder. Trauma
One study has found that binge-eating disorder may stem from trauma, with some female patients engaging in these disorders to numb pain experienced through sexual trauma. 
Is non-invasive diagnosis of esophageal varices in patients with compensated hepatic cirrhosis possible by duplex Doppler ultrasonography? [SEP] Esophageal varices are extremely dilated sub-mucosal veins in the lower third of the esophagus. People with esophageal varices have a strong tendency to develop severe bleeding which left untreated can be fatal. Esophageal varices are typically diagnosed through an esophagogastroduodenoscopy. The small blood vessels in these areas become distended, becoming more thin-walled, and appear as varicosities.In situations where portal pressures increase, such as with cirrhosis, there is dilation of veins in the anastomosis, leading to esophageal varices. Splenic vein thrombosis is a rare condition that causes esophageal varices without a raised portal pressure. In some cases, schistosomiasis also leads to esophageal varices. Histology
Dilated submucosal veins are the most prominent histologic feature of esophageal varices. The effectiveness of this treatment has been shown by a number of different studies.However, non-selective β-blockers do not prevent the formation of esophageal varices.When medical contraindications to beta-blockers exist, such as significant reactive airway disease, then treatment with prophylactic endoscopic variceal ligation is often performed. 
Is (18)F-FDG a surrogate tracer to measure tumor hypoxia? [SEP] [18F]FDG is now the standard radiotracer used for PET neuroimaging and cancer patient management.The images can be assessed by a nuclear medicine physician or radiologist to provide diagnoses of various medical conditions. Applications
In PET imaging, [18F]FDG is primarily used for imaging tumors in oncology, where a static [18F]FDG PET scan is performed and the tumor [18F]FDG uptake is analyzed in terms of Standardized Uptake Value (SUV). In body-scanning applications in searching for tumor or metastatic disease, a dose of [18F]-FDG in solution (typically 5 to 10 millicuries or 200 to 400 MBq) is typically injected rapidly into a saline drip running into a vein, in a patient who has been fasting for at least six hours, and who has a suitably low blood sugar. For example, 18F-FDG is commonly used to detect cancer, NaF18F is widely used for detecting bone formation, and oxygen-15 is sometimes used to measure blood flow. Oncology
PET scanning with the tracer 18F-FDG is widely used in clinical oncology. 18F-FDG is used to explore the possibility of cancer spreading to other body sites (cancer metastasis). "How We Read Oncologic FDG PET/CT". PET imaging is the preferred method in clinical use, and the most investigated PET radiotracers for imaging of tumor hypoxia are 18F-FMISO, 18F-EF5, 18F-FAZA and 18F-HX4. 
Can dogs prime autistic children for therapy? [SEP] It is theorised that people with autism find using a theory of mind to be very difficult (e.g. Although autistic people have difficulties in recognizing and articulating emotions, some studies have reported that while they may lack cognitive empathy (the ability to assume another's emotions), they have higher than average levels of affective empathy (feeling the emotions that another is feeling, once they are known).Individuals on the autistic spectrum self-report lower levels of empathic concern, show less or absent comforting responses toward someone who is suffering, and report equal or higher levels of personal distress compared to controls. However, other research found no evidence of impairment in autistic individuals' ability to understand other people's basic intentions or goals; instead, data suggests that impairments are found in understanding more complex social emotions or in considering others' viewpoints. Canines have been hypothesized to share empathic-like responding towards human species. When the participants were talking or humming, the dog showed no behavioral changes; however when the participants were pretending to cry, the dogs oriented their behavior toward the person in distress whether it be the owner or stranger. The dogs approached the participants when crying in a submissive fashion, by sniffing, licking, and nuzzling the distressed person. Since the dogs did not direct their empathic-like responses only towards their owner, it is hypothesized that dogs generally seek out humans showing distressing body behavior. Although this could suggest that dogs have the cognitive capacity for empathy, it could also mean that domesticated dogs have learned to comfort distressed humans through generations of being rewarded for that specific behavior. 
Are 99mTc leukocyte scintigraphy and SBFT studies useful in children suspected of having inflammatory bowel disease? [SEP] Fecal calprotectin is useful as an initial investigation, which may suggest the possibility of IBD, as this test is sensitive but not specific for IBD. Nutritional and dietetic therapies
Exclusive enteral nutrition is a first-line therapy in pediatric Crohn's disease with weaker data in adults. : 331  Evidence supporting exclusive enteral nutrition in ulcerative colitis is lacking. Microbiome
There is preliminary evidence of an infectious contribution to inflammatory bowel disease in some patients that may benefit from antibiotic therapy, such as with rifaximin. Radiologic tests
A small bowel follow-through may suggest the diagnosis of Crohn's disease and is useful when the disease involves only the small intestine. As a result, a barium follow-through X-ray, wherein barium sulfate suspension is ingested and fluoroscopic images of the bowel are taken over time, is useful for looking for inflammation and narrowing of the small bowel. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is another option for imaging the small bowel as well as looking for complications, though it is more expensive and less readily available. Testing for Saccharomyces cerevisiae antibodies (ASCA) and antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) has been evaluated to identify inflammatory diseases of the intestine and to differentiate Crohn's disease from ulcerative colitis. 
Risk factors for avascular necrosis of bone in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus: is there a role for antiphospholipid antibodies? [SEP] Avascular necrosis (AVN), also called osteonecrosis or bone infarction, is death of bone tissue due to interruption of the blood supply. Osteonecrosis is also associated with cancer, lupus, sickle cell disease, HIV infection, Gaucher's disease, and Caisson disease (dysbaric osteonecrosis). Diagnosis
In the early stages, bone scintigraphy and MRI are the preferred diagnostic tools.X-ray images of avascular necrosis in the early stages usually appear normal. Prognosis
The amount of disability that results from avascular necrosis depends on what part of the bone is affected, how large an area is involved, and how effectively the bone rebuilds itself. References
External links
Osteonecrosis / Avascular Necrosis at the National Institute of Health
Osteonecrosis / Avascular necrosis at Merck Manual for patients
Osteonecrosis / Avascular necrosis at Merck Manual for medical professionals Clinical significance
A number of diseases can affect bone, including arthritis, fractures, infections, osteoporosis and tumors. This may lead to compression of the spinal cord, destruction of the marrow resulting in bruising, bleeding and immunosuppression, and is one cause of bone pain. Osteogenesis imperfecta
Osteochondritis dissecans
Ankylosing spondylitis
Skeletal fluorosis is a bone disease caused by an excessive accumulation of fluoride in the bones. 
Prostate bed target interfractional motion using RTOG consensus definitions and daily CT on rails : Does target motion differ between superior and inferior portions of the clinical target volume? [SEP] During this time a male feels a deep and often pleasurable sense of relaxation, usually felt in the groin and thighs. The remaining sperm (3%) have abnormal motion.As the male proceeds through puberty, the semen develops mature characteristics with increasing quantities of normal sperm. These suggest that frequent ejaculation after puberty offers some reduction of the risk of prostate cancer. The US study involving 29,342 US men aged 46 to 81 years suggested that "high ejaculation frequency was related to decreased risk of total prostate cancer". Target may refer to:

Physical items
Shooting target, used in marksmanship training and various shooting sports
Bullseye (target), the goal one for which one aims in many of these sports
Aiming point, in field artillery, fixed at a specific target
Color chart (or reference card), the reference target used in digital imaging for accurate color reproduction

Places
Target, Allier, France
Target Lake, a lake in Minnesota

Terms
Target market, marketing strategy
Target audience, intended audience or readership of a publication, advertisement, or type of message
In mathematics, the target of a function is also called the codomain
Target (cricket), the total number of runs a team needs to win

People
Target (rapper), stage name of Croatian hip-hop artist Nenad Šimun
DJ Target, stage name of English grime DJ Darren Joseph, member of Roll Deep
Gui-Jean-Baptiste Target (1733–1807), French lawyer

Art and media
The Target, a comic book character, one of the trio Target and the Targeteers

Film
Target (1952 film), a Western starring Tim Holt
Target (1979 film), a crime film starring Luc Merenda
Target (1985 film), a thriller starring Gene Hackman
Target (1995 film), a drama directed by Sandip Ray
Target (2004 film), an action film starring Stephen Baldwin
Target (2010 film), a Bengali-language Indian film
Target (2011 film), a Russian drama directed by Alexander Zeldovich
Target (2014 film), an action suspense crime film directed by Yang Jiang
The Target (film), a 2014 action film starring Ryu Seung-ryong

Games and sport
Target (video game), a c. 1977 microcomputer game
Target (word puzzle)
Target Center, an indoor sports arena
Target Field, a baseball park

Music
Target (band), South Korean band
Target (American band), American band from the 1970s
"Target" (Embrace song), 2006
"Target" (T-ara song), 2013
The Target (EP), a 2002 EP by Hoobastank
Target (album), an album by Gerald Walker

Publications
Target (journal), an academic journal of translation studies
Target (magazine), an Indian children's magazine
Target: 2006, a Transformers comic book story arc
The Target (novel), a 2014 novel by David Baldacci
Target, the magazine of the British Productivity Council
Target, an Lao news magazine

Television
Series
Target (American TV series), a short-lived American 1958 syndicated anthology television series
Target (New Zealand TV series), a consumer affairs program
Target (British TV series), a 1970s British police drama

Episodes
"The Target" (The Office)
"The Target" (The Wire)
"The Target", the second episode of the first season of Dollhouse

Brands, enterprises, and organizations
Aeros Target, hang glider
Target Apparel, a former Canadian clothing brand unrelated to any of the below
Target Australia, an Australian retail chain similar to, but not associated with, Target Corporation
Target Books, a publishing imprint
Target Corporation, an American retail chain
Target Canada, its defunct Canadian subsidiary
TARGET (NGO), a human rights organization founded by Rüdiger Nehberg
Target Video, a San Francisco-based video and film studio
TechTarget, an American company

Computing and technology
A debugger term referring to the subject of testing or debugging
TARGET2, a Eurozone interbank payment system which succeeded TARGET
TARGET 3001!, a computer-aided design (CAD) program
The file that a symbolic link refers to
Target (project), a collaborative research project in the Netherlands

See also
Human Target (disambiguation)
Targeteer (disambiguation)
Targeting (disambiguation)
All pages with titles beginning with Target 
All pages with titles containing target The Target clinics were also rebranded as MinuteClinic. In 2015, Target debuted their #takepride campaign, and partnered with GLSEN to produce a mini-documentary celebrating their 25th anniversary. References
External links
Radiation Therapy Oncology Group 
Esophagogastric devascularization without splenectomy in portal hypertension: safe and effective? [SEP] The procedure consists primarily of paraesophagogastric devascularization achieved by dividing the perforating veins of the esophagus and the stomach while maintaining the plexus of collaterals that connect the coronary gastric vein to the azygous system. The abdominal esophagus is devascularized from the stomach. A splenectomy is initially performed and is followed by devascularization of the distal esophagus through the diaphragm hiatus and the superior two-thirds of the major and lesser gastric curve taking careful consideration to not ligate the left gastric vein. The procedure consists primarily of paraesophagogastric devascularization achieved by dividing the perforating veins of the esophagus and the stomach while maintaining the plexus of collaterals that connect the coronary gastric vein to the azygous system. The abdominal esophagus is devascularized from the stomach. A splenectomy is initially performed and is followed by devascularization of the distal esophagus through the diaphragm hiatus and the superior two-thirds of the major and lesser gastric curve taking careful consideration to not ligate the left gastric vein. Splenectomy
Devascularization of the distal 7 cm of the esophagus
Devascularization of the proximal part of the stomach
Vagotomy and pyeloroplasty

References
Khanna AK, Misra MK, Gupta S, Sharma OP, Jain AK, Gupta JP (July 1988). "Hassab's operation as an elective surgical procedure in portal hypertension". 
Does maternal obesity have an influence on feeding behavior of obese children? [SEP] Family practices
In the recent decades, family practices have significantly changed, and several of these practices greatly contribute to childhood obesity:
With a decreasing number of mothers who breast-feed, more infants become obese children as they grow up and are reared on infant formula instead. The social context around family meal-time plays a role in rates of childhood obesity

Social policies
Different communities and nations have adopted varying social practices and policies that are either beneficial or detrimental to children's physical health. They measured weight, waist girth, stretch stature, skinfolds, physical activity, TV viewing, and SES; researchers discovered clear SES inclines to upper class children compared to the lower class children.Childhood inactivity is linked to obesity in the United States with more children being overweight at younger ages. Developmental factors
Various developmental factors may affect rates of obesity. Studies have shown the effects of family meal- time in relation to childhood obesity. Parents who were more controlling about what and how much their child ate showed an increase their obesity rates. There are numerous factors that contribute to a child's weight and eating habits; while media can have a significant impact on children and their food choices, their parents and friends may play an even more important role in determining childhood obesity. Social factors
External motivation
Children who are externally motivated to eat are at a higher risk for obesity. 
Is plate clearing a risk factor for obesity? [SEP] In addition, a retrospective case-control study published by researchers from the Mayo Clinic in 2006 has found an increased risk of developing diabetes mellitus and hypertension in people who had undergone ESWL, compared with age and gender-matched people who had undergone nonsurgical treatment. Research
Metabolic syndrome and its associated diseases of obesity and diabetes as general risk factors for kidney stone disease are under research  to determine if urinary excretion of calcium, oxalate and urate are higher than in people with normal weight or underweight, and if diet and physical activity have roles. bariatric surgery such as gastric bypass), to improve appearance (cosmetic surgery), or to remove/replace unwanted tissues (body fat, glands, scars or skin tags) or foreign bodies. Sometimes a plate is inserted to replace a damaged area of skull. There are several risk factors associated with postoperative complications, such as immune deficiency and obesity. Obesity has long been considered a risk factor for adverse post-surgical outcomes. It has been linked to many disorders such as obesity hypoventilation syndrome, atelectasis and pulmonary embolism, adverse cardiovascular effects, and wound healing complications. Ranked second in preventable causes is hypertension at 7.6%, with obesity third at 7.5%. 
Should lower limb fractures be treated surgically in patients with chronic spinal injuries? [SEP] In many cases, spinal cord injuries require long-term physical and occupational therapy, especially if it interferes with activities of daily living. Spinal column injury is trauma that causes fracture of the bone or instability of the ligaments in the spine; this can coexist with or cause injury to the spinal cord, but each injury can occur without the other. Injuries or fractures in the head, neck, or pelvis as well as penetrating trauma near the spine and falls from heights are assumed to be associated with an unstable spinal column until it is ruled out in the hospital. Acute SCI merits treatment in an intensive care unit, especially injuries to the cervical spinal cord. In addition to vascular management, people must be evaluated for bone, soft tissue, and nerve injury. Less invasive surgical options have improved recovery times, but evidence regarding effectiveness is insufficient.For those with pain localized to the lower back due to disc degeneration, fair evidence supports spinal fusion as equal to intensive physical therapy and slightly better than low-intensity nonsurgical measures. Metastasis to the bone also increases the risk of spinal-cord compression or vertebral fractures that require emergency surgical treatment. For patients with subacute to chronic back pain, MRI is recommended if minor risk factors exist for cancer, ankylosing spondylitis or vertebral compression fracture, or if significant trauma or symptomatic spinal stenosis is present.Early imaging studies during the acute phase do not improve care or prognosis. 
Is vancomycin MIC creep a worldwide phenomenon? [SEP] However, as the use of vancomycin increased with the spread of MRSA beginning in the 1970s, toxicity risks were reassessed. While cases of ototoxicity have been reported in patients whose vancomycin serum level exceeded 80 µg/mL, cases have been reported in patients with therapeutic levels, as well. Mechanism of action
Vancomycin acts by inhibiting proper cell wall synthesis in Gram-positive bacteria. Acquired resistance
Evolution of microbial resistance to vancomycin is a growing problem, in particular, within healthcare facilities such as hospitals. Vancomycin resistance evolved in more common pathogenic organisms during the 1990s and 2000s, including vancomycin-intermediate S. aureus (VISA) and vancomycin-resistant S. aureus (VRSA). Early trials used early, impure forms of the drug ("Mississippi mud"), which were found to be toxic to the inner ear and to the kidneys; these findings led to vancomycin's being relegated to the position of a drug of last resort.In 2004, Eli Lilly licensed Vancocin to ViroPharma in the U.S., Flynn Pharma in the UK, and Aspen Pharmacare in Australia. References
External links
"Vancomycin". "Vancomycin hydrochloride". 
Does short-term treatment with proton pump inhibitors cause rebound aggravation of symptoms? [SEP] Proton-pump inhibitors (PPIs) are a class of medications that cause a profound and prolonged reduction of stomach acid production. Proton-pump inhibitors have largely superseded the H2-receptor antagonists, a group of medications with similar effects but a different mode of action, and antacids.PPIs are among the most widely sold medications in the world. Adverse effects
In general, proton pump inhibitors are well tolerated, and the incidence of short-term adverse effects is relatively low. Cancer
A 2022 umbrella review and meta-analysis of observational studies show that proton-pump inhibitor significantly increases the risk of four cancers. Research
COVID-19
According to one study proton-pump inhibitors may increase the severity of symptoms of COVID-19. References
External links
"Proton pump inhibitors". Effectiveness is similar to other proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). Long-term use
Osteoporosis and bone fracture have been observed in people on high-dose and/or long-term (over one year) prescription proton pump inhibitors. 
Do family physicians make good sentinels for influenza? [SEP] "In 2010 the U.S. Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations described maternal mortality as a "sentinel event", and uses it to assess the quality of a health care system.Subsidizing the cost of healthcare will help improve the health status of women. It is recommended expectant mothers receive at least four antenatal healthcare visits, in which a health worker can check for signs of illness – such as underweight, anaemia or infection – and monitor the health and status of the fetus. This prevents sickness that may affect the two and deteriorate their health. At these check ins mothers also have the opportunity to seek consultation from a physician about starting the breastfeeding process. "The U.S. Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations calls maternal mortality a "sentinel event", and uses it to assess the quality of a health care system.Maternal mortality data is said to be an important indicator of overall health system quality because pregnant women survive in sanitary, safe, well-staffed and stocked facilities. It is recommended that expectant mothers receive at least four antenatal visits to check and monitor the health of mother and fetus. Therefore, follow-up visits by a health worker is assess the health of both mother and child in the postnatal period is strongly recommended. Killer Doctors. 
Aberrant loss of dickkopf-3 in gastric cancer: can it predict lymph node metastasis preoperatively? [SEP] Etymology
Dickkopf is a German word meaning "stubborn person", or literally, "thick head". Dickkopf-related protein 3 is a protein in the Dickkopf family that in humans is encoded by the DKK3 gene.This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the dickkopf family. Other
Other risk factors include diabetes, pernicious anemia, chronic atrophic gastritis, Menetrier's disease (hyperplastic, hypersecretory gastropathy), and intestinal metaplasia.In addition, Foxp3 polymorphism (rs3761548) might contribute to gastric cancer development through influencing Treg cell activity. Around 5% of gastric cancers are lymphomas. Prognosis
The prognosis of stomach cancer is generally poor, because the tumor has often metastasized by the time of discovery, and most people with the condition are elderly (median age is between 70 and 75 years) at presentation. Because of the usual lack of symptoms, when gastric cancer is finally diagnosed it is often fairly advanced. More than half of gastric cancer patients have lymph node metastasis when they are initially diagnosed.The gastritis caused by H. pylori is accompanied by inflammation, characterized by infiltration of neutrophils and macrophages to the gastric epithelium, which favors the accumulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines and reactive oxygen species/reactive nitrogen species (ROS/RNS). gastric atrophy and metaplasia, both of which are precursors to gastric adenocarcinoma. 
Is ganglionated plexi ablation during Maze IV procedure beneficial for postoperative long-term stable sinus rhythm? [SEP] Minimally invasive epicardial surgical procedures for AF (minimaze)
Efforts have since been made to equal the success of the Cox maze III while reducing surgical complexity and likelihood of complications. The autonomic nerves (ganglionated plexi) that may cause AF may be eliminated as well. Supporting this is the finding that targeting these autonomic sites improves the likelihood of successful elimination of AF by catheter ablation. Since then, the Cox-Maze IV procedure is the gold standard surgical treatment for AF with conversion to normal sinus rhythm and freedom from AF at 1 year postoperatively of 93%. Ablation may prevent recurrence in some people. Prolonged episodes of atrial fibrillation have been shown to correlate with prolongation of the sinus node recovery time; this suggests that dysfunction of the SA node is progressive with prolonged episodes of atrial fibrillation. If a decision is made by the person and their medical team to accept persistent AF and not attempt restoration of a normal sinus rhythm but instead manage the AF by simply controlling the person's ventricular rate then the rhythm is referred to as permanent AF. The Maze procedure, first performed in 1987, is an effective invasive surgical treatment that is designed to create electrical blocks or barriers in the atria of the heart. 
Double reading of barium enemas: is it necessary? [SEP] The word enema can also refer to the liquid injected, as well as to a device for administering such an injection.In standard medicine, the most frequent uses of enemas are to relieve constipation and for bowel cleansing before a medical examination or procedure; also, they are employed as a lower gastrointestinal series (also called a barium enema), to treat traveler's diarrhea, as a vehicle for the administration of food, water or medicine, as a stimulant to the general system, as a local application and, more rarely, as a means of reducing body temperature, as treatment for encopresis, and as a form of rehydration therapy (proctoclysis) in patients for whom intravenous therapy is not applicable.In other contexts, enemas are used by some alternative health therapies, used for enjoyment, chiefly as part of sexual activities, but also in BDSM, as well as simply for pleasure, used to intoxicate with alcohol, used to administer drugs for both recreational and religious reasons, and used for punishment. Contrast (X-ray)
In a lower gastrointestinal series an enema that may contain barium sulfate powder or a water-soluble contrast agent is used in the radiological imaging of the bowel. Called a barium enema, such enemas are sometimes the only practical way to view the colon in a relatively safe manner.Failure to expel all of the barium may cause constipation or possible impaction and a patient who has no bowel movement for more than two days or is unable to pass gas rectally should promptly inform a physician and may require an enema or laxative. "The History of the Enema with Some Notes on Related Procedures (Part II)". Other findings may include colonic dilation and stool buildup evidencing constipation.Similar to xray, in mild ulcerative colitis, double contrast barium enema often shows nonspecific findings. Conversely, barium enema may display small buildups of barium in microulcerations. It is important to note that barium enema should not be conducted in patients exhibiting very severe symptoms as this may slow or stop stool passage through the colon causing ileus and toxic megacolon.Other methods of imaging include computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Double-contrast barium enema: a series of x-rays of the colon and rectum. 
Is severe macrosomia manifested at 11-14 weeks of gestation? [SEP] Macrosomia is a similar term that describes excessive birth weight, but refers to an absolute measurement, regardless of gestational age. Signs and symptoms
Fetal macrosomia and LGA often do not present with noticeable patient symptoms. Compared to pregnancies without macrosomia, pregnant women giving birth to newborns weighing between 4,000 grams and 4,500 grams are at two times greater risk of complications, and those giving birth to infants over 4,500 grams are at three times greater risk. Causes
Multiple factors have been shown to increase likelihood of infant macrosomia, including preexisting obesity, diabetes, or dyslipidemia of the mother, gestational diabetes, post-term pregnancy, prior history of a macrosomic birth, genetics, and other factors. Obesity in the mother
Obesity prior to pregnancy and maternal weight gain above recommended guidelines during pregnancy are another key risk factor for macrosomia or LGA infants. Beckwith–Wiedemann syndrome, Sotos syndrome, Perlman syndrome, Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome) are often characterized by macrosomia. Doctors disagree whether women should be induced for suspected macrosomia and more research is needed to find out what is best for women and their babies.Elective cesarean section has also been presented as a potential delivery method for infants of suspected macrosomia, as it can serve to prevent possible birth trauma. Epidemiology
In healthy pregnancies without pre-term or post-term health complications, fetal macrosomia has been observed to affect around 12% of newborns. 
Do older adults with cancer fall more often? [SEP] Falls: Old age increases the risk of injury from falls. Every year, about a third of those 65 years old and more than half of those 80 years old fall. Falls are the leading cause of injury and death for old people. Hip fractures become more common with age. Low energy falls from standing are responsible for the majority of fractures in the elderly, but fall direction is also a key factor. Elderly tend to fall to the side as instead of forward, and the lateral hip and strikes the ground first. Falling is one of the most common risk factors for hip fractures. Falls are the most common cause of hip fractures; around 30–60% of older adults fall each year. 
Scrotal approach to both palpable and impalpable undescended testes: should it become our first choice? [SEP] Undescended testes are associated with reduced fertility, increased risk of testicular germ-cell tumors, and psychological problems when fully-grown. Without intervention, an undescended testicle will usually descend during the first year of life, but to reduce these risks, undescended testes can be brought into the scrotum in infancy by a surgical procedure called an orchiopexy.Although cryptorchidism nearly always refers to congenital absence or maldescent, a testis observed in the scrotum in early infancy can occasionally "reascend" (move back up) into the inguinal canal. A retractile testis high in the scrotum can be difficult to distinguish from a position in the lower inguinal canal. At ultrasound, the undescended testis usually appears small, less echogenic than the contralateral normal testis and usually located in the inguinal region. Surgical techniques
For fixation of the undescended testes
For the management of palpable undescended testes (over 80% of undescended testes) the standard inguinal approach is the appropriate procedure.Approximately 50% of non-palpable testis are high in the inguinal canal or abdominal, while the other 50% are atrophic, and usually located in the scrotum. Standard open inguinal orchiopexy is most appropriate procedure for palpable testes. For palpable undescended testes, multi-study analysis has shown that there is no significant difference in safety or success rates between standard open inguinal and laparoscopic approaches, with the latter being more expensive and associated with a higher rate of complications (extensive high retroperitoneal dissection with scrotal hematomas and wound infection, Prentiss maneuvers with hemorrhage from epigastric vessels and wound infection). Later, one-stage laparoscopic orchiopexy was reported first to reveal the location of non-palpable testes and then as a therapeutic treatment. 
Is grandmultiparity an independent risk factor for adverse perinatal outcomes? [SEP] A prominent risk factor for preterm birth is prior history of preterm delivery. Environmental factors
Maternal tobacco smoking doubles risk of LBW for the infant. More recently, passive maternal smoking has been examined for possible effects on birth weight, and has been shown to increase risk of LBW by 16%. It has been revealed that adverse reproductive effects (e.g., risk for LBW) were correlated with maternal exposure to CO emissions in Eastern Europe and North America. Mercury is a known toxic heavy metal that can harm fetal growth and health, and there has been evidence showing that exposure to mercury (via consumption of large oily fish) during pregnancy may be related to higher risks of LBW in the offspring. Periodontal health
Low birth weight, preterm birth and preeclampsia have been associated with maternal periodontal disease, though the strength of the observed associations is inconsistent and varies according to the population studied, the means of periodontal assessment and the periodontal disease classification employed. Prognosis
Perinatal outcomes
LBW is closely associated with fetal and perinatal mortality and morbidity, inhibited growth and cognitive development, and chronic diseases later in life. Causes
Preterm birth is the most common cause of perinatal mortality, causing almost 30 percent of neonatal deaths. 
Does the investing layer of the deep cervical fascia exist? [SEP] The deep cervical fascia (or fascia colli in older texts) lies under cover of the platysma, and invests the muscles of the neck; it also forms sheaths for the carotid vessels, and for the structures situated in front of the vertebral column. The alar fascia is a portion of the deep cervical fascia. Divisions
The deep cervical fascia is often divided into a superficial, middle, and deep layer. The superficial layer is also known as the investing layer of deep cervical fascia. The deep layer is also known as the prevertebral fascia. It surrounds the paraspinous muscles and cervical vertebrae.The carotid sheath is also considered a component of the deep cervical fascia. The investing layer of deep cervical fascia is the most superficial part of the deep cervical fascia, and encloses the whole neck. The prevertebral fascia (or prevertebral layer of cervical fascia) is the layer of deep cervical fascia that surrounds the vertebral column. 
Is crime associated with over-the-counter pharmacy syringe sales? [SEP] Where availability is limited, people who use heroin and other substances frequently share the syringes and use them more than once or participate in unsafe practices such as blood flashing. Pharmacy sales of syringes and physician prescription of syringes have been also found to reduce HIV risk. In jurisdictions where syringe prescription status presented a legal barrier to access, physician prescription programs had shown promise in addressing risky injection behaviors. This was due to the prescribing and dispensing of legal opiates by physicians and pharmacists to relieve menstruation pain. : 3 : 177  The illegal nature of the market also affects the health of consumers by making it difficult to acquire syringes, which often leads to needle sharing. This illustrates how legitimate clinical prescriptions of pain relievers are being diverted through an illegitimate market, leading to misuse, addiction, and death. Lawyers allege that pharmacies have not fulfilled their legal responsibility to act as a "last line of defense,” and that the chains enable illegal street dealing of prescription opioids.Lake and Trumbull Counties in northeast Ohio were the plaintiffs and alleged the chains had “substantially contributed to the crisis of opioid overdose and deaths….” in the counties. Dealers may hire people to go to pill mills to get painkiller prescriptions.There have been attempts to shut down pill mills. 
Is prophylactic fixation a cost-effective method to prevent a future contralateral fragility hip fracture? [SEP] Mirels' score is a tool useful in the management of bone tumors, by identifying those patients who would benefit from prophylactic fixation if they have a high enough risk of pathological fracture. A score greater than 8 suggests prophylactic internal fixation prior to irradiation. "Metastatic disease around the hip: Maintaining quality of life". A Proposed Scoring System for Diagnosing Impending Pathologic Fractures". A pathologic fracture is a bone fracture caused by weakness of the bone structure that leads to decrease mechanical resistance to normal mechanical loads. Fragility fracture is a type of pathologic fracture that occurs as a result of an injury that would be insufficient to cause fracture in a normal bone. There are three fracture sites said to be typical of fragility fractures: vertebral fractures, fractures of the neck of the femur, and Colles fracture of the wrist. Management
Based on Mirel's score (if the score is more than 8), bone fixation should be done prophylactically. 
Is double-balloon enteroscopy an accurate method to diagnose small-bowel disorders? [SEP] Interpretation of results
Enteroclysis has shown to be very accurate in diagnosing small bowel diseases, with a sensitivity of 93.1% and specificity of 96.9%. Enteroclysis compares favorably with wireless capsule endoscopy and double-balloon endoscopy in the diagnosis of mucosal abnormalities of the small bowel. Double-balloon enteroscopy, also known as push-and-pull enteroscopy, is an endoscopic technique for visualization of the small bowel. The process is then continued until the entire small bowel is visualized.The double-balloon enteroscope can also be passed in retrograde fashion, through the colon and into the ileum to visualize the end of the small bowel. Indications
Double-balloon enteroscopy has found a niche application in the following settings:

Bleeding from the gastrointestinal tract of obscure cause
Iron deficiency anemia with normal colonoscopy and gastroscopy
Visualization and therapeutic intervention on abnormalities seen on traditional small bowel imaging
Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) in post-surgical patients with long afferent limbs

Advantages
Double-balloon enteroscopy offers a number of advantages to other small bowel image techniques, including barium imaging, wireless capsule endoscopy and push enteroscopy:

It allows for visualization of the entire small bowel to the terminal ileum. Disadvantages
The key disadvantage of double-balloon enteroscopy is the time required to visualize the small bowel; this can exceed three hours, and may require that patients be admitted to hospital for the procedure. With the advent of the newer forms of enteroscopy, such as the double-balloon type, visualizing the entire tract is finally a practical reality in at least some cases, although it is still technically demanding. Due to the length of the small bowel, averaging 4–6 meters in the adult, push enteroscopy is still not effective to adequately visualize large portions of the small intestine.Wireless capsule endoscopy has proven to be the endoscopic investigation of choice for visualization of the entire small bowel. 
Does strategy training reduce age-related deficits in working memory? [SEP] It has been claimed that working memory training programs are effective means, both for treating specific medical conditions associated with working memory deficit, as and for general increase in cognitive capacity among healthy neurotypical adults. Overall, the pilot study concludes that working memory training in adult patients that have previously had a stroke can both improve their cognitive function as measured by neuropsychological tests as well as improvements in subjective reports of cognitive failures.Studies have also proven that working memory training can possibly help to improve deficits in working memory caused by anxiety and depression disorders, especially in adolescents. Aging
Working memory is among the cognitive functions most sensitive to decline in old age. This study found that a period of working memory training increases a range of cognitive abilities and increases IQ test scores. Cognitive training improves cognitive functioning, which can increase working memory capacity and improve cognitive skills and functions in clinical populations with working memory deficiencies. Results from this study suggest that there are age differences in memory and inhibitory processes that affect people's sequence of actions and the use of memory aids could facilitate the retrieval of information in older age. This theory examines the idea that older adults are unable to suppress irrelevant information in working memory, and thus the capacity for relevant information is subsequently limited. Less space for new stimuli due may attribute to the declines seen in an individual's working memory as they age.As we age, deficits are seen in the ability to integrate, manipulate, and reorganize the contents of working memory in order to complete higher level cognitive tasks such as problem solving, decision making, goal setting, and planning. 
Does the SCL 90-R obsessive-compulsive dimension identify cognitive impairments? [SEP] Obsessive- compulsive disorder is another mental health disorder with symptoms similar to that of psychological trauma, such as hyper-vigilance and intrusive thoughts. Research has indicated that individuals who have experienced a traumatic event have been known to use symptoms of obsessive- compulsive disorder, such as compulsive checking of safety, as a way to mitigate the symptoms associated with trauma.In time, emotional exhaustion may set in, leading to distraction, and clear thinking may be difficult or impossible. Correspondingly, the DSM classifies "impulsivity or failure to plan ahead" and "irritability and aggressiveness" as two of seven sub-criteria in category A of the diagnostic criteria of ASPD.Some studies have found a relationship between monoamine oxidase A and antisocial behavior, including conduct disorder and symptoms of adult ASPD, in maltreated children. Contrary to stereotypes in popular culture of the "psychopathic genius", antisocial personality disorder is associated with both reduced overall intelligence and specific reductions in individual aspects of cognitive ability. The manual preface contains "special instructions" including "Antisocial personality should always be specified as mild, moderate, or severe." It would later resurface as the name of a diagnosis in the ICD manual produced by the WHO, later spelled dissocial personality disorder and considered approximately equivalent to the ASPD diagnosis.The DSM-III in 1980 included the full term antisocial personality disorder and, as with other disorders, there was now a full checklist of symptoms focused on observable behaviors to enhance consistency in diagnosis between different psychiatrists ('inter-rater reliability'). The following 5 scales were unique to the MMPI-A-RF: Obsessions/Compulsions (OCS), Antisocial Attitudes (ASA), Conduct Problems (CNP), Negative Peer Influence (NPI) and Specific Fears (SPF). Robust validity of the Korean MMPI-2 scales was evidenced by correlations with the SCL-90-R scales, behavioral correlates, and therapist ratings. 
Is fetal anatomic assessment on follow-up antepartum sonograms clinically useful? [SEP] Fetal development: MedlinePlus Medical Encyclopedia An emerging branch is fetal echocardiography, which involves echocardiography of an unborn fetus. Antepartum bleeding, also known as antepartum haemorrhage (APH) or prepartum hemorrhage, is genital bleeding during pregnancy after the 28th week of pregnancy up to delivery.It can be associated with reduced fetal birth weight. For example, previously undergoing a caesarean or placenta previa increases the likelihood of abnormal placentation, therefore increasing the chances of antepartum haemorrhaging. In the event of foetal vessel rupture, antepartum haemorrhaging occurs however blood is lost from the foetal blood supply. If the foetus is developed enough caesarean sections are often recommended. More exact measurements can be performed with obstetric ultrasonography. Adequate prenatal care gives an improved result in the newborn. 
Is muscle power related to running speed with changes of direction? [SEP] Until recently, it had been long believed that faster sprinting speeds are promoted solely by physiological features that increase stride length and frequency; while these factors do contribute to sprinting velocities, it has also been found that the runner's ability to produce ground forces is also very important. The main result of this study showed that the force application technique (rather than simply the total amount of force applied) is the key determinant factor in predicting a sprinter's velocity. Kinetics
The kinetics of running describes the motion of a runner using the effects of forces acting on or out of the body. Leg Muscle Activation
The muscles responsible for accelerating the runner forward are required to contract with increasing speed to accommodate the increasing velocity of the body. During the acceleration phase of sprinting, the contractile component of muscles is the main component responsible for the power output. It was previously believed that there was an intramuscular viscous force that increased proportionally to the velocity of muscle contraction that opposed the contractile force; this theory has since been disproved.In a study conducted in year 2004, the gait patterns of distance runners, sprinters, and non-runners was measured using video recording. Fatigue effects
Fatigue is a prominent factor in sprinting, and it is already widely known that it hinders maximal power output in muscles, but it also affects the acceleration of runners in the ways listed below. explored the effects of fatigue on force production and force application techniques in a study where sprinters performed four sets of five 6 second sprints using the same treadmill setup as previously mentioned. 
Can magnetic resonance imaging accurately predict concordant pain provocation during provocative disc injection? [SEP] Compared to CT, MRI provides better contrast in images of soft tissues, e.g. Interventional MRI
The lack of harmful effects on the patient and the operator make MRI well-suited for interventional radiology, where the images produced by an MRI scanner guide minimally invasive procedures. Safety
MRI is, in general, a safe technique, although injuries may occur as a result of failed safety procedures or human error. Amplitude and rapid switching of gradient coils during image acquisition may cause peripheral nerve stimulation.MRI uses powerful magnets and can therefore cause magnetic materials to move at great speeds, posing a projectile risk, and may cause fatal accidents. A common case is to use MRI to seek a cause of low back pain; the American College of Physicians, for example, recommends against this procedure as unlikely to result in a positive outcome for the patient. CT scanning provides quick whole-body imaging of skeletal and parenchymal alterations, whereas MR imaging gives better representation of soft tissue pathology. "MRI: A Peer-Reviewed, Critical Introduction". Magnetic Resonance In Medicine: A Critical Introduction (12th ed.). 
Is a 9-month treatment sufficient in tuberculous enterocolitis? [SEP] Other measures may include a nasogastric tube or blood transfusion. Beta-lactams with beta-lactamase inhibitors can also be used; examples include ampicillin/sulbactam, piperacillin/tazobactam, and ticarcillin/clavulanate. The symptoms appear to be secondary symptoms of tuberculosis. Gastrointestinal geotrichosis is enterocolitis associated with glutamic therapy. Antimycotic resistance can appear due to repeated treatment. : 738–753

Tuberculosis
Infants whose mothers have suspected untreated tuberculosis (TB) should be isolated from their mothers to reduce risk of transmission. : 411–313  Mothers who do have an isolated breast infection caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis, termed tuberculous mastitis, should not feed their infants with their own breastmilk, even if it is fed by bottle. Infections
Breast milk contains several anti-infective factors such as bile salt stimulated lipase (protecting against amoebic infections) and lactoferrin (which binds to iron and inhibits the growth of intestinal bacteria).Exclusive breastfeeding until six months of age helps to protect an infant from gastrointestinal infections in both developing and industrialized countries. 
Does coronary angiography before emergency aortic surgery affect in-hospital mortality? [SEP] Myocardial infarction
Heart attack occurs in 1–2% of aortic dissections. It is a noninvasive test, does not require the use of iodinated contrast material, and can detect and quantitate the degree of aortic insufficiency.The disadvantage of the MRI scan in the face of aortic dissection is that it may be available only in larger hospitals, and the scan is relatively time-consuming, which could be dangerous in people who are already very unwell. Complicated Stanford type B aortic dissections require surgical intervention after initiation of medical therapy.The risk of death due to aortic dissection is highest in the first few hours after the dissection begins, and decreases afterward. The size of an individual's native aorta may influence this, along with the presence of comorbidities that increase operative risk or decrease life expectancy. Noninvasive tests help estimate which patients might benefit from undergoing coronary angiography. Ongoing ischemia might prompt emergency angiography and PCI or re-operation. Immediate coronary angiography offers the most expeditious modality not only for diagnosis but also for potential reintervention. Furthermore, those with cardiac arrest, and ST elevation at any time, should usually have angiography. 
Is bicompartmental knee arthroplasty more favourable to knee muscle strength and physical performance compared to total knee arthroplasty? [SEP] Tearing of the ACL is the most significant injury because it leaves the knee unstable, which also causes the knee to lose its normal function. Approximately half of the new ACL injuries involve injuries to the ligament, tendon, and or muscle of that affected knee. Lateral meniscal tears are more common in acute ACL injuries, whereas medial meniscal injuries are more common in chronic ACL-deficient knees and more amenable to repair.Meta-analysis shows that in acute injuries of the ACL associated with a meniscus tear, 44% were of the medial meniscus, whereas 56% were of the lateral meniscus; in chronic ACL insufficiency, 70% were medial whereas 30% were lateral. Physical therapy after the surgery and the use of a knee brace help speed up the healing process. A typical surgery for a blown knee includes:

Patellar tendon autograft (An autograft is a graft that comes from the patient)
Hamstring tendon autograft
Quadriceps tendon autograft
Allograft (taken from a cadaver) patellar tendon, Achilles tendon, semitendinosus, gracilis, or posterior tibialis tendonThe goal of reconstruction surgery is to prevent instability and restore the function of the torn ligament, creating a stable knee. The purpose of physical therapy is strengthening muscle and increasing the knee's range of motion without damaging the new grafts. A review of all arthroscopically confirmed acute injuries of second degree or worse to the ACL and MCL was performed. From this study, it was concluded that the structures more typically involved in a triad were the anterior cruciate ligament, medial collateral ligament, and the lateral (not medial) meniscus. 
Can gingival crevicular blood be relied upon for assessment of blood glucose level? [SEP] Gingival sulcus, also known as gingival crevice, refers to the space between the tooth surface and the sulcular epithelium. The Gingival Crevicular Fluid (GCF) is a serum like fluid that is formed from the post capillary venules of the Dentogingival Plexus which is a dense network of blood vessels within the gingival connective tissue that is sub-adjacent to the junctional epithelium. The Gingival Crevicular Fluid (GCF) is made up of various components of cells and blood. While gingival crevicular fluid provides for the cellular defence and humoral factors to combat against the microbial insult, the gingival crevicular fluid also deliver novel substrates, in the form of proteins and glycoproteins, for bacterial metabolism. There are different methods of testing and measuring blood sugar levels. Glucose measurement
Sample source
Glucose testing in a fasting individual shows comparable levels of glucose in arterial, venous, and capillary blood. Average blood glucose concentrations can also be measured. A noninvasive method of sampling to monitor glucose levels has emerged using an exhaled breath condensate. 
Predicting admission at triage: are nurses better than a simple objective score? [SEP] Concepts in triage
Simple triage
Simple triage is usually used in a scene of an accident or "mass-casualty incident" (MCI), in order to sort patients into those who need critical attention and immediate transport to a secondary or tertiary care facility, those who require low-intensity care, those who are uninjured, and those who are deceased or will be so imminently. track the patients' progress through the triage process. Advanced triage
In advanced triage, those with advanced training, such as doctors, nurses and paramedics make further care determinations based on more in-depth assessments, and may make use of advanced diagnostics like CT scans. Specific triage systems and methods
Most simply, the general purpose of triage is to sort patients by level of acuity to inform care decisions; so that the most people possible can be saved. Triage Systems by Methodology
S.T.A.R.T. Principles
The resulting observations are compared to a normal range to generate a single composite score, for instance based on the following diagram (an early modified EWS):

A score of five or more is statistically linked to increased likelihood of death or admission to an intensive care unit.Within hospitals, the EWS is used as part of a "track-and-trigger" system whereby an increasing score produces an escalated response varying from increasing the frequency of patient's observations (for a low score) up to urgent review by a rapid response or Medical Emergency Team (MET call). This has led to a call in several countries for the development of a national early warning score that would allow a standardised approach to assessing and responding to deteriorating patients. Since patients often do not know how severe their conditions are, nurses were originally supposed to review a patient's chart and determine whether a particular condition was present in order to calculate the index. 
Target Serum Urate: Do Gout Patients Know Their Goal? [SEP] Gout
A 2011 survey in the United States indicated that 3.9% of the population had gout, whereas 21.4% had hyperuricemia without having symptoms.Excess blood uric acid (serum urate) can induce gout, a painful condition resulting from needle-like crystals of uric acid termed monosodium urate crystals precipitating in joints, capillaries, skin, and other tissues. Gout can occur where serum uric acid levels are as low as 6 mg per 100 mL (357 μmol/L), but an individual can have serum values as high as 9.6 mg per 100 mL (565 μmol/L) and not have gout.In humans, purines are metabolized into uric acid, which is then excreted in the urine. Pathophysiology
Gout is a disorder of purine metabolism, and occurs when its final metabolite, uric acid, crystallizes in the form of monosodium urate, precipitating and forming deposits (tophi) in joints, on tendons, and in the surrounding tissues. "Gout" . "Gout". Pathophysiology
Gout is a disorder of purine metabolism, and occurs when its final metabolite, uric acid, crystallizes in the form of monosodium urate, precipitating and forming deposits (tophi) in joints, on tendons, and in the surrounding tissues. "Gout" . "Gout". 
Diagnosis and follow-up in constipated children: should we use ultrasound? [SEP] Endoanal ultrasound, which some consider the gold standard for detection of anal canal lesions, evaluates the structure of the anal sphincters and may detect occult sphincter tears that otherwise would go unseen. Congenital
A number of diseases present at birth can result in constipation in children. Although constipation may be a diagnosis, it is typically viewed as a symptom that requires evaluation to discern a cause. This in the context of accompanied symptoms helps physicians discover the cause of constipation. Imaging and laboratory tests are typically recommended for those with alarm signs or symptoms.The laboratory tests performed depends on the suspected underlying cause of the constipation. Tests may include CBC (complete blood count), thyroid function tests, serum calcium, serum potassium, etc.Abdominal X-rays are generally only performed if bowel obstruction is suspected, may reveal extensive impacted fecal matter in the colon, and may confirm or rule out other causes of similar symptoms.Colonoscopy may be performed if an abnormality in the colon like a tumor is suspected. More than four million Americans have frequent constipation, accounting for 2.5 million physician visits a year. With constipation accounting for approximately 5% of general pediatrician visits and 25% of pediatric gastroenterologist visits, the symptom carries a significant financial impact upon the healthcare system. 
Are neighbourhood social capital and availability of sports facilities related to sports participation among Dutch adolescents? [SEP] Physical activity
Although urbanization tends to produce more negative effects, one positive effect that urbanization has impacted is an increase in physical activity in comparison to rural areas. Metropolitan and large urban areas across all regions have the highest prevalence of physical activity among residents.Barriers such as geographic isolation, busy and unsafe roads, and social stigmas lead to decreased physical activity in rural environments. Many residents in rural settings have to travel long distances to utilize exercise facilities, taking up too much time in the day and deterring residents from using recreational facilities to obtain physical activity. Additionally, residents of rural communities are traveling further for work, decreasing the amount of time that can be spent on leisure physical activity and significantly decreases the opportunity to partake in active transportation to work.Neighbourhoods and communities with nearby fitness venues, a common feature of urbanization, have residents that partake in increased amounts of physical activity. Communities with sidewalks, street lights, and traffic signals have residents participating in more physical activity than communities without those features. Active transportation is also enhanced in urban communities where there is easy access to public transportation due to residents walking or biking to transportation stops.In a study comparing different regions in the United States, opinions across all areas were shared that environmental characteristics like access to sidewalks, safe roads, recreational facilities, and enjoyable scenery are positively associated with participation in leisure physical activity. Perceiving that resources are nearby for physical activity increases the likelihood that residents of all communities will meet the guidelines and recommendations for appropriate physical activity. Specific to rural residents, the safety of outdoor developed spaces and convenient availability to recreational facilities matters most when making decisions on increasing physical activity. 
Did the call for boycott by the Catholic bishops affect the polio vaccination coverage in Kenya in 2015? [SEP] Opposition to vaccination efforts
One factor contributing to the continued circulation of polio immunization programs has been opposition to vaccination in some countries.In the context of the United States invasion of Afghanistan and the subsequent 2003 invasion of Iraq, rumours arose in the Muslim world that immunization campaigns were using intentionally-contaminated vaccines to sterilize local Muslim populations or to infect them with HIV. Refusal of vaccination came to be viewed as resistance to western expansionism, and when the contamination rumours led the Nigerian Supreme Council for Sharia to call for a region-wide boycott of polio vaccination, polio cases in the country increased more than five-fold between 2002 and 2006, with the uncontrolled virus then spreading across Africa and globally. In 2015, after claiming that a tetanus vaccine contained a contraceptive, a group of Kenyan Catholic bishops called on their followers to boycott a planned round of polio vaccination. In early 2012, some parents refused to get their children vaccinated in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KPK) and in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) but religious refusals in the rest of the country had "decreased manifold". This resulted in the suspension of immunization efforts in the state, causing a dramatic rise in polio rates in the already endemic country. WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom called it a "great day... but not the end of polio", as there remain major continuing outbreaks of vaccine-derived poliovirus in West Africa and Ethiopia in addition to wild cases in Afghanistan and Pakistan.Two additional challenges were a conspiracy theory circulating on social media claiming that the polio vaccine contained coronavirus, and moves by President Donald Trump of the United States to cut funding for the World Health Organization. In 2013, nine health workers administering polio vaccine were targeted and killed by gunmen on motorcycles in Kano, but this was the only attack. Attacks on polio vaccination teams have also occurred, thereby hampering international efforts to eradicate polio in Pakistan and globally. 
Recurrent spontaneous abortion and skewed X-inactivation: is there an association? [SEP] An abortion that occurs without intervention is known as a miscarriage or "spontaneous abortion"; these occur in approximately 30% to 40% of all pregnancies. Over a third are unintended and about a fifth end in induced abortion. Most abortions result from unintended pregnancies. Spontaneous
Miscarriage, also known as spontaneous abortion, is the unintentional expulsion of an embryo or fetus before the 24th week of gestation. 80% of these spontaneous abortions happen in the first trimester.The most common cause of spontaneous abortion during the first trimester is chromosomal abnormalities of the embryo or fetus, accounting for at least 50% of sampled early pregnancy losses. Advancing maternal age and a woman's history of previous spontaneous abortions are the two leading factors associated with a greater risk of spontaneous abortion. Some older reviews concluded that abortion was associated with an increased risk of psychological problems; however, they did not use an appropriate control group.Although some studies show negative mental-health outcomes in women who choose abortions after the first trimester because of fetal abnormalities, more rigorous research would be needed to show this conclusively. Cats can experience spontaneous abortion for many reasons, including hormonal imbalance. 
Does increased patient awareness improve accrual into cancer-related clinical trials? [SEP] Consequently, less intensive (de-intensification) use of radiotherapy or chemotherapy, as well as specific therapy, is under investigation, enrolling HPV+OPC in clinical trials to preserve disease control and minimise morbidity in selected groups based on modified TNM staging and smoking status.HPV+ cancer of the oropharynx are staged as (AJCC 8th ed. Cetuximab trials were completed prior to knowledge of HPV status. Although chemoradiation became a treatment standard based on clinical trials and in particular, meta-analyses, a subsequent population based study of patients with OPC, indicated no advantage to the addition of chemotherapy to radiation in either HPV+OPC or HPV-OPC, and significant concerns about added toxicity.Chemotherapy also has a role, combined with radiation, in the postoperative setting (adjuvant therapy). Since the sample size to detect a survival advantage is large, given the small number of events in this group, these studies may have been underpowered and the question of the utility of adding chemotherapy is being addressed in a randomized clinical trial (ADEPT) with two year locoregional control and disease free survival as the endpoint. Costs are difficult to estimate but one US study, based on estimates of 25% of all OPC patients receiving surgery alone and 75% surgery followed by adjuvant therapy, using the criteria of the NCCN, found that this approach was less expensive than primary chemoradiation.Early stage disease is associated with a relatively favourable outcome, for which single modality therapy is recommended, the choice depending on tumour location and accessibility. The clinical presentation is also changing from the "typical" head and neck cancer patient with advanced age and major substance usage. Future research should also target patient satisfaction. Patient interventions include teaching coping skills, evaluating side effects of medication, helping manage physical pain, and addressing physical pain, among others. 
Does airway surgery lower serum lipid levels in obstructive sleep apnea patients? [SEP] It is also associated with hormonal disorders (panhypopituitarism, hypothyroidism, hypogonadism, polycystic ovary syndrome), persistently elevated transaminases, increasing age and hypoxia caused by obstructive sleep apnea, with some of these conditions predicting disease progression.The majority of normal-weight people affected by NAFLD ("lean NAFLD") have impaired insulin sensitivity, are sedentary, and have increased cardiovascular disease risk and increased liver lipid levels. Severe cases of snoring lead to airway blockage or difficulty breathing when sleeping, and usually signals the presence of obstructive sleep apnea (OSAS), a much more serious breathing condition. Blockage or narrowing of the airways, even temporarily, can cause the body to experience lowered oxygen levels in the blood, and these conditions of hypoxia are recurring in those with obstructive sleep apnea (OSAS). Surgery
Bariatric surgery is an effective method for obese and diabetic individuals with NAFLD to induce weight loss and reduce or resolve NASH inflammation, including fibrosis, and improve longevity. Indeed, some individuals might develop new or worsened features of NAFLD.About 92% of people with NAFLD saw an improvement in steatosis and 70% a complete resolution after bariatric surgery.A preoperative diet such as a low-calorie diet or a very-low-calorie diet is usually recommended to reduce liver volume by 16–20%. Preoperative weight loss can reduce operative time and hospital stay, although there is insufficient evidence whether preoperative weight loss reduces long-term morbidity or complications. Weight loss and decreases in liver size may be independent of the amount of calorie restriction.The APWG on NAFLD recommends bariatric surgery as a treatment option for those with class II obesity (BMI >32.5 kg/m2 for Asians, 35 kg/m2 for Caucasians). This risk is decreased when the airway is secured with an endotracheal tube (as during anesthesia). 
Is withdrawal-induced anxiety in alcoholism based on beta-endorphin deficiency? [SEP] Depression, anxiety and panic disorder are disorders commonly reported by alcohol dependent people. Evidence that the mental health disorders are often induced by alcohol misuse via distortion of brain neurochemistry is indicated by the improvement or disappearance of symptoms that occurs after prolonged abstinence, although problems may worsen in early withdrawal and recovery periods. However, moderate wine drinking has been shown to lower the risk for depression.While alcohol initially helps social phobia or panic symptoms, with longer term alcohol misuse can often worsen social phobia symptoms and can cause panic disorder to develop or worsen, during alcohol intoxication and especially during the alcohol withdrawal syndrome. Psychosis including severe anxiety and depression are commonly induced by sustained alcohol, opioid, benzodiazepine, and other drug use which in most cases abates with prolonged abstinence. Stress and associated disorders, including anxiety, are key factors in the development of alcoholism as alcohol consumption can temporarily reduce dysphoria. Similar post-acute withdrawal symptoms have also been observed in animal models of alcohol dependence and withdrawal.A kindling effect also occurs in people with alcohol use disorders whereby each subsequent withdrawal syndrome is more severe than the previous withdrawal episode; this is due to neuroadaptations which occur as a result of periods of abstinence followed by re-exposure to alcohol. Individuals who have had multiple withdrawal episodes are more likely to develop seizures and experience more severe anxiety during withdrawal from alcohol than alcohol-dependent individuals without a history of past alcohol withdrawal episodes. Experiences following alcohol withdrawal, such as depressed mood and anxiety, can take weeks or months to abate while other symptoms persist longer due to persisting neuroadaptations. 
Do older patients receive adequate stroke care? [SEP] Current research suggests that stroke units may be effective in reducing in-hospital fatality rates and the length of hospital stays.Once a patient is medically stable, the focus of their recovery shifts to rehabilitation. Follow-up is usually facilitated by the patient's primary care provider.The initial severity of impairments and individual characteristics, such as motivation, social support, and learning ability, are key predictors of stroke recovery outcomes. After that, the focus became how to treat patients with stroke. Interventions for age-related visual problems in patients with stroke
With the prevalence of vision problems increasing with age in stroke patients, the overall effect of interventions for age-related visual problems is currently uncertain. It is also not sure whether people with stroke respond differently from the general population when treating eye problems. As the age of the population increases, the diagnosis and management of CPSP will become increasingly important to improve the quality of life of an increasing number of stroke survivors. References
Sources
External links
"Life After Stroke". American Stroke Association. 
Doppler examination of uteroplacental circulation in early pregnancy: can it predict adverse outcome? [SEP] The combination of flow and tissue velocities can be used for estimating left ventricular filling pressure, although only under certain conditions.Although "Doppler" has become synonymous with "velocity measurement" in medical imaging, in many cases it is not the frequency shift (Doppler shift) of the received signal that is measured, but the phase shift (when the received signal arrives). Color doppler can also show blood flow in abnormal locations such as with septal defects (ASD or VSD). These changes in the fetal heart lead to increased long-term risk of hypertension, atherosclerosis, cardiovascular disease, and stroke. An additional monitoring technique is an Doppler velocimetry. Doppler velocimetry is useful in monitoring blood flow through the uterine and umbilical arteries, and may indicate signs of uteroplacental insufficiency. Monitoring via Doppler velocimetry has been shown to decrease the risk of morbidity and mortality before and after parturition among IUGR patients. Some of these include: pulsatility index, resistance index, and end-diastolic velocities, which are measurements of the fetal circulation. Fetal circulation begins within the 8th week of development. 
Can vitamin C prevent complex regional pain syndrome in patients with wrist fractures? [SEP] Prevention
Vitamin C supplementation may be useful in prevention of the syndrome following fracture of the forearm, foot, or ankle. Acute and chronic pain in the elderly is often attributed to fractures from osteoporosis and can lead to further disability and early mortality. Bone loss can be a feature of complex regional pain syndrome. A 2015 review found little data that supplementation of calcium decreases the risk of fractures. While some meta-analyses have found a benefit of vitamin D supplements combined with calcium for fractures, they did not find a benefit of vitamin D supplements (800 IU/day or less) alone. Wrist fractures are the third most common type of osteoporotic fractures. In animal studies biochemical markers of antioxidant defence mechanisms were increased with vitamin C supplementation and infiltration of inflammatory cells into synovial fluid were decreased. From these studies I can conclude that vitamin C supplementation may be more effective for the pain associated with RA however long-term use might aggravate onset of osteoarthritis. 
Is digoxin use for cardiovascular disease associated with risk of prostate cancer? [SEP] Digoxin increased the risk of death in women by 23%. A 2008 study suggested digoxin has beneficial effects not only for the heart, but also in reducing the risk of certain kinds of cancer. However, comments on this study suggested that digoxin is not effective at reducing cancer risk at therapeutic concentrations of the drug, so the results need further investigation. The interaction of digoxin and cancer has also been studied. Several studies have suggested that digoxin may have anticancer properties, others not.Digoxin, as a cardiac glycoside, has a chemical structure basically similar to that of estradiol. Digoxin has the ability to bind oestrogen receptors, and therefore it has been proposed that it might increase the risk of oestrogen-sensitive breast and uterine cancers. A large Danish study found a complicated picture, with slightly increased risk of breast cancer amongst women taking digoxin, but better prognostic features. The Nurses' Health Study found a similar slight increase of risk.Digoxin inhibits the proliferation of many cancerous cell lines in vitro, but its relevance to cancer in vivo remains unclear. 
Are income-related differences in active travel associated with physical environmental characteristics? [SEP] Additionally, residents of rural communities are traveling further for work, decreasing the amount of time that can be spent on leisure physical activity and significantly decreases the opportunity to partake in active transportation to work.Neighbourhoods and communities with nearby fitness venues, a common feature of urbanization, have residents that partake in increased amounts of physical activity. Having a variety of destinations close to where people live, increases the use of active transportation, such as walking and biking. Active transportation is also enhanced in urban communities where there is easy access to public transportation due to residents walking or biking to transportation stops.In a study comparing different regions in the United States, opinions across all areas were shared that environmental characteristics like access to sidewalks, safe roads, recreational facilities, and enjoyable scenery are positively associated with participation in leisure physical activity. Lack of physical activity is related to socioeconomic status, with a higher prevalence of sedentary lifestyles among less affluent groups. Expanded availability of local environments enabling exercise is associated with an increase in physical activity and a decrease in individuals with an overweight status.In addition, concerns of unsafe neighborhoods in low-income areas may result in reduced physical activity in both adults and children. Air Pollution
Studies show that there is an association between low socioeconomic status and exposure to higher concentrations of air pollution. Advancing Ecological Systems Theory in Lifestyle, Leisure, and Travel Research, in: Journal of Travel Research, Vol. There have also been changes in lifestyle, for example, some retirement-age people sustain year-round tourism. 
Can Roux-en-Y gastric bypass provide a lifelong solution for diabetes mellitus? [SEP] Self monitoring of blood glucose levels can guide therapy. In such cases, it may be possible to treat the primary medical problem and revert the animal to non-diabetic status. Prediabetes can be a reversible condition with lifestyle changes. Still, without taking action, 37% of individuals with prediabetes will develop diabetes in only 4 years, and lifestyle intervention may decrease the percentage of prediabetic patients in whom diabetes develops to 20%. The National Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) has a Center of Disease Control (CDC)-recognized lifestyle change program that showed prediabetic people following the structured program can cut their risk of developing type 2 diabetes by 58% (71% for people over 60 years old). Prevention
The American College of Endocrinology (ACE) and the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists (AACE) have developed lifestyle intervention guidelines for preventing the onset of type 2 diabetes:

Healthy diet (a diet with limited refined carbohydrates, added sugars, trans fats, as well as limited intake of sodium and total calories)
Physical fitness (30–45 minutes of cardiovascular exercise per day, 3–5 days a week)
Weight loss by as little as 5–10 percent may have a significant impact on overall health

Management
There is evidence that prediabetes is a curable disease state. Intensive weight loss and lifestyle intervention, if sustained, may improve glucose tolerance substantially and prevent progression from IGT to type 2 diabetes. Diabetes in Control. 
Does the severity of obstructive sleep apnea predict patients requiring high continuous positive airway pressure? [SEP] Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is the most common sleep-related breathing disorder and is characterized by recurrent episodes of complete or partial obstruction of the upper airway leading to reduced or absent breathing during sleep. Mild occasional sleep apnea, such as many people experience during an upper respiratory infection, may not be significant, but chronic severe obstructive sleep apnea requires treatment to prevent low blood oxygen (hypoxemia), sleep deprivation, and other complications. Continuous positive airway pressure
For moderate to severe sleep apnea, the most common treatment is the use of a continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) or automatic positive airway pressure (APAP) device. Obstructive sleep apnea is often caused by collapse of the upper airway during sleep, which reduces airflow to the lungs. Positive airway pressure therapy using a CPAP (continuous positive airway pressure), APAP or BPAP devices is considered to be the first line treatment option for sleep apnea. sleep apnea). Definitions
Obstructive sleep apnea or sleep apnea is defined as either cessation of breathing (apnea) for 10 seconds, or a decrease in normal breathing (hypopnea) with an associated desaturation in oxygen and arousal during sleep that lasts at least 10 seconds. Obstructive sleep apnea "occurs frequently in narcolepsy and may delay the diagnosis of narcolepsy by several years and interfere with its proper management." 
Do the changes in the serum levels of IL-2, IL-4, TNFalpha, and IL-6 reflect the inflammatory activity in the patients with post-ERCP pancreatitis? [SEP] liver function tests like AST, ALT, LD and γ-GT in Sweden. for beta cell function in homeostasis model assessment or thyroid's secretory capacity. The lower blood-glucose level (a product of the insulin secretion) triggers glucagon to be secreted, and repeats the cycle.In order for blood glucose to be kept stable, modifications to insulin, glucagon, epinephrine and cortisol are made. Infection, for instance, tends to change blood glucose levels, as does stress either physical or psychological. Annual Review of Nutrition. "Pancreatic regulation of glucose homeostasis". Il-2 production 1944 "wing with arrow"
Referred in West as "Il-2M3" or "Il-2 Type 3". IL4, Il-4, or IL-4 may refer to:

Ilyushin Il-4, a Soviet World War II bomber
Interleukin 4, a cytokine that stimulates the proliferation of activated B-cells
Illinois's 4th congressional district
Illinois Route 4 
Is routine intraoperative frozen-section examination of sentinel lymph nodes in breast cancer worthwhile? [SEP] The concept of sentinel lymph node surgery is to determine if the cancer has spread to the very first draining lymph node (called the "sentinel lymph node") or not. A frozen section procedure is commonly employed (which takes less than 20 minutes), so if neoplasia is detected in the lymph node a further lymph node dissection may be performed. In addition, there is no compelling evidence that patients who have a full lymph node dissection as a result of a positive sentinel lymph node result have improved survival compared to those who do not have a full dissection until later in their disease, when the lymph nodes can be felt by a physician. Following validation of the sentinel node biopsy technique, a number of randomised controlled trials were initiated to establish whether the technique could safely be used to avoid unnecessary axillary dissection among women with early breast cancer. The first such trial, led by Umberto Veronesi at the European Institute of Oncology, showed that women with breast tumours of 2 cm or less could safely forgo axillary dissection if their sentinel lymph nodes were found to be cancer-free on biopsy. These lymph nodes are clinically significant in breast cancer, and metastases from the breast to the axillary lymph nodes are considered in the staging of the disease. For clinical stages I and II breast cancer, axillary lymph node dissection should only be performed  after first attempting sentinel node biopsy.If cancer cells are found in the nodes it increases the risk of metastatic breast cancer. In response to women's concerns over lymphedema after routine removal of lymph nodes during mastectomy, the more limited approach of sentinel node biopsy was developed. 
Preoperative platelet count in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma: is it a prognostic factor? [SEP] In the presence of extensive disease or if the affected person is not fit enough to undergo surgery, palliative care is often recommended.As of 2018, esophageal cancer was the eighth-most common cancer globally with 572,000 new cases during the year. Squamous-cell carcinoma
The two major risk factors for esophageal squamous-cell carcinoma are tobacco (smoking or chewing) and alcohol. There is some evidence suggesting a possible causal association between human papillomavirus (HPV) and esophageal squamous-cell carcinoma. Epidemiology
Esophageal cancer is the eighth most frequently diagnosed cancer worldwide, and because of its poor prognosis it is the sixth most common cause of cancer-related death. It caused about 400,000 deaths in 2012, accounting for about 5% of all cancer deaths (about 456,000 new cases were diagnosed, representing about 3% of all cancers).ESCC (esophageal squamous-cell carcinoma) comprises 60–70% of all cases of esophageal cancer worldwide, while EAC (esophageal adenocarcinoma) accounts for a further 20–30% (melanomas, leiomyosarcomas, carcinoids and lymphomas are less common types). The National Cancer Institute estimated there were about 18,000 new cases and more than 15,000 deaths from esophageal cancer in 2013 (the American Cancer Society estimated that during 2014, about 18,170 new esophageal cancer cases would be diagnosed, resulting in 15,450 deaths).The squamous-cell carcinoma type is more common among African American males with a history of heavy smoking or alcohol use. Until the 1970s, squamous-cell carcinoma accounted for the vast majority of esophageal cancers in the United States. Overall, esophageal cancer is the thirteenth most common cancer in the UK (around 8,300 people were diagnosed with the disease in 2011), and it is the sixth most common cause of cancer death (around 7,700 people died in 2012). 
Can we predict urinary stone composition based on an analysis of microelement concentration in the hair and urine? [SEP] A stone may also result in blood in the urine, vomiting, or painful urination. Stones form in the kidney when minerals in urine are at high concentration. The urine is analyzed for features that promote stone formation. Low urinary citrate, too, promotes stone formation. Inhibitors of stone formation
Normal urine contains chelating agents, such as citrate, that inhibit the nucleation, growth, and aggregation of calcium-containing crystals. Chemical analysis of collected stones can establish their composition, which in turn can help to guide future preventive and therapeutic management. Treatment
Stone size influences the rate of spontaneous stone passage. History
The existence of kidney stones was first recorded thousands of years ago, with various explanations given; Joseph Glanville's Saducismus Triumphatus, for example, gives a detailed description of Abraham Mechelburg's voiding of small stones through his penis' virga, attributing the issue to witchcraft.In 1901, a stone discovered in the pelvis of an ancient Egyptian mummy was dated to 4,800 BC. 
Could ADMA levels in young adults born preterm predict an early endothelial dysfunction? [SEP] Four different pathways have been identified that can result in preterm birth and have considerable evidence: precocious fetal endocrine activation, uterine overdistension (placental abruption), decidual bleeding, and intrauterine inflammation or infection.Identifying women at high risk of giving birth early would enable the health services to provide specialized care for these women and their babies, for example a hospital with a special care baby unit such as a neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). Certain medical conditions in the pregnant mother may also increase the risk of preterm birth. Women with vaginal bleeding during pregnancy are at higher risk for preterm birth. While bleeding in the third trimester may be a sign of placenta previa or placental abruption—conditions that occur frequently preterm—even earlier bleeding that is not caused by these conditions is linked to a higher preterm birth rate. Infection
The frequency of infection in preterm birth is inversely related to the gestational age. Reducing existing risks
Women are identified to be at increased risk for preterm birth on the basis of their past obstetrical history or the presence of known risk factors. For extremely preterm babies (born before 28 weeks' gestation), targeting a higher versus a lower oxygen saturation range makes little or no difference overall to the risk of death or major disability. Young adults born preterm seem to acknowledge that they have more health problems than their peers, yet feel the same degree of satisfaction with their quality of life.Beyond the neurodevelopmental consequences of prematurity, infants born preterm have a greater risk for many other health problems. 
Can fractional lasers enhance transdermal absorption of topical lidocaine in an in vivo animal model? [SEP] Fractional laser
Fractional laser photothermolysis (FP) is a form of laser-based skin resurfacing, with several devices on the market. A fractional laser delivers laser light to the skin. Fraxel lasers cause fractional photothermolysis for skin resurfacing. Complications observed in a study of 961 fractional laser treatments included acne and herpes outbreaks. Lidocaine mixtures may also be applied directly to the skin or mucous membranes to numb the area. There is tentative evidence for topical lidocaine for neuropathic pain and skin graft donor site pain. "Lidocaine Transdermal Patch". Clinical use
Indications
The lidocaine/prilocaine combination is indicated for dermal anaesthesia. 
Does intra-abdominal desmoid disease affect patients with an ileal pouch differently than those with an ileorectal anastomosis? [SEP] There is a tendency for recurrence in the setting of prior surgery; in one study, two-thirds of patients with desmoid tumors had a history of prior abdominal surgery. Risk factors
Risk factors for desmoid disease amongst FAP patients include female sex, a 3' APC mutation, a positive family history, and a history of previous abdominal surgery. Diagnosis
Classification
Desmoid tumors may be classified as extra-abdominal, abdominal wall, or intra-abdominal (the last is more common in patients with FAP). It is thought that the lesions may develop in relation to estrogen levels or trauma/operations.A 3' APC mutation is the most significant risk factor for intra-abdominal desmoid development amongst FAP patients. FAP patients presenting with an abdominal wall desmoid pre-operatively are at an increased risk of developing an intra-abdominal desmoid post-operatively.Desmoid tumors of the breast are rare. Wide surgical resection with clear margins is the most widely practiced technique with radiation, chemotherapy, or hormonal therapy being used to reduce the risk of recurrence.Intestinal transplant is a treatment option for those patients with complicated desmoid tumor, such as those involving the mesenteric root, or those with intestinal failure resulting from the tumor or prior interventions. The residual small bowel is reanastamosed with the residual terminal ileum, usually seated inferior relative to the anastomosis.The urine is collected through a bag that attaches on the outside of the body over the stoma. The dilation is often accompanied by a paralysis of the peristaltic movements of the bowel. 
Does anastomotic leakage affect functional outcome after rectal resection for cancer? [SEP] One study analysed resected rectal wall specimens in patients with obstructed defecation associated with rectal intussusception undergoing stapled trans-anal rectal resection. Complications of gastric bypass
Anastomotic leakage
An anastomosis is a surgical connection between the stomach and bowel, or between two parts of the bowel. Complications of the procedure may include anastomotic leak or dehiscence, hernias, or adhesions causing partial or complete bowel obstruction. After resection the surgeon will create an anastomosis between the two ends of the bowel. Complications
Anastomotic leaks/Dehiscence
An anastomotic leak is a fault in the surgical connection between the two remaining sections of bowel after a resection is performed. Anastomotic leaks may cause infection, abscess development, and organ failure if untreated. One study analysed resected rectal wall specimens in patients with obstructed defecation associated with rectal intussusception undergoing stapled trans-anal rectal resection. Low anterior resection syndrome
Low anterior resection syndrome (LARS) comprises a collection of symptoms mainly affecting patients after surgery for rectal cancer characterized by fecal incontinence (stool and gases), fecal urgency, frequent bowel movements and bowel fragmentation, while some patients only experience constipation and a feeling of incomplete bowel emptying. 
Health care for immigrants in Europe: is there still consensus among country experts about principles of good practice? [SEP] The European Union is only open to a "European" state which respects the principles of "human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities". Fourth, and more debated, article 24 requires that the longer an EU citizen stays in a host state, the more rights they have to access public and welfare services, on the basis of equal treatment. Education and health
Education and health are provided mainly by member states, but shaped by common minimum standards in EU law. As in education, there is a universal human right to ‘health and well-being’ including ‘medical care and necessary social services’, although human rights law does not say what the best system of health governance is. Among EU member states there are two main traditions of health care provision, based on public service or insurance. A European Health Insurance Card is also available for free to receive health across the EU. There is no duty ‘through provision of free and unlimited health care to all aliens without a right to stay within its jurisdiction' to avoid 'too great a burden on the Contracting States.’ However, if someone's death would be imminent the European Court of Human Rights has held that a decision to remove would violate ECHR article 3. In the United Kingdom and United States, it was universally recommended.Historian David Gollaher proposes that "Americans found circumcision appealing not merely on medical grounds, but also for its connotations of science, health, and cleanliness—newly important class distinctions" in a country where 17 million immigrants arrived between 1890 and 1914. 
Can clinical supervision sustain our workforce in the current healthcare landscape? [SEP] Responsibility for the provision of most care was transferred to the CCSS, although the Ministry retained responsibility for disease control, food and drug regulation, environmental sanitation, child nutrition, and primary care for the poor. In common-law jurisdictions, employers have the common law duty (also called duty of care) to take reasonable care of the safety of their employees. Similarly psychosocial risks such as workplace violence are more pronounced for certain occupational groups such as health care employees, police, correctional officers and teachers. These guidelines encourage continual improvement in employee health and safety, achieved via a constant process of policy, organization, planning & implementation, evaluation, and action for improvement, all supported by constant auditing to determine the success of OSH actions. Indonesia
In Indonesia, the Ministry of Manpower is responsible to ensure the safety, health and welfare of workers while working, in a factory, or even the area surrounding the factory where labourers work. On the provincial and municipal level, there are Health Supervisions for occupational health and local bureaus of Work Safety for safety. Developing an Effective Safety Culture: A Leadership Approach (1st ed.). In addition to its 8,000 personnel, the hospital has training and hosting functions. 
Is the determination of specific IgE against components using ISAC 112 a reproducible technique? [SEP] Immunoglobulin E (IgE) is a type of antibody (or immunoglobulin (Ig) "isotype") that has been found only in mammals. IgE is synthesised by plasma cells. Although IgE is typically the least abundant isotype—blood serum IgE levels in a normal ("non-atopic") individual are only 0.05% of the Ig concentration, compared to 75% for the IgGs at 10 mg/ml, and are the isotypes responsible for most of the classical adaptive immune response—it is capable of triggering anaphylaxis, one of the most rapid and severe immunological reactions. Discovery
IgE was simultaneously discovered in 1966 and 1967 by two independent groups: Kimishige Ishizaka and his wife Teruko Ishizaka at the Children's Asthma Research Institute and Hospital in Denver, Colorado, and by Gunnar Johansson and Hans Bennich in Uppsala, Sweden. Specific IgE testing is the proven test for allergy detection; evidence does not show that indiscriminate IgE testing or testing for immunoglobulin G (IgG) can support allergy diagnosis. Two approaches targeting the IgE pathway were evolved and both are in active development. An anti-M1’ humanized antibody, quilizumab, is in phase IIb clinical trial.In 2002, researchers at the Randall Division of Cell and Molecular Biophysics determined the structure of IgE. He won the fight via unanimous decision.Ige faced Mirsad Bektić on February 8, 2020 at UFC 247. 
Is the first urinary albumin/creatinine ratio (ACR) in women with suspected preeclampsia a prognostic factor for maternal and neonatal adverse outcome? [SEP] Normally, the kidneys filter albumin, so if albumin is found in the urine, then it is a marker of kidney disease. Associations
Marker of vascular endothelial dysfunction
An important prognostic marker for kidney disease
in diabetes mellitus
in hypertension
in post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis
Increasing microalbuminuria during the first 48 hours after admission to an intensive care unit predicts elevated risk for acute respiratory failure, multiple organ failure, and overall mortality
A risk factor for venous thromboembolismMicroalbuminuria is an important adverse predictor of glycemic outcomes in prediabetes. This is termed the albumin/creatinine ratio (ACR) and microalbuminuria is defined as ACR ≥3.5 mg/mmol (female) or ≥2.5 mg/mmol (male), or with both substances measured by mass, as an ACR between 30 and 300 µg albumin/mg creatinine. Footnotes
External links

Microalbumin and Urine Albumin/Creatinine Ratio – Lab Tests Online Albuminuria is a pathological condition wherein the protein albumin is abnormally present in the urine. Causes
The kidneys normally do not filter large molecules into the urine, so albuminuria can be an indicator of damage to the kidneys or excessive salt intake. Microalbuminuria (between 30 and 300 mg/24h,  mg/L of urine or μg/mg of creatinine) can be a forerunner of diabetic nephropathy. Also a urine dipstick test for proteinuria can give a rough estimate of albuminuria. 
Is there awareness of pharmaceutical expenditure in the reformed primary care system? [SEP] Major healthcare expenses
The highest health expenditures were hospitals—$51B in 2009 up from  $45.4B, representing 28.2% in 2007, followed by pharmaceuticals—$30B in 2009 up from $26.5B, representing 16.5% in 2007, and physician services—$26B in 2009, up from $21.5B or 13.4% in 2007.The proportion spent on hospitals and physicians has declined between 1975 and 2009 while the amount spent on pharmaceuticals has increased. Of the three biggest health care expenses, the amount spent on pharmaceuticals has increased the most. In 1975, the three biggest health costs were hospitals ($5.5B/44.7%), physicians ($1.8B/15.1%), and medications ($1.1B/8.8%).By 2018, drugs (both prescription and non-prescription) had become the second largest expenditure representing 15.3% of the total, hospitals at 26.6% represented the largest sector by expenses, and physician services represented 15.1% of the total. Pharmaceuticals
By 2018, drugs—both prescription and non-prescription—were the second largest healthcare expenditure in Canada at 15.3% of the total.According to the December 2020 CIHI report, in 2019 public drug programs expenditures were $15 billion, representing a one-year increase of 3%. In 2019, spending on biologics increased from 9% to 17% of public spending for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease and similar conditions.By 1997, the total cost of pharmaceuticals surpassed the total cost of physician services and has remained in second place, after hospitals in terms of total annual health expenditures. The proportion spent on hospitals and physicians has declined between 1975 and 2009 while the amount spent on pharmaceuticals has increased. Of the three biggest health care expenses, the amount spent on pharmaceuticals has increased the most. In 1975, the three biggest health costs were hospitals ($5.5B/44.7%), physicians ($1.8B/15.1%), and medications ($1.1B/8.8%).According to the April 2018 report entitled Pharmacare Now: Prescription Medicine Coverage for All Canadians issued by the House of Commons Standing Committee on Health "spending on medicines dispensed outside hospitals accounted for 85% of total drug expenditures in 2017. 
Do women with ovaries of polycystic morphology without any other features of PCOS benefit from short-term metformin co-treatment during IVF? [SEP] Medications
Medications for PCOS include oral contraceptives and metformin. In many cases, metformin also supports ovarian function and return to normal ovulation. The United Kingdom's National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence recommended in 2004 that women with PCOS and a body mass index above 25 be given metformin when other therapy has failed to produce results. Metformin may not be effective in every type of PCOS, and therefore there is some disagreement about whether it should be used as a general first line therapy. Medications
Medications for PCOS include oral contraceptives and metformin. In many cases, metformin also supports ovarian function and return to normal ovulation. The United Kingdom's National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence recommended in 2004 that women with PCOS and a body mass index above 25 be given metformin when other therapy has failed to produce results. Metformin may not be effective in every type of PCOS, and therefore there is some disagreement about whether it should be used as a general first line therapy. 
Estimated fetal weight by ultrasound: a modifiable risk factor for cesarean delivery? [SEP] While ultrasound has been the primary method for diagnosing LGA, this form of fetal weight assessment remains imprecise, as the fetus is a highly variable structure in regards to density and weight— no matter the gestational age. Ultrasonography involves an algorithm that incorporates biometric measurements of the fetus, such as biparietal diameter (BPD), head circumference (HC), abdominal circumference (AC), and femur length (FL), to calculate the estimated fetal weight (EFW). Variability of fetal weight estimations has been linked to differences due to sensitivity and specificity of ultrasound algorithms as well as to the individual performing the ultrasound examination.In addition to sonography, fetal weight can also be assessed using clinical and maternal methods. Clinical methods for estimating fetal weight involves measuring the mother's symphysis-fundal height and performing Leopold's maneuvers, which can help with determining the fetus position in utero in addition to size. Fetal weight can also be estimated through a mother's subjective assessment of the fetus size, but this method is dependent on a mother's experience with past pregnancies and may not be clinically useful. Predicting a baby's weight can be inaccurate and women could be worried unnecessarily, and request their labor to be induced without a medical reason. However, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists recommends that cesarean delivery should only be considered if the fetus is an estimated weight of at least 5,000 grams in non-diabetic mothers and at least 4,500 grams in diabetic mothers. Such interventions can help mothers achieve the recommended gestational weight and lower the incidence of fetal macrosomia in obese and overweight women. 
Does Mammographic Density have an Impact on the Margin Re-excision Rate After Breast-Conserving Surgery? [SEP] Radiographically, a dense breast has a preponderance of glandular tissue, and younger age or estrogen hormone replacement therapy contribute to mammographic breast density. Higher breast density is an independent risk factor for breast cancer. Because of the importance of breast density as a risk indicator and as a measure of diagnostic accuracy, automated methods have been developed to facilitate assessment and reporting for mammography, and tomosynthesis. Mammographic density
Mammographic density refers to the relative proportions of radiodense area compared to the radiolucent area on a mammogram, which is basically an x-ray of the breast. High mammographic density is associated with a higher risk of developing breast cancer, but the reasons for this link are not certain and are being studied. Conversely, patients with very low mammographic breast density were found to hold a poorer prognosis irrespective of age, BMI and menopausal status. In appropriately selected patients, mastectomy and breast-conserving surgery have equivalent survival rates. Breast conserving surgery at National Breast and Ovarian Cancer Centre www.nbocc.org 
Are women who are treated for hypothyroidism at risk for pregnancy complications? [SEP] Pregnancy
Even mild or subclinical hypothyroidism leads to possible infertility and an increased risk of miscarriage. Hypothyroidism in early pregnancy, even with limited or no symptoms, may increase the risk of pre-eclampsia, offspring with lower intelligence, and the risk of infant death around the time of birth. Women are affected by hypothyroidism in 0.3–0.5% of pregnancies. Furthermore, therapy should be immediately administered to women diagnosed with hypothyroidism during pregnancy, as hypothyroidism is associated with a higher rate of complications, such as spontaneous abortion, preeclampsia, and premature birth.Thyroid hormone requirements increase during and last throughout pregnancy. Endocrine disorders
Disorders of the thyroid may affect pregnancy outcomes. Severe cases of hypothyroidism increase the risk of miscarriage. A three-fold risk of placental abruption and a two-fold risk of pre-term delivery were reported in mothers with subclinical hypothyroidism. Treatment of hypothyroidism reduces the risks of these adverse obstetric and fetal outcomes; a retrospective study of 150 pregnancies showed that treatment of hypothyroidism led to reduced rates of abortion and premature delivery. 
Internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint: is there still a place for ultrasound? [SEP] In anatomy, the temporomandibular joints (TMJ) are the two joints connecting the jawbone to the skull. Articular disc
The unique feature of the temporomandibular joint is the articular disc. Examination
The temporomandibular joints can be felt in front of or within the external acoustic meatus during movements of the mandible. Disc displacement
The most common disorder of a temporomandibular joint is disc displacement. pain, limitation of movement, clicking) dysfunction of the temporomandibular joint. In turn, the term temporomandibular disorder is defined as "musculoskeletal disorders affecting the temporomandibular joints and their associated musculature. Temporomandibular disorder is a term that creates confusion since it refers to a group of similarly symptomatic conditions, whilst many sources use the term temporomandibular disorders as a vague description, rather than a specific syndrome, and refer to any condition which may affect the temporomandibular joints (see table). The temporomandibular joint is susceptible to a huge range of diseases, some rarer than others, and there is no implication that all of these will cause any symptoms or limitation in function at all.The preferred terms in medical publications is to an extent influenced by geographic location. 
Laparoscopic myomectomy: do size, number, and location of the myomas form limiting factors for laparoscopic myomectomy? [SEP] Studies have suggested that laparoscopic myomectomy leads to lower morbidity rates and faster recovery than does laparotomic myomectomy. A laparotomic myomectomy (also known as an open or abdominal myomectomy) is the most invasive surgical procedure to remove fibroids. Laparotomy
Traditionally a myomectomy is performed via a laparotomy with a full abdominal incision, either vertically or horizontally. Studies have suggested that laparoscopic myomectomy leads to lower morbidity rates and faster recovery than does laparotomic myomectomy. As with hysteroscopic myomectomy, laparoscopic myomectomy is not generally used on very large fibroids. A study of laparoscopic myomectomies conducted between January 1990 and October 1998 examined 106 cases of laparoscopic myomectomy, in which the fibroids were intramural or subserous and ranged in size from 3 to 10 cm. Studies have suggested that laparoscopic myomectomy leads to lower morbidity rates and faster recovery than does laparotomic myomectomy. A laparotomic myomectomy (also known as an open or abdominal myomectomy) is the most invasive surgical procedure to remove fibroids. 
Is intensive chemotherapy safe for rural cancer patients? [SEP] Cancer
Cancer treatment has been developed with radiotherapy, chemotherapy and surgical oncology. Furthermore, cancer treatment involving chemotherapy also agreed that dronabinol had significant benefits on delaying nausea and vomiting for patients.However, medical marijuana treatments are not for everyone and it may cause adverse side effects for others. Professor of Interventional Oncology, University College London. Cancer and Palliative Care Clinical Lead, Manchester University NHS Foundation Trust. For services to People Suffering from Blood Cancer in Devon. Consultant Medical Oncologist, University Hospitals Bristol and Weston NHS Foundation Trust. Lead Cancer Nurse, University Hospitals Bristol and Weston NHS Foundation Trust. For services to Cancer Patients. 
Does sex affect the outcome of laparoscopic cholecystectomy? [SEP] The lack of a gallbladder has no negative consequences in most people, however 10 to 15% of people develop postcholecystectomy syndrome, which may cause nausea, indigestion, diarrhea, and episodes of abdominal pain.There are two surgical options for cholecystectomy:

Open cholecystectomy is performed via an abdominal incision (laparotomy) below the lower right ribs. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy, introduced in the 1980s, is performed via three to four small puncture holes for a camera and instruments. As with all surgery, complications may occur. With experience, a skilled laparoscopic surgeon can perform most procedures as expeditiously as with an open incision—with the option of using an incision should the need arise.The Roux-en-Y laparoscopic gastric bypass, first performed and reported on in case studies between 1993-1994, is regarded as one of the most difficult procedures to perform by limited access techniques. Complications
Any major surgery involves the potential for complications—adverse events that increase risk, hospital stay, and mortality. Mortality and complication rates
The overall rate of complications during the 30 days following surgery ranges from 7% for laparoscopic procedures to 14.5% for operations through open incisions. The risk of abdominal-wall hernia is markedly decreased in laparoscopic surgery. The procedure is performed laparoscopically and is not reversible. 
Is atropine needed with ketamine sedation? [SEP] Ketamine is a dissociative anesthetic used medically for induction and maintenance of anesthesia. Medical uses
Anesthesia
The use of ketamine in anesthesia reflects its characteristics. When used at anesthetic doses, ketamine usually stimulates rather than depresses the circulatory system. A 2011 clinical practice guideline supports the use of ketamine as a sedative in emergency medicine, including during physically painful procedures. Ketamine is likely to be most beneficial for surgical patients when severe post-operative pain is expected and for opioid-tolerant patients.Ketamine is especially useful in the prehospital setting, due to its effectiveness and low risk of respiratory depression. Interactions
Ketamine potentiates the sedative effects of propofol and  midazolam. Medical uses
Anesthesia
Esketamine is used for similar indications as ketamine. It is also often used in combination with ketamine with minimal side effects. 
Does implant coating with antibacterial-loaded hydrogel reduce bacterial colonization and biofilm formation in vitro? [SEP] However, the potential cost of a postoperative infection is high (including the possibility of implant loss); therefore, a single preoperative intravenous injection of antibiotics is recommended.The rate of complications is about 12% for minor complications and 3% for major complications; major complications include infections, facial paralysis, and device failure. This material in an aqueous environment could have an antibacterial property that is advantageous in periodontal surgical procedures. In a study done with 45S5 Bioglass, biofilms of S. sanguis were grown on inactive glass particulates and the biofilm grown on the Bioglass was significantly lower than those that were on the inactive glass. It was concluded that Bioglass may reduce bacterial colonisation which could aid osseointegration. Mechanism of action
When implanted, Bioglass 45S5 reacts with the surrounding physiological fluid, causing the formation of a hydroxyl carbonated apatite (HCA) layer at the material surface. In contrast, M1 macrophages become activated when a non-biocompatible material is implanted, triggering an inflammatory response. Nanoscale hydroxyapatite crystals form a layered structure with the deposited collagen at the surface of the implant. Another solution is coating a metallic implant with Bioglass, which takes advantage of the mechanical strength of the implant's bulk material while retaining bioactive effects at the surface. 
Do family physicians know the costs of medical care? [SEP] A 2019 study of health provision carried out for the Los Angeles Times found that about 1 in 35 citizens of the United Kingdom, Sweden, France, Germany and Japan faced medical bills that were sufficiently high to threaten their economic security: in contrast, tens of millions of Americans have to balance medical expenses against other basic needs. This can greatly affect the way medical decisions are made among family members, as diagnoses are not always expected to be announced to the dying or sick, the elderly are expected to be cared for and represented by their children and physicians are expected to act in a paternalistic way. Treatment of family members
The American Medical Association (AMA) states that "Physicians generally should not treat themselves or members of their immediate family". Studies from multiple health organizations have illustrated that physician-family member relationships may cause an increase in diagnostic testing and costs. Many doctors still treat their family members. Private medical care is available for those who can afford it. For all other residents who do not have a medical card, the average price for an appointment with a family doctor GP is €50 or €70 for an emergency appointment with a Caredoc GP. Most family doctors receive a fee per visit. 
Combining process indicators to evaluate quality of care for surgical patients with colorectal cancer: are scores consistent with short-term outcome? [SEP] Meanwhile, a core outcome measure set based on PROMS was developed with routine data and validated for operationalizing success in multimodal pain therapy. Doward LC, McKenna SP, Defining Patient-Reported Outcomes. Development of a new patient-based measure of pediatric ambulatory care. Kennedy D, CRF Designer, Canary Publications, ISBN 0-9531174-7-2
McKenna SP, Doward LC, Integrating Patient-Reported Outcomes. Patient reported outcome measures: a model-based classification system for research and clinical practice. While previous data indicated the need for a minimally invasive approach with malignant and/or metastatic disease, current research indicates a successful operation is feasible and results in a shorter hospital stay. The join (or anastomosis) after surgery may be inspected, usually during a colonoscopy, and disease activity graded. conducted a study of 305,853 elective and non-elective surgical patients; undergoing isolated coronary artery bypass graft surgery, colorectal surgery, open repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm, endovascular repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm, and lower extremity revascularisation. 
Can APC mutation analysis contribute to therapeutic decisions in familial adenomatous polyposis? [SEP] It may also be used to decrease the risk of colorectal adenomas in people with familial adenomatous polyposis. Familial adenomatous polyposis
It has been used to reduce colon and rectal polyps in people with familial adenomatous polyposis, but it is not known if it decreases rates of cancer, so it is not a good choice for this reason. Familial adenomatous polyposis
It has been used to reduce colon and rectal polyps in people with familial adenomatous polyposis, but it is not known if it decreases rates of cancer, so it is not a good choice for this reason. Some of the inherited genetic disorders that can cause colorectal cancer include familial adenomatous polyposis and hereditary non-polyposis colon cancer; however, these represent less than 5% of cases. Other syndromes that are strongly associated with colorectal cancer include Gardner syndrome and familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP). The most common polyposis syndrome affecting the colon is serrated polyposis syndrome, which is associated with a 25-40% risk of CRC.Mutations in the pair of genes (POLE and POLD1) have been associated with familial colon cancer.Most deaths due to colon cancer are associated with metastatic disease. The most commonly mutated gene in all colorectal cancer is the APC gene, which produces the APC protein. Screening
As more than 80% of colorectal cancers arise from adenomatous polyps, screening for this cancer is effective for both early detection and for prevention. 
Do emergency medical services professionals think they should participate in disease prevention? [SEP] Emergency management plans and procedures should include the identification of appropriately trained staff members responsible for decision-making when an emergency occurs. Employer responsibilities
When an emergency situation occurs, employers may be expected to protect workers from all harm resulting from any potential hazard, including physical, chemical, and biological exposure. An employer should provide pre-emergency training and build an emergency action plan.Employers should train their employees annually before an emergency action plan is implemented to inform employees of their responsibilities and/or plan of action during emergency situations. The principal government agency in achieving this is Emergency Management Australia. A 2019 survey of US physicians found that 60% of physicians answered 'yes' to the question "Should PAS be legalized in your state?" The concern about adequate safeguards is even greater among Oregon emergency physicians, among whom one study found that “Only 37% indicated that the Oregon initiative has enough safeguards to protect vulnerable persons. The report also recommended that clinicians be better involved in management. Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act (EMTALA)
EMTALA, enacted by the federal government in 1986, requires that hospital emergency departments treat emergency conditions of all patients regardless of their ability to pay and is considered a critical element in the "safety net" for the uninsured, but established no direct payment mechanism for such care. 
Is the ability to perform transurethral resection of the prostate influenced by the surgeon's previous experience? [SEP] Erectile dysfunction
Surgical removal of the prostate contains an increased likelihood that patients will experience erectile dysfunction. However, the experience and the skill of the nerve-sparing surgeon are critical determinants of the likelihood of positive erectile function of the patient.Following a prostatectomy, patients will not be able to ejaculate semen due to the nature of the procedure, resulting in the permanent necessity of assisted reproductive techniques in case of desires of future fertility. Preservation of normal ejaculation is possible after transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP), open or laser enucleation of adenoma and laser vaporisation of prostate. Urinary incontinence
Prostatectomy patients have an increased risk of leaking small amounts of urine immediately after surgery, and for the long-term, often requiring urinary incontinence devices such as condom catheters or diaper pads. The more prostatectomies performed by a surgeon, the better the outcomes. This is true for prostatectomies done as open procedures and those done using minimally invasive techniques. Transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) replaced radical prostatectomy for symptomatic relief of obstruction in the middle of the 20th century because it could better preserve penile erectile function. Transurethral resection
Transurethral resection of the prostate, commonly called a "TURP," is a surgical procedure performed when the tube from the bladder to the penis (urethra) is blocked by prostate enlargement. 
Is there a differential in the dental health of new recruits to the British Armed Forces? [SEP] The National Health Service (NHS) recruited doctors from Pakistan in the 1960s.The British Pakistani population has grown from about 10,000 in 1951 to over 1.5 million in 2021. These settlers were later joined by their families.In 1932, the Indian National Congress survey of 'all Indians outside India' (of which Pakistani regions were then a part) estimated that there were 7,128 Indians in the United Kingdom.There were 832,500 Muslim Indian soldiers in 1945; most of these recruits were from what is now Pakistan. Health and social issues
Health
Pakistanis together with Bangladeshis in the UK have poor health by many measures, for instance there is a fivefold rate of diabetes. Pakistani men have the highest rate of heart disease in the UK.In the UK, women of South Asian heritage, including British Pakistanis, are the least likely to attend breast cancer screening. 3.2% of Pakistani males report that they have been diagnosed with a sexually transmitted infection (STI), compared to 3.6% of Pakistani females.Cultural norms regarding issues such as chastity and marriage have resulted in British Pakistanis having a substantially older age for first intercourse, a lower number of partners, and lower STI rates than the national average. In 2017, 19.8% of Pakistani secondary school students were eligible for free school meals, compared to 13.1% of White British pupils. Traditionally, many British Pakistanis have been self-employed, with many working in the transport industry or family-run businesses in the retail sector.The latest available data from the Labour Force Survey show that in the fourth quarter of 2019, the employment rate for British Pakistanis stood at 57% and unemployment rates were 7%.According to General Medical Council statistics, 14,213 doctors from Pakistan are registered in the UK, and 2,100 dentists of Pakistani ethnicity were registered with the General Dental Council as of 2017. Both of Warsi's grandfathers served with the British Army in the Second World War. 
Is laparoscopic reoperation for failed antireflux surgery feasible? [SEP] A Nissen fundoplication, or laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication when performed via laparoscopic surgery, is a surgical procedure to treat gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and hiatal hernia. Outcomes comparing laparoscopic fundoplication to robotic fundoplication show similar clinical outcomes, but robotic fundoplication is more likely to have an increased length of operative time and financial cost. A Nissen fundoplication, or laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication when performed via laparoscopic surgery, is a surgical procedure to treat gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and hiatal hernia. Outcomes comparing laparoscopic fundoplication to robotic fundoplication show similar clinical outcomes, but robotic fundoplication is more likely to have an increased length of operative time and financial cost. Researchers concluded the procedure "offers markedly improved perioperative outcomes with a lower reoperation rate and fewer postoperative complications when the standard of care shifts from open surgery to laparoscopy in a university hospital".The abdominal technique is very often applied in difficult circumstances or when complications are expected. Additional research is required to determine the benefits and risks involved, compared to conventional laparoscopic surgery.A 2014 Cochrane review found that robotic assisted surgery may have a similar complication rate when compared to conventional laparoscopic surgery. Outcomes comparing laparoscopic fundoplication to robotic fundoplication show similar clinical outcomes, but robotic fundoplication is more likely to have an increased length of operative time and financial cost. Therefore, the chance of mechanical failure or malfunction was found to be rare, with the rate of converting to an open or laparoscopic procedure very low.There are also current methods of robotic surgery being marketed and advertised online. 
Does exercise during pregnancy prevent postnatal depression? [SEP] Parent-infant relationship
Postpartum depression can interfere with normal maternal-infant bonding and adversely affect acute and longterm child development. Hormonal and physical changes, personal and family history of depression, and the stress of caring for a new baby all may contribute to the development of postpartum depression.Evidence suggests that hormonal changes may play a role. Prevention
A 2013 Cochrane review found evidence that psychosocial or psychological intervention after childbirth helped reduce the risk of postnatal depression. Exercise
Regular aerobic exercise during pregnancy appears to improve (or maintain) physical fitness. Physical exercise during pregnancy appears to decrease the need for C-section, and even vigorous exercise carries no significant risks to babies and provides significant health benefits to the mother. Although an upper level of safe exercise intensity has not been established, women who were regular exercisers before pregnancy and who have uncomplicated pregnancies should be able to engage in high intensity exercise programs, without a higher risk of prematurity, lower birth weight, or gestational weight gain. Depression occurring after giving birth is called postpartum depression and is thought to be the result of hormonal changes associated with pregnancy. Lifestyle
Physical exercise has been found to be effective for major depression, and may be recommended to people who are willing, motivated, and healthy enough to participate in an exercise program as treatment. 
Is endometrial polyp formation associated with increased expression of vascular endothelial growth factor and transforming growth factor-beta1? [SEP] An endometrial polyp or uterine polyp is a mass in the inner lining of the uterus. Cause
No definitive cause of endometrial polyps is known, but they appear to be affected by hormone levels and grow in response to circulating estrogen. Taking tamoxifen or hormone replacement therapy can also increase the risk of uterine polyps. Diagnosis
Endometrial polyps can be detected by vaginal ultrasound (sonohysterography), hysteroscopy and dilation and curettage. The polyps consist of dense, fibrous tissue (stroma), blood vessels and glandlike spaces lined with endometrial epithelium. About 0.5% of endometrial polyps contain adenocarcinoma cells. Endometrial polyps occur in up to 10% of women. Endometrial polyp
An endometrial polyp or uterine polyp is a polyp or lesion in the lining of the uterus (endometrium) that takes up space within the uterine cavity. 
Is human cytomegalovirus infection associated with hypertension? [SEP] Cytomegalovirus retinitis, also known as CMV retinitis, is an inflammation of the retina of the eye that can lead to blindness. Caused by human cytomegalovirus, it occurs predominantly in people whose immune system has been compromised, 15-40% of those with AIDS. Leukemia
AIDS
Immunosuppressive chemotherapy

Mechanism
Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV or CMV) is a DNA virus in the family Herpesviridae known for producing large cells with nuclear and cytoplasmic inclusions, CMV infects around 40% of the population worldwide.Those areas infected by cytomegalovirus have cells evolve to necrosis, though inflammation within the retina is not great. cmvIL-10
Research conducted on cytomegalovirus (CMV) indicates that the viral human IL-10 homolog, cmvIL-10, is important in inhibiting pro-inflammatory cytokine synthesis. A large majority of patient that have CMV Esophagitis are diagnosed with HIV. Pain can also manifest as heartburn symptoms
Nausea/vomiting
Fever

Transmission
There are multiple ways cytomegalovirus can be transmitted. The most common type of HIV induced cardiomyopathy is dilated cardiomyopathy also known as eccentric ventricular hypertrophy which leads to impaired contraction of the ventricles due to volume overload. In situ hybridization or polymerase chain reaction studies illustrate a high frequency of cytomegalovirus and HIV-1 in AIDS patients with lymphocytic myocarditis and severe left ventricular dysfunction. 
Is it possible to stop treatment with nucleos(t)ide analogs in patients with e-antigen negative chronic hepatitis B? [SEP] Chronic hepatitis B
Nitazoxanide alone has shown preliminary evidence of efficacy in the treatment of chronic hepatitis B over a one-year course of therapy. Nitazoxanide 500 mg twice daily resulted in a decrease in serum HBV DNA in all of 4 HBeAg-positive patients, with undetectable HBV DNA in 2 of 4 patients, loss of HBeAg in 3 patients, and loss of HBsAg in one patient. Seven of 8 HBeAg-negative patients treated with nitazoxanide 500 mg twice daily had undetectable HBV DNA and 2 had loss of HBsAg. Additionally, nitazoxanide monotherapy in one case and nitazoxanide plus adefovir in another case resulted in undetectable HBV DNA, loss of HBeAg and loss of HBsAg. These preliminary studies showed a higher rate of HBsAg loss than any currently licensed therapy for chronic hepatitis B. The similar mechanism of action of interferon and nitazoxanide suggest that stand-alone nitazoxanide therapy or nitazoxanide in concert with nucleos(t)ide analogs have the potential to increase loss of HBsAg, which is the ultimate end-point of therapy. The authors concluded that more randomized trials with low risk of bias are needed to determine if Nitazoxanide can be used as an effective treatment for chronic hepatitis C patients. Current studies include a study of African American HIV patients (GS-US-380-4580) with the protocol title, "A Phase 3b, Multicenter, Open-Label Study to Evaluate Switching From a Regimen of Two Nucleos(t)ide Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NRTI) plus a Third Agent to a Fixed Dose Combination (FDC) of Bictegravir/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir Alafenamide (B/F/TAF), in Virologically- Suppressed, HIV-1 Infected African American Participants." 
Does radiotherapy around the time of pregnancy for Hodgkin's disease modify the risk of breast cancer? [SEP] Radiation therapy is synergistic with chemotherapy, and has been used before, during, and after chemotherapy in susceptible cancers. Due to complex radiobiology, very large tumors respond less well to radiation than smaller tumors or microscopic disease. Cancer
Radiation is a potential cause of cancer, and secondary malignancies are seen in some patients. Studies have found radiation therapy as the cause of secondary malignancies for only a small minority of patients. Cardiovascular disease
Radiation can increase the risk of heart disease and death as observed in previous breast cancer RT regimens. Effects on reproduction
During the first two weeks after fertilization, radiation therapy is lethal but not teratogenic. High doses of radiation during pregnancy induce anomalies, impaired growth and intellectual disability, and there may be an increased risk of childhood leukemia and other tumours in the offspring.In males previously having undergone radiotherapy, there appears to be no increase in genetic defects or congenital malformations in their children conceived after therapy. People treated with ionizing radiation after treatment for prostate cancer, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, lung cancer, and breast cancer have the highest chance of acquiring AML, but this increased risk returns to the background risk observed in the general population after 12 years. 
Should displaced midshaft clavicular fractures be treated surgically? [SEP] Diagnosis is typically based on symptoms and confirmed with X-rays.Clavicle fractures are typically treated by putting the arm in a sling for one or two weeks. Reasons for surgical repair include an open fracture, involvement of the nerves or blood vessels, or shortening of the clavicle by more than 1.5 cm in a young person.Clavicle fractures most commonly occur in people under the age of 25 and those over the age of 70. However, a meta-analysis of 2 144 midshaft clavicle fractures supports primary plate fixation of completely displaced midshaft clavicular fractures in active adult patients.If the fracture is at the lateral end, the risk of nonunion is greater than if the fracture is of the shaft. The evidence for different types of surgery for breaks of the middle part of the clavicle is poor as of 2015.Surgery may be considered when one or more of the following is presents

Comminution with separation (bone is broken into multiple pieces)
Skin penetration (open fracture)
Associated nervous and vascular trauma (brachial plexus or supraclavicular nerves)
Nonunion after several months (3–6 months, typically)
Displaced distal third fractures (high risk of nonunion)
Although shortening (as a result of overlap of fracture ends) has often been suggested as an indication for surgery, a review found that people treated without surgery for shortening of mid shaft clavicle fractures did not affect outcomes.A discontinuity in the bone shape often results from a clavicular fracture, visible through the skin, if not treated with surgery. Diagnosis is typically based on symptoms and confirmed with X-rays.Clavicle fractures are typically treated by putting the arm in a sling for one or two weeks. Reasons for surgical repair include an open fracture, involvement of the nerves or blood vessels, or shortening of the clavicle by more than 1.5 cm in a young person.Clavicle fractures most commonly occur in people under the age of 25 and those over the age of 70. However, a meta-analysis of 2 144 midshaft clavicle fractures supports primary plate fixation of completely displaced midshaft clavicular fractures in active adult patients.If the fracture is at the lateral end, the risk of nonunion is greater than if the fracture is of the shaft. The evidence for different types of surgery for breaks of the middle part of the clavicle is poor as of 2015.Surgery may be considered when one or more of the following is presents

Comminution with separation (bone is broken into multiple pieces)
Skin penetration (open fracture)
Associated nervous and vascular trauma (brachial plexus or supraclavicular nerves)
Nonunion after several months (3–6 months, typically)
Displaced distal third fractures (high risk of nonunion)
Although shortening (as a result of overlap of fracture ends) has often been suggested as an indication for surgery, a review found that people treated without surgery for shortening of mid shaft clavicle fractures did not affect outcomes.A discontinuity in the bone shape often results from a clavicular fracture, visible through the skin, if not treated with surgery. 
Is laparoscopic cholecystectomy safe and acceptable as a day case procedure? [SEP] Laparoscopic surgery is thought to have fewer complications, shorter hospital stay, and quicker recovery than open cholecystectomy. For uncomplicated laparoscopic cholecystectomies, people may be discharged on the day of surgery after adequate control of pain and nausea. Driven by popularity among patients, the laparoscopic technique became preferred over open surgery and noninvasive treatments for gallstones.By 2013, laparoscopic cholecystectomy had replaced open cholecystectomy as the first-choice of treatment for people with uncomplicated gallstones and acute cholecystitis.By 2014 laparoscopic cholecystectomy had become the gold standard for the treatment of symptomatic gallstones.Laparoscopic cholecystectomy can be a challenging procedure and surgeons must be trained with advanced laparoscopic skills to complete the operation with safety and effectiveness. The search for a technically safe process which was easier to perform and enhanced patients’ comfort, led to the introduction of Laparoscopic Cholecystectomy through keyhole incision. This procedure commonly known as Lap Chole is currently a gold standard for Cholecystectomy. Several studies have demonstrated the superiority of laparoscopic cholecystectomy when compared to open cholecystectomy (using a large incision in the right upper abdomen under the rib cage). Early laparoscopic cholecystectomy (within 7 days of visiting a doctor with symptoms) as compared to delayed treatment (more than 6 weeks) may result in shorter hospital stays and a decreased risk of requiring an emergency procedure. A cholecystectomy may be an open procedure, or a laparoscopic one. 
Is etoricoxib effective in preventing heterotopic ossification after primary total hip arthroplasty? [SEP] Efficacy
A Cochrane review assessed the benefits of single-dose etoricoxib in reduction of acute post-operative pain in adults. Causes
Heterotopic ossification of varying severity can be caused by surgery or trauma to the hips and legs. About every third patient who has total hip arthroplasty (joint replacement) or a severe fracture of the long bones of the lower leg will develop heterotopic ossification, but is uncommonly symptomatic. Between 50% and 90% of patients who developed heterotopic ossification following a previous hip arthroplasty will develop additional heterotopic ossification.Heterotopic ossification often develops in patients with traumatic brain or spinal cord injuries, other severe neurologic disorders or severe burns, most commonly around the hips. Originally, bisphosphonates were expected to be of value after hip surgery but there has been no convincing evidence of benefit, despite having been used prophylactically.Depending on the growth's location, orientation and severity, surgical removal may be possible. Prophylactic radiation therapy for the prevention of heterotopic ossification has been employed since the 1970s. Certain antiinflammatory agents, such as indomethacin, ibuprofen and aspirin, have shown some effect in preventing recurrence of heterotopic ossification after total hip replacement. Heterotopic ossification is a process resulting in the formation of bone tissue that is often atypical, at an extraskeletal location. 
Should serum pancreatic lipase replace serum amylase as a biomarker of acute pancreatitis? [SEP] In general, serum lipase is thought to be more sensitive and specific than serum amylase in the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis""Although amylase is widely available and provides acceptable accuracy of diagnosis, where lipase is available it is preferred for the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis (recommendation grade A)"Most, but not all individual studies support the superiority of the lipase. Another study found that the amylase could add diagnostic value to the lipase, but only if the results of the two tests were combined with a discriminant function equation.While often quoted lipase levels of 3 or more times the upper-limit of normal is diagnostic of pancreatitis, there are also other differential diagnosis to be considered relating to this rise. Thus, through measurement of serum concentration of pancreatic lipase, acute pancreatitis can be diagnosed. In general, serum lipase is thought to be more sensitive and specific than serum amylase in the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis""Although amylase is widely available and provides acceptable accuracy of diagnosis, where lipase is available it is preferred for the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis (recommendation grade A)"Most, but not all individual studies support the superiority of the lipase. Another study found that the amylase could add diagnostic value to the lipase, but only if the results of the two tests were combined with a discriminant function equation.While often quoted lipase levels of 3 or more times the upper-limit of normal is diagnostic of pancreatitis, there are also other differential diagnosis to be considered relating to this rise. In general, serum lipase is thought to be more sensitive and specific than serum amylase in the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis""Although amylase is widely available and provides acceptable accuracy of diagnosis, where lipase is available it is preferred for the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis (recommendation grade A)"Most, but not all individual studies support the superiority of the lipase. Diagnosis of acute pancreatitis is based on a threefold increase in the blood of either amylase or lipase. Elevations in lipase are generally considered a better indicator for pancreatitis as it has greater specificity and has a longer half life. 
Rectal cancer threatening or affecting the prostatic plane: is partial prostatectomy oncologically adequate? [SEP] Colectomy, removal of the colon, may not suffice as a preventive measure because of the high risk of rectal cancer if the rectum remains. The latter is often used for rectal lesions to determine its local stage and to facilitate preoperative planning. The procedure of choice is a partial colectomy (or proctocolectomy for rectal lesions) where the affected part of the colon or rectum is removed along with parts of its mesocolon and blood supply to facilitate removal of draining lymph nodes. The decision to add chemotherapy in management of colon and rectal cancer depends on the stage of the disease.In Stage I colon cancer, no chemotherapy is offered, and surgery is the definitive treatment. Stage IV rectal cancer is treated similar to stage IV colon cancer. Radiation therapy
While a combination of radiation and chemotherapy may be useful for rectal cancer, for some people requiring treatment, chemoradiotherapy can increase acute treatment-related toxicity, and has not been shown to improve survival rates compared to radiotherapy alone, although it is associated with less local recurrence. As with chemotherapy, radiotherapy can be used as a neoadjuvant for clinical stages T3 and T4 for rectal cancer. Cancer
Rectal cancer, a subgroup of colorectal cancer specific to the rectum. 
Does bone anchor fixation improve the outcome of percutaneous bladder neck suspension in female stress urinary incontinence? [SEP] A bone-anchored hearing aid (BAHA) is a type of hearing aid based on bone conduction. Medical use
Bone-anchored hearing aids use a surgically implanted abutment to transmit sound by direct conduction through bone to the inner ear, bypassing the external auditory canal and middle ear. Direct bone conduction may be an option. A hole, 3 or 4 mm deep depending on the thickness of the bone, is drilled. Direct bone conduction through a vibrator attached to a skin-penetrating implant addresses these disadvantages. A mechanistic involvement of the hyoid bone in OSA is supported by numerous studies demonstrating that a more inferiorly positioned hyoid bone is strongly associated with the presence and severity of the disorder. European Urology. "Comparaison des propriétés biomécaniques de l'ancrage vaginal dans les suspensions du col vésical selon la technique de Burch et une technique percutanée" [Comparison of biomechanical properties of the vaginal fixation in bladder neck suspensions according to the Burch technique and a percutaneous technique] (PDF). 
Are intraoperative precursor events associated with postoperative major adverse events? [SEP] There are several risk factors associated with postoperative complications, such as immune deficiency and obesity. Infection and antisepsis
Unfortunately, the introduction of anesthetics encouraged more surgery, which inadvertently caused more dangerous patient post-operative infections. However, evidence also has shown an association of increased adverse events with beta-blockers in non-cardiac surgery. Perioperative mortality
Most perioperative mortality is attributable to complications from the operation, such as haemorrhage, sepsis, and failure of vital organs. Risk factors for infection are related to both patient and surgical factors. Much of this is dependent on pre-operative function. The project focuses on four broad areas in which the incidence and cost of complications are high: (1) Surgical site infections, (2) Perioperative myocardial infarctions (heart attacks), (3) Venous thromboembolism, and (4) Postoperative pneumonia. An operating room manager must consider the preoperative, intraoperative and postoperative factors which reflect in patient safety and hospital efficiency. 
Does a family meetings intervention prevent depression and anxiety in family caregivers of dementia patients? [SEP] Some evidence suggests that education and support for the person with dementia, as well as caregivers and family members, improves outcomes. Exercise programs are beneficial with respect to activities of daily living, and potentially improve dementia.The effect of therapies can be evaluated for example by assessing agitation using the Cohen-Mansfield Agitation Inventory (CMAI); by assessing mood and engagement with the Menorah Park Engagement Scale (MPES); and the Observed Emotion Rating Scale (OERS) or by assessing indicators for depression using the Cornell Scale for Depression in Dementia (CSDD) or a simplified version thereof.Often overlooked in treating and managing dementia is the role of the caregiver and what is known about how they can support multiple interventions. Findings from a 2021 systematic review of the literature found caregivers of people with dementia in nursing homes do not have sufficient tools or clinical guidance for behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) along with medication use. Psychological and psychosocial therapies
Psychological therapies for dementia include some limited evidence for reminiscence therapy (namely, some positive effects in the areas of quality of life, cognition, communication and mood – the first three particularly in care home settings), some benefit for cognitive reframing for caretakers, unclear evidence for validation therapy and tentative evidence for mental exercises, such as cognitive stimulation programs for people with mild to moderate dementia. While family caregivers often care for patients with dementia at home, they also provide a helpful function within nursing or residential aged care facilities. Findings from a 2021 systematic review found caregivers of these patients in nursing homes with dementia do not have sufficient tools or clinical guidance for helping to manage multiple interventions, such as behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) and medication use. However, these results may be due to the lack of high quality studies in this field.According to a more recent 2016 review, respite services provided to families caring for a family member with dementia had positive effects such as stress reduction, increased time for relaxation, socialization, and focusing on personal tasks. Psychological and psychosocial therapies
A 2018, Cochrane Review found that offering personally tailored activity sessions to people with dementia in long-term care homes may help manage challenging behavior. 
HIF1A as a major vascular endothelial growth factor regulator: do its polymorphisms have an association with age-related macular degeneration? [SEP] HIF1A expression level is dependent on its GC-rich promoter activation. HIF-1 is known to induce transcription of more than 60 genes, including VEGF and erythropoietin that are involved in biological processes such as angiogenesis and erythropoiesis, which assist in promoting and increasing oxygen delivery to hypoxic regions. HIF1A also controls skin healing. HIF1A expression may also regulate breast tumor progression. Similar findings have been reported in brain cancer and ovarian cancer studies as  well, and suggest at regulatory role of HIF1A in initiating angiogenesis through interactions with pro-angiogenic factors such as VEGF. Studies of glioblastoma multiforme show striking similarity between HIF1A expression pattern and that of VEGF gene transcription level. VEGF-A plays a role in the disease pathology of the wet form age-related macular degeneration (AMD), which is the leading cause of blindness for the elderly of the industrialized world. Macular degeneration
Overexpression of VEGF causes increased permeability in blood vessels in addition to stimulating angiogenesis. 
Is combined therapy more effective than growth hormone or hyperbaric oxygen alone in the healing of left ischemic and non-ischemic colonic anastomoses? [SEP] The reason is unknown, but GH is now rarely used in ICU patients unless they have severe growth hormone deficiency.GH treatment usually decreases insulin sensitivity, but some studies showed no evidence for increased diabetes incidence in GH-treated adult hypopituitary patients.In past it was believed that GH treatment could increase the cancer risk; a large study recently concluded that "With relatively short follow-up, the overall primary cancer risk in 6840 patients receiving GH as adults was not increased. The treatment comprises hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT), the medical use of oxygen at an ambient pressure higher than atmospheric pressure, and therapeutic recompression for decompression illness, intended to reduce the injurious effects of systemic gas bubbles by physically reducing their size and providing improved conditions for elimination of bubbles and excess dissolved gas. HBOT found early use in the treatment of decompression sickness, and has also shown great effectiveness in treating conditions such as gas gangrene and carbon monoxide poisoning. Scope
Hyperbaric medicine includes hyperbaric oxygen treatment, which is the medical use of oxygen at greater than atmospheric pressure to increase the availability of oxygen in the body; and therapeutic recompression, which involves increasing the ambient pressure on a person, usually a diver, to treat decompression sickness or an air embolism by eliminating bubbles that have formed within the body. The following indications are approved (for reimbursement) uses of hyperbaric oxygen therapy as defined by the UHMS Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy Committee:
Air or gas embolism;
Carbon monoxide poisoning;Carbon monoxide poisoning complicated by cyanide poisoning;
Central retinal artery occlusion;
Clostridal myositis and myonecrosis (gas gangrene);
Crush injury, compartment syndrome, and other acute traumatic ischemias;
Decompression sickness;
Enhancement of healing in selected problem wounds;.Diabetically derived illness, such as short-term relief of diabetic foot, diabetic retinopathy, diabetic nephropathy;
Exceptional blood loss (anemia);
Idiopathic sudden sensorineural hearing loss;
Intracranial abscess;
Mucormycosis, especially rhinocerebral disease in the setting of diabetes mellitus;
Necrotizing soft tissue infections (necrotizing fasciitis);
Osteomyelitis (refractory);
Delayed radiation injury (soft tissue and bony necrosis);
Skin grafts and flaps (compromised);
Thermal burns.There is no reliable evidence to support its use in autism, cancer, diabetes, HIV/AIDS, Alzheimer's disease, asthma, Bell's palsy, cerebral palsy, depression, heart disease, migraines, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, spinal cord injury, sports injuries, or stroke. Cancer
In alternative medicine, hyperbaric medicine has been promoted as a treatment for cancer. published on the use of hyperbaric oxygen in the treatment of clostridial gas gangrene.In 1962 Smith and Sharp reported successful treatment of carbon monoxide poisoning with hyperbaric oxygen.The Undersea Medical Society (now Undersea and Hyperbaric Medical Society) formed a Committee on Hyperbaric Oxygenation which has become recognized as the authority on indications for hyperbaric oxygen treatment. Hyperbaric oxygen therapy increases oxygen transport via dissolved oxygen in serum, and is most efficacious where the haemoglobin is compromised (e.g. 
Does oxybutynin hydrochloride cause arrhythmia in children with bladder dysfunction? [SEP] Oxybutynin, sold as under the brand names Ditropan among others, is a medication used to treat overactive bladder. Medical use
The immediate and slow release versions work equally.In people with overactive bladder, transdermal oxybutynin decreased the number of incontinence episodes and increased average voided volume. Adverse effects
Common adverse effects that are associated with oxybutynin and other anticholinergics include: dry mouth, difficulty in urination, constipation, blurred vision, drowsiness, and dizziness. In those with overflow incontinence because of diabetes or neurological diseases like multiple sclerosis or spinal cord trauma, oxybutynin can worsen overflow incontinence since the fundamental problem is that the bladder is not contracting. Pharmacology
Oxybutynin chloride exerts direct antispasmodic effect on smooth muscle and inhibits the muscarinic action of acetylcholine on smooth muscle. See also
Arecoline

References
External links
"Oxybutynin". Treatment is bladder retraining, pelvic floor therapy or with drugs that inhibit bladder contractions such as oxybutynin and tolterodine. Pharmacology
Tolterodine acts on M2 and M3 subtypes of muscarinic receptors whereas older antimuscarinic treatments for overactive bladder act more specifically on M3 receptors.Tolterodine, although it acts on all types of receptors, has fewer side effects than oxybutynin (M3 and M1 selective, but more so in the parotid than in the bladder) as tolterodine targets the bladder more than other areas of the body. 
Do "America's Best Hospitals" perform better for acute myocardial infarction? [SEP] Management
A myocardial infarction requires immediate medical attention. They do decrease the risk of having a further myocardial infarction. Morbidity and mortality from myocardial infarction has, however, improved over the years due to earlier and better treatment: in those who have a STEMI in the United States, between 5 and 6 percent die before leaving the hospital and 7 to 18 percent die within a year.It is unusual for babies to experience a myocardial infarction, but when they do, about half die. Cardiogenic shock is the largest cause of in-hospital mortality. "Global Evolving Epidemiology, Natural History, and Treatment Trends of Myocardial Infarction". "Clinical Approach to Suspected Acute Myocardial Infarction". Emergency services
Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Systems vary considerably in their ability to evaluate and treat patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction. 85% of patients in the medical therapy arm elected to have PCI at the end of the trial.The 2019 ISCHEMIA trial has confirmed that invasive procedures (PCI or CABG) do not reduce death or heart attacks compared to medical therapy alone for stable angina. 
Does preoperative anemia adversely affect colon and rectal surgery outcomes? [SEP] Around 50% of people who have colorectal cancer do not report any symptoms.Rectal bleeding or anemia are high-risk symptoms in people over the age of 50. However, these impactions often require surgical intervention, and the surgeon will empty the colon either by enterotomy or by lubricants and massage. Additionally, surgical cases may develop post-operative ileus which requires further medical management. Post-operative care
Small amounts of food is usually introduced as soon as possible after surgery, usually within 18–36 hours, to encourage motility and reduce the risk of ileus and the formation of adhesions. Incisional infection doubles the time required for postoperative care, and dehiscence may lead to intestinal herniation, which reduces the likelihood of return to athletic function. Draft horses tend to have more difficulty post-surgery because they are often under anesthesia for a longer period of time, since they have a greater amount of gastrointestinal tract to evaluate, and their increased size places more pressure on their musculature, which can lead to muscle damage. Bleeding in the stomach can also occur as evidenced by the passage of black stools; prolonged bleeding may cause anemia leading to weakness and fatigue. Usually, these polyps are asymptomatic but gastric polyps may be the cause of dyspepsia, heartburn, bleeding from the upper gastrointestinal tract, and, rarely, gastric outlet obstruction while colorectal polyps may be the cause of rectal bleeding, anemia, constipation, diarrhea, weight loss, and abdominal pain.Individuals with chronic H. pylori infection have an increased risk of acquiring a cancer that is directly related to this infection. 
Can early second-look tympanoplasty reduce the rate of conversion to modified radical mastoidectomy? [SEP] Cholesteatoma is a destructive and expanding growth consisting of keratinizing squamous epithelium in the middle ear and/or mastoid process. Both the acquired as well as the congenital types of the disease can affect the facial nerve that extends from the brain to the face and passes through the inner and middle ear and leaves at the anterior tip of the mastoid bone, and then rises to the front of the ear and extends into the upper and lower face. This typically involves some form of mastoidectomy which may or may not involve removing the posterior ear canal wall and the ossicles. The removal of the ear canal wall results in: 

a space, the "mastoid cavity", which is less likely than the original ear canal to resist infection;
exposure of the ossicles, which may allow the subsequent formation of a new cholesteatoma deep to the ossicles. To prevent this, these ossicles must be removed, which may diminish the patient's hearing.The formation of a mastoid cavity by removal of the canal wall is the simplest and most effective procedure for facilitating the removal of cholesteatoma, but may bestow the most lasting infirmity due to loss of ear function upon the patient treated in this way. Partial obliteration of the mastoid cavity. The direct line of view dictated by that approach necessitates using the mastoid as the access port to the middle ear. Tympanoplasty is the general name of the operation to repair the middle ear's eardrum and ossicles. 
Is serum total bilirubin useful to differentiate cardioembolic stroke from other stroke subtypes? [SEP] Bilirubin (BR) (Latin for "red bile") is a red-orange compound that occurs in the normal catabolic pathway that breaks down heme in vertebrates. Toxicity
Unbound bilirubin (Bf) levels can be used to predict the risk of  neurodevelopmental handicaps within infants. The spectrum of clinical effect is called bilirubin encephalopathy. A scoring system called ROSIER (recognition of stroke in the emergency room) is recommended for this purpose; it is based on features from the medical history and physical examination. Hemorrhagic
Hemorrhagic strokes are classified based on their underlying pathology. Imaging
For diagnosing ischemic (blockage) stroke in the emergency setting:
CT scans (without contrast enhancements)
sensitivity= 16% (less than 10% within first 3 hours of symptom onset)
specificity= 96%MRI scan
sensitivity= 83%
specificity= 98%For diagnosing hemorrhagic stroke in the emergency setting:

CT scans (without contrast enhancements)
sensitivity= 89%
specificity= 100%MRI scan
sensitivity= 81%
specificity= 100%For detecting chronic hemorrhages, an MRI scan is more sensitive.For the assessment of stable stroke, nuclear medicine scans such as single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography–computed tomography (PET/CT) may be helpful. Hemorrhagic
Hemorrhagic strokes are classified based on their underlying pathology. Imaging
For diagnosing ischemic (blockage) stroke in the emergency setting:
CT scans (without contrast enhancements)
sensitivity= 16% (less than 10% within first 3 hours of symptom onset)
specificity= 96%MRI scan
sensitivity= 83%
specificity= 98%For diagnosing hemorrhagic stroke in the emergency setting:

CT scans (without contrast enhancements)
sensitivity= 89%
specificity= 100%MRI scan
sensitivity= 81%
specificity= 100%For detecting chronic hemorrhages, an MRI scan is more sensitive.For the assessment of stable stroke, nuclear medicine scans such as single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography–computed tomography (PET/CT) may be helpful. 
Delayed imaging in routine CT examinations of the abdomen and pelvis: is it worth the additional cost of radiation and time? [SEP] CT scan has been shown to be more accurate than ultrasound in detecting acute appendicitis. However, ultrasound may be preferred as the first imaging test in children and pregnant women because of the risks associated with radiation exposure from CT scans.The standard treatment for acute appendicitis is surgical removal of the appendix. Imaging
In children the clinical examination is important to determine which children with abdominal pain should receive immediate surgical consultation and which should receive diagnostic imaging. Because of the health risks of exposing children to radiation, ultrasound is the preferred first choice with CT scan being a legitimate follow-up if the ultrasound is inconclusive. CT scan is more accurate than ultrasound for the diagnosis of appendicitis in adults and adolescents. Concerns about radiation tend to limit use of CT in pregnant women and children, especially with the increasingly widespread usage of MRI.The accurate diagnosis of appendicitis is multi-tiered, with the size of the appendix having the strongest positive predictive value, while indirect features can either increase or decrease sensitivity and specificity. X-ray
In general, plain abdominal radiography (PAR) is not useful in making the diagnosis of appendicitis and should not be routinely obtained from a person being evaluated for appendicitis. The pathological classification and staging information obtained by the TURBT-procedure, is of fundamental importance for making the appropriate choice of ensuing treatment and/or follow-up routines.If invasive or high grade (includes carcinoma in situ) cancer is detected on TURBT, an MRI and/or CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis or urogram and CT chest should be conducted for disease staging and to look for cancer spread (metastasis). 
Suturing of the nasal septum after septoplasty, is it an effective alternative to nasal packing? [SEP] Septoplasty [ˈsɛp.toˌplæ.sti]
(Etymology: L, saeptum, septum; Gk, πλάσσειν plassein – to shape), or alternatively submucous septal resection and septal reconstruction, is a corrective surgical procedure done to straighten a deviated nasal septum – the nasal septum being the partition between the two nasal cavities. Put simply, septoplasty is a surgery that helps repair the passageways in the nose making it easier to breathe. After the septum is straightened, it may then be stabilized temporarily with small plastic tubes, splints, or sutures internally. Post-operation
Unless there are unusual complications, there is no swelling or discoloration of the external nose or face with septoplasty alone. Septoplasty [ˈsɛp.toˌplæ.sti]
(Etymology: L, saeptum, septum; Gk, πλάσσειν plassein – to shape), or alternatively submucous septal resection and septal reconstruction, is a corrective surgical procedure done to straighten a deviated nasal septum – the nasal septum being the partition between the two nasal cavities. Put simply, septoplasty is a surgery that helps repair the passageways in the nose making it easier to breathe. Post-operation
Unless there are unusual complications, there is no swelling or discoloration of the external nose or face with septoplasty alone. Septoplasty
Septoplasty is a surgical procedure that straightens the septal nasal cartilage within the center of the nose. 
Have antiepileptic drug prescription claims changed following the FDA suicidality warning? [SEP] Suicide
The gabapentin label contains a warning of an increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors. According to an insurance claims database study, gabapentin use is associated with about 40% increased risk of suicide, suicide attempt and violent death as compared with a reference anticonvulsant drug topiramate. Gabapentin misuse, toxicity, and use in suicide attempts among adults in the US increased from 2013 to 2017.After Kentucky's implementation of stricter legislation regarding opioid prescriptions in 2012, there was an increase in gabapentin-only and multi-drug use in 2012–2015. Data now being collected by the Epilepsy and Antiepileptic Drug Pregnancy Registry may one day answer this question definitively. Psychological
Phenytoin may increase risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior. At the time it was not clear if this exceeded the established rate of this side effect which is also found in other antipsychotics and although the drug was not completely withdrawn, its use became limited. Cautious of this risk, however, the FDA required a black box warning for specific side effects including agranulocytosis, and took the unique step of requiring patients to be registered in a formal system of tracking so that blood count levels could be evaluated on a systematic basis.In December 2002, clozapine was approved in the US for reducing the risk of suicide in people with schizophrenia or schizoaffective  judged to be at chronic risk for suicidal behavior. Very long term follow-up studies reveal multiple benefits in terms of reduced mortality, with a particularly strong effect for reduced death by suicide, clozapine is the only antipsychotic known to have an effect reducing the risk of suicide or attempted suicide. 
Does ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament affect the neurological outcome after traumatic cervical cord injury? [SEP] Symptoms may include loss of muscle function, sensation, or autonomic function in the parts of the body served by the spinal cord below the level of the injury. Cervical
Spinal cord injuries at the cervical (neck) level result in full or partial tetraplegia (also called quadriplegia). The use of a cervical collar has been shown to increase mortality in people with penetrating trauma and is thus not routinely recommended in this group.Modern trauma care includes a step called clearing the cervical spine, ruling out spinal cord injury if the patient is fully conscious and not under the influence of drugs or alcohol, displays no neurological deficits, has no pain in the middle of the neck and no other painful injuries that could distract from neck pain. The posterior longitudinal ligament is a ligament connecting the posterior surfaces of the vertebral bodies of all of the vertebrae of humans. It may ossify, particularly around cervical vertebrae.The posterior longitudinal ligament has a high density of vasomotor fibres, allowing for increased blood flow to respond to damage to the ligament. Symptoms may include loss of muscle function, sensation, or autonomic function in the parts of the body served by the spinal cord below the level of the injury. Cervical
Spinal cord injuries at the cervical (neck) level result in full or partial tetraplegia (also called quadriplegia). The use of a cervical collar has been shown to increase mortality in people with penetrating trauma and is thus not routinely recommended in this group.Modern trauma care includes a step called clearing the cervical spine, ruling out spinal cord injury if the patient is fully conscious and not under the influence of drugs or alcohol, displays no neurological deficits, has no pain in the middle of the neck and no other painful injuries that could distract from neck pain. 
Can distal ureteral diameter predict reflux resolution after endoscopic injection? [SEP] Vesicoureteral reflux (VUR), also known as vesicoureteric reflux, is a condition in which urine flows retrograde, or backward, from the bladder into one or both ureters and then to the renal calyx or kidneys. Reflux occurs if the ureter enters the bladder without sufficient tunneling, i.e., too "end-on". Vesicoureteral reflux may be diagnosed as a result of further evaluation of dilation of the kidney or ureters draining urine from the kidney while in utero as well as when a sibling has VUR (though routine testing in either circumstance is controversial). Reflux also increases risk of acute bladder and kidney infections, so testing for reflux may be performed after a child has one or more infections. Bladder infections may cause reflux due to the elevated pressures associated with inflammation.Resolution of functional VUR will usually occur if the precipitating cause is treated and resolved. Severity
Vesicoureteral reflux (VUR) is graded according to severity. Endoscopic injection
Endoscopic injection involves applying a gel around the ureteral opening to create a valve function and stop urine from flowing back up the ureter. Barium swallow studies are better than endoscopy at demonstrating the anatomic findings in gastroesophageal reflux disease after anti-reflux surgery. 
Is leptin involved in phagocytic NADPH oxidase overactivity in obesity? [SEP] While it is well-established that leptin is involved in the regulation of the inflammatory response, it has been further theorized that leptin's role as an inflammatory marker is to respond specifically to adipose-derived inflammatory cytokines. Elevated leptin concentrations are associated with elevated white blood cell counts in both men and women.Similar to what is observed in chronic inflammation, chronically elevated leptin levels are associated with obesity, overeating, and inflammation-related diseases, including hypertension, metabolic syndrome, and cardiovascular disease. Thus, it is speculated that leptin responds specifically to adipose-derived inflammation. High leptin levels have been also demonstrated in patients with COVID-19 pneumonia.Taken as such, increases in leptin levels (in response to caloric intake) function as an acute pro-inflammatory response mechanism to prevent excessive cellular stress induced by overeating. This response may then protect against the harmful process of ectopic fat storage, which perhaps explains the connection between chronically elevated leptin levels and ectopic fat storage in obese individuals.Leptin increases the production of leukocytes via actions on the hematopoietic niche, a pathway that is more active in sedentary mice and humans when compared to individuals which are physically active. Leptin levels are paradoxically increased in obesity. Role in disease
Obesity
Although leptin reduces appetite as a circulating signal, obese individuals generally exhibit a higher circulating concentration of leptin than normal weight individuals due to their higher percentage body fat. In obese individuals, the increased circulating leptin levels induce unwanted responses, that is, reduced food intake or losing body weight does not occur as there is a resistance to leptin (ref 9). 
Canada's Compassionate Care Benefit: is it an adequate public health response to addressing the issue of caregiver burden in end-of-life care? [SEP] Although an important part of end-of-life care, palliative care is not limited to individuals near the end of life.Evidence supports the efficacy of a palliative care approach in improvement of a person's quality of life. The overall goal of palliative care is to improve quality of life of individuals with serious illness, any life-threatening condition which either reduces an individual's daily function or quality of life or increases caregiver burden, through pain and symptom management, identification and support of caregiver needs, and care coordination. Evidence that palliative care services increase the likelihood of dying at home and reduce symptom burden without impacting on caregiver grief among the vast majority of Americans who prefer to die at home. Euthanasia in Canada in its legal voluntary form is called medical assistance in dying (MAiD) and it first became legal along with assisted suicide in June 2016 to allow terminally ill adults to control their deaths. After this date, persons with a severe refractory mental illness will be eligible for medical assistance in dying, subject to any further amendments to the law or any new regulations.Canada's euthanasia laws have been the subject of substantial international attention and criticism. Legal safeguards
Canada's original medical assistance in dying law had what it calls "robust safeguards to prevent errors and abuse in the provision of medical assistance in dying." Controversy
Canada's practice of euthanasia has received significant attention worldwide because of its permissive scope and because of reported abuse of the system.In 2021, the United Nations Human Rights Council's special rapporteur on the rights of persons with disabilities criticized Bill C-7, which expanded eligibility for euthanasia, for undermining the autonomy of people with disabilities.In February 2022, an anonymous Torontonian with the pseudonym Sophia had a medically assisted death after failing to find affordable housing.In November 2022, an anonymous active Canadian Forces member has alleged he was offered MAID when seeking assistance regarding PTSD and suicidal thoughts, raising concern about MAID being inappropriately offered. "Why is Canada euthanising the poor? 
Fatigue in primary Sjögren's syndrome: is there a link with the fibromyalgia syndrome? [SEP] Fibromyalgia is a medical condition defined by the presence of chronic widespread pain, fatigue, waking unrefreshed, cognitive symptoms, lower abdominal pain or cramps, and depression. Signs and symptoms
The defining symptoms of fibromyalgia are chronic widespread pain, fatigue, and sleep disturbance. Fatigue
Fatigue is one of the defining symptoms of fibromyalgia. Fibromyalgia largely overlaps with chronic fatigue syndrome and may share the same pathogenetic mechanisms.Comorbid fibromyalgia has been reported to occur in 20–30% of individuals with rheumatic diseases. Immune system
Inflammation has been suggested to have a role in the pathogenesis of fibromyalgia. Other systemic, inflammatory, endocrine, rheumatic, infectious, and neurologic disorders may cause fibromyalgia-like symptoms, such as systemic lupus erythematosus, Sjögren syndrome, ankylosing spondylitis, Ehlers-Danlos syndromes, psoriatic-related polyenthesitis, a nerve compression syndrome (such as carpal tunnel syndrome), and myasthenia gravis. Profound and debilitating fatigue is the most common complaint reported among individuals with autoimmune disease, such as systemic lupus erythematosus, multiple sclerosis, type 1 diabetes, celiac disease, chronic fatigue syndrome, and rheumatoid arthritis.It is disputed whether there are different dimensions of fatigue, such as peripheral (muscle) and central (mental) fatigue, or whether fatigue is a uni-dimensional phenomenon that influences different aspects of human life. Findings implicate neuroinflammation in the etiology of fatigue in autoimmune and related disorders. 
Is laparoscopic sonography a reliable and sensitive procedure for staging colorectal cancer? [SEP] Laparoscopy
Laparoscopy, a surgical procedure where a camera is used to look inside the abdominal cavity, is the only way to accurately diagnose the extent and severity of pelvic/abdominal endometriosis. Laparoscopy is not an applicable test for extrapelvic sites such as umbilicus, hernia sacs, abdominal wall, lung, or kidneys.Reviews in 2019 and 2020 concluded that 1) with advances in imaging, endometriosis diagnosis should no longer be considered synonymous with immediate laparoscopy for diagnosis, and 2) endometriosis should be classified a syndrome that requires confirmation of visible lesions seen at laparoscopy in addition to characteristic symptoms.Laparoscopy permits lesion visualization unless the lesion is visible externally (e.g., an endometriotic nodule in the vagina) or is extra-abdominal. Better sonographic detection of deep infiltrating endometriosis could reduce the number of diagnostic laparoscopies, as well as guide disease management and enhance patient quality of life. CT scan is more accurate than ultrasound for the diagnosis of appendicitis in adults and adolescents. Advantages
Chromopertubation with laparoscopy is considered the "gold standard" to evaluate tubal patency. However, it is generally used as a screening test to assess the need for laparoscopy. Definitive staging can only be done after surgery and histopathology of colorectal carcinoma. Preoperative staging of rectal cancers may be done with endoscopic ultrasound. 
Is alexithymia a risk factor for unexplained physical symptoms in general medical outpatients? [SEP] While there is no scientific consensus on its classification as a personality trait, medical symptom, or mental disorder, alexithymia is highly prevalent among individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD), ranging from 50% to 85% of prevalence.Alexithymia occurs in approximately 10% of the general population and often co-occurs with various mental disorders, particularly with neurodevelopmental disorders. Classification
Alexithymia is considered to be a personality trait that places affected individuals at risk for other medical and mental disorders, as well as reducing the likelihood that these individuals will respond to conventional treatments to these disorders. Associated conditions
Alexithymia frequently co-occurs with other disorders. Alexithymic traits in AS may be linked to clinical depression or anxiety; the mediating factors are unknown and it is possible that alexithymia predisposes to anxiety. Alexithymia is also exhibited by a large proportion of individuals with acquired brain injuries such as stroke or traumatic brain injury.Alexithymia is correlated with certain personality disorders, particularly schizoid, avoidant, dependent and schizotypal, substance use disorders, some anxiety disorders and sexual disorders as well as certain physical illnesses, such as hypertension, inflammatory bowel disease, diabetes and functional dyspepsia. Alexithymia is further linked with disorders such as migraine headaches, lower back pain, irritable bowel syndrome, asthma, nausea, allergies and fibromyalgia.An inability to modulate emotions is a possibility in explaining why some people with alexithymia are prone to discharge tension arising from unpleasant emotional states through impulsive acts or compulsive behaviors such as binge eating, substance abuse, perverse sexual behavior or anorexia nervosa. Due to the inherent difficulties identifying and describing emotional states in self and others, alexithymia also negatively affects relationship satisfaction between couples.In a 2008 study alexithymia was found to be correlated with impaired understanding and demonstration of relational affection, and that this impairment contributes to poorer mental health, poorer relational well-being, and lowered relationship quality. Mendelson's 1982 study showed that alexithymia frequently presented in people with undiagnosed chronic pain. 
Alcohol consumption and acute myocardial infarction: a benefit of alcohol consumed with meals? [SEP] In a 2018 study on 599,912 drinkers, a roughly linear association was found with alcohol consumption and a higher risk of stroke, coronary artery disease excluding myocardial infarction, heart failure, fatal hypertensive disease, and fatal aortic aneurysm, even for moderate drinkers. While alcohol consumption does not improve overall health, the inverse relation in Western cultures between alcohol consumption and cardiovascular disease has been known for over 100 years. Some studies have concluded that drinking small quantities of alcohol (less than one drink per day in women and two in men) is associated with a decreased risk of heart disease, stroke, diabetes mellitus, and early death. The harm was observed in alcohol users classified as occasional as well as regular light, moderate, and heavy consumers.Another large study of 4465 subjects in India also confirmed the possible harm of alcohol consumption on coronary risk in men. Light-to-moderate alcohol intake is associated with a lower risk of ischemic stroke which is likely to be, in part, causal. Among those who drank regularly, the one-quarter who drank the most were up to 50% less likely to develop the disease compared to the half who drank the least.The researchers noted that moderate alcohol consumption also reduces the risk of other inflammatory processes such as cardiovascular disease. In individuals with an underlying cardiac disorder a binge on alcohol increases the risk of silent myocardial ischaemia as well as angina. Binge drinking has negative effects on metabolism, lipid profile, blood coagulation and fibrinolysis, blood pressure and vascular tone and is associated with embolic stroke and acute myocardial infarction. 
Do mossy fibers release GABA? [SEP] inhibitory) and glutamatergic neurotransmitters within mossy fiber terminals. GABAergic and glutamatergic co-localization in mossy fiber boutons has been observed primarily in the developing hippocampus, but in adulthood, evidence suggests that mossy fiber synapses may alternate which neurotransmitter is released through activity-dependent regulation. The high convergence onto pyramidal cells and divergent projections onto interneurons suggests a primarily modulatory role for the mossy fiber pathway in the hippocampus.The synapses of the mossy fibers contain zinc, which can be stained with a Timm staining. The unmyelinated granule cell axons of the mossy fiber pathway express both GABA receptors and glutamate receptors along their membranes that allow them to be modulated by both excitatory and inhibitory input from nearby glial cells. See also
Mossy fiber (cerebellum)


== References == Mossy fibers make an excitatory connection onto granule cells which cause the granule cell to fire an action potential. Mossy fiber input on cerebellar granule cells
Granule cell dendrites also synapse with distinctive unmyelinated axons which Santiago Ramón y Cajal called mossy fibers
Mossy fibers and golgi cells both make synaptic connections with granule cells. In order for the granule cell to respond, it needs to receive active inputs from multiple mossy fibers. 
The clinical significance of bile duct sludge: is it different from bile duct stones? [SEP] Biliary sludge refers to a viscous mixture of small particles derived from bile. Pathophysiology
The pathophysiology of biliary sludge formation is likely related to gallbladder dysmotility. It is presumed that because the gallbladder is unable to effectively empty, the biliary sludge can start to accumulate. If the biliary sludge has a cause (e.g. Bile consists primarily of water and bile salts, and also acts as a means of eliminating bilirubin, a product of hemoglobin metabolism, from the body.The bile that is secreted by the liver and stored in the gallbladder is not the same as the bile that is secreted by the gallbladder. Bile is required for the digestion of food and is secreted by the liver into passages that carry bile toward the hepatic duct. Additional images
References
External links

The Cholangiocarcinoma Foundation
Bile+Ducts at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) Clinical significance
Several problems can arise within the common bile duct, usually related to its obstruction. 
Can Ambu self-inflating bag and Neopuff infant resuscitator provide adequate and safe manual inflations for infants up to 10 kg weight? [SEP] The other principal type of manual resuscitator (flow-inflation) is heavily used in non-emergency applications in the operating room to ventilate patients during anesthesia induction and recovery.Use of manual resuscitators to ventilate a patient is frequently called "bagging" the patient and is regularly necessary in medical emergencies when the patient's breathing is insufficient (respiratory failure) or has ceased completely (respiratory arrest). An Ambu bag is a self-inflating bag resuscitator from Ambu A/S, which still manufactures and markets self-inflating bag resuscitators.Today there are several manufacturers of self-inflating bag resuscitators. A further examination has recently been made to assess whether a solution to the over-ventilation problem may lie with the use of pediatric-sized manual resuscitators in adults or use of more advanced flow-inflation (or "Mapleson C") versions of manual resuscitators: while "the paediatric self-inflating bag delivered the most guideline-consistent ventilation", it did not lead to full guideline compliance as "participants hyperventilated patients' lungs in simulated cardiac arrest with all three devices." With use of manual resuscitators, neither rate nor inflating volumes can be physically controlled through built-in safety adjustments within the device, and as highlighted above, studies show providers frequently exceed designated safety guidelines for both ventilation rate (10 breaths per minute) and volume (5–7 mL/kg body weight) as outlined by the American Heart Association and European Resuscitation Council. As per a recent Indian study, these flow inflation bags can also be used to provide CPAP in spontaneously breathing children.The study quotes that this mode of CPAP is cost effective in limited resource settings

See also
Artificial ventilation, also known as Artificial respiration – Assisted breathing to support life
Mechanical ventilation – Method to mechanically assist or replace spontaneous breathing
Respiratory therapist – Practitioner in cardio-pulmonary medicine

References
External links

A free transparent reality simulation of the self-inflating manual resuscitator Modern day
The ambu-bag was a further advancement in resuscitation. The ambu-bag has now mostly replaced the demand valve as the primary method of ventilation, largely due to concerns of potential over-inflation with the demand valve by untrained rescuers. The ambu-bag, unlike the older version of the demand valve (all new models of demand valve now have pressure relief valves set at 60 cm of water to prevent accidental overinflation of the lungs), has a "pop-off" valve to prevent inflation at greater than 40 pounds -per-square-inch (275.79 kilo-pascals), with the result being that it is generally more common in the pre-hospital setting than the demand valve. 
Are IgM-enriched immunoglobulins an effective adjuvant in septic VLBW infants? [SEP] An antibody (Ab), also known as an immunoglobulin (Ig), is a large, Y-shaped protein used by the immune system to identify and neutralize foreign objects such as pathogenic bacteria and viruses. Conversely, most gamma-globulins are antibodies, which is why the two terms were historically used as synonyms, as were the symbols Ig and γ. The prefix "Ig" stands for immunoglobulin, while the suffix denotes the type of heavy chain the antibody contains: the heavy chain types α (alpha), γ (gamma), δ (delta), ε (epsilon), μ (mu) give rise to IgA, IgG, IgD, IgE, IgM, respectively. The naive B lymphocyte expresses both surface IgM and IgD. Intravenous immunoglobulin, if not otherwise noted, consists of a variety of different IgG (polyclonal IgG). Immunoglobulin A (Ig A, also referred to as sIgA in its secretory form) is an antibody that plays a role in the immune function of mucous membranes. sIgA can also inhibit inflammatory effects of other immunoglobulins. "Is the role of IgA in local immunity completely known?". 
Is resected stomach volume related to weight loss after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy? [SEP] Long term weight loss through the standard of care procedures (Roux en-Y bypass, sleeve gastrectomy, and biliopancreatic diversion with duodenal switch) is largely achieved by altering  gut hormone levels responsible for hunger and satiety, leading to a new hormonal weight set point. "Sleeve gastrectomy had the lowest complication and reoperation rates of the three (main weight-loss surgery) procedures.....The percentage of procedures requiring reoperations due to complications was 15.3 percent for the gastric band, 7.7 percent for gastric bypass and 1.5 percent for sleeve gastrectomy," according to a 2012 study by the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery. For instance, while sleeve gastrectomy (discussed below) was initially thought to work simply by reducing the size of the stomach, research has begun to elucidate changes in gut hormone signaling as well. Most common
Sleeve gastrectomy
Sleeve gastrectomy, or gastric sleeve, is a surgical weight-loss procedure in which the stomach is reduced to about 15% of its original size, by the surgical removal of a large portion of the stomach, following the major curve. After the surgery, the stomach will be smaller and there will be an increase in baseline satiety hormones, to help the patient feel full with less food.The gastric bypass had been the most commonly performed operation for weight loss in the United States, and approximately 140,000 gastric bypass procedures were performed in 2005. The addition of the sleeve gastrectomy, causes further gut hormone set- point alterations by reducing levels of the hunger hormone, Ghrelin. Weight loss outcomes are comparable to gastric bypass. Surgery
In humans, many bariatric surgery procedures involve the stomach, in order to lose weight. 
Resection of colorectal liver metastases after second-line chemotherapy: is it worthwhile? [SEP] When colorectal cancer is caught early, surgery can be curative. Surgery
At an early stage, colorectal cancer may be removed during a colonoscopy using one of several techniques, including endoscopic mucosal resection or endoscopic submucosal dissection. The colon may then be reconnected or a person may have a colostomy.If there are only a few metastases in the liver or lungs, these may also be removed. The decision to add chemotherapy in management of colon and rectal cancer depends on the stage of the disease.In Stage I colon cancer, no chemotherapy is offered, and surgery is the definitive treatment. For stage III and Stage IV colon cancer, chemotherapy is an integral part of treatment.If cancer has spread to the lymph nodes or distant organs, which is the case with stage III and stage IV colon cancer respectively, adding chemotherapy agents fluorouracil, capecitabine or oxaliplatin increases life expectancy. Surgical resection
Surgical removal of the tumor is associated with better cancer prognosis, but only 5–15% of patients are suitable for surgical resection due to the extent of disease or poor liver function. As of 2005, multiple trials show objective tumor responses and slowed tumor progression, but questionable survival benefit compared to supportive care; greatest benefit is seen in people with preserved liver function, absence of vascular invasion, and smallest tumors. Second-line chemotherapy can be given after the cancer becomes symptomatic because no difference in survival is seen between treating asymptomatic (elevated CA-125) and symptomatic recurrences.For platinum-sensitive tumors, platins are the drugs of choice for second-line chemotherapy, in combination with other cytotoxic agents. 
Do ART patients face higher C-section rates during their stage of delivery? [SEP] There are significantly higher odds of preterm birth (odds ratio 1.3) and congenital anomalies (odds ratio 1.3) among births having from embryos cultured until the blastocyst stage compared with cleavage stage. The high incidence of caesarean in older mothers is commonly regarded as a risk.Women conceiving at 40 have a greater risk of gestational hypertension and premature birth. Babies born before 37 weeks are "preterm" and at higher risk of health problems such as cerebral palsy. Most births are successful vaginal births, but sometimes complications arise and a woman may undergo a cesarean section. Planned birth before 39 weeks by caesarean section or labor induction, although "at term", results in an increased risk of complications. Smoking is associated with 30% higher odds of preterm birth. Death by violence
Pregnant women or those who have recently given birth in the U.S. are more likely to be murdered than to die from obstetric causes. According to studies, congenital defects, SIDS, preterm birth, and low birth weight are all more common among African American babies.Midwifery care has been linked to better birth and postpartum outcomes for both mother and child. 
Does a preoperative medically supervised weight loss program improve bariatric surgery outcomes? [SEP] A meta-analysis of 174,772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. The surgical procedure is best regarded as a tool that enables the patient to alter lifestyle and eating habits, and to achieve effective and permanent management of obesity and eating behavior. This conference, composed of physicians and scientists of both surgical and non-surgical disciplines, reached several conclusions, including:

bariatric surgery is the most effective treatment for morbid obesity
gastric bypass is one of four types of operations for morbid obesity
laparoscopic surgery is equally effective and as safe as open surgery
patients should undergo comprehensive preoperative evaluation and have multi-disciplinary support for optimum outcome

Surgical techniques
The gastric bypass, in its various forms, accounts for a large majority of the bariatric surgical procedures performed. A meta-analysis of 174772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. This meta-analysis also found that median life-expectancy was 9.3 years longer for obese adults with diabetes who received bariatric surgery as compared to routine (non-surgical) care, whereas the life expectancy gain was 5.1 years longer for obese adults without diabetes.Concurrently, most patients are able to enjoy greater participation in family and social activities. Increased fasting times leads to decreased injury if aspiration occurs.The latest guidelines do not support preoperative fasting, as there is no difference in residual gastric fluid volume, pH or gastric emptying rate following semi-solid meals or drinks, whether in obese or lean individuals. Weight loss is the main treatment for obesity, and there is substantial evidence this can prevent progression from prediabetes to type 2 diabetes with a 7-10% weight loss and manage cardiometabolic health for diabetic people with a 5-15% weight loss.Weight loss in individuals who are overweight or obese can reduce health risks, increase fitness, and may delay the onset of diabetes. For patients at high medical risk, bariatric surgery or medications may be warranted in addition to the lifestyle intervention, as dieting by itself may not lead to sustained weight loss.Many studies overestimate the benefits of calorie restriction because the studies confound exercise and diet (testing the effects of diet and exercise as a combined intervention, rather than the effects of diet alone). 
Is solitary kidney really more resistant to ischemia? [SEP] The kidney failure of HRS is a consequence of these changes in blood flow, rather than direct damage to the kidney. Unlike type II, in type I hepatorenal syndrome the kidney failure improves with treatment and stabilizes. Individuals with pre-renal kidney failure do not have damage to the kidneys, but as in individuals with HRS, have kidney dysfunction due to decreased blood flow to the kidneys. In contrast to HRS, however, pre-renal kidney failure usually responds to treatment with intravenous fluids, resulting in reduction in serum creatinine and increased excretion of sodium. Individuals with ATN also may have evidence of hyaline casts or muddy-brown casts in the urine on microscopy, whereas the urine of individuals with HRS is typically devoid of cellular material, as the kidneys have not been directly injured. Conversely, in individuals with very tense ascites, it has been hypothesized that removal of ascitic fluid may improve kidney function if it decreases the pressure on the renal veins.Individuals with ascites that have become infected spontaneously (termed spontaneous bacterial peritonitis or SBP) are at an especially high risk for the development of HRS. Over the long-term, however, individuals with HRS who are the recipients of liver transplants almost universally recover kidney function, and studies show that their survival rates at three years are similar to those who have received liver transplants for reasons other than HRS.In anticipation of liver transplantation (which may be associated with considerable in-hospital delay), several other strategies have been found to be beneficial in preserving kidney function. However, one study of 13 patients with hepatorenal syndrome showed significant improvement in kidney function when the two were used together (with midodrine given orally, octreotide given subcutaneously and both dosed according to blood pressure), with three patients surviving to discharge. 
Neck pain treatment with acupuncture: does the number of needles matter? [SEP] Acupuncture can be painful. The skill level of the acupuncturist may influence how painful the needle insertion is, and a sufficiently skilled practitioner may be able to insert the needles without causing any pain. A 2013 meta-analysis found little evidence that the effectiveness of acupuncture on pain (compared to sham) was modified by the location of the needles, the number of needles used, the experience or technique of the practitioner, or by the circumstances of the sessions. The same analysis also suggested that the number of needles and sessions is important, as greater numbers improved the outcomes of acupuncture compared to non-acupuncture controls. There has been little systematic investigation of which components of an acupuncture session may be important for any therapeutic effect, including needle placement and depth, type and intensity of stimulation, and number of needles used. : 104  Nine needles were recommended in the Great Compendium of Acupuncture and Moxibustion from 1601, which may have been because of an ancient Chinese belief that nine was a magic number. Acupuncture, Expertise, and Cross-Cultural Medicine. Alternative therapies
Acupuncture has a small effect in reducing migraine frequency, compared to sham acupuncture, a practice where needles are placed randomly or do not penetrate the skin. 
Does fluoridation reduce the use of dental services among adults? [SEP] Water fluoridation reduces cavities in children, while efficacy in adults is less clear. Recent studies suggest that water fluoridation, particularly in industrialized nations, may be unnecessary because topical fluorides (such as in toothpaste) are widely used, and caries rates have become low.Although fluoridation can cause dental fluorosis, which can alter the appearance of developing teeth or enamel fluorosis, the differences are mild and usually not an aesthetic or public health concern. Studies in the U.S. in the 1950s and 1960s showed that water fluoridation reduced childhood cavities by fifty to sixty percent, while studies in 1989 and 1990 showed lower reductions (40% and 18% respectively), likely due to increasing use of fluoride from other sources, notably toothpaste, and also the 'halo effect' of food and drink that is made in fluoridated areas and consumed in unfluoridated ones.A 2000 UK systematic review (York) found that water fluoridation was associated with a decreased proportion of children with cavities of 15% and with a decrease in decayed, missing, and filled primary teeth (average decreases was 2.25 teeth). A 2020 study in the Journal of Political Economy found that water fluoridation significantly improved dental health and labor market outcomes, but had non-significant effects on cognitive ability.Fluoride may also prevent cavities in adults of all ages. A 2016 review found variable quality evidence that, overall, stopping of community water fluoridation programs was typically followed by an increase in cavities.Most countries in Europe have experienced substantial declines in cavities without the use of water fluoridation due to the introduction of fluoridated toothpaste and the large use of other fluoride-containing products, including mouthrinse, dietary supplements, and professionally applied or prescribed gel, foam, or varnish. Studies in the U.S. in the 1950s and 1960s showed that water fluoridation reduced childhood cavities by fifty to sixty percent, while studies in 1989 and 1990 showed lower reductions (40% and 18% respectively), likely due to increasing use of fluoride from other sources, notably toothpaste, and also the "halo effect" of food and drink that is made in fluoridated areas and consumed in unfluoridated ones.A 2000 UK systematic review (York) found that water fluoridation was associated with a decreased proportion of children with cavities of 15% and with a decrease in decayed, missing, and filled primary teeth (average decreases was 2.25 teeth). 2015 Cochrane review found no conclusive research in adults.Most countries in Europe have experienced substantial declines in cavities without the use of water fluoridation. Water fluoridation reduces cavities in children, while efficacy in adults is less clear. 
Pertrochanteric fractures: is there an advantage to an intramedullary nail? [SEP] The use of open reduction has been reported as 8-13% among pertrochanteric fractures, and 52% among intertrochanteric fractures. Both intertrochanteric and pertrochanteric fractures may be treated by a dynamic hip screw and plate, or an intramedullary rod.The fracture typically takes 3–6 months to heal. Subtrochanteric fractures
Subtrochanteric fractures may be treated with an intramedullary nail or a screw-plate construction and may require traction pre-operatively, though this practice is uncommon. The use of open reduction has been reported as 8-13% among pertrochanteric fractures, and 52% among intertrochanteric fractures. Both intertrochanteric and pertrochanteric fractures may be treated by a dynamic hip screw and plate, or an intramedullary rod.The fracture typically takes 3–6 months to heal. Subtrochanteric fractures
Subtrochanteric fractures may be treated with an intramedullary nail or a screw-plate construction and may require traction pre-operatively, though this practice is uncommon. IM nails have long been used to treat fractures of long bones of the body. Complications
At a median 14 years after tibial nailing of isolated tibial fractures, patients' function is comparable to population norms, but objective and subjective evaluation shows persistent sequelae which are not insignificant.One potential complication of intramedullary nailing after a fracture is bone malrotation, where the broken bone is fixated out of alignment and heals incorrectly, causing a rotated limb. 
SPECT study with I-123-Ioflupane (DaTSCAN) in patients with essential tremor. Is there any correlation with Parkinson's disease? [SEP] Meta-analysis of many reported studies suggests that SPECT with this tracer is about 74% sensitive at diagnosing Alzheimer's disease vs. 81% sensitivity for clinical exam (cognitive testing, etc.). Ioflupane (123I) is the international nonproprietary name (INN) of a cocaine analogue which is a neuro-imaging radiopharmaceutical drug, used in nuclear medicine for the diagnosis of Parkinson's disease and the differential diagnosis of Parkinson's disease over other disorders presenting similar symptoms. Pharmacology
Datscan is a solution of ioflupane (123I) for injection into a living test subject.The iodine introduced during manufacture is a radioactive isotope, iodine-123, and it is the gamma decay of this isotope that is detectable to a gamma camera. The term may also refer to a brand name of Ioflupane (123I) which is used for the study. The scan principle is based on use of the radiopharmaceutical Ioflupane (123I) which binds to dopamine transporters (DaT). The signal from them is then detected by the use of single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) which uses special gamma-cameras to create a pictographic representation of the distribution of dopamine transporters in the brain.DaTSCAN is indicated in cases of tremor in patients, when we are not sure about its origin. Its main advantage is that DaTSCAN is able to diagnose Parkinson´s disease much earlier – in stage of 30% loss of the dopamine brain cells instead of 80-90%, when the symptoms are already so visible, that we can be sure about the diagnosis. Contraindications
pregnancy
breast-feeding
severe renal or hepatic insufficiency
allergy to iodine substances
certain medications – stimulants or noradrenalin and some antidepressants

Differential Diagnosis
Parkinson's disease, multiple system atrophy or progressive supranuclear palsy
Essential tremor
Lewy body disease

See also
Essential tremor
Multiple system atrophy
Progressive supranuclear palsy

External links
European Parkinson´s Disease Association Archived 2011-12-11 at the Wayback Machine
DaTSCAN Archived 2019-07-20 at the Wayback Machine
Patient´s view Archived 2011-10-14 at the Wayback Machine


=== References === 
Are the GFRUP's recommendations for withholding or withdrawing treatments in critically ill children applicable? [SEP] Wish program
Children between the ages of 3 and 18 who have been diagnosed with a critical illness by a licensed doctor are eligible for a Give Kids The World wish. A pediatric intensive care unit (also paediatric), usually abbreviated to PICU (), is an area within a hospital specializing in the care of critically ill infants, children, teenagers, and young adults aged 0-21. This contributed to the need for a unit where critically ill children could be treated. A level I PICU is defined as a PICU that cares for the most critically ill child. This certificate allows nurses to care for critically ill pediatric patients in any setting, not just the PICU. Factors leading to poor outcomes
The patients in the PICU are the most critically ill children in the hospital setting. If any of these factors do occur, it may result in permanent deficits in the most critical patients.Measures may be taken to prevent improper assessments from occurring. Proper education on how to conduct a proper assessment and how to recognize a critically ill pediatric patient can improve patient outcomes. 
Is inhaled prophylactic heparin useful for prevention and Management of Pneumonia in ventilated ICU patients? [SEP] Heparin is a naturally occurring polysaccharide that inhibits coagulation, the process that leads to thrombosis. Heparin derived from natural sources, mainly porcine intestine or bovine lung, can be administered therapeutically to prevent thrombosis. Because LMWH has more predictable pharmacokinetics and anticoagulant effect, LMWH is recommended over unfractionated heparin for patients with massive pulmonary embolism, and for initial treatment of deep vein thrombosis. Antidote
In clinical situations in which the antithrombotic effect of LMWHs needs to be neutralized, protamine is used to neutralize heparin by binding to it. Less frequent subcutaneous dosing than for heparin for postoperative prophylaxis of venous thromboembolism. Smaller risk of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia, a potential side effect of heparin. References
External links
Low+Molecular+Weight+Heparin at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) It is used most commonly following cardiopulmonary bypass procedures where heparin is reversed using protamine intraoperatively. 
Is the h-index predictive of greater NIH funding success among academic radiologists? [SEP] The h-index is an author-level metric that measures both the productivity and citation impact of the publications, initially used for an individual scientist or scholar. The h-index correlates with success indicators such as winning the Nobel Prize, being accepted for research fellowships and holding positions at top universities. Definition and purpose
The h-index is defined as the maximum value of h such that the given author/journal has published at least h papers that have each been cited at least h times. The h-index is intended to measure simultaneously the quality and quantity of scientific output. "h-index: A Review Focused in its Variants, Computation and Standardization for Different Scientific Fields" (PDF). "Scaling the h-index for different scientific ISI fields". "The h index and career assessment by numbers". As of 2013, the IRP had 1,200 principal investigators and more than 4,000 postdoctoral fellows in basic, translational, and clinical research, being the largest biomedical research institution in the world, while, as of 2003, the extramural arm provided 28% of biomedical research funding spent annually in the U.S., or about US$26.4 billion.The NIH comprises 27 separate institutes and centers of different biomedical disciplines and is responsible for many scientific accomplishments, including the discovery of fluoride to prevent tooth decay, the use of lithium to manage bipolar disorder, and the creation of vaccines against hepatitis, Haemophilus influenzae (HIB), and human papillomavirus (HPV).In 2019, the NIH was ranked number two in the world, behind Harvard University, for biomedical sciences in the Nature Index, which measured the largest contributors to papers published in a subset of leading journals from 2015 to 2018. 
Is minimally invasive mitral valve repair with artificial chords reproducible and applicable in routine surgery? [SEP] Mitral valve repair is a cardiac surgery procedure performed by cardiac surgeons to treat stenosis (narrowing) or regurgitation (leakage) of the mitral valve. The techniques of mitral valve repair include inserting a cloth-covered ring around the valve to bring the leaflets into contact with each other (annuloplasty), removal of redundant/loose segments of the leaflets (quadrangular resection), and re-suspension of the leaflets with artificial (Gore-Tex) cords. The patient was a 12-year-old girl with rheumatic mitral stenosis.The development of the heart-lung machine in the 1950s paved the way for replacement of the mitral valve with an artificial valve in the 1960s. The traditional surgical approach to a mitral valve repair is a full or partial sternotomy, in which the surgeon cuts through the breastbone at the center of the chest to access the heart. "Robotic mitral valve repair operations are also being utilized throughout the United States. In the 2000s there have been several trials of a newer strategy of mitral valve repair that does not require major cardiac surgery. Early trial results suggest that it may be a beneficial approach for patients who are at high risk from conventional surgery.As early as January 2000 a team of doctors at the Instituto de Cardiología y Cirugía Cardiovascular in La Habana, Cuba have performed beating heart mitral valve repair or replacement. "Mitral Valve Repair: Past, Present, and Future". 
Does obesity predict knee pain over fourteen years in women, independently of radiographic changes? [SEP] Risk is greater in those who are overweight, have legs of different lengths, or have jobs that result in high levels of joint stress. Primary
The development of osteoarthritis is correlated with a history of previous joint injury and with obesity, especially with respect to knees. Changes in sex hormone levels may play a role in the development of osteoarthritis, as it is more prevalent among post-menopausal women than among men of the same age. Recommendations include modification of risk factors through targeted interventions including 1) obesity and overweight, 2) physical activity, 3) dietary exposures, 4) comorbidity, 5) biomechanical factors, 6) occupational factors.Successful management of the condition is often made more difficult by differing priorities and poor communication between clinicians and people with osteoarthritis. Physical measures
Moderate exercise may be beneficial with respect to pain and function in those with osteoarthritis of the knee and hip. Obesity may be related to TMC OA. Known risk factors include obesity, hypertension and diabetes. Nonmodifiable
The most important risk factors for osteoporosis are advanced age (in both men and women) and female sex; estrogen deficiency following menopause or surgical removal of the ovaries is correlated with a rapid reduction in bone mineral density, while in men, a decrease in testosterone levels has a comparable (but less pronounced) effect. 
Do liquid-based preparations of urinary cytology perform differently than classically prepared cases? [SEP] However, liquid growth media are used when the measurement of growth or large volumes of cells are required. Growth in stirred liquid media occurs as an even cell suspension, making the cultures easy to divide and transfer, although isolating single bacteria from liquid media is difficult. Specimens that are normally sterile, such as blood, urine or spinal fluid, are cultured under conditions designed to grow all possible organisms. These methods also allow the detection and identification of "viable but nonculturable" cells that are metabolically active but non-dividing. Symptoms include blood in the urine, pain with urination, and low back pain. Urinary bladder – The urinary bladder, or simply bladder, is a hollow muscular organ in humans and other vertebrates that stores urine from the kidneys before disposal by urination. The urinary tract is the body's drainage system for the eventual removal of urine. Urology – also known as genitourinary surgery, is the branch of medicine that focuses on surgical and medical diseases of the male and female urinary-tract system and the male reproductive organs. 
Outcomes of severely injured adult trauma patients in an Australian health service: does trauma center level make a difference? [SEP] The ASIA Impairment Scale outlined above is used to determine the level and severity of injury. The best predictor of prognosis is the level and completeness of injury, as measured by the ASIA impairment scale. The higher the level of injury, and the more complete the injury, the greater the reduction in life expectancy. Proximity to, duration of, and severity of the trauma make an impact. This occurs as a result of layers of trauma rather than a single traumatic event, and includes additional symptomatology, such as the loss of a coherent sense of self. In all systems, patients are first assessed for injuries, then, they are categorized based on the severity of those injuries. Some systems involve features like scoring systems, such as the Revised Trauma Score, the Injury Severity Score, and the Trauma and Injury Severity Score, the latter of which has been shown to be most effective at determining outcome. Category II: Used for victims with non-life-threatening injuries, but who urgently require treatment. 
Does a well developed collateral circulation predispose to restenosis after percutaneous coronary intervention? [SEP] Collateral circulation is the alternate circulation around a blocked artery or vein via another path, such as nearby minor vessels. Restenosis is the recurrence of stenosis, a narrowing of a blood vessel, leading to restricted blood flow. Restenosis usually pertains to an artery or other large blood vessel that has become narrowed, received treatment to clear the blockage and subsequently become renarrowed. For instance, a coronary stent patient who develops restenosis may experience recurrent chest pain (angina) or have a minor or major heart attack (myocardial infarction), though they may not report it. Rates in cardiac procedures
In cardiac procedures, balloon angioplasty without stent implantation has been associated with a high incidence of restenosis, with rates ranging from 25% to 50%, and the majority of these patients need further angioplasty within 6 months.A 2010 study in India comparing coronary drug-eluting stents (DES) with coronary bare-metal stents (BMS) reported that restenosis developed in 23.1% of DES patients vs 48.8% in BMS patients, and female sex was found to be a statistically significant risk factor for developing restenosis.However, in newer-generation DES and BMS the restenosis rates are much lower. A 2003 study of selective and systematic stenting for limb-threatening ischemia reported restenosis rates at 1 year follow-up in 32.3% of selective stenting patients and 34.7% of systematic stenting patients.The 2006 SIROCCO trial compared the sirolimus drug-eluting stent with a bare nitinol stent for atherosclerotic lesions of the subsartorial artery, reporting restenosis at 2 year follow-up was 22.9% and 21.1%, respectively.A 2009 study compared bare nitinol stents with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) in subsartorial artery disease. For those requiring percutaneous coronary intervention or surgery, medical therapy should be viewed as complementary to revascularization procedures, rather than an opposing strategy.Coronary artery bypass graft surgery is the best treatment for some patients. Exercise-based rehabilitation following percutaneous coronary intervention has shown improvement in recurrent angina, total exercise time, ST-segment decline, and maximum exercise tolerance.Patients who experience swelling, bleeding or pain at the insertion site, develop fever, feel faint or weak, notice a change in temperature or color in the arm or leg that was used or have shortness of breath or chest pain should immediately seek medical advice. 
Are home sampling kits for sexually transmitted infections acceptable among men who have sex with men? [SEP] If a sperm bank has access to world markets e.g. The agency will usually provide the sperm donor with a male collection kit usually including a collection condom and a container for shipping the sperm. However, the laws of some countries (e.g., New Zealand) recognize written agreements between donors and recipients in a similar way to donations through a sperm bank.Kits are available, usually on-line, for artificial insemination for private donor use, and these kits generally include a collection pot, a syringe, ovulation tests and pregnancy tests. STI testing kits are also available but these only produce a "snap-shot" result and, since sperm will not be frozen and quarantined, there will be risks associated with it. Preparing the sperm
Sperm banks and clinics may "wash" the sperm sample to extract sperm from the rest of the material in the semen. Providing the result is negative, the sperm samples can be released from quarantine and used in treatments. Anonymous sperm is often less expensive. Bore punch – Getting tested for sexually transmitted infections after weekend liberty or a red-cross notice. 
Does route of delivery affect maternal and perinatal outcome in women with eclampsia? [SEP] It is considered the preferred method of delivery, with lower morbidity and mortality than Caesarean sections (C-sections). Factors that place a woman's pregnancy at higher risk include advanced maternal age, Premature Rupture of Membranes (PROM) and induction of labor. Risk factors include fetal macrosomia, pre-eclampsia, and prolonged labor. Four different pathways have been identified that can result in preterm birth and have considerable evidence: precocious fetal endocrine activation, uterine overdistension (placental abruption), decidual bleeding, and intrauterine inflammation or infection.Identifying women at high risk of giving birth early would enable the health services to provide specialized care for these women and their babies, for example a hospital with a special care baby unit such as a neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). Maternal factors
Risk factors in the mother have been identified that are linked to a higher risk of a preterm birth. Women with vaginal bleeding during pregnancy are at higher risk for preterm birth. Reducing existing risks
Women are identified to be at increased risk for preterm birth on the basis of their past obstetrical history or the presence of known risk factors. During pregnancy their mother had pre-eclampsia, requiring birth by caesarean section. 
Surgical management of the atherosclerotic ascending aorta: is endoaortic balloon occlusion safe? [SEP] The ascending aorta (AAo) is a portion of the aorta commencing at the upper part of the base of the left ventricle, on a level with the lower border of the third costal cartilage behind the left half of the sternum. Clinical significance
Porcelain aorta is extensive atherosclerotic calcification of the ascending aorta. Aortic dissection can quickly lead to death from insufficient blood flow to the heart or complete rupture of the aorta.AD is more common in those with a history of high blood pressure; a number of connective tissue diseases that affect blood vessel wall strength including Marfan syndrome and Ehlers–Danlos syndrome; a bicuspid aortic valve; and previous heart surgery. Prevention
Among the recognized risk factors for aortic dissection, hypertension, abnormally high levels of lipids (such as cholesterol) in the blood, and smoking tobacco are considered preventable risk factors.Repair of an enlargement of the ascending aorta from an aneurysm or previously unrecognized and untreated aortic dissections is recommended when greater than 5.5 cm (2.2 in) in size to decrease the risk of dissection. For Stanford type A (ascending aortic) dissection, surgical management is superior to medical management. Surgical
Indications for the surgical treatment of aortic dissection include an acute proximal aortic dissection and an acute distal aortic dissection with one or more complications. Some treatments are:
Open aortic surgery with replacement of the damaged section of the aorta with a tube graft (often made of Dacron) when no damage to the aortic valve is seen
Bentall procedure – replacement of the damaged section of the aorta and replacement of the aortic valve
David procedure – replacement of the damaged section of the aorta and reimplantation of the aortic valve
Thoracic endovascular aortic repair, a minimally invasive surgical procedure usually combined with ongoing medical management
Replacement of the damaged section of the aorta with a sutureless vascular ring connector-reinforced Dacron graft: The vascular ring connector is a titanic ring used as a stent in the vascular graft to achieve a quick, blood-sealed, and sutureless anastomosis. Endovascular treatment of aortic dissection was developed in the 1990s. 
Estradiol and Antagonist Pretreatment Prior to Microdose Leuprolide in in Vitro Fertilization. Does It Improve IVF Outcomes in Poor Responders as Compared to Oral Contraceptive Pill? [SEP] In the luteal phase, estradiol, in conjunction with progesterone, prepares the endometrium for implantation. Some or all oral estradiol valerate tablets are micronized, similarly to oral estradiol tablets.In addition to single-drug formulations, oral estradiol valerate is available in combination with the progestin dienogest as a combined oral contraceptive and intramuscular estradiol valerate is marketed at a concentration of 5 mg/mL in combination with the progestin hydroxyprogesterone caproate and with the progestin norethisterone enantate as combined injectable contraceptives. Oral ethinylestradiol at 10 μg/day has been found to have about 1.5- to 2.5-fold the impact of 2 mg/day oral estradiol valerate on HDL cholesterol and triglycerides. The influence of 20 or 50 μg/day oral ethinylestradiol on coagulation factors and HDL cholesterol is markedly greater than that of 2 mg/day oral estradiol valerate.Estradiol-containing birth control pills, which contain 1 to 3 mg/day estradiol or estradiol valerate, have been found to increase sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) levels by 1.5-fold. Sublingual administration
Estradiol valerate has been studied by sublingual administration in premenopausal women for the purpose of cycle control and ovulation suppression in egg donation and surrogacy. A third study, in contrast to the preceding study, found that a single 10 mg intramuscular injection of estradiol valerate resulted in maximal estradiol levels of 506 to 544 pg/mL and maximal estrone levels of 205 to 219 pg/mL in postmenopausal women.With intramuscular injections of estradiol valerate, it has been reported that a dose of 5 mg has a duration of 7 to 8 days, 10 mg a duration of 10 to 14 days, 40 mg a duration of 2 to 3 weeks (14 to 21 days), and 100 mg a duration of 3 to 4 weeks (21 to 28 days).A study of pseudopregnancy with intramuscular injections of 40 mg/week estradiol valerate and 250 mg/week hydroxyprogesterone caproate in women with estrogen deficiency observed estradiol levels of about 3,100 pg/mL at 3 months of therapy and 2,500 pg/mL at 6 months of therapy. Intravenous injection
The administration of estradiol valerate by intravenous injection has been studied. "Ethinyl estradiol and 17β-estradiol in combined oral contraceptives: pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and risk assessment". 
Are opioid dependence and methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) documented in the medical record? [SEP] Methadone maintenance therapy (MMT) usually takes place in outpatient settings. Given opioid dependence is characteristically a chronic relapsing/remitting disorder, MMT may be lifelong. A certified opioid treatment program is required under federal law (42 CFR 8.12) when dispensing methadone for the treatment of opioid addiction. In California methadone maintenance treatment is covered under the medical benefit. Patients' eligibility for methadone maintenance treatment is most often contingent on them being enrolled in substance abuse counseling. The United States Department of Veteran's Affairs (VA) Alcohol and Drug Dependence Rehabilitation Program offers methadone services to eligible veterans enrolled in the VA health care system.Methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) cost analyses often compare the cost of clinic visits versus the overall societal costs of illicit opioid use. A methadone clinic is a medical facility where medications for opioid use disorder (MOUD) are dispensed-—historically and most commonly methadone, although buprenorphine is also increasingly prescribed. Medically assisted drug therapy treatment is indicated in patients who are opioid-dependent or have a history of opioid dependence. 
Can teaching medical students to investigate medication errors change their attitudes towards patient safety? [SEP] A research study of MELF interactions where nurses negotiated a patient handover simulation indicated that areas of unintelligibility represented a potential threat to patient safety, through misrecognition of vocabulary related to medication, as well as other areas of lexical imprecision.One study of a Japanese Medical English as a Lingua Franca (MELF) context showed that student doctors made use of empathic accommodation and solicitation strategies to make interactions more intelligible. Medical schools' teaching includes such topics as doctor-patient communication, ethics, the art of medicine, and engaging in complex clinical reasoning (medical decision-making). "A critique of Michael L. Millenson's book, Demanding Medical Excellence: Doctors and Accountability in the Information Age, and its Relevance to CRNAs and Nursing". Physicians avoided prescribing opioids for other medical conditions because of the lack of evidence supporting their use, the concern of opioids having addictive properties, and the fear of being investigated or disciplined for liberal opioid practices. Silvia Martins, an epidemiologist at Columbia University, has suggested getting out more information about the risks:The greater "social acceptance" for using these medications (versus illegal substances) and the misconception that they are "safe" may be contributing factors to their misuse. Equally important is the improved training of medical practitioners and their staff to better recognize patients at potential risk of developing nonmedical use, and to consider potential alternative treatments as well as closely monitor the medications they dispense to these patients. Their ideas about the conduct of physicians, and the doctor–patient relationship are discussed as potential role models for physicians of today. In 931 AD, Caliph Al-Muqtadir learned of the death of one of his subjects as a result of a physician's error. 
Has the prevalence of health care services use increased over the last decade (2001-2009) in elderly people? [SEP] Healthcare provider employment in the US
A major impending demographic shift in the US will require the healthcare system to provide more care, as the older population is predicted to increase medical expenses by 5% or more in North America due to the "baby boomers" reaching retirement age. The overall spending on healthcare has increased since the late 1990s, and not just due to general price raises as the rate of spending is growing faster than the rate of inflation. According to a study paid for by America's Health Insurance Plans (a Washington lobbyist for the health insurance industry) and carried out by PriceWaterhouseCoopers, increased utilization is the primary driver of rising healthcare costs in the US The study cites numerous causes of increased utilization, including rising consumer demand, new treatments, more intensive diagnostic testing, lifestyle factors, the movement to broader-access plans, and higher-priced technologies. While chronic disease and multiple comorbidities became increasingly common among a population of elderly Americans who were living longer, the public health system has also found itself fending off a rise of chronically ill younger generation. With a growing elderly population, the number of patients in these long term facilities needing more care creates a jump in financial costs. Obesity in the elderly increases healthcare costs. Since 2001, the number of Argentines relying on public services has seen an increase. Spending on health care rose to 1.7 percent of the gross domestic product (GDP) in 2000, nearly triple the 0.6 percent of GDP spent in 1989. 
Does high-dose radiotherapy benefit palliative lung cancer patients? [SEP] Treatment of lung cancer refers to the use of medical therapies, such as surgery, radiation, chemotherapy, immunotherapy, percutaneous ablation, and palliative care, alone or in combination, in an attempt to cure or lessen the adverse impact of malignant neoplasms originating in lung tissue. In a 2010 study of patients with metastatic non–small-cell lung cancer, "early palliative care led to significant improvements in both quality of life and mood. As compared with patients receiving standard care, patients receiving early palliative care had less aggressive care at the end of life but longer survival" which was increased by approximately three months.There are typically three objectives applied to the treatment of lung cancer and can vary by patient or individual diagnosis: (1) curing lung cancer, (2) controlling lung cancer, and (3) being comfortable. Chemotherapy
In patients with stage 3 lung cancer that cannot be removed, treatment with combined radiotherapy and chemotherapy improves survival significantly. Radical radiotherapy, initially used in the 1950s, was an attempt to use larger radiation doses in patients with relatively early-stage lung cancer, but who were otherwise unfit for surgery. Of note, patients in hospice can sometimes still get treatments such as radiation therapy if it is being used to treat symptoms, not as an attempt to cure cancer. However, radiotherapy may be used as an adjuvant therapy for patients who have undergone a resection surgery to reduce the risk of lung cancer relapse. Definitive radiotherapy (boost) can deliver the dose precisely and palliative treatments can be given to relieve dysphagia. 
Is endothelin-1 an aggravating factor in the development of acute pancreatitis? [SEP] Pancreatitis is a condition characterized by inflammation of the pancreas. Complications may include infection, bleeding, diabetes mellitus, or problems with other organs.The two most common causes of acute pancreatitis are a gallstone blocking the common bile duct after the pancreatic duct has joined; and heavy alcohol use. Chronic pancreatitis may develop as a result of acute pancreatitis. Pancreatic enzymes may attack the lungs, causing inflammation. Gallstones are the single most common cause of acute pancreatitis. But, glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) is more strongly associated with pancreatitis by promoting inflammation.Atypical antipsychotics such as clozapine, risperidone, and olanzapine can also cause pancreatitis. Infection
A number of infectious agents have been recognized as causes of pancreatitis including:
Viruses
Coxsackie virus
Cytomegalovirus
Hepatitis B
Herpes simplex virus
Mumps
Varicella-zoster virus
Bacteria
Legionella
Leptospira
Mycoplasma
Salmonella
Fungi
Aspergillus
Parasites
Ascaris
Cryptosporidium
Toxoplasma

Other
Other common causes include trauma, autoimmune disease, high blood calcium, hypothermia, and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP). Elevations in lipase are generally considered a better indicator for pancreatitis as it has greater specificity and has a longer half life. 
Malnutrition, a new inducer for arterial calcification in hemodialysis patients? [SEP] Calcification is the accumulation of calcium salts in a body tissue. A common misconception is that calcification is caused by excess amount of calcium in diet. Dietary calcium intake is not associated with accumulation of calcium in soft tissue, and calcification occurs irrespective of the amount of calcium intake.Intake of excessive vitamin D can cause vitamin D poisoning and excessive intake of calcium from the intestine which, when accompanied by a deficiency of vitamin K (perhaps induced by an anticoagulant), can result in calcification of arteries and other soft tissue. Vascular calcification is the deposition of mineral in the form of calcium phosphate salts in the smooth muscle-rich medial layer of large arteries including the aorta. DNA damage, especially oxidative DNA damage, causes accelerated vascular calcification. Vascular calcification could also be linked to the chronic leakage of blood lysates into the vessel wall since red blood cells have been shown to contain a high concentration of calcium. Dystrophic calcification can occur even if the amount of calcium in the blood is not elevated (a systemic mineral imbalance would elevate calcium levels in the blood and all tissues) and cause metastatic calcification. Senile degenerative changes may be accompanied by calcification. 
Does glomerular hyperfiltration in pregnancy damage the kidney in women with more parities? [SEP] Glomerular hyperfiltration is a situation where the filtration elements in the kidneys called glomeruli produce excessive amounts of pro-urine. Signs and symptoms
The most common symptoms are a result of abnormal loss of protein from the glomerulus of the kidney, and include:
Frothy urine (due to excess protein)
Excess water retention (pitting edema, due to loss of serum albumin)
Susceptibility to infection (due to loss of serum antibodies)Common signs are also due to loss of blood proteins by the glomerulus of the kidney, including:
Protein in the urine (often in the nephrotic syndrome-range of >3.5 g/day)
Low serum albumin (<3.5 g/dl)
Low serum antibodies
High serum cholesterol (compensatory by the liver to compensate for low serum oncotic pressure)
Fatty casts in the urine (secondary to hypercholesterolemia)

Pathophysiology
FSGS is primarily a disease of the renal glomerulus, the site of filtration of ions and solutes. FSGS involves damage to the renal podocytes such that larger molecules, most notably proteins, are filtered and lost through the kidney. Many causes of secondary FSGS contribute to podocyte injury through hyperfiltration, which is a scenario of excess filtration by renal glomeruli. Hyperfiltration can be caused by obesity, diabetes or loss of the contralateral kidney, among other causes.Secondary FSGS can also be caused by toxins, including steroids and heroin.A number of genes have been implicated in FSGS. Increased urinary frequency. A common complaint, caused by increased intravascular volume, elevated glomerular filtration rate, and compression of the bladder by the expanding uterus. Acquired Disease
Diabetic nephropathy
Glomerulonephritis
Hydronephrosis is the enlargement of one or both of the kidneys caused by obstruction of the flow of urine. 
Subclavian steal syndrome: can the blood pressure difference between arms predict the severity of steal? [SEP] Additionally, there are a number of congenital vascular anomalies which lead to symptomatic disease that are managed by the vascular surgeon, a few of which include aberrant subclavian artery, popliteal artery entrapment syndrome or persistent sciatic artery. Less common diseases involving cerebral circulation treated by vascular surgeons include vertebrobasilar insufficiency, subclavian steal syndrome, carotid artery dissection, vertebral artery dissection, carotid body tumor and carotid artery aneurysm among others. NIVL encompasses compression of the iliac veins on either the right or left side. DVT is more likely to occur in the lower extremity than the upper extremity or jugular vein. Some lower extremity DVT can be severe enough to cause a condition called phlegmasia cerulea dolens or phlegmasia alba dolens and can be limb-threatening events. Signs and symptoms
Tetralogy of Fallot results in low oxygenation of blood. at the National Institutes of Health
Understanding your child's heart: Tetralogy of Fallot by the British Heart Foundation It has been shown that performing a Valsalva maneuver (involving "bearing down" and increasing breath pressure against a closed glottis, which occurs frequently during exertion) may be related to retrograde flow of blood in the jugular vein, and therefore, presumably, cerebral blood circulation, in patients with TGA. 
Can the Internet be used to improve sexual health awareness in web-wise young people? [SEP] Multiple people have voiced support for comprehensive sex education programs that encompass a wide range topics, which they state leave children more informed. Sex education can also effectively prepare children to identify and say no to unwanted sexual contact before it occurs, and gives parents an opportunity to teach children about consent. The authors conclude: "These results argue for educational efforts such as cell phone safety assemblies, awareness days, integration into class curriculum and teacher training, designed to raise awareness about the potential consequences of sexting among young people." These laws, awareness campaigns, parental and adult supervision strategies, and Internet filters can all help to make the Internet safer for children around the world.The privacy concerns of Internet users pose a serious challenge (Dunkan, 1996; Till, 1997). Sex education covers a range of topics, including the physical, mental, and social aspects of sexual behavior. According to Time magazine and CNN, 74% of teenagers in the United States reported that their major sources of sexual information were their peers and the media, compared to 10% who named their parents or a sex education course.In the United States, some sex education programs encourage abstinence-only, the choice to restrain oneself from sexual activity. In contrast, comprehensive sex education aims to encourage students to take charge of their own sexuality and know how to have safe, healthy, and pleasurable sex if and when they choose to do so.Proponents for an abstinence-only education believe that teaching a comprehensive curriculum would encourage teenagers to have sex, while proponents for comprehensive sex education argue that many teenagers will have sex regardless and should be equipped with knowledge of how to have sex responsibly. "Activism during the AIDS crisis focused on promoting safe sex practices to raise awareness that the disease could be prevented. 
Is eligibility for a chemotherapy protocol a good prognostic factor for invasive bladder cancer after radical cystectomy? [SEP] p53-like tumors of luminal subtype although not as aggressive as basal type, show resistance to chemotherapy

Diagnosis
Currently, the best diagnosis of the state of the bladder is by way of cystoscopy, which is a procedure in which a flexible or rigid tube (called a cystoscope) bearing a camera and various instruments is inserted into the bladder through the urethra. Staging
Bladder cancer is staged (classified by the extent of spread of the cancer) and graded (how abnormal and aggressive the cells appear under the microscope) to determine treatment and predict outcomes. Treatment
The treatment of bladder cancer depends on how deeply the tumor invades into the bladder wall.Treatment strategies for bladder cancer include:
Non-muscle invasive: transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURBT) with or without intravesical chemotherapy or immunotherapy
Muscle invasive
Stage II/Stage IIIA: radical cystectomy plus neoadjuvant chemotherapy (multimodal therapy, preferred) or transurethral resection with chemoradiation (trimodal therapy, highly selected people) or partial cystectomy plus neoadjuvant chemotherapy (in highly selected people)
Stage IIIB/IVA: cisplatin-based chemotherapy followed by radical cystectomy or chemoradiation or observation depending on treatment response
Stage IVB (locally advanced; unresectable tumors): palliative radiotherapy
Metastatic disease: cisplatin-based chemotherapy
Metastatic disease but unfit for cisplatin-based chemotherapy: carboplatin-based chemotherapy
Metastatic disease with contraindication for chemotherapy: checkpoint inhibitors if programmed death ligand 1 (PD L1) positive
Squamous cell carcinoma or adenocarcinoma of bladder: radical cystectomy

Non-muscle invasive
Transurethral resection
Non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (those not entering the muscle layer of the bladder) can be "shaved off" using an electrocautery device attached to a cystoscope, which in that case is called a resectoscope. Chemotherapy
A single instillation of chemotherapy into the bladder after primary TURBT has shown benefit in deceasing recurrence by 35% in non-muscle invasive disease. Management plan including partial cystectomy should be accompanied with neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Metastatic disease
First line treatment
Cisplatin-containing combination chemotherapy is the standard of care for metastatic bladder care. Prognosis
People with non-muscle invasive tumors have a favorable outcome (5-year survival is 95% vs. 69% of muscle invasive bladder cancer). References
External links

Bladder cancer at Curlie 
Does a geriatric oncology consultation modify the cancer treatment plan for elderly patients? [SEP] Geriatrics, or geriatric medicine, is a medical specialty focused on providing care for the unique health needs of older adults. Scope
Differences between adult and geriatric medicine
Geriatric providers receive specialized training in caring for elderly patients and promoting healthy aging. A geriatrician may be able to provide information about elder care options, and refers people to home care services, skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities, and hospice as appropriate. Geriatric oncology. Geriatric pain management. Geriatricians have developed an expanded expertise in the aging process, the impact of aging on illness patterns, drug therapy in seniors, health maintenance, and rehabilitation. Supportive Care in Cancer. "Helping Patients and Their Family Caregivers Cope With Cancer". 
Does left atrial appendage (LAA) occlusion device alter the echocardiography and electrocardiogram parameters in patients with atrial fibrillation? [SEP] Left atrial appendage occlusion (LAAO), also referred to as left atrial appendage closure (LAAC), is a treatment strategy to reduce the risk of  blood clots from the left atrial appendage entering the bloodstream and causing a stroke in those with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (AF). Devices and alternatives
Occlusion of the left atrial appendage can be achieved from an outside perspective (the Lariat device) or an inside (endovascular) blood exposed device (#Watchman first in this endeavor). Transcatheter patch obliteration of the LAA has also been reported.The ULTRASEAL LAA device, from Cardia, is a percutaneous, transcatheter device intended to prevent thrombus embolization from the left atrial appendage in patients who have non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Other devices exist to occlude the left atrial appendage from the inside of the heart such as the Wavecrest device and the Lariat device. Left atrial appendage occlusion (LAAO), also referred to as left atrial appendage closure (LAAC), is a treatment strategy to reduce the risk of  blood clots from the left atrial appendage entering the bloodstream and causing a stroke in those with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (AF). Devices and alternatives
Occlusion of the left atrial appendage can be achieved from an outside perspective (the Lariat device) or an inside (endovascular) blood exposed device (#Watchman first in this endeavor). Transcatheter patch obliteration of the LAA has also been reported.The ULTRASEAL LAA device, from Cardia, is a percutaneous, transcatheter device intended to prevent thrombus embolization from the left atrial appendage in patients who have non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Other devices exist to occlude the left atrial appendage from the inside of the heart such as the Wavecrest device and the Lariat device. 
Can ki-67 play a role in prediction of breast cancer patients' response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy? [SEP] This study has the following objectives:

Describe the frequency of chemotherapy + endocrine versus endocrine alone decisions in Oncotype DX intermediate score patients
Assess the impact of MammaPrint on chemotherapy + endocrine versus endocrine alone treatment decisions
Assess the distribution of MammaPrint Low and High Risk in patients with an intermediate recurrence score
Assess concordance of TargetPrint ER, PR and Her2 results with Oncotype DX ER, PR and Her2 and with locally assessed IHC/FISH ER, PR and Her2
Compare clinical subtype based on IHC/FISH ER, PR, Her2 and Ki-67 (if available) with BluePrint molecular subtype

I-SPY I and I-SPY II
(CALGB 150007/150012 & ACRIN 6657)
Agendia's MammaPrint signature and its microarray technology are integral components of biomarker analysis and molecular prediction in the landmark National Cancer Institute supported I-SPY I and II I-SPY II breast cancer clinical trials which focus on the prediction of therapeutic response in the neoadjuvant setting. Key Objectives of I-SPY breast cancer trials for which the MammaPrint whole-genome microarray is utilized:

I-SPY I evaluated biomarkers and imaging for predicting response to standard neoadjuvant chemotherapy
I-SPY II will evaluate Phase 2 drugs in combination with standard chemotherapy in a neoadjuvant setting
I-SPY II will use biomarkers to stratify patients based on their predicted likelihood of response to treatment

MINT
Multi Institutional Neo Adjuvant Therapy Mammaprint Project (MINT). "Validation and clinical utility of a 70-gene prognostic signature for women with node-negative breast cancer". Antigen KI-67, also known as Ki-67, Ki-67 or MKI67 (Marker Of Proliferation Ki-67), is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MKI67 gene (antigen identified by monoclonal antibody Ki-67). Use as a marker of proliferating cells
The Ki-67 protein (also known as MKI67) is a cellular marker for proliferation, and can be used in immunohistochemistry. In breast cancer Ki67 identifies a high proliferative subset of patients with ER-positive breast cancer who derive greater benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy

Antibody labeling
Ki-67 is an excellent marker to determine the growth fraction of a given cell population. The fraction of Ki-67-positive tumor cells (the Ki-67 labeling index) is often correlated with the clinical course of cancer. Ki-67-Ib: Late production model. 
Intravenous administration of metoclopramide by 2 min bolus vs 15 min infusion: does it affect the improvement of headache while reducing the side effects? [SEP] Metoclopramide is a medication used for stomach and esophageal problems. Migraine
In migraine headaches, metoclopramide may be used in combination with paracetamol (acetaminophen) or in combination with aspirin. Procedures
Intravenous metoclopramide is used in small-bowel follow-through, small-bowel enema, and radionuclide gastric-emptying studies to reduce the time taken for barium to go through the intestines, thus reducing the total time needed for the procedures. Metoclopramide also prevents vomiting after oral ingestion of barium. Consequently, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recommends that metoclopramide be used for short-term treatment, preferably less than 12 weeks. Agents in the benzodiazepine class of drugs may be helpful, but benefits are usually modest and side effects of sedation and weakness can be problematic.In some cases, the akathisia effects of metoclopramide are directly related to the infusion rate when the drug is administered intravenously. "Metoclopramide Injection". In addition to its direct anti-emetic effect metoclopramide also stimulates gastric emptying (prokinetic), which is often delayed during migraine attacks, and accelerates the absorption of paracetamol. 
Is the breast best for children with a family history of atopy? [SEP] : 10–14  Additionally, colostrum and mature breast milk contain many antioxidant and anti-inflammatory enzymes and proteins that decrease the risk of gastrointestinal allergies to food, respiratory allergies to air particles like pollen, and other atopic diseases, such as asthma and eczema. Infants that are otherwise healthy uniformly benefit from breastfeeding, however, extra precautions should be taken or breastfeeding  avoided in circumstances including certain infectious diseases and medical conditions. Allergic diseases
In children who are at risk for developing allergic diseases (defined as at least one parent or sibling having atopy), atopic syndrome can be prevented or delayed through 4-month exclusive breastfeeding, though these benefits may not persist. Looking at three of the most common infant illnesses, lower respiratory tract illnesses, otitis media, and gastrointestinal illness, one study compared infants that had been exclusively breastfed for at least three months to those who had not. Prevention
Breastfeeding for more than four months may prevent atopic dermatitis, cow's milk allergy, and wheezing in early childhood. Studies have shown that breastfed babies are less likely to suffer from serious illnesses, including gastroenteritis, asthma, eczema, and respiratory and ear infections. For mothers of infants considered at high risk of developing cow's milk allergy because of a family history, there is some evidence that the nursing mother avoiding allergens may reduce risk of the child developing eczema, but a Cochrane review concluded that more research is needed.There is some evidence that formula supplement given within the first 24 hours of a babies life in hospital increases the incidence of cow's milk allergy for mothers who then go on to exclusively breast feed.Guidelines from various government and international organizations recommend that for the lowest allergy risk, infants be exclusively breastfed for four to six months, but there does not appear to be any benefit beyond six months. In opposition to this recommendation, a published scientific review stated that there was not yet sufficient evidence in the human trial literature to conclude that maternal dietary food avoidance during lactation would prevent or treat allergic symptoms in breastfed infants.A review presented information on milk allergy, soy allergy and cross-reactivity between the two. 
Does escalation of the apical dose change treatment outcome in beta-radiation of posterior choroidal melanomas with 106Ru plaques? [SEP] Being composed of charged particles, beta radiation is more strongly ionizing than gamma radiation. Beta sources can be used in radiation therapy to kill cancer cells. : 131–2  Radiation dermatitis occurs to some degree in most patients receiving radiation therapy, with or without chemotherapy.There are three specific types of radiodermatitis: acute radiodermatitis, chronic radiodermatitis, and eosinophilic, polymorphic, and pruritic eruption associated with radiotherapy. : 39–40  Radiation therapy can also cause radiation cancer. : 131 As many as 95% of patients treated with radiation therapy for cancer will experience a skin reaction. Chronic radiation keratosis may develop after higher doses. Low-energy beta (sulfur-35, 170 keV) produces shallow ulcers with little damage to dermis, while cobalt-60 (310 keV), caesium-137 (550 keV), phosphorus-32 (1.71 MeV), strontium-90 (650 keV) and its daughter product yttrium-90 (2.3 MeV) damage deeper levels of the dermis and can result in chronic radiation dermatitis. Radiation therapy sources can cause beta burns during exposure of the patients. 
Does septoplasty change the dimensions of compensatory hypertrophy of the middle turbinate? [SEP] These compensatory changes, termed "concentric hypertrophy," reduce the increase in wall tension observed in aortic stenosis. Clinical significance
Dysfunction
Large, swollen conchae, often referred to clinically as turbinates, may lead to blockage of nasal breathing. Deformity of the nasal septum can also result in enlarged turbinates.Treatment of the underlying allergy or irritant may reduce turbinate swelling. In cases that do not resolve, or for treatment of deviated septum, turbinate surgery may be required. Surgery
Turbinectomy is a surgery for the reduction or removal of the turbinates. Risks of reduction of the inferior or middle turbinates include empty nose syndrome. Dr. Houser: "this is especially true in cases of anterior inferior turbinate (IT) resection because of its important role in the internal nasal valve. Rudimentary ridges like those that support respiratory turbinates have been found in advanced Triassic cynodonts, such as Thrinaxodon and Diademodon. 
Can patient coaching reduce racial/ethnic disparities in cancer pain control? [SEP] the outcome of treatment), the doctor–patient relationship seems to have a "small, but statistically significant impact on healthcare outcomes". Patients who are better educated and from upper or upper middle-class positions generally receive higher quality and quantity of information from physicians than do those toward the other end of the social spectrum, although both sides have an equal desire for information.Race, ethnicity and language has consistently proven to have a significant impact on how physicians perceive and interact with patients. Studies in Los Angeles emergency departments have found that Hispanic males and African Americans were less than half as likely to receive pain medication than Caucasians, despite physicians' estimates that patients were experiencing an equivalent level of pain. Another study showed that ethnic-minority groups of varying races reported lower-quality healthcare experiences than non-Hispanic Whites, specifically in treatment decision involvement and information received regarding medications. Other studies show that physicians exhibited substantially less rapport building and empathetic behavior with both Black and Hispanic patients than Caucasians, despite the absence of language barriers. Some forms of communication by the physician, such as self-disclosure and patient-centered communication, have been shown to decrease medical mistrust in patients.Medical mistrust has been shown to be greater for minority group patients, and is associated with decreased compliance, which can contribute to poorer health outcomes. In some cases, it may be advisable to assess patients from a cultural perspective before making decisions about their individual treatment.Recent studies have shown that black patients and those with non-private insurance are more likely to be labeled as non-adherent. However while 90% of cancer pain can be effectively treated, only 40% of patients adhere to their medicines due to poor understanding.Results of a recent (2016) systematic review found a large proportion of patients struggle to take their oral antineoplastic medications as prescribed. 
Does prior benign prostate biopsy predict outcome for patients treated with radical perineal prostatectomy? [SEP] In addition to the use of routinely available preoperative clinical-pathological variables such as PSA, biopsy Gleason score (ISUP grade group), and clinical T-stage, the PREDICT Prostate tool also includes the impact of patient characteristics (age and comorbidity status) and radical treatment (radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy) on survival. Predict Prostate is endorsed for use as a decision aid for prostate cancer by the UK National Institute for Health and Care Excellence No evidence shows that either surgery or beam radiation has an advantage over the other in this regard. The UCSF Cancer of the Prostate Risk Assessment (CAPRA) score predicts both pathologic status and recurrence after surgery. More recently, it has been shown to predict metastasis and mortality following prostatectomy, radiation therapy, watchful waiting, or androgen deprivation therapy. When compared with observation and palliative treatment, radical prostatectomy probably reduces the risk of dying for any reason, including dying from prostate cancer. Robotic assistance
Some believe that in the hands of an experienced surgeon, robotic-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy (RALP) may reduce positive surgical margins when compared to radical retropubic prostatectomy (RRP) among patients with prostate cancer according to a retrospective study. Many prostate cancers missed by conventional biopsy are detectable by MRI-guided targeted biopsy. The higher suspicion on mpMRI and the higher PI-RADS v2 score, the greater the likelihood of aggressive prostate cancer on targeted biopsy. 
Does patient position during liver surgery influence the risk of venous air embolism? [SEP] This is called a pulmonary embolism (PE). Riskier surgeries generally prevent VTE with a blood thinner or aspirin combined with intermittent pneumatic compression. Acute complications
A pulmonary embolism (PE) occurs when a blood clot from a deep vein (a DVT) detaches from a vein (embolizes), travels through the right side of the heart, and becomes lodged as an embolus in a pulmonary artery that supplies deoxygenated blood to the lungs for oxygenation. After surgery
Major orthopedic surgery—total hip replacement, total knee replacement, or hip fracture surgery—has a high risk of causing VTE. Following major orthopedic surgery, a blood thinner or aspirin is typically paired with intermittent pneumatic compression, which is the preferred mechanical prophylaxis over graduated compression stockings.Options for VTE prevention in people following non-orthopedic surgery include early walking, mechanical prophylaxis, and blood thinners (low-molecular-weight heparin and low-dose-unfractionated heparin) depending upon the risk of VTE, risk of major bleeding, and person's preferences. If the AVM creates a connection between the portal vein and the blood vessels of the liver, the result may be portal hypertension (increased portal vein pressure), in which collateral blood vessels form in the esophagus (esophageal varices), which may bleed violently; furthermore, the increased pressure may give rise to fluid accumulation in the abdominal cavity (ascites). If the flow in the AVM is in the other direction, portal venous blood flows directly into the veins rather than running through the liver; this may lead to hepatic encephalopathy (confusion due to portal waste products irritating the brain). It has been observed that the risk of thrombosis (particularly venous thrombosis, in the form of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism) may be increased. 
Do Indigenous Australians age prematurely? [SEP] Estimated life expectancy of Indigenous men ranged from 61.5 years for those living in the Northern Territory to a high of 69.9 years for those living in New South Wales, and for Indigenous women, 69.2 years for those living in the Northern Territory to a high of 75.0 years for those living in New South Wales.As of 2010, life expectancy for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander men was estimated to be 11.5 years less than that of non-Indigenous men – 67.2 years and 78.7 years respectively. Indigenous Australians are more likely to die at a younger age than their non-indigenous counterparts due to being unhealthy. Compared with the general Australian population, Indigenous Australians develop type 2 diabetes at a younger age. Aboriginal Australians suffer from high rates of heart disease. Focus areas
Health
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples have a significantly lower life expectancy and higher burden of disease than non-Indigenous Australians. In 2020, Indigenous Australians expected to live 7.8 years for females, and 8.6 years for males, less than the non-Indigenous population. 5 September 2007 The results of the 2006 Census show the average life expectancy of Aboriginal people is 17 years less than non-Aboriginal Western Australians. Death rates per 10,000 children aged 0–5 were 69 for non-Aboriginal children but 207 for Aboriginal children, and the gap in life expectancy was widening, standing at 65 years for Aboriginal populations (under 60 for Aboriginal men) and over 80 for the non-Aboriginal population. 
Are tuberculosis patients adherent to prescribed treatments in China? [SEP] TB can usually be treated with a course of four standard, or first-line, anti-TB drugs (i.e., isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide and ethambutol).However, beginning with the first antibiotic treatment for TB in 1943, some strains of the TB bacteria developed resistance to the standard drugs through genetic changes (see mechanisms.) Currently the majority of multidrug-resistant cases of TB are due to one strain of TB bacteria called the Beijing lineage. Globally, most MDR-TB cases occur in South America, Southern Africa, India, China, and the former Soviet Union.Treatment of MDR-TB requires treatment with second-line drugs, usually four or more anti-TB drugs for a minimum of 6 months, and possibly extending for 18–24 months if rifampin resistance has been identified in the specific strain of TB with which the patient has been infected. Treatment
Usually, multidrug-resistant tuberculosis can be cured with long treatments of second-line drugs, but these are more expensive than first-line drugs and have more adverse effects. MDR-TB has a mortality rate of about 15% with treatment, which further depends on a number of factors, including:
How many drugs the organism is resistant to (the fewer the better)
How many drugs the patient is given (patients treated with five or more drugs do better)
The expertise and experience of the physician responsible
How co-operative the patient is with treatment (treatment is arduous and long, and requires persistence and determination on the part of the patient)
Whether the patient is HIV-positive or not (HIV co-infection is associated with increased mortality).The majority of patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis do not receive treatment, as they are found in underdeveloped countries or in poverty. The simple truth is that almost all tuberculosis deaths result from a lack of access to existing effective therapy.Treatment success rates remain unacceptably low globally with variation between regions. 2016 data published by the WHO reported treatment success rates of multidrug-resistant TB globally. posit that non-adherence to TB treatment indirectly contributes to bacterial resistance. 
Ultrasound in squamous cell carcinoma of the penis; a useful addition to clinical staging? [SEP] Ultrasound imaging or sonography is often used in medicine. Furthermore, ultrasound is used in remote diagnosis cases where teleconsultation is required, such as scientific experiments in space or mobile sports team diagnosis.According to RadiologyInfo, ultrasounds are useful in the detection of pelvic abnormalities and can involve techniques known as abdominal (transabdominal) ultrasound, vaginal (transvaginal or endovaginal) ultrasound in women, and also rectal (transrectal) ultrasound in men. Sonography is effective for imaging soft tissues of the body. : appendicitis) and ultrasound is the initial imaging choice, avoiding radiation if possible, although it frequently needs to be followed by other imaging methods such as CT. Endoanal ultrasound is used particularly in the investigation of anorectal symptoms such as fecal incontinence or obstructed defecation. Ultrasound is the preferred imaging modality for thyroid tumors and lesions, and its use is important in the evaluation, preoperative planning, and postoperative surveillance of patients with thyroid cancer. Pneumothorax: In clinical settings when pneumothorax is suspected, lung ultrasound can aid in diagnosis. Penis and scrotum
Scrotal ultrasonography is used in the evaluation of testicular pain, and can help identify solid masses.Ultrasound is an excellent method for the study of the penis, such as indicated in trauma, priapism, erectile dysfunction or suspected Peyronie's disease. When it does metastasize, the most commonly involved organs are the lungs, brain, bone and other skin locations.One study found squamous-cell carcinoma of the penis had a much greater rate of mortality than some other forms of squamous-cell carcinoma, that is, about 23%, although this relatively high mortality rate may be associated with possibly latent diagnosis of the disease due to patients avoiding genital exams until the symptoms are debilitating, or refusal to submit to a possibly scarring operation upon the genitalia. 
Do oblique views add value in the diagnosis of spondylolysis in adolescents? [SEP] Diagnosis
There are several imaging techniques used to diagnose spondylolysis. Since this is difficult to see on the AP (anterior posterior) x-ray view an oblique x-ray of the lumbar spine can usually identify the spondylolysis. MRI
MRI is a newer technique used to diagnose spondylolysis and is favorable for a few reasons. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)
Magnetic resonance imaging is the preferred advanced imaging technique for evaluation of spondylolisthesis. Diagnosis
There are several imaging techniques used to diagnose spondylolysis. Since this is difficult to see on the AP (anterior posterior) x-ray view an oblique x-ray of the lumbar spine can usually identify the spondylolysis. MRI
MRI is a newer technique used to diagnose spondylolysis and is favorable for a few reasons. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)
Magnetic resonance imaging is the preferred advanced imaging technique for evaluation of spondylolisthesis. 
Are many colorectal cancers due to missed adenomas? [SEP] Most colorectal cancers are due to old age and lifestyle factors, with only a small number of cases due to underlying genetic disorders. Some of the inherited genetic disorders that can cause colorectal cancer include familial adenomatous polyposis and hereditary non-polyposis colon cancer; however, these represent less than 5% of cases. Cause
75–95% of colorectal cancer cases occur in people with little or no genetic risk. Other syndromes that are strongly associated with colorectal cancer include Gardner syndrome and familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP). 15 to 18 percent of colorectal cancer tumours have MMR deficiencies, with 3 percent developing due to Lynch syndrome. Screening
As more than 80% of colorectal cancers arise from adenomatous polyps, screening for this cancer is effective for both early detection and for prevention. For example, the odds of developing colorectal cancer between the ages of 20 and 40 in the absence of specific risk factors are about 1 in 1,250 (0.08%).The rate of complications varies with the practitioner and institution performing the procedure, and other variables. Of those, about 2–10% have cancer, while 20–30% have adenomas. 
Does desflurane alter left ventricular function when used to control surgical stimulation during aortic surgery? [SEP] Desflurane (1,2,2,2-tetrafluoroethyl difluoromethyl ether) is a highly fluorinated methyl ethyl ether used for maintenance of general anesthesia. Desflurane, along with enflurane and to a lesser extent isoflurane, has been shown to react with the carbon dioxide absorbent in anesthesia circuits to produce detectable levels of carbon monoxide through degradation of the anesthetic agent. Desflurane is known to act as a positive allosteric modulator of the GABAA and glycine receptors, and as a negative allosteric modulator of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, as well as affecting other ligand-gated ion channels. Physical properties
Physiologic effects
Desflurane induces a dose dependent reduction in blood pressure due to reduced systemic vascular resistance. However, rapid increases in desflurane may induce a transient sympathetic response secondary to catecholamine release. Like sevoflurane, desflurane vasodilatory properties also cause it to increase intracranial pressure and cerebral blood flow. References
Further reading
External links
"Desflurane". Physiological effects
Sevoflurane is a potent  vasodilator, as such it induces a dose dependent reduction in blood pressure and cardiac output. 
Does gestational age misclassification explain the difference in birthweights for Australian aborigines and whites? [SEP] Parental ancestral background (race) also plays a role in pregnancy duration. Heritability of pregnancy length
Family-based studies showed that gestational age at birth is partially (from 25% to 40%) determined by genetic factors. Large for gestational age (LGA) is a term used to describe infants that are born with an abnormally high weight, specifically in the 90th percentile or above, compared to other babies of the same developmental age. Macrosomia is a similar term that describes excessive birth weight, but refers to an absolute measurement, regardless of gestational age. Predicting a baby's weight can be inaccurate and women could be worried unnecessarily, and request their labor to be induced without a medical reason. The proportion of Australians with European ancestry is thought to be higher than the numbers captured in the census as those nominating their ancestry as "Australian" are classified within the Oceanian group, and the Australian Bureau of Statistics has stated that most who nominate "Australian" as their ancestry are Anglo-Celtic Australians. German Australians are Australians of German ancestry. Indigenous Australians experience higher than average rates of imprisonment and unemployment, lower levels of education, and life expectancies for males and females that are, respectively, 11 and 17 years lower than those of non-indigenous Australians. 
Is there any interest to perform ultrasonography in boys with undescended testis? [SEP] Undescended testes are associated with reduced fertility, increased risk of testicular germ-cell tumors, and psychological problems when fully-grown. Without intervention, an undescended testicle will usually descend during the first year of life, but to reduce these risks, undescended testes can be brought into the scrotum in infancy by a surgical procedure called an orchiopexy.Although cryptorchidism nearly always refers to congenital absence or maldescent, a testis observed in the scrotum in early infancy can occasionally "reascend" (move back up) into the inguinal canal. It is usually treatable if caught early, so urologists often recommend that boys who had orchiopexy as infants be taught testicular self-examination, to recognize testicular masses and seek early medical care for them. At ultrasound, the undescended testis usually appears small, less echogenic than the contralateral normal testis and usually located in the inguinal region. Because of the superficial location of the inguinal canal in children, sonography of
undescended testes should be performed with a high frequency transducer. At ultrasound,
the undescended testis usually appears small, less echogenic than the contralateral normal
testis and usually located in the inguinal region [Fig. Conclusion
Ultrasound remains as the mainstay in scrotal imaging not only because of its high accuracy,
excellent depiction of scrotal anatomy, low cost and wide availability, it is also useful in
determining whether a mass is intra- or extra-testicular, thus providing us useful and
valuable information to decide whether a mass is benign or malignant even though
malignancy does occur in extratesticular tumors and vice versa. See also
Male infertility#Ultrasonography


== References == 
Is peak concentration needed in therapeutic drug monitoring of vancomycin? [SEP] The World Health Organization classifies vancomycin as critically important for human medicine. Spectrum of susceptibility
Vancomycin is considered a last resort medication for the treatment of sepsis and lower respiratory tract, skin, and bone infections caused by Gram-positive bacteria. Therapeutic drug monitoring
Plasma level monitoring of vancomycin is necessary due to the drug's biexponential distribution, intermediate hydrophilicity, and potential for ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity, especially in populations with poor renal function and/or increased propensity to bacterial infection. Vancomycin activity is considered to be time-dependent; that is, antimicrobial activity depends on the duration that the serum drug concentration exceeds the minimum inhibitory concentration  of the target organism. Early authors suggested peak levels of 30 to 40 mg/L and trough levels of 5 to 10 mg/L,
but current recommendations are that peak levels need not be measured and that trough levels of 10 to 15 mg/L or 15 to 20 mg/L, depending on the nature of the infection and the specific needs of the patient, may be appropriate. Using measured vancomycin concentrations to calculate doses optimizes therapy in patients with augmented renal clearance. According to Kasten's review published in the Mayo Clinic Proceedings, a serum concentration of more than 50 μg/mL is a warning sign, while Hammett-Stabler and John states that the common therapeutics peak level is 10-20 μg/mL and is expected to achieve after 0.5-1.5 hours of intravenous administration in their review of antimicrobial drugs. For this reason, many medications have a maximum recommended infusion rate, such as vancomycin and many monoclonal antibodies. 
Can autologous platelet-rich plasma gel enhance healing after surgical extraction of mandibular third molars? [SEP] A platelet-rich fibrin (PRF) membrane containing bone growth enhancing elements can be stitched over the wound or a graft material or scaffold is placed in the socket of an extracted tooth at the time of extraction. Platelet derived growth factor along with bone morphogenetic proteins are among the most researched growth factors in periodontal regeneration. Platelet rich fibrin showed significant improvement in clinical periodontal parameter as well as in radiograph when compared with open flap debridement alone in a meta analysis. Platelet-rich fibrin has shown significant results comparable to DFDBA for periodontal regeneration. Regenerative endodontics
PRF enhances alveolar bone augmentation and  necrotic dental pulp and open tooth apex can be revitalized in regenerative endodontics with platelet-rich fibrin. Avoid alcohol for at least 24 hours
Try to relax for the remainder of the day, avoiding strenuous activities that will cause an increase in blood pressure as this might disrupt clot formation
For a few days, adopt a diet consisting of soft foods

Pain management
Many drug therapies are available for pain management after third molar extractions including NSAIDS (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory), APAP (acetaminophen), and opioid formulations. At the time of extraction a platelet rich fibrin (PRF) membrane containing bone growth enhancing elements is placed in the wound or a graft material or scaffold is placed in the socket of the extracted tooth. Mandibular third molar surgery recovery
Platelet-rich fibrin (PRF) is a postoperative method used to heal the alveolar socket following the removal of the mandibular third molar. 
Are sugars-free medicines more erosive than sugars-containing medicines? [SEP] Sugar-Sweetened beverages or sugary drinks are the leading source of added sugars in the American diet. Added sugars include syrups and other caloric sweeteners. Sugar-sweetened beverages contain added sugars such as sucrose or fructose, often in large amounts, which contribute to the overall energy density of diets. Free sugars include monosaccharides and disaccharides added to foods and beverages by the manufacturer, cook or consumer, and sugars naturally present in honey, syrups, fruit juices and fruit juice concentrates. Consequently, the findings indicated that sugary foods have a minimal role to contributing to food dependence and the increased risk of weight gain. Uses
Aspartame is around 180 to 200 times sweeter than sucrose (table sugar). Sucrose, although a bound glucose and fructose unit, is in fact more cariogenic than a mixture of equal parts of glucose and fructose. Populations with less sugar intake have fewer cavities. 
